in the afternoon, so that I can stay until 1 p.m.' In fact, on that particular day I flew at 1 p.m., because the sitting finished earlier.
My point is that as a Parliament we need to have access to our own legislative documents, which we do not have.
Mr President, page 25 of the Minutes of yesterday's sitting records the proposal you made, on behalf of the Conference of Presidents, regarding the calendar for 1997 and 1998.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, naturally, after the first vote which was taken during the September part-session, the appropriate department published a calendar which reflected the outcome of that vote.
Other Members probably received it before the Wednesday meeting, in your case it arrived afterwards.
I therefore propose that we decline the urgency for this week.
I asked it last summer why it is insisting on the use of Nordic gold in the new euro rather than nickel; the day after the committee discussed it, the Commission admitted to me that it had absolutely no medical evidence to show that nickel is a particular problem for the large proportion of the population, as it seems to be claiming in its document.
Mr President, now that the treaty contains a chapter on employment, in my opinion it is time to bring the phase in which the Council has mainly discussed what Europe could not do to a close.
It was also decided that employment must be included in all areas of policy and in my view it should be made clear at the Luxembourg summit that the new treaty is not just a piece of paper.
Concrete objectives which can be monitored must be set at both European and national level with binding target dates.
I believe that European Commission directives are a reasonable basis for these, I found the draft better and more ambitious than the final text and I hope that the European Parliament can do a little better as far as that is concerned.
The report is based on an active labour market policy in which people who can work participate as fully as possible and governments accept their responsibility for employment instead of standing by passively to see what the market and economic growth have to offer.
In my report I explained this participation in terms of the inactive/active ratio, but the instruments are certainly just as important.
Mr President, knowledge will become the most important source of work and prosperity and that knowledge will become outdated more and more quickly.
It is absolutely impossible for these problems to be dealt with in the public sector alone.
Young people under 25 and the long-term unemployed need special consideration.
In my view no one under the age of 25 should be unemployed.
Here again cooperation by the social partners is essential.
It is deplorable that with nearly 30 million unemployed, taking everything into account, around 9 million people in Europe are doing structural overtime.
Taxation is an important instrument for restoring employment to our society.
On that point I welcome the proposals in the Monti report.
I hope that the Member States at the summit realize that I am not proposing an instrument binding on all Member States.
Many are unhappy with the objective of 12 million jobs.
If we want to achieve 7 per cent unemployment, which we must in the light of the United States' much-praised benchmarking, then we need 12 million jobs.
Since then 13 of the 15 Member States have more or less met the criteria.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing employment politics and employment policies for many years in Europe, at different levels and in different places.
But it is true that since the European Council of Amsterdam we have seen a change in atmosphere, a re-establishment of the situation, since, whilst continuing to put in place the policies that must lead us to economic and monetary union, we can note - some with satisfaction, others perhaps with concern - that employment has became the central preoccupation in Europe.
It is first and foremost a matter of making sure - and we will do so - that economic and monetary union takes place on 1 January 1999.
If we do not achieve economic and monetary union on 1 January 1999 we will never achieve it and it is clear that the consequence of that would be a terrible economic crisis in Europe.
If we do not succeed in completing the internal market and ensuring that economic and monetary union starts on 1 January 1999, we will never bring about the return of confidence that is required in order to establish employment policies on more solid foundations.
I believe that at the jobs summit we must say that, in general, macro-economic policies in Europe are good, since they have led to satisfactory results on many fronts, with the important exception of employment policies.
We need to make sure that the summit on 21 November does not become an excuse.
I often read, and it amuses me, that this summit was agreed on in order to give the French Government a present.
We must make sure that this summit does not become just an excuse, or a paraphrase where we repeat what has already been said over the years.
We must not bring together fifteen Heads of State and of Government and give the impression that we are only meeting to give birth to another poem to add to the already impressive volume of European lyricism on the subject.
But as you know, the Presidency and Parliament, sometimes separately but very often together, have done a great deal of work with the European Investment Bank to raise the substantial financial means required to enable us to implement a certain number of policies.
I believe that on this point we must make sure that the great transeuropean networks are once again truly implemented.
As for the rest, Mr President, the Presidency is proposing, and will propose, to the other governments first a method and then the content.
With regard to employment policy we would like to place the same stress on convergence as was established when it was a question of achieving economic and monetary union within a given time, with the convergence results you are aware of and which are very impressive in all countries of the European Union.
Consequently, I think all the discussion on the 7 % and the 12 million distracts attention from the essential elements, which are the tools we must put in place to achieve our objectives.
So we need to have quantifiable and verifiable guidelines in employment summit programme.
These concrete but nonquantifiable guidelines concern activity and employment rates in Europe, the reduction, if necessary, of indirect labour costs, and problems relating to general costs for small and medium-sized businesses, which the Commission, rightly, has submitted for our attention.
I believe that these non-quantifiable but nevertheless concrete guidelines must also cover working hours, by introducing sufficient flexibility and finding common ground between prescriptive policy and contractual policy so that a common approach in Europe towards the reduction of working hours can be developed.
These non-quantifiable but nevertheless concrete guidelines must also cover the fight against overtime.
On all of these points it goes without saying that we must reduce indirect labour costs, general costs for small and medium-sized businesses and taxation that currently penalizes jobs.
The governments must also present national action plans to Brussels in a few months time.
We all need to introduce our own appropriate programmes enabling us to achieve a certain number of objectives which the Commission has rightly mentioned in its document.
It will also certainly include multilateral monitoring of the same type as has been introduced to supervise progress towards economic and monetary union.
I would like the European Councils of December each year to become employment meetings, where the Heads of State and of Government explain the reasons behind the failures they have encountered throughout the year in their efforts to achieve the various quantifiable objectives which will have been fixed in advance.
This multilateral monitoring will, of course, include an examination of good practice implemented in the various Member States.
In order to inaugurate this cycle of meetings at the highest level I took the initiative, along with my Dutch and British colleagues and the President of the Commission, of meeting the social partners a few days before the employment summit.
I do not believe I have fallen victim to blind and excessively European optimism in this area of bringing our employment policies more into line, but during the preparations for this employment summit we have recognized, here in Parliament and in many places around Europe, including the fifteen European capitals, the desire not just to repeat what we have already done but to add value to our efforts to date.
We must capitalize on the proposals contained in the White Paper, in the Confidence Pact, in our macroeconomic strategy, in the multitude of actions being undertaken, and magnify them.
Above all, we must put these actions back into a coherent context and remember that they are entered into on a long term basis.
On 1 October the Commission presented its ideas on the reform of national labour markets.
In November it will specify its ideas on the contribution of Community policies in the fight for jobs.
Regarding guidelines for national employment policies, while building on success, the Amsterdam approach is a pioneering one.
If macro-economic hypotheses are confirmed and if the necessary structural measures are taken, we are committed, as far as possible, to the creation of 12 million jobs over five years.
To understand this, you only have to read our text.
Moreover, I do not need to remind this House that, during the period 1985 to 1990, the Europe of Twelve succeeded in creating 10 million new jobs, and managed to reduce inflation by 3 %, bringing it down from 10.5 % to 7.5 %.
A second observation is, to my mind, essential.
The Commission suggests translating the package of agreed guidelines into national action plans.
One cannot fail to establish, here, a parallel with the coordination of economic policies within the framework of economic and monetary union.
The experience of this shows that initial scepticism regarding the exchange of good practice and the dynamic of peer evaluation was unjustified.
The evolution of dialogue and the search for convergence through common objectives drawn from successful experience have proved their worth and convergence efforts have clearly benefitted from strict instruments in the form of precise criteria.
The efforts at reciprocal persuasion must be all the greater.
It must also be highlighted that any strategy for employment requires multi-faceted action entered into in the long term.
Concerning this last point, we must remember that we are at the beginning of a new process being implemented in anticipation.
And above all we must not hide behind a misinterpretation of subsidiarity to avoid the debate.
The strength of our proposal rests precisely on the fact that we fully respect the jurisdiction of Member States and that our proposals enable specific national situations to be taken into account.
Mr President, structural reforms of national job markets will certainly be at the centre of our discussions in Luxembourg, but this is not sufficient.
In some areas, it creates an essential framework of reference for Member States' actions.
In other spheres, Union action completes or supports that of Member States.
I am thinking here of the structural funds, the transeuropean networks, research, finance for small and medium-sized enterprises, the information society.
Mr President, I said in my investiture speech on 17 January 1995 that what was lacking in Europe was not assets, but a strategy for making good use of them.
The test of which view is correct - genuine commitment or a cynical exercise - will be the special summit on employment.
At the same time we have to recognize that the special employment summit is the beginning and not the end of the new process.
That involves agreement on at least some concrete actions or guarantees.
I hope those who have still not recognized it will do so by 20 November.
In my view, based on consultations in recent weeks, there are four key actions or guarantees which should be possible for our leaders to agree to at the summit: first, a guarantee that no person will be allowed to drift more than twelve months into unemployment without intervention: job placement, training or retraining, further education, or whatever, the mix to be determined at Member State level; secondly, a guarantee that no young person under the age of 25 will be classed as unemployed, but rather as a person undergoing training, retraining, work placement, or further or higher education; thirdly, a decision to allow the reduction of social VAT on labour-intensive services to the lowest possible level; fourthly, an agreement to establish a benchmark based on the ratio of the active to the inactive population in the three Member States with the best performance.
I hope our leaders will meet this challenge.
Mr President, first may I thank the rapporteur for his work on this report and in particular for managing to keep the report brief.
The Amsterdam Treaty has been signed.
Just to recapitulate, article 109 Q(2) of this chapter makes it possible to draw up guidelines which Member States can take into account in their employment policy; in addition, under article 109 R, the Council can adopt incentive measures and promote innovative approaches by recourse to pilot projects.
What we need to do now is come up with measures that actually do something to help the 18 million unemployed in Europe, despite the differences between the countries and the varying situations in the European Member States.
That is always very important, precisely because it is based on the three best performing countries.
It is very difficult to determine when unemployment has been brought down to 7 %.
A final point about the structural funds.
We do not believe that the 50 % figure is sensible.
Because it is the only answer Europe can give to the 18 million people who are still unemployed at the moment despite Europe's prosperity.
Mr President, we have to recognize that Europe now has more than 18 million people unemployed, of whom 5 million are under the age of 25 and, as President Santer has just mentioned, nearly 50 % are long term unemployed.
It is agreed therefore, and this is important for us if we want to avoid this destructive process, to give each one of them the chance to find a job again in a growth society with a human face.
Indeed, our citizens expect concrete measures, realistic measures which will be enough to enable Europe to relaunch a dynamic of job creation.
We all know the Amsterdam Treaty includes social improvements, notably in the area of the fight against social exclusion, but we must recognize that with regard to employment, progress on the legal front has not been sufficiently concrete.
This is the reason why the European Council on employment, to be held on 20 and 21 November, will awaken legitimate hopes in the population because, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our citizens expect tangible initiatives to come out of this employment summit and all goodwill must be mobilized.
ECU 50 million could thus be freed up.
The second important initiative is that we must encourage the emergence of a new organization of work.
The report indicates that this reorganization should necessarily be through a systematic reduction in working hours.
I am genuinely afraid that the expression "reduction in working hours' is fashionable today in some European countries and that it will eventually, perhaps not immediately, but eventually, be revealed as paradoxical and antisocial if it is applied in a restrictive way to all businesses.
I also fear that, on the contrary, an automatic reduction in working hours favours the development of overtime, even informal working arrangements, and mechanization.
It is in this spirit that our group has tabled a number of amendments to Mr van Velzen's report.
But all the same my group looked forward expectantly to the Council of Social Affairs Ministers for both short term concrete agreements and the impetus for new longer term policy.
But in order to push the European Council forward somehow the van Velzen report and the amendments tabled are chiefly aimed at consensus: consensus in Parliament and consensus between Parliament and the Commission.
The average tax on labour and businesses in the European Union is high, in many countries over 50 %.
Many proposals at Community level talk about shifting the labour tax to capital.
Mr President, the holding of an extraordinary Council on employment, at the request of the French government, puts this question at the centre of the debate, along with a social dimension to European construction which has until now been lacking.
With nearly 20 million unemployed and 50 million on the poverty line, it transpires that policies followed to date have sacrificed employment and devastated the existence of millions of citizens in our countries, particularly young people.
The Commission bases its proposals on competitiveness by relying on flexibility, camouflaged under the concepts of adaptability and feasibility which, I have to say, treats with disdain the elementary right of each person to a stable job, correctly remunerated and reconcilable with family life.
The van Velzen report is faithful to the Commission's objectives, as well as the logic which underlies them and which is that of the single currency and its constraints.
This is so much the case that, in dealing with unemployment, the van Velzen report says not a word about the reduction of working hours, and this at the very time when two governments of the European Union have just decided to move towards a 35-hour working week in the next few years.
The 35-hour week is not a fashion, Mrs Hermange, it is a part of the great objective of civilization to achieve better quality of life and create jobs.
The General Secretary of the ETUC was not wrong when he said that the guidelines for employment which will be decided at Luxembourg will have to include the explicit prospect of reorganization and reduction of working hours amongst the essential priorities in the fight against unemployment.
More generally, our group thinks that the challenge of employment must be raised in order to end the threat to social cohesion in our societies.
This is what needs to be changed to be able to increase purchasing power, to revive industrial policies, to develop training on a large scale, to reduce working hours and develop and renovate the public sector.
Our group wants to contribute to this, along with the social movement and the unions, and to act to convert the Luxembourg Summit into political acts and not only.... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the spectre of European mass unemployment is once again turning into a major scandal.
We either have an exchange-rate policy, and one which is not primarily macroeconomic, but rather which is aimed at a new socio-ecological development model in overall economic policy, or the European governments must take the blame for bringing in the euro on the backs of the unemployed.
We need a third sector between private enterprise and the conventional form of public services, which can organize public sector employment in such a way as to avoid the social barriers which have resulted from more than 10 years of neo-liberal policy.
It seems to me that we should not be scared to talk about it as one of the many means of fighting unemployment in Europe.
I am thinking of Brite and Euram but also of information technology through Acts, and here it is vital that European SMEs have greater access to the Internet.
I also believe it is fundamental that coordination with Eureka is established on the subject.
The idea of making activity compulsory for young people after eighteen months seems to me excellent.
I therefore think that a programme which immerses them in modernity would bring a response to this distress; this programme would need to be associated with apprenticeships in information technology and foreign languages from the starting points of the Lingua and Leonardo programmes.
Let us therefore participate in this challenge from the viewpoint of objective 4 and a strengthened Adapt programme.
The 20 million unemployed and 50 million who live in conditions of serious insecurity expect concrete actions.
To enable the citizens of Europe to work is a task of the first order for all politicians in positions of responsibility.
We each have a duty to do all we can to defeat this social and economic cancer.
It is common knowledge, of course, that the economic policy and implementing EMU will specifically mean a rise in unemployment, not least in the public sector.
The report has only words of praise left for the view that everything must be subordinated to EU economic policy and competitiveness.
The report shows quite clearly how, in the EU, one step after the other is being taken in a particular direction.
The 18 million unemployed will be left without hope unless the Treaty of Amsterdam also includes concrete measures.
I hope this can be combined in a partnership between the public and private sectors so that a European majority can be created in this area to promote employment prospects.
I believe that proof needs to be provided every year.
The extraordinary meeting to be held in Luxembourg on 20 and 21 November will be a wonderful opportunity to show people how concerned we are about the problem of unemployment, at national level.
We need political decisions which will result in real coordination, with a view to immediately implementing the positive experiences which are producing results in the area of employment in each of the Member States.
Let us allow flexible working hours to be achieved by agreement between employers and workers, through their representatives, company by company, sector by sector, without affecting competitiveness or productivity, and without reductions in workers' pay.
Surely the need to increase resources for development is one of the priority issues, but I believe that one of the fundamental aspects is connected with the conditions in which the resources intended for development may provide a stable result for greater employment.
What will happen if we reduce the number of working hours to 35 by law?
There will probably be an increase in costs, there will probably be a drive towards greater mechanization of production, greater automation, we will probably encourage relocation outside the European Union, not only of the large but also of the small and medium-sized companies.
Madam President, our resolution today will have no binding effect but it provides an important backdrop to the approach of the Member States and the Commission to the summit.
It is a pity that we have not found greater consensus in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs: we have no fewer than 55 amendments from three major political groups.
What we know is that we are heading for a return to normal growth but that growth will not be enough to reduce unemployment to a tolerable level, and we must tackle youth unemployment and long-term unemployment particularly.
I welcome in particular the draft employment guidelines for the summit and its four pillars - employability, entrepreneurship, adaptability and equal opportunities - which are so important in creating a climate in which jobs will emerge.
The summit provides an opportunity for Member States to make a commitment to creating more jobs.
Exchange of experience is a key role for the European Union.
Madam President, we must work for success at the Luxembourg summit conference on employment and ensure that clear decisions are taken to improve the employment situation.
What is especially important in the report is the introduction of the lowest possible rate of VAT in the labour-intensive service industries.
The report does not go far enough, though.
I think the most essential thing is not whether working hours should be shortened by a change in the law, through negotiations among the labour organizations or by experimenting with working hours.
In Finland we have carried out very interesting experiments and had interesting results from the 6+6 scheme, where the previous eight-hour shift has been replaced by two six-hour slots.
Nor does the report pay enough attention to jobs in the public service sector.
Yet the EU's policy is still based on a very optimistic growth forecast with an increase of more than 3 per cent per year.
What is needed are more structural measures against unemployment in the form of shorter working hours and a lasting reduction in taxes on employment.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, after the great hopes of Jacques Delors' transeuropean projects in the early 1990s, Europe is finally concerned about jobs.
By the year 2007, 80 % of technology used today will be out of date.
That is why the Group of the European Radical Alliance proposed that, from the year 2000, nearly 2 % of national budgets should be dedicated to training.
The second priority in the report is aid to SMEs, since for the past fifteen years these have been the only true source of employment in Europe, as opposed to the large industrial groups which have continued to lay off staff.
But in order to help the SMEs, a support fund must be established for the creation of enterprises in Europe, and it will need ECU 800 million if the effort is to be significant.
The European Union has to stop being the Red Adair of economics in Europe and intervene upstream, reflecting on the world of activity as it will be over the next twenty years.
Proposals have been put forward that the working week be shortened and that we increase the number of part-time workers but at the end of the day, as other speakers have stated in this House, people really want full-time jobs.
Madam President, Mr President of the Council, the Luxembourg Presidency has set a very high target for the employment summit.
In particular, it must be congratulated for having introduced new ideas and for having ceaselessly revived the dialogue with Member States, with the social partners, and obviously with the European Parliament too.
They have given Europe a capital occasion not only to reflect on employment but also on the whole of our economic system and above all to make a decision on it.
With the van Velzen report, Madam President, no one will be able to say that there are no concrete measures on which to make an immediate decision.
On the other hand, I am convinced that in view of the high unemployment figures, the EU should not close its eyes to this problem.
In Germany this also applies to the DM 610 category.
Europe must maintain its social market economy.
Let me end by pointing out that the investment ratio in Bavaria is more than 5 % higher than in all Germany's red-green Länder.
The President-in-Office of the European Council and also our rapporteur have expressed their fears concerning the credibility of the summit meeting.
I believe that if decisive action is to be taken against unemployment, then Europe must also be brought into the hearts and minds of its citizens.
The implementation of these measures is the responsibility of each Member State.
Madam President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, the President of the Commission and the rapporteur for their comments today.
I would say to the President-in-Office of the Council that if the key thing that comes out of the Luxembourg summit meeting is simply the facility from the European Investment Bank, and if that is what we are all putting our whole emphasis on, that is not what this summit meeting should be about.
We should recognize that the EIB cannot solve the problems of unemployment in the European Union.
We should not present that at the end of the Luxembourg summit meeting as the cure-all for our problems.
On all sides of this House we have to be very honest with ourselves if we want Luxembourg to be a success.
We have to look at employability in the context of education and training.
It is disastrous, the number of long term unemployed people who are not in education or training in Europe.
Madam President, there is no doubt that the Luxembourg Employment Summit is one of the most important results of the Amsterdam Council.
Jobs, which have not yet been mentioned here, are being created not only through flexibility in the job market, but also through flexiblity in other production factors, based on the product market.
Those countries that have created a number jobs have also created genuine deregulation of the product market.
The final consideration, in my capacity as an Italian citizen, is on the proposed reduction in working hours.
It would be much better if the state paid for employment rather than unemployment.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 20 and 21 November in Luxembourg, the Heads of State and of Government will have a difficult job to do.
However, the European Union, and the governments in particular, by forcing our countries to achieve the budget objectives laid down by Maastricht, even laboriously, to the limits of possibility, is obliged to make just as much effort to make a specific contribution towards solving the serious unemployment problem.
It relates to the question of the structural funds which, in my opinion, can play an even clearer role in this context.
It is a well-known fact that in some countries the structural funds have not performed the tasks assigned to them in full but, owing to the seriousness of unemployment, we should not feel we are prisoners of mechanisms which, when activated by us, place huge budgets at our disposal which are actually often not used or badly used.
To give an example, and without claiming to be exhaustive, I remember that, on 16 September last, this Parliament voted by a large majority for the report, which I had the honour of preparing, on the extension of the structural funds to measures aimed at preserving and increasing the value of the artistic and architectural wealth, also providing direct benefits for further stable and skilled employment.
Madam President, the EU should devote itself to the big issues.
Madam President, I share the rapporteur's view that it is important that we talk in concrete terms before, during and after this summit.
Madam President, still today, unfortunately, we MEPs, with speeches taking half a minute to one and a half minutes, have to offer solutions to the massive problem of unemployment in Europe.
And, as usual, owing to the adverse organizational system of the European Parliament, we have to offer solutions so that the Commission can then disregard them completely.
Everyone complains about the rise in unemployment, everyone maintains that the solution may lie in the small and medium-sized businesses, which could play a fundamental role in employment.
In the few seconds left to me, Madam President, I would like to announce my specific plan for the creation of new jobs in Europe: grouping all Non-attached Members of the European Parliament together into a single mixed group, so as to be able to take on new young executives and so make a positive contribution to the reduction in the percentage of young unemployed in Europe.
Secondly, we think that European industrial policies are necessary in sensitive sectors such as the car industry, of course, but also in the more active sectors such as telecommunications, computers and multimedia or the sectors of the future such as space.
Jobs must be created in Europe, they must be created in dynamic industrial sectors and they must give rise to both public and private investments.
Thirdly, the discussion on the reduction of working hours has been forcefully raised within Europe, notably by French government policy.
We think the problem must be considered at European level, for some people are rightly questioning the competitiveness of companies and we want to know your level of commitment to agreements on the 35 hour week, and indeed what you think of the prescriptive route.
From a political point of view, people are becoming visibly aware of the fact that a social and employment union is required alongside economic and monetary union.
But I remember Commissioner Flynn saying that a higher figure would be more realistic, maybe as much as 15 million.
I want to raise four points in relation to the proposals that we have heard this morning.
Thirdly, financial incentives for scientific research and technological development to make up the gap between us and Japan and the United States and also loans for jobseeking, vocational training, job opportunities in the environmental and cultural sectors and in what is known as the third sector, the social economy sector.
Fourthly, reductions in taxes on employment, both fiscal and parafiscal.
Commissioner Monti has already done groundbreaking work in this area.
It is this method that we must be able to translate into practical terms at a level such as youth employment, definition of the level of employment, for instance 65 % over five years, training of the long term unemployed, reorganization of working time and so on.
I hope this path, pointed out to us by two eminent Luxembourg politicians, is also the right path to social union.
Madam President, I agree that this extraordinary European Council meeting on employment is very important for the European Union's credibility.
I believe that the credibility of this Parliament and the other Community institutions depends on our finding solutions to the biggest problem faced by the citizens of the Union: job creation.
The central point is therefore to show a desire to regulate processes by means of a concerted European policy that forces Institutions at all levels, European, national and local, to direct overall economic choices towards a new model of development, to create the contextual conditions for this development to be made in the direction of creating new jobs.
On this latter point, I wish to digress slightly: my government, the Italian Government, has, in my opinion, made a bold proposal, not to establish a reduction in working hours by law by a decree forcing everyone to do so, but to encourage agreement between the social parties to arrive at a reduction in working hours, with the assistance of the Institutions as well.
This direction favours all the unemployed but, I think, women in particular, who are the most heavily penalized by the rate of unemployment and who have always said that the problem of working hours requires intervention for everyone, men and women.
The European Parliament has shown courage.
The European Parliament has made a specific choice: an employment package that contains measures favouring small and medium-sized businesses cooperating with the EIB, but aimed at favouring local pilot projects for employment.
The Luxembourg Summit should conclude with specific choices that also form the legal basis for these programmes.
It is now absolutely essential for us to focus our attention on youth unemployment, which now stands at over 20 % for Europe as a whole, with peaks of over 40 % in some of the Member States.
As opposed to the concept of deregulation, which seems to cover everything, our proposals should combine flexibility and security, in the view that there is no single employment policy, but that all policies can, and should, benefit employment - although policies which actively favour employment may also be needed.
There are a lot of hopes resting on the forthcoming employment summit - perhaps too many.
As has been said many times, the European Union must find a way of adding value to the policies of the Member States, and must give decisive support to certain active policies designed to promote employment.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that 18 million people are unemployed throughout the European Community constitutes a challenge to the European Union, even though the primary responsibility for this lies with the employment policy of the Member States, and particularly with both sides of industry.
The European Parliament has successfully intervened in the preparation of the Luxembourg summit and Wim van Velzen has made a significant contribution through his work in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Wim van Velzen has made interesting proposals for vocational training and for combatting youth unemployment.
The Davignon report has put forward the European Limited Company as an ideal legal instrument, particularly for mobilizing private capital for the establishment of transeuropean networks.
The Council Presidency in Luxembourg has come up with an interesting compromise in this respect.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democrats are pleased to see this debate taking place today.
May I remind you, President-in-Office of the Council, that the employment statement contained in the Amsterdam Treaty was initially quite unpopular.
I mention this because the danger naturally exists that former opponents will again wreck our efforts on 21 November by staging a boycott.
Incidentally I want to say to Johanna Boogerd-Quaak that we do not really need new ideas.
We have produced enough ideas.
The Commission in the White Paper, the Stability Pact, this Parliament in the Rocard report and in the various resolutions it has put forward.
If Luxembourg is to be a success, at least three things are necessary, Mr President-in-Office.
The summit must also dare to establish objectives for education, investment in employment, job guarantees and working hours.
I must honestly say that I am slightly surprised that some colleagues have overlooked that passage in the van Velzen report.
After all we have known for a long time, from our experience with monetary convergence, that such criteria are necessary if we are to move in the same direction.
For that reason the Amsterdam commitment to financing a European growth initiative must be put into practice at the very least.
Madam President, we are not hoping for miracles from the employment summit, but we do expect that from now on the problem of 18 million unemployed in Europe will be treated with due seriousness, that is to say that it will be at the top of all agendas.
The Essen summit correctly focussed on five recognized key areas, namely investment in vocational training, raising the employment index, reducing wage incidentals, a more effective labour market policy and measures to assist groups affected by unemployment.
Employment and economic policy are two sides of the same coin of a social market economy.
We therefore need convergence criteria for employment in order to supplement the stability pact initiated by Theo Waigel.
Clearly we need to survey what has been accomplished, but also what remains to be accomplished, and this should include the annual reports submitted to the European Parliament.
Madam President, with the Amsterdam Treaty we have taken a great step towards a better Europe.
We have in Denmark come a long way towards both higher employment and order in public finance, while at the same time preserving a socially responsible community and taking account of the environment.
The single market means that we have a 90 % common economy and are therefore dependent upon one another.
The new section of the treaty on employment, the resolution on the growth of employment and the President's conclusions on employment, competitiveness and growth have introduced principles, provisions and intentions of such importance that they must, as a matter of urgency, be explored and implemented all the way to the final results.
We cannot wait until the extraordinary Luxembourg summit for new ideas to emerge.
According to the Amsterdam Treaty, Member States consider the promotion of employment as a matter of common interest, with the Community contributing to the achievement of a high level of employment, encouraging Member States to cooperate with one another, supporting and, where necessary, supplementing their actions.
The Community will respect the jurisdiction of Member States, but Member States must not fail to shoulder their responsibilities to resolve this worrying social problem.
European citizens, particularly the millions of young people without jobs and as many millions again of long term unemployed, are waiting, perhaps with some hope, for the urgent implementation of measures including employment training appropriate to market needs, the organization of working time - not just a reduction in working hours - and the financial measures made necessary by the coordination of economic policy.
The report we are now discussing is an important source of assistance for the Luxembourg Summit.
It seeks to create a catalogue of new opportunities provided by the Amsterdam Treaty, extrapolating a considerable and important number of concrete proposals, which should be taken into consideration at the Luxembourg Summit and implemented the day after their adoption, without further delay.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first let me too express my sincere appreciation to Wim van Velzen for his excellent report.
Madam President, I too wish to congratulate the rapporteur for producing a very concise report which cuts through the usual verbiage that we get when we are talking about reducing unemployment.
In particular I would submit that it means nothing at all for the 18 million people who we have heard of so often this morning - our fellow European citizens who are without work.
My country, Ireland, has seen a very welcome reversal in its economic fortunes over the past five years but even our "Celtic Tiger' suffers from the cancer of unemployment.
This decision, which was taken by Bertie Ahern and the other finance ministers in 1991, will have drastic consequences for thousands of workers across the European Union.
Madam President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a good report.
Now there are these instruments in the Amsterdam Treaty.
It is also important to have clear objectives with regard to the question of an active labour market policy.
As far as the issue of working hours is concerned, it is true that a reduced working week, correctly carried out, can create jobs.
It is a great challenge, but it is a challenge which the Council must accept.
Let us now make sure, while we work for increased employment and reduced unemployment, that we do not increase unemployment in certain areas because of past decisions.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the Single European Act we forecast the creation of many new jobs for our people.
The austerity of convergence criteria has not enabled us to escape from the spiral of unemployment.
Change macro-economic course, maybe, but also change the method.
We can no longer accept constricting economic criteria without protective social criteria favourable to employment being confirmed within Europe at the same time.
This is why Europe must rapidly move towards a reduction in the working week.
But by the dawn of the 21st Century, by the year 2000, all European enterprises ought to be working on the basis of a 35 hour week.
That is possible.
Madam President, for the first time in European history we have a golden opportunity to create an employment strategy for this part of the world.
The council, on the other hand, got involved only quite recently, in accordance with harmonization policies, after necessary political changes in Member States' governments took place after elections.
Now there are ideal opportunities to implement an employment programme that contains concrete targets.
In the market economy, taxation is also an effective way of controlling supply and demand in the labour market.
The criteria for the employment programme must be as plausible as those for EMU, and the Luxembourg summit must produce the criteria for both.
Madam President, addressing unemployment is a fundamental condition for establishing and safeguarding social cohesion in the European Union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say I find this debate quite frustrating.
Not in its fundamental issues, but for procedural reasons.
Unfortunately, not all the Member States are convinced that the approach we have chosen, the method the Commission has suggested, is the right one.
But if everyone could share these ideas, in London, Bonn, Luxembourg, Brussels, Rome or Paris, given that all political shades of opinion have expressed similar views today, we would have all the necessary elements and ingredients available for the Presidency to mix up a cocktail which would be received by those it was served to as something sufficiently innovative to restore hope to those who have lost it.
It certainly gives us great confidence to know that all of the political forces in Europe are now being mobilized so effectively in the fight against unemployment.
The difference is exactly what the President-in-Office referred to: the change because of the Amsterdam Treaty and the fact that employment is now a matter of common concern and has moved centre-stage.
Also, we now have the link between economic and employment policy in the very same agenda.
When you add that to what President Santer said - that we now also have a new employment strategy to match the content of the treaty - then I believe that we are on our way.
That must be very obvious to us all.
We cannot forget that our present policies are adding two million extra each year to the long-term unemployed in Europe.
When one considers that one in five of all those who leave our education and training systems in Europe have no marketable skill, and when we further consider that one in ten of the unemployed never get an opportunity of training at all, it is easy to support our employment guidelines which say that there is a jobs gap, there is a skills gap, and that it demands a response and a fundamental change in thinking on how our systems work: our educational systems, training systems, social security systems and taxation systems.
To make progress we have to recognize the failures of the past.
I see the failures of the past in three areas: poor economic management, lack of investment in human resources, and outdated labour market and social security systems.
To achieve them we need to ensure that the current economic recovery is sustained, not just for a few years but over the next ten years.
We must not forget that in the second half of the 1980s there were 10 million new jobs created in Europe in a much weaker economic situation - before the single market, before the single currency and without any systematic activation of labour market policies.
Productivity growth in Europe is 2 % per year, so we need at least 2 % economic growth just to keep employment at its present level.
We can achieve that 3 % increase.
I would like to say that on the issue of the proposed guidelines the Commission has not dodged the question of working time.
Under the adaptability heading, the Commission acknowledges that reductions in working time may be appropriate in some sectors or situations but that such reductions should be negotiated by the social partners.
This will be a priority following the summit's conclusions in 1998.
On the question of structural funds, the guidelines call on the Member States to increase the level of structural funding allocated to their human resource development policies.
Finally, the level of support in this House for the employment guidelines is very reassuring.
These are courageous and I am very grateful to the European Parliament for supporting them.
I look forward to the 21 November deadline as being the moment of truth in the development of a truly European employment strategy.
Thank you, Commissioner Flynn.
The debate is closed.
But it will be an absolute scandal if the European Parliament is not in a position to present a report to the summit.
That is the only reason, but a more than sufficient one, to urge a vote in favour. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, I regret that my opportunity to speak has only come after the vote.
The compromise is not really a success for the European Parliament.
The distribution of the money is in the right direction, but the sums in several of the areas are far too small.
The money allocated, including the ECU 9 million for renewable sources of energy, is a ridiculously small sum considering the needs which exist in the EU.
We have nothing against research in this area, but there is a high risk that the money has been wasted, since the crux of the problem is the EU's agricultural policy.
Being from a border constituency, bordering both a Member State of the Union and a third country, I can only vote in favour of this proposal for a Council decision.
Indeed, pollution knows no administrative or boundary limits between countries.
It is necessary for all the Member States of the European Union, as well as the candidates for membership as they may soon be members of the Union, to abide by the conclusions of this Convention.
Bonn Convention (C4-0470/97) My group has unanimously voted for the proposal for a Council decision on the amendments to the Bonn Convention on the conservation of migratory species of wild animals.
In fact, after having protected this species, we have been witnessing a spectacular increase in the cormorant population within European territory for a number of years.
van Velzen report (A4-0307/97) Mr President, the proposals we are considering with the Extraordinary Council on Employment in mind are based on an excellent initial idea.
Unfortunately, the procedures defined for the application of this good idea, notably within the Amsterdam framework, seem excessively bureaucratic to us.
Furthermore, the authority of the Member States of the Community seems, in practice, very muddled, since the Council will draw up the guidelines, is likely to go into considerable detail, and may, furthermore, adopt minimal prescriptions in the social field.
So the procedure of reducing differences between states foreseen in the Amsterdam Treaty, which it seems is going to be applied in advance, appears dreadfully complex since there are at least ten different stages.
On the whole, the proposals drawn up by the European Parliament in the van Velzen report seem inspired by good sense, notably in the area of training and flexibility of working hours, as well as in the lightening of the burden on the low paid.
The report shows too great a reverence towards the systematic reduction of the working week, an idea contrary to the way the economy is currently working, but which enables all those who do not have real solutions to unemployment to momentarily look good by making some noise.
Once again, both in the conclusions of the Amsterdam Council and in the Commission's proposals or those of the European Parliament, the total absence of any reference to the role of European trade defence policy in the fight for jobs is noted.
For us, this policy must necessarily be an integral part of the definition of a healthy macro-economic framework for the European Union.
Mr President, it has largely been a question, this morning, of good or bad recipes for the reduction of unemployment in Europe.
Alongside all the laudable efforts to make the coming jobs summit in Luxembourg a success and not another literary effort to be added to all those since Essen, the Commission and above all Commissioner Monti are applying themselves to the destruction of at least another quarter of a million jobs, because they refuse to take an initiative that could stop the legislation which will end in the automatical removal, by 1999, of duty-free shops from airports and ships for travellers within the Community.
We have just voted on paragraph 17 of the resolution on the jobs summit which asks the Council to declare that the Monti proposals concerning the single market must be adopted as soon as possible, because of the favourable impact they could have on jobs.
I now feel that our hopes lie with the French and Italian governments at the forthcoming summit in Luxembourg, which I am sorry that we could not support.
A strong reduction in working hours to a six-hour day could be compared to extending the statutory holiday by a further two months.
You can see the issue is considerable and the Council of Ministers will have to take into consideration our thoughts and proposals even if, in the part-session, a majority on the right have distorted them somewhat. 52 years after the end of the Second World War, world peace more than ever requires European construction.
This construction has two requirements: solid political institutions; -reduction, even eradication of unemployment.
In this respect, I concur with our rapporteur.
On the other hand, we go our separate ways when it comes to considering the means necessary for reducing unemployment in Europe.
No, this type of measure only serves to ease one's conscience.
You cannot set a rate of unemployment to be achieved in the same way as you set other economic convergence criteria.
To do this, Europe of course has its role to play, and the euro will be a great help.
Mr van Velzen's report is too far from economic reality.
Instead, we should invest in training, research and quality, if Europe is to revive employment.
Unemployment, employment and new jobs are national tasks.
Convergence criteria for employment must therefore be inserted into the EU Treaty so that unemployment is not increased even further through EMU.
Employment can be encouraged at the EU level through convergence criteria for employment, which should have the same weight as the convergence criteria for EMU, both through PR work and good examples.
Paragraph 1 is overly specific and prescriptive.
Paragraph 7 is, again, overly specific and prescriptive, whilst paragraph 11 falls foul of the same, and also contains an unnecessary spending commitment.
Finally, paragraph 13 also has unfortunate spending implications.
Mr van Velzen's report has managed to ignore the normal rhetoric on economic and social problems which is repeated year on year and from one Council to the next.
As Council President Jean-Claude Juncker has repeated often enough, a practical approach is required here.
I have, of course, voted for the van Velzen report in accordance with the Social Democrat line.
Paragraph 9 calls for VAT to be reduced in labour-intensive sectors.
Paragraph 10 calls for tax on work to be reduced and for tax on energy and natural resources to be increased.
The summit risks producing "another volume of poetry' about employment.
The Council procedure made it impossible although only very minor amendments were being made.
The result has been inter alia a delay in the adoption of the supplementary post for DG XXIV - services for fighting BSE.
I should like to emphasize strongly that the European Parliament's responsibility is not in question here, and I should like to ask the Commission at least to show the flexibility to take measures very rapidly to deal with DG XXIV.
John Tomlinson is a safe pair of hands and once again this year has brought more transparency to the European Parliament.
The 1998 budget is once again clearly a very rigorous budget and Parliament has again contributed considerably to this point.
It would therefore be very useful if the Council committee on Budgets would also recognize that important budget lines which are relevant for the citizens of Europe, like those on information, NGOs, development, environment and consumers, are not simply cut nearly to zero, thereafter using the margin on Parliament's part to restore it.
It is a childish game and it would be a step forward if two grown-up institutions such as the Council and Parliament were to take the necessary joint action to ensure that in the future this game of ping-pong was unnecessary.
The fact that Parliament will probably put 30 % in reserve is a sign that we are not yet totally satisfied.
A European Information System worthy of that name can only be achieved if there is real cooperation between the Commission and Parliament.
Finally, this year for the first time we have made the matter of subventions central to our debate.
Subventions are there to help useful institutions to work towards the improvement of the situation in Europe in a number of areas.
I hope we will continue this line in the coming years.
Mr President, in this joint debate I should first like to comment on the report on draft supplementary and amending budget No 1 for the 1997 financial year, for the Court of Auditors.
A joint study was carried out into the institution's needs, and the conclusion was that 48 posts were required.
I hope that the remaining 13 posts may also be approved in the end, besides the 10 already approved, so that the Court of Auditors may be granted the 23 posts which we requested for 1997.
I should also like to remind you of the indispensable contribution of the Court of Auditors to Parliament's monitoring process.
I should like to point out that a 10 % reserve was approved for the Meda programme in an amendment, although we may perhaps be able to find a new amendment here in the House.
I should like to remind you that in fact it was through an amendment of my own that the reserve for the Meda programme was decreased last year.
I think that 10 % should not hold the work up, but nevertheless I think it clearly shows the Commission what Parliament wants: the provisional evaluation report.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the two previous speakers for having lessened my workload in one respect.
You will see that there is not much more to say on the subject of the supplementary budget for 1997.
I shall attempt to present my report in less than the allotted 15 minutes, since I am simply unused to speaking for a quarter of an hour in the House.
In its first reading the European Parliament has tabled a budget proposal which corresponds fully with the wishes of the Member States for a rigorous and rational budget for 1998.
The Commission draft for the 1998 budget includes 1.15 % of gross national product, while in the Council draft the figure is 1.12 % of GNP.
I believe I am correct in saying that after intense political debate our current proposal reflects a responsible approach; to this effect the margin has been left at about ECU 700 million.
The result also signifies a new level of cooperation between the various European institutions.
The Council is called upon to establish the necessary legal basis and to take clear steps towards this at the Luxembourg meeting in November.
With this proposal the European Parliament has sought to discharge part of its responsibilities, in the conviction that this disposes of one of the priorities from the budgetary guidelines for 1998, which we adopted in March of this year.
In this context may I draw attention to the excellent cooperation and collaboration we have enjoyed with the Luxembourg Presidency.
We greatly value its contribution and its pledge, as stated in its letter of 6 October, to do everything in its power to promote the success of the Extraordinary Council Summit.
Under these conditions we are prepared to agree to the Commission's proposal and indeed have included it in our own proposal.
I now wish to recall the 1995 decisions contained in the special report, where we came to the understanding that the Rechar and Retex initiatives are priorities for the European Parliament.
I would like to re-emphasize - and here I come back to a matter already covered by my colleague Mr Brinkhorst - that for 3 years the European Parliament has been promoting a European information policy.
Together with the guidelines which will emanate from the European Parliament initiative report on information policy, political guidelines for a European information system should be agreed at the highest level between representatives of the Parliament and the Commission.
In the field of research a motion has been tabled which promises to bring a saving of more than ECU 13 million by introducing greater transparency in administrative procedures.
For this reason I believe that a 10 % reserve is quite moderate.
The 1998 budget will then be another success for the European Parliament.
I have made it quite clear in the explanatory statement which accompanies my part of the budget that, despite the fact that there appears to be a comfortable margin in category 5, it would have been an act of irresponsibility to have regarded category 5 appropriations as somehow more readily available than other appropriations in other parts of the budget.
So the context for the budget is the rigorous use of the available appropriations and for the European Parliament itself committing itself to a 20 % ceiling of the available category 5 appropriations.
Those 48 posts fall far short of their aspirations as well.
They were asking for 125 posts in the current year - they have got 48 posts in a deal that will now take us into the next millennium.
That played a significant part in the discussion that we had in relation to property policy which is a major theme underlying the budget.
The proposal is to eliminate them over a period of four years; not to eliminate the subsidy, but only the additional cash subsidy.
We talk about improving the quality of training in Parliament.
So perhaps when we save a little money on the staff subsidy on the canteens we can improve the literacy of some of our officials and get them to work a little more productively in the interest of European citizens.
We had given an undertaking.
Concerning Members' allowances, in paragraphs 12 and 13 of the motion for resolution, there is the point that Mr Brinkhorst referred to.
At paragraph 14 we refer to the Edinburgh Summit on which we will be voting certain consequences this week.
If the consequence of the decision in the Court of Justice is that we have a twelfth full partsession here in Strasbourg, the money is already in the budget.
I am sure that the chairman of the Committee on Budgets will agree with me that we will release the money from the reserve immediately a decision is made by Parliament that requires that money to be on the line.
The final major problem in relation to Parliament's budget concerns property policy.
It is imperative and cannot be said often enough that Parliament must have done everything to be able to purchase the D3 building by the time that our purchase option expires on 31 May 1998.
There are a number of other things in the budget of Parliament.
First the draft amending budget for the ECSC for 1997, which requires no special remarks on my part, but I would like to draw your attention to the proposal, currently being examined within a legal framework and which I would like to set out on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, aimed at maintaining, in 1998, the anticipated contribution of 0.011 % of the turnover of the coal and steel industries.
The ECSC, created in 1952 for fifty years, will disappear as an institutional entity in its own right in the year 2002.
Let me now come to the opinion of my group on the other reports under discussion.
With regard to the 1998 budget, in the eyes of the Group Union for Europe, it seems clearly more successful than in previous years, largely due to the great desire for dialogue shown on this occasion by the Dutch and Luxembourg Presidencies and marked, probably because of economic reasons, by a clear desire to come to a consensus a month before the Luxembourg Employment Summit.
The rapporteur, Mr Stanislas Tillich, proposes freeing up ECU 150 million in heading 3, destined to encourage job creation.
It goes without saying that our group can only be in favour of this proposal and that the risk of seeing the Commission using funds thus made available for an objective other than that which is at the heart of all European concerns seems to us a slender one.
On the other hand, our group would not wish to see the Council's proposal to reduce the payment appropriations that are destined for structural funds by ECU 1 billion in 1998 followed.
Let us not forget that these funds are also jobs, notably in the building and public works sectors, and let me simply remind you that 1998 and 1999 are the two last years in which the cohesion funds will be wholly destined to areas in difficulty within the Europe of fifteen countries.
Enlargement could not, except by deliberately sacrificing the balances too painfully achieved over the years, translate into a transfer from the countries of cohesion towards the candidates for membership, without coming up with other systems for the regions with the weakest incomes.
This is the task of the Agenda 2000 programme, which we will again be discussing in the future.
Indeed, it would be regrettable that programmes aimed at enabling enlargement under the best conditions, at sorting out the difficulties of the Republics of the Former Soviet Union, at developing a Euromediterranean partnership and at putting an end to the war in the former Yugoslavia, should remain unused through lack of organization, monitoring and, in a word, efficiency.
This is why the 30 % of funds put to one side that were destined for the reconstruction of former Yugoslavia must be taken as the desire to scrupulously verify the good use of funds whoever the beneficiary is.
Europe, which is heading blithely towards an overspend of ECU 5 million on its programmes overall, spends, relatively speaking, markedly more than the Marshall Plan did previously, of which many Europeans remain nostalgic.
But these new tasks, whose effects now reach as far as the Court of Auditors which is an essential institution for the coherence of European budgetary systems, need large amounts of supplementary funding.
It is therefore very willingly that the Group Union for Europe will follow Mr Tomlinson's proposals to create jobs in the Court of Auditors in 1998.
In another sphere, that of communication, our group supports the proposal of the Committee on Economics, aimed at significantly increasing the funds destined for informing public opinion within Member States about the implementation of the euro.
The compromise arrived at in the Committee on Budgets on this resolution seems to me to be going in the right direction.
The extremely tight calculations established by the Commission for next year meet with our approval.
Mr President, on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as regards the 1998 budget, we are trying to restore the funding levels of 1997 and take account of the political priorities of the institutional agreement between the Commission and the European Parliament.
First we turned our attention to the Meda programme and placed particular emphasis on the comments, which we ask you to bear in mind.
The ad hoc procedure remains open and to me that means that Parliament can have a greater influence on the agriculture budget, which is to be welcomed.
I would like to draw your attention to one and that is the amendment concerning B2-5122, relating inter alia to aid to farmers who have been relegated to the sidelines by various political measures arising from agricultural policy.
Mr President, I have not time in two minutes to talk in great detail about what we have done.
Perhaps the most important addition we have made is to create a budget of ECU 40 million for the Prince programme, the information programme for European citizens.
We consider it particularly important in this coming year that European citizens be well informed about the introduction of the single currency - a major step forward in the development of Europe.
I find it an irony that in my own country the government has finally decided to take money from this budget line but, at the same time, cannot make up its mind whether to join the single currency or not.
Nonetheless I welcome the fact that the opportunity exists for British citizens to become better informed about such an important development.
At the same time we have cut the budget and, in particular, we have made a cut of some ECU 30 million in the publication of the S series of the Official Journal.
Perhaps the most salient feature of this year's budget, however, is the package of budget lines that we have put together, worth some ECU 150 million in total, to assist in the jobs summit.
These are budget lines that have been assisting in job creation, that we have put together as a package and we are offering to assist the heads of government in putting together a wider budget package.
Mr President, over the years the budget of the Committee on External Economic Relations has grown very considerably as our relations with Eastern and Central Europe, the former Soviet Union and the Meda countries have developed.
I cannot in all honesty claim that we have a complete handle on the budget for these three highly significant areas.
No fewer than 650 graduates have benefited from this scheme, which is a further boost for European exports to Japan and investment in that country.
The most important aspect as far as social policy is concerned was the employment initiative.
The House has created a package, the Tillich package, containing ECU 150 million.
The package is flexible, but clear enough.
It is a package in which ECU 150 million can be spent and ECU 200 million actually saved.
I think that we have been very successful and that that is a focal point of this budget.
On behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment I very much welcome this development.
These funds are used, as has been said, in projects that obviously promote employment in the least favoured regions.
The Council says nothing about unemployment packages.
This is also an extremely important programme in terms of aid and for the image of the European Union.
I wish to express my heartfelt thanks to him and to the Committee on Budgets, which has been extremely cooperative.
However, I believe that the basic premises laid down by us in recent years have been taken further, such as the issue that citizens might actually participate in the internal market, for example in the setting of standards.
However, I recommend all colleagues to reject the proposal of the Committee on Budgets in respect of budget line B5-325, which bears the abbreviated title "Promotion of tourism' .
We are particularly pleased to have seen the support we have received on Socrates - the education programme - and hope that the substantial increase that we have found within the budget of the European Parliament is now matched by a commitment from the European Council.
The amount proposed by the general rapporteur does not take into account the new umbrella cultural programme proposed in two years' time.
Whereas the Commission's proposal showed a very limited increase in overall spending on external actions (of 0.41 %), the Council's proposal shows an actual decrease of 2 % compared with the 1997 budget.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, I would first like to express my regret that the amendments that we had proposed - at least some of them, which in our opinion were important - have not been considered by our eminent colleagues in the Committee on Budgets.
I refer particularly to the modest supplementary credits that we requested to fight against organized crime and to support the common action of the Council.
I would, nevertheless, like to remind you that following these events the whole of the European Union declared the protection of children and the fight against trafficking in human beings to be a fundamental priority for the Union.
I am therefore asking Parliament to support the request of the Committee on Civil Liberties to grant supplementary appropriations to line B3-4109.
Mr President, as rapporteur for the fisheries budget, I have intervened on many occasions throughout the budgetary procedure in order to draw the attention of the general rapporteur to the fact that it is not possible to bring about - as had been envisaged - an across-the-board reduction on all the budgeted posts relating to fisheries without challenging the proper implementation of essential elements of the multiannual plan, which are the foundations of the common fisheries policy.
I am happy that the Committee on Budgets has listened to us on this important point.
Furthermore, by unanimously adopting the two amendments I have proposed concerning lines B2-910 and B2-901 and 902, the Committee on Fisheries has shown a particular interest in two essential aspects of the CFP, in this case, priority to traditional fishing and the essential means anticipated to put a fair monitoring system in place.
Regarding traditional fishing, I am happy that the Committee on Budgets has followed our proposal to allocate ECU 2 million to this line.
It was therefore essential to provide follow-up to the action initiated in 1995 benefitting a professional activity which requires large amounts of local labour and whose economic and social role, as well as its role in regional planning, is irreplaceable.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Tillich.
The transparency is greater, in fact, on the research programmes than in any other item, since it is quite clear how much is spent on administration on each of those specific programmes.
Because of a lack of legal base and little progress on energy we are sending our delegates to Kyoto with very little in their bags.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 16 September last I had the honour of presenting to you the principal elements of the draft general budget for 1998, as formulated in the first reading by the Council during July.
Respect for this rule - respect for this budgetary principle - is a must in the framework of the budgetary rigour which the 1998 financial year implies.
It is, furthermore, by this yardstick that the Council measured the expenses registered in the draft general budget for 1998.
It is a major event because these amendments largely reflect the image of the draft general budget that the President of Parliament will sign in December.
It is a major event because - and in this we are living up to tradition - a certain number of amendments contain a little cherry or a little cactus directed at the other budget authority and, once more, I note that the current exercise is no exception to that practice.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, without wanting to prejudge next Thursday's votes on the amendments you are going to discuss, I would like to note particularly amendment 815, which relates to the necessary financing for the promotion of jobs, an area in which the Presidency wanted to include Parliament from the very start of the debate on budgetary procedure.
This initiative, Mr President, is a great credit to your Parliament, as it contributes in a decisive way to the legitimation of the jobs package as it will be submitted to the Extraordinary European Council on 20 and 21 November.
But this initiative will be all the more credible if you are willing to maintain, in Section 3, a sufficiently high margin along the lines of the substantial margins you are about to maintain in sections 4 and 5.
Indeed, these changes constitute a mandate for negotiation between Parliament with the Council at the next trialogue concerning the letter of amendment the Commission will formulate on 29 October next.
The Council will give its opinion on the Commission's letter of amendment, but I would already like to recall the bilateral commitment of April in order to say to you, Mr President, that the Presidency will do everything it can to ensure the procedure is concluded in only one session.
With regard to section 2, as I understand, Parliament is ready to re-establish the payment appropriations reduced by the Council at first reading.
With regard to the Peace initiative, we have noted the alternative to the preliminary draft budget, as suggested by the Commission, which would thus like recourse to appropriations not affected by section 2.
The Presidency is delighted with this solution, which it will support with all its might, and I think the Council will also support the solution, on condition, of course, of respect for the Edinburgh decisions and, more specifically, for the decisions regarding available resources for commitments within objective 1.
With regard to the financing of the CFSP, I should say that the trialogue of 6 October was a good one, extremely fruitful, following the signing of the interinstitutional agreement of 16 July.
This trialogue considered a new distribution of the total amount amongst different lines as they were formulated by the Council.
The Council will therefore give its final decision on this distribution.
In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say how pleased I am that, thanks to the willingness and the sense of responsibility of Parliament, understanding between the two branches of the budget authority has been exemplary from the start of the budgetary procedure.
I note that cooperation between Parliament and the Council has already produced tangible results, both in the area of agricultural expenditure and in expenditure on fisheries and the CFSP.
In conclusion, I would also, and above all, like to thank all of those in the Parliament who have contributed in a determinant way to the results that we have obtained at this stage of the budgetary procedure.
I would first like to mention the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Detlev Samland.
That said, Mr President, I thank you for your attention, and am ready to listen to Parliament.
Amending budget No 1/97-1998 draft general budget - draft 1997 ECSC operating budget (continuation) Mr President, after listening today to the rapporteurs' presentations of the budget and the comments by the Council, I would remind you of last year's budget debate.
It was extremely difficult, there was a lot of tension and we had difficulty in finding a common line between the institutions.
We must now carry the budget through in the same spirit.
With regard to the supplementary and amending budget for 1997, the second reading of Parliament establishes consensual solutions for nearly all questions raised.
It is unfortunate that the procedure has been prolonged but the result permits, in particular, a first important step in the reinforcement of the Community's consumer protection services.
For the European Coal and Steel Community there is an agreement between Parliament and the Commission on the supplementary and amending budgets for 1997.
This debate will therefore take place at a later stage.
Among the internal policies, the joint employment initiative of Parliament and the Council presidency is a promising achievement.
Combined with the mobilization of the resources of the EIB agreed in Amsterdam, this initiative can, if it is endorsed by Council, contribute significantly to the employment summit.
The institutions continue to work to find the appropriate instruments to obtain the most value added for employment creation from the initiatives.
Turning to some more specific points, the Commission will prepare the 1999 budget with the euro as its unit of account.
Parliament's preferences with regard to Rechar and Retex, which have been mentioned often, are very clear to us.
The initiatives which could be taken in this respect will be examined but this examination should also include realistic possibilities for execution.
Almost 20, 000 Europeans consulted us on the Internet on the day when the documents went out.
It is up to the Council to approach the proposals now on the table in a constructive spirit.
This reinforces the initiatives which the Commission has taken in the context of SEM 2000 to strengthen evaluation, in particular as far as the multiannual programmes are concerned.
A report on the evaluation activities of the Commission is under preparation and should demonstrate the progress made.
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Institutional Affairs, I would like to express concern, satisfaction and determination.
The concern, somewhat premature, is that the reminder, in the future Amsterdam Treaty, of the responsibilities of Member States within the context of the implementation of the budget, does not translate into a dilution of the responsibilities of the Commission, notably due to the fact that it would cease to be the sole body responsible for the discharge of this duty before this institution.
This treaty is already sufficiently complicated and sufficiently incomprehensible for citizens without adding to it and an effort of information and education is clearly necessary.
Allow me to add, on a personal level, a word of congratulations, perhaps a little premature, for we are only at the first reading, to the Luxembourg Presidency.
I believe that the quality of relations that have been established between this Presidency and Parliament shows what can come of a good collaboration between institutions.
It is undoubtedly this cooperation which will enable some substance to be given to the employment initiative at the European Council of Luxembourg which is dedicated to this issue.
I wish to congratulate both rapporteurs because the work they have done has helped us tremendously.
I do not need to say too much on category 1, because Jan has already said it.
On the structural funds, the ECU 100 million that we have all now agreed for the Irish peace process is an excellent example of how the three institutions have worked together to ensure that this has been achieved without a legal base.
I wish to say to the President-in-Office at this point: our group has put a lot of effort into getting a commitment and an agreement on this strategy.
We have seen some budget lines sacrificed so that we could go for this strategy; we have seen some lines take decreases and some lines disappear, where some of our colleagues were asking us to maintain them or indeed increase them.
That ECU 350 million will be redistributed throughout category 3.
That should be given full support from all groups.
Firstly, I would like to underline what the rapporteur has pointed out regarding the rigorous approach of the European Parliament to this budget.
We will be somewhere in between the 1.12 % of the Council on first reading and the 1.15 % of the Commission.
The margins in category 3 are over ECU 200 million, and in category 4, external policy, where we might have been tending to spend funds on tropical forests or other areas of importance as we have done in the past, we have kept a margin of nearly ECU 500 million.
That is over ECU 700 million altogether on first reading.
I would particularly like to thank our own Secretary-General and Secretariat in Parliament for coming forward with a report on interinstitutional cooperation.
Turning to the European budget itself, for the Commission, section III, there is firstly the point on the jobs initiative.
The European budget will play a central role bearing in mind that no budget increases are proposed.
The average income per capita in my region is well below the national average, to say nothing of the EU average.
By 1999 the average income per capita for all Ireland will be close to 90 % of the EU average while in my region it will be less than 75 %.
Budget reallocations of EU regional, social, agricultural and fishery funds must in future be disbursed on a region-by-region basis taking into account the social and economic problems of each region together with the disadvantages of peripherality.
It is neither fair nor equitable that my region is compared, for the purposes of EU structural funds allocations, to other more affluent regions in the country and indeed in Europe.
Although there is inefficiency in the administration of the structural funds, they are nevertheless the EU's most important tool for improving the employment situation.
The other problem is heading A-30 - "Community Support Measures' in administrative expenditure.
Because that is, in fact, the essential characteristic of the present budgetary process, and, furthermore, it conflicts with the priority which, it is claimed, is being given to employment.
In the first place, because we consider that the fight against unemployment and the creation of jobs must immediately be set free from the present restrictive policies.
Next, since not only is the allotted amount limited, since the ECU 390 million earmarked for that use have really been secured essentially by means of financial engineering, which boils down to taking funds away from a number of other appropriations, or from purposes to which they might have been allocated, particularly social objectives, to concentrate them on this new purpose.
But we cannot in any event fail to note the drastic limits of this action, particularly evidenced by the cuts made particularly in important areas of our social, education and youth, cultural, environmental, consumer protection and research policies, to mention only a few of the most important.
These limits are also evidenced by the very increases proposed for other areas, particularly the suggested allocations to information campaigns, which amount to ECU 106 million and do indeed turn that item into a real, if undeclared, priority.
With regard to certain aspects of the process, I should like to say that we consider it a positive sign that it is proposed to reject the cut of ECU 1, 000 million ecus in payments for the structural actions adopted by the Council.
Meanwhile, and following the same line of thought, we cannot understand and do not accept allocation of the Committee on Budget of ECU 100 million in class II to the Prince initiative; similarly, we do not agree that the additional allocation of ECU 60 million to the Retex and Rechar programmes should also be at the cost of normal structural actions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year's budgetary process has been overshadowed by the deliberations on Agenda 2000.
One is entitled to ask, however, whether or not this budgetary process shows that the European Institutions, the Council, Parliament and the Commission, are in possession of sufficient creative talent.
First a positive example: this year, our budgetary process has centred around the EU's capacity to act in the fight against unemployment.
Now to the negative example: in December 1995 this House first made some ECU 150 million available for an urgent rebuilding programme in former Yugoslavia.
Regulations should be simplified in such a way as to focus attention not on the job-orders of home-based tendering companies, such as those based in Spain, but rather on the people of Bosnia.
Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the budgetary process and procedure, it is the tradition for group spokesmen to start by duly thanking the rapporteurs for carrying out the difficult task of reconciling positions and thus achieving a European Parliament position which is compact, uniform and able to reinforce the role played by Parliament itself, in constituting a reference point both for all of us and for the Council and the Commission.
So I will not join in the thanks offered so far, and I hope that the Chamber will, at least on this point, support the amendment I have submitted together with 35 other colleagues, so that, after eight years, the appropriation of ECU 15, 000 to the Sakharov Price can be increased, and can therefore stand at the minimum that constitutes appropriate recognition for one of the most important initiatives taken by the European Parliament in the field of human rights.
I almost have the impression, from the experience of these last two years, that, beyond the questions of the economic and monetary union, we understand or want public opinion to understand that the more we spend, the more we increase a hypothetical public deficit, as if 1.26 or 1.16 comprised a deficit and not an essential tool for Community policy.
We are therefore paying attention to this point!
We have agreed this initiative this year; I too hope and expect that the Luxembourg Council will produce positive results on 21 November.
However, we should all be aware that this budget is not a non-refundable expenses budget, and the money available seems insufficient to me to achieve a real policy on employment.
Mr President, like last year, the Committee on Budgets is refusing to subscribe to the desire for rigour expressed by the Council which adopted a 1998 budget with zero growth in terms of real ECUs.
Concerned, as always, to confirm the budgetary power of the European Parliament, the Committee on Budgets proposes to reduce the margin, on the financial perspective ceiling, from ECU 1.35 billion to ECU 500 million, as opposed to the ECU 950 million in the Commission's preliminary draft budget.
My group will vote against this draft budget, regretting that the Committee on Budgets has not retained the broad lines of the initial draft budget of the Council.
Increases in the Council's draft budget are limited to 0.7 % in relation to the 1997 budget.
The effort is balanced between the budget lines, with a particular reduction of ECU 1 billion in the structural funds, which nevertheless increases by 4.2 %.
This said, the draft budget takes into account the need to limit national contributions to the Community budget.
For 1998, France's contribution is already 91.5 billion French francs, being 6.3 % of tax receipts or 36 % of the budget deficit.
Approval of the Committee on Budget's draft budget would mean an increase in this contribution of 1.9 billion, being a 2.2 % increase as opposed to a 1.4 % increase for the overall increase in expenses.
If the French budget had been indexed to an increase in GDP, as the draft budget proposes, the extra expenditure for France would have been 45 billion French francs, that is 0.5 % of gross domestic product.
There is a discrepancy, Mr President, between what the European Parliament says with regard to the need to put in place the single currency and its behaviour as a budget authority.
Mr President, this budget is excessive, cosmetic and intended to curry favour.
First, because the 1992 European Council overestimated the needs of Community expenditure by fixing the limit of its own resources at 1.27 % of the gross domestic product of Member States, it encouraged budgetary laxity.
This budgetary laxity led governments to propose, for 1998, a budget which, in payment appropriations, surpasses the real expenditure of 1996 by 8 %.
This budgetary laxity leads the Committee on Budgets to go further and to propose an increase in payment appropriations and commitment appropriations of 2.9 %, nearly 3 %, in relation to the 1997 budget.
This means much higher increases than those of national budgets on which, however, budgetary constraints weigh much more heavily.
In reality, it is not a matter of solving unemployment with these ECUs, which is due to the opening up of borders, free trade, and an excess of immigration, it is a matter of getting publicity for the European budget.
So, this budget, which is ingratiating, cosmetic, excessive and inflationary, ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gallou has not said anything new.
Organizations are required to generate 10 % of their own resources.
We can no longer tolerate a situation in which the number of A boxes in the Commission is the same as the number of C boxes.
While the new concept of information technology is making inroads in the Commission, it remains merely a matter of prestige that a C box is assigned to an A box.
Neither Council nor Commission have taken account of what they themselves proposed in Agenda 2000, namely to begin negotiations with new partners, how ever many they may be, from 1st January 1998.
On this issue let me just state clearly and frankly, and here I refer to a discussion which took place in Brussels on the Notenboom procedure, that if a body like DG I is incapable of managing the Yugoslavia programme, the Phare programme and the Tacis programme to our complete satisfaction, then it should not be put in charge of the enlargement programme - unless we want to wait 25 years for the first new member to join.
The debate in this budget procedure was very encouraging, since it raised a considerable number of points, including new institutional issues.
Let me just add the following: yesterday evening in the Committee on Budgets I quoted the words of Bertolt Brecht: times are not so or are not always so.
The problem is that we now have a Council Presidency with which we can genuinely cooperate.
The process which we are initiating here today is therefore an invitation to the Council to make interinstitutional changes to the framework conditions and ultimately to modify the treaty, so that we are at last given clear guidelines - and this should also include the agricultural policy.
Actually, Parliament's employment initiative will do nothing to affect unemployment in Europe in any noticeable way.
When we start to re-examine the pay scheme we must sort things out with Elmar Brok and other such representatives who are in the employ of private companies at the same time as working as Members of Parliament.
The proposal to add all the category 3 amendments together into one large amendment is at odds with the spirit of the budget procedure.
This is not justified by the scale of 1997 spending.
In the Council's draft budget payment appropriations are already 4.18 % higher than in 1997.
The most serious problem, as we all know, is the high unemployment figure, particularly youth and long term unemployment.
It is still particularly regrettable that the ECU 3.5 billion allocated to research and technological development still represents less than 4 % of the total budget.
Therefore, I believe that this budgetary procedure provides evidence that the Treaty of Amsterdam left a lot to be desired, in not updating article 203.
In this sector the structural funds are spending objectives, and an attitude like that seen last year could result in a very grave future commitment.
But I think it is a game, played out each year, which has its technique, its skill, its difficulties, its fun, but essentially does not give the European Parliament the power to set its own course and to question some of the more basic aspects of the move towards integration within the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to refer in particular to the Tillich report and to the further two years' extension for the peace and reconciliation fund for Northern Ireland.
The peace and reconciliation fund began from scratch and there are many elements to that funding mechanism.
On a positive note, the district partnerships have been a resounding success and have brought together all the social partners working together to build a future for everyone.
Mr President, time constraints mean that I can only make a brief comment on the budget, and I am going to talk about cultural policy again, as I have done for the past five years.
It is unreasonable for the EU to make propaganda for a particular opinion, such as in relation to the Amsterdam Treaty, when it is a controversial political issue in many countries.
Mr President, I am going to speak on the satellite agencies.
Secondly, we are now moving towards having an efficient and transparent agency system as reported in the budget.
We are moving towards management by objectives; transparency whereby both staffing, administrative expenditure and substantive expenditure are now exposed in the budget remarks.
The European Parliament must maintain its commitments to existing bodies when redefining budgetary priorities.
I want to talk about this Parliament's credibility in a number of Member States.
I do not think it is as bad as a journalist from your country suggested to me recently when he said to me that it is difficult to talk to fraudsters about fraud but the fact is that I find the European Parliament is being taken less and less seriously.
The debate about our system of allowances, especially the travel allowance, which has been going on for over a year now, and now, in the Netherlands, about our voluntary pension fund, has a lot to do with this.
We have therefore tabled an amendment with a number of others, including representatives from other countries, to sharpen up the text.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say on behalf of the Flemish Socialists that I entirely agree with Mr Dankert.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the Members of Parliament who have spoken in this debate.
Parliament's initiative with regard to employment shows to what point its Members are desirous of finally seeing the economy put back into the service of man and not the reverse.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
The Green Paper is a policy paper.
This aspect of the amendment should not create any difficulties for my colleagues.
Parliament wants to do something to encourage SMEs to participate in this ECU 720 billion market.
The need is evident.
One utility reported that 75 % of tenders from SMEs had to be binned due to bad submissions.
Finally, I should like to thank the Commission, colleagues and the secretariat for all the assistance they have given me on this report.
It is the black hole of the internal market and through this report I hope Parliament has shed a little light.
Mr President, is the fact that the Member States have approved the Community's directive on public procurement only a question of paying lip-service?
People ask themselves that question when they see how the Member States have followed up the directive or, rather, how they have neglected to do so.
Last year the Commission was obliged to deal with 148 matters concerning complaints against the Member States.
The new co-ordinating directives have been implemented so badly that in the spring of 1996 the Court found three Member States guilty of not taking measures.
We have many examples of things being done wrong with 29 cases in progress.
It would increase the risk of serious economic consequences, as the Committee on Legal Affairs also suggests.
Discussions about the relationship between the single market and high levels of protection for the environment and industrial safety are dominating the debate today.
Mr President, the report as such is excellent, but I consider it my duty to point out some areas on which we should continue the debate.
In the report a new role for the Commission within the supply sector is mentioned.
The Commission will have the same access to the supply sector as to the area of competition law, and this is something that I find alarming.
The opinion of the European Parliament is playing a big role in the debate on public demand, and I think that with this report we have made a good contribution to the discussion within this sphere.
Only 3 % of public contracts were awarded on a transborder basis.
No proposals have been made to develop the legal framework, for instance article 8 of the sectional guideline relating to telecommunications.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the public procurement sector in our countries represents ECU 720 billion per year, or if you prefer, 11 % of the gross domestic product of the European Union.
If the European Union has already made considerable progress in the implementation of its policy in the area of public procurement, the directives also need to be monitored and more efficiently implemented by putting in place, if need be, significant sanctions for those who do not respect the rules, for example, by forbidding offending companies from bidding for tenders for a certain period of time.
On an international level, the European Commission must act in such a way as to enable third countries to have access to public procurement contracts, certainly, but on the basis of complete reciprocity.
It is also essential, in the interests of our small and mediums sized enterprises, that the Commission, within the context of the WTO, fights to obtain an increase in the limits upon which the implementation of the directives are conditional.
In fact, we consider this issue is not relevant here.
It is necessary, therefore, in order to obtain better conditions of competition and with a view to completion of the internal market, that the Commission should look at the implementation and execution of the directives.
Lastly, I wish to draw the Commission's attention to the question of environmental requirements for public sector purchases.
Mr President, public procurement form a really important part of our financial activity.
I'd like to mention, for example, that many local authorities have begun to implement the long-term development strategy, Agenda 21, and they really strive to implement ecological criteria in their own areas of activity.
Likewise, the social criteria are terribly important.
The main weakness in the operational policy on public procurement by the Commission is that public procurement is seen just as tools for establishing internal markets.
It is then that market forces and the labour market should be taken into account; and employment, social, and environmental policy must be included in this process.
A Dutch organization in the construction business recently described European tendering as nonsense and extremely expensive.
So there are many questions that the European Commission needs to answer.
For the building sector the directives are proving disastrous.
Clearly, the main objectives, as stated and repeated, relate to transparency, achieving a situation of non-discrimination not only between countries but also with regard to company size.
The rules on opening public contracts up to competition currently in force have so far had a limited impact on the market.
It should not be forgotten that a rigorous observance of the rules of the game enables us to fight more effectively against corruption in the field of contracts.
The position of the European Parliament is crucial for our analysis.
The draft report we have in front of us provides interesting ideas and proposals.
I would now like to point out, Mr President, some of the main points that are emerging.
I fully agree with the point made in the report that it is necessary to take measures for the current regulations to be incorporated into each Member State, thereby enabling all operators in the Union to take part in the contracts under the same conditions.
I would like to recall that, within the scope of the action plan for the single market, to which the European Parliament has given its valued support, we fixed a deadline, 1 October, which was observed by most of the Member States, for them to present the schedule for the incorporation of the directives not yet incorporated, and, in this framework, those on contracts unfortunately constitute a significant part.
The question of a partnership between public and private should also be raised, in the expressions specific to each Member State.
In other sectors, it may be sufficient to clarify the current regulations in interpreting documents or vademecum .
I would like to add that this is an extremely important message for those markets which in recent years have tried to adapt to the rules on contracts.
One important accompanying sector relates to training and information, and also the preparation of different markets for the use of electronic trading.
The report emphasizes the important role that may be played by small and medium-sized businesses in the liberalization of the contracts sector.
I fully share this point of view and I am convinced that greater accessibility of information on tenders and regulations, even by electronic means, would be a significant step forward towards the actual integration of small and medium-sized businesses into the sector.
I will be very brief on specific questions that have already been raised, Mr President.
The Commission will certainly examine the actual market situation in the sense specified by the Court of Justice.
With regard to the important question of environmental policy and contracts, the aim of a genuine policy on contracts is to choose the best product under the most favourable conditions offered on the market.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The Statistical Office of the European Communities bases its operation on the information gathering mechanisms of the statistical services of the Member States.
And, Mr President, I think that this debate gives us the opportunity to put this important subject of the creation of a unified statistical service for the European Union on the agenda.
The financial sector provides intangible services, some of which are paid for by specially invoiced procurement, while for others the cost is included in the interest on loans or deposits.
Of course there are certain problems concerning the time it will take for the statistical services of the Member States to readjust to this new method, which the Statistical Office of the European Union is putting forward to them, and for that reason I have introduced two changes whose sole purpose is to ease the introduction of the new methods in the Member States.
Mr President, with this qualification I believe the proposal from the Statistical Office is useful and we must accept it.
This is why, Mr President, our group supports the Commission's proposal.
Nor must we ignore the interest in having these documents as soon as possible.
As for our rapporteur's proposal about the timing, our group accepted it in committee, but I think we can reach a consensual agreement on that timing which will really guarantee that the statistical services of all the Member States can offer reliable information for the purposes of this report.
Mr Katiforis, you have raised the problem of a single statistical service, a wide subject, but one which is not relevant to the debate today.
The 1995 ESA sets out the accounting rules to be applied in order to have a coherent quantitative description, viable and comparable, of the economies of the Member States.
This 1995 ESA was adopted by the Council on 25 June 1996, it is Regulation 2223/96, and it furthermore makes provision, in article 2, paragraph 3, for a decision from the Council before the end of 1997 on the introduction of a system of allocation of FISIM.
So the proposal for a FISIM regulation being considered today is, when all is said and done, a technical modification of the ESA 1995 document in response to pure accounting logic.
This new regulation will enable the GDP-GNP of each Member State to be measured better and it will also significantly improve consistency between our accounting system and that of the United Nations.
This regulation will have two important consequences.
Firstly, it will permit better measurement of the GDP-GNP of each Member State in the long run.
In any case, this proposal for a regulation will have no impact on the choice of Member States participating in economic and monetary union.
Secondly, as Mr Herman has quite rightly noted, it will substantially improve the comparability of European economies, which is essential in order to satisfy, in the future, the demands imposed by the operation of the economic and monetary union.
This legislative measure, since in this case it concerns a Council regulation, enables the fixing of a reference framework for accounting rules in the area of the breakdown of FISIM.
But the implementation of the breakdown of FISIM remains the responsibility of the Member States, who will need to adapt their statistical systems.
Thus, your House proposes two amendments concerning the trial period of four years for testing this method of calculation.
In fact, the Commission recognizes that it is useful to establish an obligatory trial period for all Member States, so that the efficiency of the proposed method can be evaluated before finally taking into account this new method within Community legislation.
It is possible that this period will be accepted and is acceptable given that a certain number of countries are reticent towards the idea of introducing a method in the immediate term and, above all, because some countries, Germany, Denmark and Finland, do not currently have the necessary data.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The report which I am now presenting to this House deals with the protection of financial interests and the fight against fraud, and in many respects it is a non-report.
Ever since the report and conclusions of the Committee on Inquiry into the Community Transit System, it has been apparent that one of the main reasons for the high level of corruption affecting the European budgetary process is the fact that we have on one hand a European body responsible for the internal market, and on the other some 15 more or less reliable guardians of this same internal market, who in some cases are obliged to use operating methods which are practically mediaeval.
It is therefore obvious that we can only fulfil our role as representatives of the people when we finally gain control of the means necessary to achieve this.
It is my hope and belief that this report, and the conclusions it contains, will constitute an important and fundamental step towards greater transparency in Europe.
Mr Bösch, I have allowed you to go rather beyond your time because when a rapporteur has put in serious work on a subject, I think he should have the opportunity to express his ideas.
This seems to be the point to me; the reflections we have made over all these years, and in particular in recent years and months, attempt to identify one of the means of ensuring this efficiency in a framework of essentially Parliamentary control and jurisdictional control in more advanced means of cooperation, certainly among the administrative and investigative bodies, but also among the legal bodies.
Let me just cite one example: As a result of their discontent, the Committee on Budgetary Control decided some weeks ago to send a letter to Commission President Santer asking for talks on the matter.
In its communication on corruption control, the Commission covered a wide range of issues, but failed to mention corruption within its own organisation.
Let me cite another instance.
In your work programme you repeatedly state that you will sending us a communication on fraud in the tariff preference systems.
Madam Commissioner, this is all very convincing I am sure, but this particular topic has now featured three or four times in the work programme.
The fact is that no single national parliament can monitor the European Commission or any other European body under whose supervision or responsibility fraud can occur.
My group does not believe that we should set up a separate new body in the European Union.
An independent position which perhaps is only responsible to the President of the Commission and which can act completely independently of any Directorate-General even in the Commission itself.
From this point of view democratic control is essential and I therefore think that from time to time a special debate should be held on UCLAF's activities in general.
It is also important that the Commission, and again that is from the committee of enquiry, makes much more use of the right relating to the 10 % to be paid to the Member States to exercise control, particularly at the external borders.
If that does not happen, the 10 % can easily be called into question.
Mr Bösch, who is to be congratulated for producing such an excellent report, is quite right in urging greater cooperation between the Commission and the European Parliament in a number of key areas, and particularly in one which is of great interest to our peoples - namely, what is really happening with Europe's money and is it being used to best effect.
As I still have 15 seconds left, Mr President, I should like to stress the importance of this piece of work by the Committee on Budgetary Control.
At the same time it makes the criticism that the resources which we now have for this work are far too limited.
The report then goes into various proposals for improvements.
That is true both of the expenditure side and the income side.
This brings me to the question of cooperation with the Member States.
The Commission cannot fight cheating and fraud effectively on its own.
We will never be able to do that.
They are also responsible for 80 % of the spending.
The same applies to the two supplementary protocols on judicial cooperation and corruption.
This year the Commission has taken several initiatives in the fight against fraud.
We have also proposed a special information system to be able to give earlier warning signals when certain players in the market demand increased attention.
I entirely share the view that UCLAF must be able to work independently.
The same applies to its work in following up investigations.
I hope that the Council will address these problems.
Therefore in the Commission we have followed Parliament's proposal to set up a separate unit to deal with suspected fraud in the Phare, Tacis and Meda programmes as well as in other aid projects.
Against the background of the Committee's Report on transit, the Commission took up these recommendations in the new work programme.
That is something on which my colleague, Commissioner Monti, and I both agree.
The Commission welcomes the progress which was made in Amsterdam concerning the legal basis for the fight against fraud and cheating.
The new and improved article 209a (article 280 in the new treaty) makes it possible to have an efficient and equal fight against fraud in all the Member States.
A decision on this will be taken by qualified majority voting in the Council, and Parliament will be fully involved.
As soon as the new treaty has been ratified, the Commission can, of course, begin to use its right of initiative in this area too.
The debate is closed.
That means a surcharge on top of the sales price for the product or service supplied.
If the Commission takes a position on the abolition of the non-discrimination rules as regards a particular national payment system, it would, of course, apply in all Member States where the system was in place.
As far as Sweden is concerned, Sweden has already abolished the non-discrimination rule in 1995.
The same is true for some other Member States.
There might be, at the end of the procedure, a position taken by the Commission on the basis of competition rules eventually to abolish the non-discrimination rule.
We will discuss this with the national competition authorities concerned, drawing on the experience in some Member States.
It has also been abolished in the Netherlands and two other Member States.
As the author is not present, Question No 31 falls.
This position was interpreted in a Commission communication in 1993.
Monitoring of the proper implementation of these provisions is the responsibility of Member States.
In conclusion, drinks bought in one Member State in order to be resold in another Member State cannot keep their original labelling unless the information given on it is understandable to the consumer of the Member State in which it is being sold.
To have an effective tool against drug smuggling we need a Europol which is fully functional.
I would therefore like to urge all friends in this Parliament to work for the ratification of the Convention on Europol as soon as possible, and to remind the ministers in our respective countries that they have promised to ratify Europol during 1997.
Mr President, Mrs Gradin, first let me thank you wholeheartedly for the support you have given to Europol.
At the same time they are being offered investment funds promising a 30 % rate of return - and that is simply an economic impossibility.
Question No 34 by Anita Pollack (H-0736/97) Subject: Forest fires in Indonesia Is the Commission undertaking any evaluation of the medium and long-term global effects of the environmental disaster which is occurring in south east Asia as a result of the forest fires and drought, and what, if any, action is being proposed?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission and the delegations from the Member States in Djakarta have set up a joint committee of European Union experts.
The Commission is ready to help the government and local populations in whatever way help is requested, within the scope of its competence, of course.
Question No 35 by Caroline Jackson (H-0717/97) Subject: Cancellation of CMAF Funding The European Commission announced to applicants in August this year that it had cancelled the Call for Proposals for Action in Favour of Cooperatives, Mutual Societies, Associations and Foundations (CMAFs, 96/C 246/15).
Mr President, I understand and share the disappointment of those in charge of the various projects that have not been financed, in spite of the hard work they have put in in preparing their proposal.
The invitation to submit proposals to which both honourable Members of Parliament are referring was published on 24 August 1996 and was linked to the Commission proposal for a Council resolution on long term work programmes, for the years 1994 to 1996, for associations, mutual aid funds, societies and foundations, in other words throughout the sector that we call the social economy.
In the meantime, however, as you know, and in accordance with the decision of interim measures of the President of the Court of the European Union of the 24 September 1996, doubt was cast on the legality of Commission expenditure which is not based on a resolution adopted by the Council of Ministers.
To this end, the Commission first of all withdrew its proposal for a long term work programme 1994-1996 to which the invitation to submit proposals made reference, and then it cancelled the invitation to submit proposals itself.
At the same time, the Commission decided to finance, for 1997, 12 projects which were selected from those that had been submitted within the framework of the invitation to submit proposals.
All this took place on the 29 July 1997.
In August 1997, the services of the Commission sent a letter to all those whose applications had been rejected to explain the situation to them.
I wonder whether I could just ask the Commissioner to confirm that at the end of 1996 the programme we are talking about had not been adopted by the Council of Ministers but that it was nevertheless decided in the Commission to finance twelve projects under the programme which had not been adopted.
If the Council had not adopted the decision at the end of 1996, why was his office still writing to the European Foundation for Osteoporosis and advising them via DG XXIII in March 1997 that they would be hearing from the Commission in June 1997?
The decision of the Commission to withdraw the long-term programme for the social economy was taken in July 1997 and the official announcement was made at the beginning of August 1997 and was officially publicized in all the official documents of the Community.
During the same period, however, we had to take a policy decision on the continuation of certain projects concerning the social economy.
However, regarding the particular Foundation for Osteoporosis, the reason for the rejection of the request for finances for this programme was that the Foundation for Osteoporosis itself made a proposal, and filed an application with the European Commission with actions that had no connection with the social economy, but which had a connection with other sectors, with programmes concerning public health.
In any event, if there are equivalent foundations which are actually active in the social economy sector and which fulfil the criteria referred to in the budget of the European Parliament in the corresponding section for the programme for the social economy, and especially in the comments of section B5-321, where mention is made of the conditions for the financing of those works, that is to say that they do in fact strengthen the working of the social economy, create jobs, contribute to the greater competitiveness of those foundations when they are active within the framework of the free economy, then, yes, financial backing could be granted.
Mr President, I would first of all like to make it clear that foundations which are active and submit proposals in the public health sector have the possibility of submitting the same proposals to corresponding programmes of the European Commission and the European Union which are directed at public health.
The programme of the social economy, as the European Parliament itself has repeatedly maintained, and as the European Parliament itself has committed the European Commission as regards the allocation of the funds of the budget of section B5-321, refers very specifically to those actions at which those funds could be directed.
The European Commission could not escape from this framework, however much it wanted to.
We had hopes, even up to the spring of 1997, that this programme could be approved.
But the deadline for this programme had already passed.
In the meantime, however, there have been budget allocations, which the European Parliament itself has registered - and I wish once again to thank Parliament for this policy initiative and the policy commitment which it undertook - so there were available funds that had to be allocated in accordance with the policy intention expressed by Parliament.
We followed up this exhortation of Parliament to finance some of those long-term programmes - twelve of them - which of course are not included among the long-term programmes as they are autonomous, and, on the other hand, we of course undertook to finance certain pilot schemes to prepare for the presentation of a new long-term programme concerning the social economy.
As the author is not present, Question No 36 falls.
Mr President, the operation of the single electricity market within the European Union is regulated by means of Directive 96/92/EC of the 19th December 1996 regarding joint regulations for the single electricity market.
The European Commission is working closely with all the Member States in order to ensure the timely and correct implementation of the directive.
Nevertheless, article 21 of the directive stipulates that the production of electricity and the utility companies supplying electricity, when Member States allow them to exist, may have their own buildings and may have subsidiary companies and customers linked by direct line.
This authorization may be linked to a previous denial of access to already existing service connections, for example due to lack of power.
The Commission is monitoring this matter very closely, including of course the proposed system of communication, and in the course of the next two-day meeting that we will have with the Swedish authorities we will discuss the issue that you have raised and, if you wish, we will inform you in writing of the relevant results.
As the author is not present, Question No 38 falls.
As the author is not present, Question No 39 falls.
Mr President, France and the United Kingdom have undertaken to comply with the ban on dumping radioactive substances in the sea as laid down in the 1992 convention on protection of the marine environment in the north-eastern Atlantic.
Moreover, in July 1996 the Commission inspected, in accordance with the provisions in article 35 of the Euratom-treaty, the environmental inspection installations set up on and around the La Hague plant.
A similar inspection visit took place in the Sellafield area in December 1993.
It was concluded that both Member States had taken adequate steps to monitor the level of radioactivity in the local environment.
It was concluded that, despite some irregularities, the work was done without risk to the environment.
The dose from technetium 99 was 0.018 mSv in 1995 and 0.042 mSv in 1996.
Even if compliance with the basic safety standards is the responsibility of each individual Member State, the Commission will continue to keep itself well-informed on these topics.
That is why there was concern on the south coast of England and on the Isle of Wight when the French Minister for the Environment not only ordered the suspension of sailing and swimming in the vicinity of Cap de la Hague but subsequent to the July check ordered a close-down in the cleaning process.
As the author is not present, Question No 41 falls.
Mr President, we have studied with interest in the Commission the information on the question of Sweden's return-of-deposit system.
However, we have not been informed from other quarters that these systems have almost collapsed, as indicated by the query.
Within the framework of Directive 94/68 on packaging and packaging waste, the systems for handling packaging and packaging waste should in any circumstances provide a high level of environmental protection and ensure that the internal market functions correctly.
There is nothing to prevent a Member State's recycling system from applying to all products, whether they be domestic products or products produced in other Member States or in Non-EU countries - provided, of course, that these systems apply to non-domestic products on non-discriminating conditions.
It must also be mentioned that the court of law in the Danish bottle case announced that a return-of-deposit system was a fully acceptable system for recycled packaging, and it is also a possible solution, of course, for non-recycled packaging - as is the case in Sweden.
Thank you for your answer, Commissioner Bjerregaard.
As I mentioned in the reply to the question, the situation will be that we evaluate the different schemes that exist, quite individually, and nothing of a general nature can be said about these schemes.
It is also connected with the fact that quite a lot of different schemes exist in the Member States.
As the author is not present, Question No 43 falls.
Mr President, the Commission understands the two honourable Members' concern about this question regarding something as vitally important as the quality of drinking water.
Natural mineral water and spring water are covered by Directive 80/777, the directive on natural mineral water that was amended by Directive 96/70.
As far as natural mineral water is concerned, disinfection is prohibited under the directive on natural mineral water, and I refer here to article 4.
During the next few days, the Commission will send a letter to the Greek authorities to find out whether it is a matter of contravening EU legislation and whether further steps should be taken in a given case.
As part of the information on 13 water directives on which the Commission will publish a report next year, an evaluation is at the moment being made of the information on drinking water-quality in Greece and other Member States.
I also mentioned to you at the end of my first reply that we are in fact in the process of investigating drinking water-quality and, taking it all together, our water directives and implementation of them in the Member States.
Question No 45 by Bárbara Dührkop Dührkop (H-0727/97) Subject: Amendment to Spanish hunting law On 26 September 1997 the Spanish Parliament adopted an amendment to Law 4/1989 on the conservation of rural areas and wildlife.
The Commission has already informed the Spanish authorities that the adoption of such a measure would contravene the provisions in article 7, paragraph 4, of Council Directive 79/409 from April 1979 concerning protection of wild birds.
The honourable member now confirms that the Spanish Parliament has already approved the amendment of Law No 4/1989 concerned, including this unlawful permission.
Madam Commissioner, I think that answer might surprise the Spanish Environment Minister, because she herself said in the Spanish Parliament that it was the European Commission which had demanded this amendment to the Spanish law, in order to regulate the exception to the prohibition on hunting birds during their breeding period.
I do not know what Community legislation applies in this area, so the question must certainly be put to someone else.
Mr President, Natura 2000 consists of two parts: specially protected areas designated in accordance with Directive 79/409 on protection of wild birds - the directive, incidentally, about which we just spoke under the preceding question - but also special conservation areas in accordance with Directive 92/43 on preservation of natural species and also wild animals and plants.
The Commission takes the view, in principle, that neither of the two directives enables military areas to be excluded from the Natura 2000programme if the areas fulfil the above-mentioned criteria.
Mr President, thank you for that reply, and I would like to ask something else connected with the definition of the Natura 2000 area in Finland.
I may say that both Natura 2000 and the directive on birds can lead us to many places.
The question which I have to answer here today concerns military areas, and the supplementary question put to me concerns the port in Helsinki.
Regarding quite concrete choices in relation to the other plants, we will come to a decision on this if we come across an infringement or if we get a request from the Finnish Government to find alternative solutions.
As the Commission understands the question, the honourable Parliamentarian wishes to know whether the United Kingdom's Child Support Act could infringe Article 6 of Council Directive 93/104, which is the Working Time Directive.
The Community has no powers to act in this field.
However, according to the information available to the Commission, the Child Support Agency has no power to force anybody to work a certain number of hours.
Furthermore, although it is understood that the automatic, periodic review of child support assessments in general only takes place every two years, Section 17 of the Child Support Act expressly provides for the parent concerned to apply for a review at any time if his or her circumstances have changed.
In the light of the foregoing considerations there seems to be no link between the practice of the Child Support Agency and article 6 of the Working Time Directive.
I would like to thank Commissioner Flynn for his reply.
You will be aware that a consultation document went out when the last government was in office.
The European Social Fund is the European Union's main tool for developing human resources and improving the workings of the labour market throughout the Union.
It is not sectoral in its approach but covers a broad range of activities aimed at improving the employability of people for the local labour market by training them to fill the jobs available or by giving them access to new employment opportunities.
In fact, improved vocational qualifications and management skills are basic requirements for developing the tourism industry, which is acknowledged to offer considerable prospects for growth in job creation, already accounting for some 6 % of the total employment in the Union.
However, some social fund programmes are set up in several countries to underpin existing regional efforts to develop tourism - two examples would be Portugal and Greece.
In this regional context, social fund assistance for improving qualifications related to tourism amounts to more than ECU 200 million for the period 1994-1999, and it covers more than 100, 000 participants.
The total impact of social fund actions in this area is, of course, enhanced if one takes into account the scope of general programmes for dealing with human resource development.
For the period after the year 2000, the Commission's document Agenda 2000 has outlined a new framework based on two regional objectives and one horizontal human resource objective, implying a consistent transversal approach with regard to human resources development.
The priorities in the new human resource objectives are very similar to those which are pursued at present: vocational adaptability, continuous training, social inclusion and a preventive approach to unemployment.
Activities in service sector industries dealing with human resource development will, therefore, continue to remain eligible for support from the social fund in accordance with the principles outlined.
All that we are asking is that the Commission should, under the programme Agenda 2000, be a little more flexible so as to incorporate the ideas included in the Adapt and Konver programmes to other ESF programmes.
You are quite right to say that there are areas of decline and areas that have suffered greatly because of lack of activity and changing circumstances.
Certainly the social fund does apply in a horizontal way to activities that would retrain people and get them back into the labour market.
It would certainly be available to your area, just as it is to other areas in the United Kingdom.
Thus the Commission's current third action programme particularly stresses the importance of health education and information of the public in the field of cancer provision as it is generally accepted that around 70 % of cancer-related deaths have their origins in individual choices affecting lifestyles and environments.
Every year the Europe against Cancer programme organizes the European Week against Cancer, which is a campaign aiming at the public at large and focusing on one of these prevention messages.
The Europe against Cancer programme has also been at the forefront for making recommendations for the organization and quality assurance of screening programmes for breast and cervical cancer, which can lead to an important reduction in the incidence of these diseases.
With regard to the second part of the question, mainly because of the ageing population in Europe, experts predict a continued rise in cancer incidence in the coming years.
Commissioner, as part of this 'Week' I went to visit one of the local hospitals in my constituency - indeed the biggest cancer unit of all the local hospitals - in a medium-sized town, precisely because it was Europe Against Cancer Week.
I read in some of the Commission's documentation that it issued a public invitation to tender and selected a professional communication agency with offices in nearly all the Member States.
I should like to say that we do not have a lot of money, as he knows very well, for the programme: about ECU 11-12 million a year, spread over the 15 Member States is very small money.
However, we carry out an in-depth evaluation of the European Week Against Cancer.
That is organized, as you know, for the second week in October every year.
I am told that they have created somewhere between 300 and 500 million contacts with European citizens every year.
That shows for instance that by the end of the campaign over 20 million more Europeans were convinced that cancer is preventable and that the various risk factors - for example smoking and lack of fruit, vegetables and cereals in the diet - were better known after the campaign.
You are quite right to highlight the question about quality control and the whole question of screening.
I would recommend to you a booklet which we have about the Code against Cancer, which outlines all of the recommendations together with the ten points which have been drawn up by cancer experts from all over the Union.
You will be aware that the Commission adopted a report on the organization of the tobacco market simultaneously with its communication on smoking prevention.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the secretary of the Committee on Transport since she was extremely conscientious, as ever, in her work and in carrying out the instructions she received from the Committee on Transport and from the rapporteur.
Ladies and gentlemen, this report has been drawn up pursuant to Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure, which means that what is written is written.
However, pursuant to Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure, while the committee was drawing up this report it was under an obligation to inform Parliament.
My objections begin here, since this report, which, as I said, cannot be changed by Parliament, contains three points which are particularly unpropitious for the European Union and even more so for the Member State which borders on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, namely Greece.
I sent a letter in this regard to the European Commission to ask it to clarify what 'as soon as possible' means.
The second problem arising from this report is that it gives a third country, in this case FYROM, the right to impose a special tax burden on European Union vehicles which do not conform to the standards of that country.
In other words it imposes special taxation on these cars, although they conform to the standards that we in this room have decided on and voted on, that is, the standards of the European Union.
And so I wrote a letter to the European Commission concerning these points, and I have not received a committed answer.
Mr President, the European Association Agreement with Slovenia contains a section relating to the transport sector.
It is a mixed preferential agreement intended to replace the Agreement on Trade and Cooperation, which provides for the creation of a free trade area following a transitional period lasting a maximum of six years.
It lays down provisions on the freedom of movement of goods and workers, on the right of transport companies to set up establishments and the freedom to provide services.
Finally, financial cooperation is established by Slovenia taking part in the Phare programme and in the loans granted by the EIB.
The agreement contains specific provisions on transport: the provisions of the transport agreement between the European Union and Slovenia with regard to the overland system, the rules on the freedom to provide transport services and the right to set up establishments remain in force.
It should be recalled that this latter provision does not apply between the European Community and Slovenia, because the relationship between Member States and Slovenia remains subject to bilateral agreements.
It should also be pointed out that, on the basis of article 46 of the protocol, and this point is rather lacking, the agreements on the air transport, internal navigation and maritime coasting services are not applied.
We are still faced with a general statement and one of principle on this point, however: we know, in fact, that, while Slovenia has already committed a substantial part of its budget to the construction of infrastructure, the remaining 50 % borne by the financial institutions has not yet arrived.
From this point of view, the European Union actually has a deficit which, although it makes statements in treaties and confirms and organizes several important issues, in reality, when it is a question of implementing financial business, has problems executing commitments assumed with regard to those countries.
To conclude, I believe this to be an important agreement, which should be approved.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the words of criticism, let me now say something positive about this agreement.
Finally, I also consider it important that this agreement should not only pay lip-service to environmental issues but that it should include practical environmental measures along the new transport routes, including priority status for rail-borne and combined transport solutions.
Slovenia, as a prime candidate for admission to the EU, is naturally important in this respect.
There is not much to say on the subject.
Rule 90 of the Rules of Procedure came about as a result of the well-known standing agreement between the Commission and Parliament, an agreement to which we assigned a great deal of importance immediately after the signing of the Treaty of Maastricht.
You may remember, Mr Commissioner, that in 1990 an agreement on transport was signed with the former Yugoslavia.
The second issue I would like to talk about is that, in the countries of former Yugoslavia, a rather strange transport situation has developed.
Mr President, I would like to point out the great importance, perhaps the example represented by this proposed opening to Slovenia, a dynamic country that is not just a door to central and eastern Europe, as our rapporteur rightly pointed out, but perhaps even a model to be followed to try and understand how and how quickly some central and eastern European countries can be incorporated and fall into line with the countries of western Europe.
Today, according to our rapporteur, 90 % of Slovenian products are exported, which is also facilitated by the presence of large connecting structures.
These agreements are important not only for rebuilding and opening up the two countries concerned, but also for helping our Greek partners, whose transport and trade links with the rest of the Community have been seriously affected, to put it positively, by the war in the former Yugoslavia.
The third pan-European Conference on Transport, which was held in Helsinki in June of this year, served to indicate that we need greater European cooperation in the transport sector, both from an infrastructure point of view as well as with regard to transport and communication.
This agreement follows on from the Community's 1993 transport agreement with Slovenia and when the political situation allows will be supplemented by similar agreements with Croatia and in time we hope also with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
This aspect will be particularly important in improving the new pan-European tenth transport corridor, linking Greece to Austria via the countries of former Yugoslavia.
The agreement is a first step towards the establishment of full relations between the Community and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and I welcome the fact that the report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism proposes to your Parliament that the agreement be approved.
Clearly the European Commission wishes to respect both the letter and the spirit of the interinstitutional agreement.
We have therefore already proposed to the Committee on Transport and Tourism that a proper exchange of views be held in the committee on matters relating to foreign relations.
Thank you very much, Mr Van den Broek.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.17 p.m.)
