Mr President, I refer to page 14.
It is therefore extremely important that respect for democracy and human rights has been laid down as a fundamental condition for cooperation between the two parties.
In the case of Georgia in particular, it should be acknowledged that since independence, and especially since the political unrest of 1993, important advances have been made in the process of democratic reform.
With the restoration of peace and the establishment of the democratic political system, however, the process of economic reform began to take hold.
In the process, it must of course keep sight of the close link between cooperation and respect for human rights.
We must always remind ourselves of the fact that providing these countries with effective economic aid is essential to make their democratic structures viable.
It is especially important for us to bear in mind that Georgia is currently making great efforts to obtain both financial and security-related support from Russia, France and Germany, as well as from the World Bank; that a sound legal environment for the privatization of state-run undertakings has been created; that the privatization of the agricultural sector is making rapid progress; and that by the end of 1996, some 90 % of the privatization of small businesses had been completed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the transition from the communist political systems to democratic political institutions and market economies is presenting enormous and evident difficulties.
I hope Parliament will give its assent today to these important agreements which relate not only to economics, but above all to political dialogue through which Europe and Parliament can carefully monitor the development of political rights, civil rights, freedom of information, and so on, to establish an ongoing relationship which can promote the evolution of increasingly solid democratic institutions, increasingly rooted in the conscience of those countries.
It is important to note that as a result of these combined factors - these upheavals - Armenian society is in a relatively unstable situation, in which the country's democratic structures are still fragile and there are sometimes revolts against certain changes and innovations, with consequent mistrust on the part of potential investors.
This country needs our help.
The Nagorno-Karabakh conflict is still on the agenda.
If the positive economic trend which is now emerging stays on course; if the move towards democracy, which is becoming more stable, can continue; if we can turn our promises of help into practical assistance; if the international aid organizations can boost the increased self-confidence of this small country of Armenia through their presence on the ground; if, in the course of dealing with the multitude of other problems which the European Union is required to solve, we can remember that this is a country which is particularly dependent on our help, then we shall make an important contribution.
The open wound of Nagorny-Karabach in Azerbaijan, the situation of the refugees, and the economic situation in one of the potentially richer countries owing to its oil production, disappointed our ad hoc delegation when it went there and found that democratic processes in that country are quite deficient.
That is exactly the aim of the agreement signed a year ago in Luxembourg, and it is high time to implement that agreement if we really aspire to many-sided improvements in Azerbaijan and cooperation between the three troubled Trans-Caucasian countries.
For that reason, the Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously declares its favourable opinion to the Commission and the Council, and recommends the same to the Member States, because the Union's Member States also have to ratify this agreement.
However, we remain and must remain constantly vigilant concerning developments in this strategically so interesting area of the Trans-Caucasus, until the gradual and progressive normalization of relations and until true democracy prevails in that country.
In political terms, the point is to help stabilize these three states, which are now of course, as former members of the Soviet Union, in the process of fundamentally reorganizing their societies, economies and political decision-making structures.
New housing, jobs and social services for a total of 1.3 million people in Azerbaijan, Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh must be created.
Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz, I deliberately allowed you to overrun your time quite considerably.
Mr President, first I must apologise for my error in being absent from the Chamber when you gave me the floor earlier.
My report, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security, relates to Kazakhstan.
The European Parliament is being asked, today, to give its assent to the Partnership and Co-operation Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part.
On the other hand, the interim agreement which we approved on 19 April 1996 has just come into force, a few days ago.
This question of political expediency was carefully considered by the Foreign Affairs Committee at five meetings, most recently on 27 February this year.
However, the country has demonstrated its desire to move closer to Europe, and with that in mind has instituted a number of reforms which meet the requirements contained in the 'democracy clause' of the partnership agreement.
Since then, the new parliament has adopted a number of laws, firstly in the economic sector in order to encourage foreign investment, and later in the civil and political sector.
They cover, in particular, the rights of the Kazakhs and the rights of minorities, which are very numerous and quite well recognized and respected in Kazakhstan: there is a Russian minority (accounting for 38 % of the population) but there are also German, Ukrainian, Uzbek, Tartar, Uighur, Byelorussian, Korean, Azeri and even Polish minorities, too.
Moreover, despite very serious economic difficulties and equally pressing social problems - wages and pensions are often not paid - the political situation is generally stable.
All the more so since Kazakhstan still has some extremely important nuclear bases on its soil.
Economically, Kazakhstan is not in good shape.
Its GNP fell by 58 % between 1991 and 1997, but it does have substantial natural resources which are likely to make it an important trading partner in the future.
In conclusion, Mr President, for the various reasons I have outlined, our Committee today recommends you, after two years of observation and reflection, to vote in favour of this partnership and co-operation agreement.
Mr President, I have provided the opinion for the Committee on Budgets on the agreement with Azerbaijan.
Apparently more than half of their exports are to the former Soviet Union and Iran, and about 20 % imports and exports to the European Union.
The present partnership agreement with Kazakhstan, concluded for an initial period of ten years, provides for the institution of a political dialogue and cultural cooperation, together with important agreements relating to the economic and trade sectors.
With regard to economic co-operation, the agreement relates to the following sectors: economic and social development, human resources development, support for enterprises (including privatization, investment and development of financial services), agriculture and food, energy and civil nuclear safety, transport, tourism, environmental protection and regional co-operation.
I am delighted to have the opportunity today to discuss with Parliament the partnership and cooperation agreements we have concluded with the Transcaucasian countries and Kazakhstan, since these agreements constitute a blueprint for the European Union's relations with these former Soviet countries and will serve as a guideline for the development of our relations with them for at least the next ten years.
As you know, the European Union has been the biggest and most important international donor to the Caucasus and Central Asia since these countries gained their independence.
The agreements express our support for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of each of our partners.
It is surprising and encouraging to see that despite these continuing political conflicts with their humanitarian and economic consequences, such as the refugee problems in Azerbaijan or the economic problems which Armenia is facing as a result of the continuing conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh, the transition to a market economy is now actually under way in these countries, five years after independence.
Kazakhstan has been pursuing a radical privatization policy and is expecting growth of 2 % in 1997, partly through a 10 % increase in trade and investment.
For the three smaller Caucasian countries, this has to be their main objective, given that they would find it difficult to achieve their full potential without regional cooperation.
I listened to the question very carefully, and I can only say that I entirely agree with Mr Alavanos that the reasons preventing us from having representations in all the new independent republics of the former Soviet Union are entirely financial and logistical.
I hope there will be further possibilities next year, but then there will also be competition from other former Soviet republics.
But I know that the basic problem with this reactor is that it is situated in a fault area where earthquakes and the like can occur, and this is something which it is difficult for the TACIS programme to deal with.
In Georgia, there is hardly any problem in this context.
It is indeed a pleasure to talk with our young colleagues in the Georgian Parliament about their work, about the situation in Georgia and our relations with each other.
There are problems in other areas, though, and especially in the two other Transcaucasian states.
The country is governed autocratically, and the government parties and President Aliyev not only determine the broad lines of policy in a dictatorial way, but also decide as they see fit on the scope which the already weak opposition parties have for taking action.
Their work is invaluable, but we too have a responsibility in this context.
In adopting the Carrère d'Encausse report in January, we made our position on the Transcaucasian republics quite clear.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the break-up of the Soviet Union, the early years of the newly independent Transcaucasian republics were marked by wars, the persistence of the communist old guard and control by the Kremlin.
In any event, Armenia is more ethnically homogeneous than any of its neighbours in the region.
Mr President, the partnership and co-operation agreements we are debating this morning have one thing in common: they relate to countries on the southern border of the former USSR, whose emergence from the Soviet system has proved difficult, although the difficulties have varied from case to case.
In Transcaucasia, to use a generic term for the four countries, independence has come against a backcloth of the Karabakh war between Azerbaijan and its Armenian minority, which of course could hardly be disregarded by neighbouring Armenia, cut off from its kin by the artificial territorial arrangements of 1922.
The balance sheet of this turbulent emergence from Communism is a contradictory one: 20 % of Azerbaijan's territory is now occupied, as a result of the war, by the Karabakh Armenians.
Their destitution is terrible, in Azerbaijan, in Georgia and even in Armenia.
In Georgia, too, the situation between the Georgians and the Abkhazis is becoming less tense, and there are already hopes that the refugees will gradually be enabled to return to their homes.
If I have dwelt at length on the difficult path to independence in these four countries, it was because I wanted to emphasize that they are suffering, most of all, from the existence in their territories of a multiplicity of national communities and cultures, jumbled together in conditions imposed upon them previously by the Soviet system.
The inter-ethnic hostilities in Transcaucasia and Kazakhstan are, admittedly, a story that goes back a long way; but closer to home they are the result of a deliberate intent on the part of the Soviet authorities which, by complicating inter-ethnic relations and stirring up the kind of hostility and violence whose effects we still see today, were deliberately trying to facilitate their control over those living in the remoter regions.
Condemned to live together within borders which often bear little relationship to their history and their desires, the peoples of these countries are having to learn tolerance and the fair treatment of minorities.
All these countries need the aid and attention of the European Union.
If they are bound to the Union by the agreements we are now debating, they will move forward - with our support and with the moral authority these agreements will give us - along the road they have already taken, a road they intend to follow to the end.
Europe must provide itself with the means to require these countries, in exchange for our partnership, to adhere not only to the aid we give them but also to all the principles of democracy.
So, Mr President, the European Parliament is to give its opinion on a series of partnership and co-operation agreements with Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan.
My group will certainly be voting in favour of these agreements, intended as they are to lay the groundwork for closer and closer co-operation in economic, commercial and political matters, and to institute a dialogue worthy of that name.
The agreements in question are intended to further the cause of progress in the fields I have mentioned, and are applicable to countries which, although to varying degrees, are trying to overcome the obstacles which still lie in the way of transition, or rather transitions: transition from a planned economy to a market economy, transition from a totalitarian political system to democracy and the rule of law.
One thing is certain, one thing which I have learned in the course of my contacts with countries which, only recently, were suffering under communist dictatorships: those countries cannot emerge unaided.
Everything argues in favour of an unprecedented mobilization of our technological and scientific resources, even our teaching and human resources, because such efforts will help to speed up progress towards more democracy, more law, more economic and individual freedom, and more independence too.
We are suffering from considerable unemployment in our own countries, including intellectual unemployment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, you have primarily been talking in terms of the importance of the Transcaucasian region for Europe.
The European Union must above all contribute to the stability and development of the region, and not simply display its interest in exploiting the region's oil reserves and establishing a secure corridor for the pipelines.
The country's second government is taking care not to reignite the conflicts in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, although there is still no institutional solution.
The situation between the warring parties of Armenia and Azerbaijan is quite different.
Mr President, the partnership agreements we are studying this morning send a clear, consistent and positive political signal to the infant Caucasian republics.
The differences are important: two of these States have a Christian tradition and a European culture; some have got rid of their former communist masters while others have kept them on in re-incarnated forms, following elections that have sometimes been suspect.
Overall, though, the agreements can help to encourage the establishment of democratic practices and the development of the market economy in societies which are tackling the considerable problems of transition, as Hélène Carrère d'Encausse recalled just now.
These countries justify the institution by us of certain forms of aid, provided, Mr President, that they are really effective and do not have the paradoxical purpose of compensating for the disastrous effects of blockade policies against some of these States pursued by some of our partners in the region.
We are dealing with two separate regions of the world in this debate - trans-Caucasia and Central Asia.
Both regions are very different, although they share certain characteristics: both formed part of the former Soviet Union and inherited a dislocated command economy and a political system subject to Moscow.
Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and, to a lesser extent, Georgia and Armenia are heavily influenced by the presence of the Caspian Sea and, particularly, the exploitation and transportation of oil.
All four countries are seeking to assert their independence from Moscow while cooperating in varying degrees with the Commonwealth of Independent States.
It is important for the EU to build up relations with such countries which lie in an important geopolitical region.
Economic and democratic development in three of the four countries has been weak.
It is misleading to give the impression that the EU and the European Parliament endorse the level of democracy and human rights in Kazakhstan, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
The request is that we should approach this situation in a totally new spirit, aimed at finding lasting solutions.
I hope that Europe will use its influence to ensure that these things do happen, and to ensure in particular that Armenia has the right of freedom of trade, one of the foundations of the rights of nations, which will enable it in particular to close down a dangerous nuclear power station and will also be an essential condition for lasting peace in that region.
Attention should be given to protecting oil and gas pipelines, combating pollution in the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea, and shutting down the nuclear power station at Medzamor in Armenia.
Mr President, allow me to make a brief contribution in my capacity as president of the Delegation for Central Asia and Mongolia, to demonstrate our support for the cooperation agreement with Kazakhstan being discussed today.
It is our sincere belief that this agreement will assist this young republic in consolidating its new-found democracy, in developing its economy and in completing the process of transition to a market economy.
We are in fact dealing with an area which is not so very far away since, ultimately, Turkey and Eastern Europe are the closest and most natural routes towards the European Union.
To sum up, Mr President, the agreement creates optimum conditions for mutual development of economic and cultural relations.
I do take some interest in Georgia, I belong to the bureau of the group for human rights in Georgia, and I can assure the House that some extremely serious human rights violations are being committed there.
I was not able earlier to give the opinion of the Committee on Budgets on the interim agreement between the European Union and Armenia.
Having regard to the fact that the general partnership agreement required Parliament's assent, and the importance of the interim agreement, the Committee therefore welcomed the fact that the Council consulted Parliament.
The debate is closed.
Laughter) Welcome I should like to welcome here today a delegation from the Parliament of Lithuania, the Seimas , led by its chairman Mr Racas.
The association agreement which has been signed between the European Union and Lithuania and which will put Lithuania on an equal footing with the other associated states in its relations with the European Union is still awaiting the ratification of three of the Member States.
This amendment concerns the use of other Community financial instruments and the European Development Fund to support alternative development projects.
Mr President, there are in fact countries which approve of and officially engage in these practices.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday, we have had as our guests Members of Parliament from ten Mediterranean countries who have been meeting us for the first time in the context of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership and the Barcelona process.
Amendment No 11 : Mr President, I would like to propose adding the word 'maintenance' to the word 'restoration' , and the word 'archaeological' to the phrase 'promotion of artistic and historical monuments' . (The oral amendment was accepted) (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, I would propose that the second paragraph of Amendment No 11 should incorporate the present text of the motion for a resolution, with five words being deleted.
If that is the case and if the Socialist Group supports Amendment No 11 entirely we are willing to withdraw the request for a roll-call vote.
Then we withdraw our request for a roll-call vote.
I therefore propose to add a paragraph - you have the text of it in front of you - which reads as follows in English: strongly regrets the absence of the presidency of the Council during yesterday's debate on the development of the Intergovernmental Conference and condemns the presidency's apparent lack of interest for the views of the European Parliament. (The oral amendment was rejected) (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, this afternoon we are due to vote on the Tillich report, but I would like to draw attention to an error.
Paragraph 10 states: ' Considers it essential that, if Member States...' , but instead of 'Member States' it should state 'Council' , which, legally speaking, is not the same thing.
It seems extraordinary to me that a political group can put down an amendment and then ask for a split vote on their own amendment which happened on Amendment No 9 in that final vote.
I must congratulate my colleague Jean-Thomas Nordmann for his recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Co-operation, regarding aid to population policies and programmes in the developing countries.
It should be pointed out that this text was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Development, and that the European Parliament's amendments have the virtue of recalling the commitments undertaken at the Cairo conference, especially by increasing Community financial aid to population programmes in developing countries to ECU 300 million by the year 2000.
Donnelly report (A4-0552/97) I spoke in the debate yesterday to express my support for the Commission's communication and for the essence of the Donnelly report.
I support an increase in research and also in forecasting studies, but more is needed in order to develop production and to combat unfair competition and social dumping.
The Renault case gives us cause for concern, but lamentations are not enough.
Finally, I say again: Europe must not impose rules upon itself that its competitors do not impose on themselves, particularly in the area of mergers and direct or indirect government intervention, whether in the United States or Japan.
The Europe of the free single market is showing its limitations, and is now at risk of killing off the European idea as such unless it moves forward to a political and social Europe, an industrial Europe, a Europe of employment.
That is the fundamental problem raised by Renault, and not a problem of form or even of method.
I have voted against, because no new legal framework is required.
Langen report (A4-0040/97) I have voted for the report but do not agree with the proposal to construct a network of pipelines between factories in Europe.
There is a need for political decisions to promote the development of a sustainable industrial policy worthy of the name, one which does not regard industrial production as a matter for manufacturers alone.
Only in this way can the conflict between sustainable social efficiency and a purely economic approach be resolved - even if this is a message that Commissioner Bangemann is apparently still not prepared to take on board.
Katiforis report (A4-0030/97) In theory, the maritime industries provide a shining example of something that is simple yet difficult to achieve: a long-term, viable component of a mobility and production system that respects the environmental constraints within which people live, whilst encouraging the social progress that gives history its meaning.
It is only through education and further training in the use of information technology that everyone can have equal access to the information society.
We do have one criticism of the report, however, as it completely fails to mention the situation of women in the information society.
Because, although the information society must be regarded as a positive element in the provision of a modern education, we must nevertheless remain vigilant: the campaign against academic failure and the reduction of inequalities must remain our priorities, and there is no certainty that multimedia development is always beneficial to the achievement of these objectives.
Committee of Inquiry recommendation (A4-0054/97) Mr President, the excellent report by the Committee of Inquiry on Community transit highlights the crucial errors that have been committed during the last ten years with regard to European integration.
But the Committee also, and more importantly, demonstrates that the abolition of checks at the Union's internal borders enormously facilitates fraud, since a load can cross the whole of Europe without any country knowing it is there and without anyone knowing, if it happens to disappear, in which country the offence was committed.
The report adds, perhaps disingenuously, that this lack of foresight by the Commissioners was incomprehensible.
The Kellett-Bowman report, the result of the efforts of the Committee of Inquiry of which I was a member, is intended to define the problems encountered with the setting-up of the Community transit system, established on the territory of the European Union and extended to include Switzerland, the EEA countries and the Visegrad States (Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary).
The system is clearly indispensable for the functioning of the single market, but there is a need to combat crossborder fraud and to halt the loss of revenue, which amounts to several billion ECU since 1990.
The European Parliament considers that this problem of fraud control must be a subject of discussion with Switzerland and negotiation with the countries of central and eastern Europe and with Cyprus, not forgetting the customs union with Turkey.
It is also happy to have succeeded in having the necessary resources for this project appropriated in the European Union budget.
The report indicates that the transit system is on the verge of collapse, and that Europe is being swamped by an obdurate form of crime as never before.
The report shows that arrangements between individual states will not solve the problem.
Any level of fraud and irregularity is unacceptable and forces us all to pay more taxes.
Up to 15 % of the market for cigarettes in some Member States is supplied by the black market.
Of course, the problem of the inadequate transit system for the transport of goods in Europe is not related to the existence of the European Union.
What seems to have happened is that responsibility for the system is not clearly defined and both the EU and the individual Member States have neglected the problem to some extent.
As I did in my speech in the debate, I wish to declare my support for the Committee of Inquiry's report.
In the seven years during which I have had the opportunity to follow the work done by our Parliament, there has never been a parliamentary project on the same scale as this report on efforts to combat fraud against the Community budget.
The Commission cannot make use of it and cannot really control it.
Any positive action in this field is conceivable only if the Member States and the public really take cognizance of the fact that money from Brussels is not someone else's money.
Albania Mr President, I voted against the joint motion for a resolution in the end, even though some of the worst of the Socialist Group's amendments were rejected.
With relatively modest resources, we could have created a model of development in this small country.
Sakellariou report (A4-0027/97) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Barcelona Conference of November 1995 aroused enormous hopes in all who dream of a genuine Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
With this in mind, the report before us today stresses the avenues to be followed and the essential steps to be taken.
In the context of the political and security partnership, violations of the principle of respect for territorial integrity (committed by Turkey against Greece and by Israel against Lebanon) calls for agreements to be drawn up on the subject of conflict prevention.
The problem of water in this region is one of fundamental importance.
Perhaps the essence of the first Euro-Mediterranean Conference in Barcelona was, therefore, that it constituted a change in procedures and in the way in which Euro-Mediterranean relations were regarded - from that time on, such countries began to be regarded as partners and associates of the EU; and the relationship procedure has become one of mutual agreement, based on principles of reciprocity and association aimed at shared work and objectives.
The relevant sentence is in paragraph 14 under 'Economic and financial cooperation' , where establishing a free trade area by 2010 is mentioned.
To achieve this objective, structural reforms of the various economic policies are proposed, starting with agricultural policy.
It is right to emphasize the importance of a very close relationship between Mediterranean countries, and bilateral agreements between some of them have already been in operation for several years, as a result of which European Union markets are in fact already penetrable.
The most striking point, though, is that this idea - which could result in a Europe that is less rigid, less monolithic, better adapted to the specific needs of all concerned and therefore closer to the citizen - is being received by the European Parliament with extreme mistrust and a plethora of restrictive conditions.
That is why my group tabled, at the Committee on Institutional Affairs, numerous amendments designed to introduce genuine flexibility.
These proposals seem to us to offer a prospect of ending the current deadlock by returning the institutions of cooperation in Europe to the exclusive service of the citizens' needs rather than of a federalistic ideology.
The resolution is in favour of increasing decision making by qualified majority vote in the Council of Ministers and increasing the influence of the European Parliament.
Lindqvist (ELDR), Sjöstedt and Svensson (GUE/NGL), Gahrton and Holm (V), Bonde and Sandbæk (I-EDN), in writing. (SV) The proposal involves an intensification of co-operation from a mainly interstate co-operation to a federal state.
For us development in this direction is unacceptable.
Common regulations could result in equal salaries for all members of the European Parliament which would increase the salaries of the Swedish members considerably, especially if the common salary is calculated as a percentage of the judges' salaries in the courts of the European Union as proposed by the Presidency of the European Parliament during a press conference in Sweden.
This road is too risky and dangerous and in the long term would call into question the very usefulness of the European Parliament.4.-Finally, it is quite clear with flexibility, in the image which already is occurring today with the Schengen Agreement, that the European Parliament will have no powers to intervene in policies produced in a different framework from that of the Community.
The European Parliament and its members have no right to pretend that their eyes are closed.
This schizophrenic contradiction between relevant analysis when Parliament inquires and inappropriate recommendations when it deliberates is preventing this House from being a credible influence when it comes to proposals for institutional reform.
Mr Zvobgo is a Minister and coordinator of the parliamentary reform committee in Zimbabwe.
Madam President, this week saw the opening of the fortieth meeting of the UN Conference on Human Rights in Geneva, which is scheduled to continue until mid-April.
This extremely interesting report also puts forward a number of suggestions as to how the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council of Europe could work together to develop a European human rights policy.
What I would like to talk about now are the countries which Amnesty names in the report.
One of the ways in which the Chinese Government demonstrates its oppressive nature is in its treatment of Tibet.
We hope that his offer will also be given serious consideration in Geneva, so that the parties could perhaps enter into talks through those channels.
The Union must use its contacts with the Chinese authorities to get these talks started.
Madam President, I think that other speakers have sufficiently stressed the importance of this motion, which calls for negotiations to begin at last between the authorities in Peking and the Tibetan government in exile.
There is still room for improvement on one point, however: I feel that we cannot, in a European Parliament text, limit the aspirations of the Tibetan people to cultural and religious autonomy.
The Dalai Lama, when he visited Parliament, was very clear on that point: Tibet must have full and complete independence, even though the Dalai Lama, in the interests of promoting a dialogue with the Chinese authorities, was willing to give way on defence, security and foreign policy.
Otherwise, and it does seem to be very important to emphasize this, the Tibetans must be in a position to govern themselves without interference from the Chinese authorities.
Today, as we know, the Tibetans are already a minority in their own country; so we must act quickly, and I believe this motion is along the right lines, but the Council and the Member States should start making serious representations at the United Nations to demand that the question of the decolonization of the Tibetan people, and indeed their survival, is finally taken into account and dealt with by the international community.
I must thank all my colleagues, James Moorhouse in particular, and our Liberal friends for having combined effectively to change the purport of this motion, and I hope it will be adopted.
Along with Olivier Dupuis, I joined 3-4, 000 demonstrators from all over Europe in Geneva on Sunday to mark the anniversary of the initial occupation of Tibet.
And they take as their point of departure what was said by His Holiness the Dalai Lama, who when he came to the Political Committee of our Parliament as the representative of the Tibetan people and I asked him how and in what capacity he represented the Tibetan people, answered: ' Ah, you have no idea!
Madam President, I will vote against it because the motion does nothing to help relations between the European Community and that great country, the great market, but by making them more difficult, facilitates the penetration of American and Japanese multi-national companies.
Having said that, we will obviously vote for the joint resolution because we are convinced that the only way to help the Tibetan people is to call on the Chinese government in every form and in every international forum to abandon its arrogant and prevaricating policy and finally concede the fundamental rights which will allow the Tibetan people to safeguard their identity and hence their survival.
On the subject of Tibet, we have adopted no less than ten resolutions in the House in recent years.
For example, billions in European funding were once made available to oppose the apartheid regime in South Africa, but I notice that no such funding has been provided to help the Tibetan people in their legitimate struggle.
The Commission is therefore determined to improve the situation in Tibet and also shares the concern of this House about this subject.
The Commission condemns any attempt by the Chinese authorities to suppress freedom of speech and of religion and deplores the current situation in Tibet.
As you will be aware, the European Union has made constant reference to human rights issues in Tibet and the religious dimension of Tibetan identity in bilateral talks with China - both in the political sphere and regarding the specific subject of human rights, and at an international level.
The European Union intends to continue its efforts towards consolidating a constructive and positive relationship with China.
As regards Tibet, the European Union's traditional line of action has been to attempt to foment direct dialogue, direct negotiation, between the Chinese authorities and representatives of the Tibetan people, including, naturally, the Dalai Lama.
At various times, both through specific approaches and via dialogue in international institutions, the European Union has expressed its concern regarding the fate of the Panchen Lama appointed by the Dalai Lama.
As you will already know, the European Union has always demanded guarantees regarding the safety and freedom of the Panchen Lama and will continue to do so.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, Ladies and Gentlemen, the 6500 dwellings authorized in the Arab district of Jerusalem by the current Israeli government undoubtedly herald, Madam President, an extraordinarily serious crisis in the extremely complex peace process which we have all supported in the past and continue to support.
Therefore, although good and faithful friends of Israel, we are given great cause for concern by the step taken by Netanyahu and we support this common resolution to the effect that the conservative government in Israel should not pursue this building project in East Jerusalem.
The Israeli Government's decision to go ahead and build a new development in East Jerusalem was extremely unwise.
The European resolution may have been blocked by an American veto in the Security Council, but there too there is growing unease.
Israel is playing with fire.
Not only that, it is all the more serious because of the existence of other measures which may be less spectacular but indicate the same desire to compromise the peace agreements.
The context I refer to comprises, first of all, the texts: UN Resolutions Nos 242 and 338, which very specifically exclude any further forcible acquisition of territory, together with the European Parliament's resolutions, especially that of November 1996, and the Council's latest declarations.
There are other examples, such as the example of South Africa, where men of great worth are trying to overcome the difficult legacy of a bloodstained history through dialogue and negotiation.
We must give our support to those, even in the Israeli community, who are concerned about future relations between Israel and the Palestinians.
Madam President, the Israeli-Palestinian agreement on Hebron gave a new stimulus to the peace process and raised hopes of new, constructive initiatives.
It is an illegal decision, because the final status of East Jerusalem will have to be discussed during the third stage of negotiations, and because both sides have undertaken to refrain from any action that might change the situation on the ground.
The Israeli Government has been supported by the United States, which used its veto against a United Nations Security Council resolution banning the establishment of any settlements that would change the status quo laid down in the signed agreement.
The peace process is thus, once again, in jeopardy.
We must call upon the Council to become more involved in the peace process and to use all means at its disposal, including economic and political sanctions, within the framework of the agreement with Israel to persuade the Israeli Government to apply the peace process, respecting the Oslo Agreements and the United Nations resolutions.
All settlement building, particularly in this sensitive case of Jerusalem, risks damaging the peace process and preempting the final status negotiations that we all want to see concluded in a successful way.
We cannot expect a positive outcome to some of these negotiations while decisions which are seen to be confrontational are taking place.
Madam President, circumstances dictate that I must first express my condolences, on behalf of this House and my group, to the people of Israel, the families concerned, and the government of the country for the terrible incident on the Jordanian border, which has resulted in the death of several Israeli children.
Therefore, given our responsibilities as a player on the international scene, this Parliament must urge the parties involved to refrain from taking steps which might lead to an erosion of the confidence needed to pursue the application of the agreements and not to prejudice the result of negotiations regarding the permanent status of Palestine, particularly when, as recently as 24 February last, the European Union signed a provisional association agreement with the Palestine National Authority in which an evaluation is given of the special legal position of the Palestine Authority together with a provisional period identical to the transitional period of autonomy set by the Oslo Peace Agreements.
Our principal concern in the European Parliament, as we have repeatedly demonstrated in this House, must be and has always been the achievement of a lasting and stable peace in the region.
An essential condition for the achievement of peace in the region is strict application of the spirit which prevailed in Oslo, given that dialogue is the only way in which to arrive at a peaceful solution.
We have to bear in mind that this decision affects not only political interests, but also human interests - the interests of those citizens who feel themselves under siege and denied the right to free movement in order to carry on the activities of their everyday lives and, principally, to gain access to their place of work.
Dialogue and cooperation between the parties to the Oslo Agreements are, I say again, the only ways in which potential conflict in the region can be resolved.
With your permission, I should like to make one or two personal comments on the subject of Jerusalem.
Since 1967, it seems, there has been a broad degree of religious freedom throughout Jerusalem.
The Bible mentions Jerusalem 811 times, and Jews throughout the ages used to long to live there.
The first is inaccuracy.
Madam President, Israel's plans to build a major Jewish district in Jerusalem, Har Homa, are coming under fierce criticism.
However, the very fact that the agreement was reached made it clear that the Netanyahu government was able to overcome the divisions of opinion in Israel about the peace process.
It was adopted by a surprisingly large majority of 87 to 17 in the Knesset, and there were hardly any protests against it.
The Commission regards the settlements in the occupied territories as contrary to international law and as constituting an extremely grave obstacle to the peace process.
The Union, therefore, cannot and must not agree to East Jerusalem being regarded as part of the territory and sovereignty of the State of Israel.
The Israeli/Palestinian peace agreements explicitly prohibit the building of settlements inside or outside Jerusalem.
In addition, the Union is of the opinion that the fourth Geneva Convention fully applies both in East Jerusalem and in the occupied territories.
The Council of Ministers and the Commission therefore consider the Israeli government's decision as particularly negative and unjustified at a time when the peace process was beginning to pick up again on account of a series of positive steps, such as the agreement regarding the Hebron protocol, the release of Palestinian female prisoners and an increase in the number of Palestinian workers with permits to enter Israel.
Kosovo Madam President, this debate on Kosovo is to some extent the continuation of yesterday's debate on Albania.
In fact, although the confrontation in Serbia, which is important for democracy, has fortunately been nonviolent, one repercussion has been an increase in repression against the Albanian people of Kosovo, and what has happened in Albania encourages the tendency to have recourse to arms.
The easing of the situation in Serbia - if one can call it that - has brought Kosovo back towards centre stage, and that is a good thing.
Such a conference may not solve all problems but will demonstrate a desire to analyse the matter better and to find a reasonable solution for Kosova.
Lastly, a real solution must be found to the problem in Kosovo.
It is important here to make it clear to all sides: stop the violence, take part in talks, and find a solution within Yugoslavia.
We can provide help from outside, but the solution to the problems must be found in Yugoslavia itself.
Madam President, since we are talking about Kosovo, I would like to make a few things clear.
Thirdly, our attention is constantly being caught by thousands of human rights violations throughout the world.
Madam President, the European Union bases bilateral cooperation on respect for human rights.
If this House is on occasion critical of situations where there are abuses, shortfalls or breaches, such criticism must be understood as a positive contribution aimed at strengthening democracies and defending the weakest against injustice and inequality.
The resolution we are debating today on the problems facing the Mapuche communities aims to make a positive contribution in helping to resolve an acknowledged conflict because, if this conflict did not exist, the Pulmari Interstate Corporation set up a few years ago would not exist either.
Therefore, Madam President, our Group will be supporting each and every one of the paragraphs of this resolution.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, we are all aware of the political will behind your call for the conditions of the clauses in defence of human rights to be complied with when agreements with the Mercosur countries or the one with the Argentine are signed and we condemn once again the three human rights violations already denounced here.
These are the death of a journalist, José Luis Cabezas, in January, when the death of Salvador Aguirre, a defender of human rights, remains unpunished, and there was an attempt to assassinate a friend of his.
On 25 January, the photojournalist José Luis Cabezas was killed because he was trying to shed light on the dark and criminal machinations of certain politicians.
Madam President, wherever it occurs in the world, fanaticism - religious or nationalist - leads to human rights violations and in particular to violations of women's rights.
Wars and other nationalist or religious conflicts very often lead to the subconscious or conscious suppression of women.
Madam President, a day devoted to women's rights is all very well, but it would be even better if we had any certainty that the European Union would fight all the year round for women's interests, in Europe and elsewhere.
The Taleban who came to power a few months ago are forbidding them, in the name of the Sharia, to work, to speak in public or to participate in public demonstrations.
Also, the European Union must fight for the immediate, unconditional release of Frédéric Michel and José Daniel Llorente, two French citizens employed by ACF, who were arbitrarily arrested and imprisoned simply for having lunched with some sixty Afghan women.
I think that in Afghanistan, there is the worst official repression of women that we are currently aware of in the world as an official policy.
The world women's conference in Beijing is over.
This is just point 1 of our motion for a resolution.
Leyla Zana Madam President, fourteen months after being awarded the European Parliament's Sakharov Prize, Leyla Zana is still being held prisoner in Ankara, together with three other Kurdish Members of Parliament, for having, in her capacity as an MP, asserted the Kurds' right to their culture.
Her struggle is our struggle - the struggle for respect for democracy and universal rights.
Today, she is in prison, and we in the European Parliament can do nothing about it.
I believe the role of women is very important.
My struggle for human rights will advance the cause of democracy in Turkey.
At present, there are three countries which are holding their own Sacharov prize-winners in prison: Turkey, Burma and China.
Alois Brunner Madam President, in this Chamber on 30 January, a few days ago, we debated and voted on what was in my opinion a fundamental declaration on racism, xenophobia and antisemitism, on the opportunity of 1997 - the year against racism.
Recently, articles in the international press have repeated that the war criminal Brunner is still living, and is in hiding in Syria.
The motion which I have the honour to present today on behalf of my political group, asks the Council of the European Union to take specific and energetic action to expose and prosecute Brunner.
Brunner was an assistant of Eichmann, who was responsible for the deaths of 125 000 people and for the deportation of Jews from Austria, Greece, Yugoslavia and France.
Boat people Madam President, this resolution concerns the drowning of 282 immigrants off the coast of Greece on Christmas Day last year.
Unfortunately, this is but one incident of many: in 1993 the human rights organization Amsterdam United estimated that 393 people had died trying to enter the European Union.
What we need and want is coordinated action to track down and prosecute those people engaged in this crime, no matter where they are - whether they are in or outside the European Union.
At the moment there is a criminal racket in illegal transport of migrants, encouraging clandestine immigration.
I think this should be put on the agenda for the EuroMediterranean Conference in Malta on 15 and 16 April.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a statement of principle: the Group of the European People's Party is in favour of discussing human rights, it is in favour of any violation of human rights being pointed out and punished, and in favour of preventive measures being taken wherever possible to stop such things occurring.
It should not happen in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, where the left demands such things as the right to health or the right to social security under the heading of 'human rights' , and certainly not as part of the topical and urgent debate.
Given the current state of unrest in Albania, there is a risk that this will become a still greater source of destabilization.
The European Union's position has always been to seek greater autonomy for Kosovo within Yugoslavia's internationally recognized borders.
It has also urged the Belgrade authorities to begin a dialogue with the Kosovo Albanians in the presence of a third party.
Full normalization of relations between Yugoslavia and the European Union will be possible only if Belgrade fully respects human rights and the rights of minorities and grants the necessary degree of autonomy.
Genuine democratization in Yugoslavia would facilitate a solution for Kosovo.
As regards the Argentine, in recent years the European Commission has generally supported efforts by Latin American countries to establish and consolidate genuine democratic states which have respect for human rights.
This is an appropriate approach under the terms of both the 1990 bilateral cooperation agreement between the European Union and the Argentine and the more recent agreement signed between the European Union and the Mercosur countries in December 1995, in which it was laid down that one of the common values we share - and upon which our relations must be established - is, in fact, based on respect for human rights.
Amongst other things, support was given to work carried out in connection with the Association of the Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo, who have, as you are aware, benefited from Community aid on several occasions, particularly in the form of assistance in identifying their missing children.
Likewise, we have recently been implementing a very interesting programme in connection with the situation of detainees in Argentine prisons, amounting to a sum of ECU 300, 000.
I have to say that, in this area, we have found the Argentine authorities to be most open in their approach.
More specifically, as regards the indigenous Mapuche communities in the Neuquén region, we share the concern of this House and I am able to inform you that the current situation is as follows: the Argentine government has not rejected political dialogue with the European Commission on this matter, quite the contrary; it has accepted a plan under which, on 15 February this year, the Secretariat for Social Development of the Nation has, in agreement with the Governor of Neuquén and the indigenous communities themselves, set up a committee whose task is to propose a resolution to this conflict within 90 days.
The solution has been a positive one.
I cannot deny that, naturally, the Argentine authorities immediately submitted to us a project for the economic and social development of this region whereby, perhaps via the economic and financial cooperation chapter, it will be possible to achieve the small advances which, ultimately, if we persist in our efforts, will eventually bear fruit.
Finally, in connection particularly with the Wiqui Matacos indigenous communities in the northern region of Formosa, I would like to inform you that the Commission has just approved a cooperation programme worth ECU 5.5 million, also in collaboration with the Argentine authorities.
Lastly, there is yet another series of questions relating to the internal situation in Afghanistan where, regardless of the efforts it might be possible to make, it does not appear possible in the short term to work with the Afghan authorities, in political terms, outside the NGOs system owing to the internal situation of that country.
As for Leyla Zana, we have, of course, called upon the Turkish authorities a number of times, urging them to make a significant gesture in the case of Leyla Zana and also in the case of other imprisoned DEP elected representatives.
We are still calling for an improvement of the human rights situation and for the country to continue with democratic reforms begun at the end of 1995.
The Commission has also been making representations in connection with the presence of Alois Brunner in Syria, as has the Council of Ministers' troika .
What I am able to tell you is that the Syrian government categorically denies that this war criminal is present on Syrian territory.
There are reports by journalists but, when we requested confirmation at a formal diplomatic level, we were told more than once that this war criminal is not in Syria.
Now, three points related to this subject: a number of measures have been taken in connection with the specific subject of trade in human beings for the purposes of sexual exploitation.
In January this year, approval was given to a joint action relating to the typification of the behaviour of traffickers and to improved cooperation between Member States.
A training programme, the STOP programme, has been organized, the aim of this being the exchange of information and training in the campaign against trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of minors.
And the Union, the European Drugs Unit, has already commenced work in this field.
Secondly, on the wider question of the criminal networks organizing illegal immigration there is a regular exchange of information within the corresponding Council Working Group, which is called the Centre for Information, Discussion and Exchange on Crossing of Frontiers and Immigration.
Thirdly, the Council of Ministers has been looking at the problem of illegal working on the part of citizens from third countries and the text approved by the Council of Ministers indicates that illegal trafficking in manpower should be regarded as a crime and be subject to criminal penalties.
However, I would say again, according to the data available to the Commission, these are criminal networks which must be viewed essentially from the standpoint of control and, naturally, of criminal and judicial repression.
The debate is closed.
Each step towards nuclear disarmament is naturally an encouragement for the non-proliferation treaty.
Article 6 of the Agreement does in fact stipulate that the nuclear powers should disarm their nuclear weapons.
These opinions are important contributions for the realisation of Article 6 of the NPT.
We would also like to remind you of the U.N.
Finally, we ask the Member States to support the negotiations starting in 1997 that could result in an agreement on the elimination of all nuclear weapons.
The Council must take this new opportunity to bring its considerable influence to bear by speaking with one voice in the negotiations, and by seeking compromises between the two extremes.
Madam President, I think we should be talking about civil nuclear disarmament as well, because according to information published recently in the press there are nuclear power stations that cause pollution only at low tide.
I am very glad, though, that Commissioner Marín had the patience to stay with us a few minutes longer because when it comes to disarmament an important problem involves bringing in India and Pakistan.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, Mozambique, the Azores and Iran have each suffered from a natural disaster, and I should like to express my own sympathy and that of my group with the families of the victims and those who have suffered.
However, Madam President, I should also like to express my own regret and that of my group at the fact that no agreement has been reached on adding the Algerian situation to the list of emergencies.
There is no doubt about one thing: but for international solidarity, the independent press would long since have disappeared in Algeria.
In conclusion, Madam President, I deplore the fact that the European Parliament has still not defined any clear position regarding the Algerian problems.
Storm in the Azores Madam President, last December the Azores were assailed by violent storms which provoked terrible damage especially on the islands of São Miguel, Graciosa and Flores, while the harbour at Punta Delgada and the population of the Povoação district were the worst hit.
On 19 December, I sent a letter to the President of the Commission calling for Community support for the Azores.
I must thank Mr Santer for his positive reply, which informed me of an extra 26 million ECU to repair public and farming infrastructures on the islands.
As for the situation of the Azores, there is a lot to be done.
Portugal can resort to the Cohesion Fund in order to finance investment in the fields of transport and the environment.
I should like to draw the Commission's attention to the problem which I have already raised on many occasions: sometimes there is something quite comical about the whole succession of disasters which are presented here without it being possible for the Commission, the European Parliament or any other European institutions genuinely to assess the extent of the damage.
It is high time to set up a meteorological observatory to monitor all disasters of this type in countries in or linked to the European Union.
As regards the Azores, a first consideration is this: the meteorological system of all Member States is sufficiently advanced and the problem is not predicting major downpours or hurricanes, because you are all well aware that hurricanes, typhoons, periods of extremely cold weather and rain can perfectly well be predicted.
As for the floods in Mozambique, our delegation is perfectly up to date with the situation in the regions in central Mozambique affected by the floods.
The Maputo delegation is in contact with non-governmental organizations present in the region.
The debate is closed.
The services responsible have considered this question and the paragraph is in fact admissible. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Welcome Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to give a very warm welcome to the members of a delegation from the standing committee of the Land of Baden-Württemberg, who are visiting Parliament and have taken their seats in the official gallery.
I sincerely hope that this meeting will be a very fruitful one, especially as regards relations between the European Parliament and the regional parliaments of our Union.
Thanks to almost 140 amendments tabled and the excellent work carried out by the Committee on Budgets, we are now faced with a much more sensible, balanced and pro-European report.
The main reasons which have led me to vote in favour of this report, in its new form, are: the clear and systematic affirmation of the principle of economic and social cohesion; -the elimination of any reference to subsidiarity; -the express consideration that the Structural Funds make an important contribution to strengthening the economies of beneficiary regions and helping Member States to meet the convergence criteria and that the revision of regulations, to be presented by the end of 1998, heads in the direction of rationalisation and increased efficiency; -the condemnation of the negative attitude of the Council in relation to social policy (compulsory approval by unanimity) and the decision to include pilot projects on social exclusion, the elderly, the disabled and families, as well as strengthening activities designed to help with the execution of a sexual equality policy; -the willingness of the European Parliament to make an active contribution to setting up at European level a general policy to combat organised crime; -the importance of making budgetary allowances for the new needs of European citizens and promoting in practice the creation of jobs, both directly and by means of support to small and medium-sized undertakings.
I do not agree with paragraph 10 of the Tillich report, which urges that savings should be made by changing the regulations.
In 1992, it was decided to have a programme which shifted support from prices to incomes, and this was completed in 1995.
All things considered, I decided to vote against this report.
On the Kittelmann report (A4-0031/97) Ever since antiquity, close cultural and historic ties have existed between Armenia and a number of European countries.
Also, the existence of large communities of Armenian origin in some Member States, including France, calls for a closer partnership between the European Union and Armenia.
Armenia, the smallest of the republics making up the former USSR, long since undertook economic and democratic reforms.
However, in a region as unstable as Transcaucasia, this landlocked country has been exposed to intolerable economic pressure from its neighbours Turkey and Azerbaijan.
Although the growth of the Armenian economy has been facilitated by the cease-fire since May 1994, the political instability of the region is having many adverse effects on the country.
The new Partnership and Co-operation Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia, concluded for a period of ten years, is intended to promote economic and social reforms and the restructuring of the economic and trade systems.
Hitherto, Armenia has not really been the main concern of the European Union.
The change of attitude by the Member States thus indicates the dawning of a new period of co-operation between the European Union and Armenia.
We approve of close relations between the EU and Armenia, but Armenia is still in a state of war with Azerbaijan.
The talks on the status of Nagorno-Karabakh have since come to a complete standstill.
The Greens are also critical of the fact that the Council has incorporated a so-called repatriation clause in the text of the PCA, thereby linking economic cooperation to the repatriation of refugees, without the necessary conditions for this existing in the country.
On the Schwaiger report The Greens regard the implementation of the PCA with Azerbaijan at this stage as a serious mistake, and were therefore unable to vote in favour of it.
However, the fact that Azerbaijan is still in a state of war with Armenia and that a front line runs through the middle of the country excludes 20 % of it from participating in the benefits of this aid.
On the Chesa report In the scenario left to us by the break-up of the former Soviet Union, we need to pay particular attention to the Transcaucasian countries and above all Kazakhstan.
Furthermore it is a leading nuclear power and it is the European Union's duty to promote strategic control in order to maintain world peace.
We are asking Kazakhstan for further efforts and tangible signs of total respect for human and social rights, but we stand ready to invest in a future of full democracy for Kazakhstan and the Transcaucasian countries.
The first task of UNGASS must therefore be to make clear the seriousness of the situation and to put sustainable development back at the top of the international agenda.
Externally, the EU has not supported the developing countries to an adequate extent.
The other rich countries certainly have not done so either, indeed they are actually worse than us, but that is no excuse.
It is incredible that only three of the Member States are fulfilling the Brundtland report's recommendation that at least 0.7 % of GNP should be donated in development aid.
The aim is to improve the partnership between the rich and poor countries in order to encourage sustainable development.
Madam President, the international panel of experts on climatic changes has predicted a global temperature increase of two degrees by the year 2030, which would lead to a rise in sea level of 30 to 50 centimetres.
Yet, in 1960, 20 % of the world population in the richest countries had incomes three times that of the 20 % in the poorest.
But I should like to make two or three remarks.
Secondly, the idea that it is not enough to say that we want a better shareout between rich and poor countries.
It is also necessary for the richest countries and those primarily responsible for universal environmental problems to do something to put their own house in order - in other words, adopt policies which are consistent with sustainable development.
Unfortunately, the Rio Conference has so far produced very few really positive results.
For example, if the production of CO2 continues throughout the world as indicated in the last five years, the result will be an economic, humanitarian and environmental disaster.
The argument which is often put forward - that the European Union is not in a position to solve this problem throughout the world, because of course we are not responsible for all the CO2 emissions, and there are high rates of increase in India or China, for example - is unacceptable, although it is a comfortable argument if one wishes to do nothing.
We have accepted Agenda 21 for the Baltic Sea and have made some progress in our work.
We are in agreement with some significant aspects of her report.
And it is also true that the European Union must take a very active part in the forthcoming United Nations Summit.
I would not like to end without emphasizing something extremely important in the report which was key to the Rio Summit and is still key today.
We must therefore put the subject of sustainable development back at the top of the world's political agenda.
We really need binding force here, the introduction of minimum social and environmental standards in world trade, a binding framework convention on climate, with a biodiversity convention containing climate and biosafety protocols, and an agreement on the protection of forests.
Of course, this is partly because steps are now having to be taken to put sustainable development into practice.
The only way that we can begin to forge a partnership with poor countries is for ourselves to show a good example so that we in Europe should be working towards this reduction by 2005.
Mr President, it has taken five years for many of those who criticized the organization, development and results of the Rio Conference in 1992, who even went as far as organizing a parallel meeting, to now recognize that the objectives and items that were approved at Rio continue to be a reference point, a very important reference point for future decades.
I had the honour of representing this House at the Rio Summit and I am pleased that there is this convergence and that there is now recognition that it was a landmark in history acknowledging, at world level, that the concepts of sustainable development and environmental protection were complementary and not opposed.
There is, however, one topic which causes me concern, because it was a problem at the Rio Conference, namely the European Union's presentation: governments and the European Commission have to come to an agreement to the effect that this joint Commission/Parliament resolution genuinely represents the European Union with a sole voice at the conference.
One worthy of special consideration must be the request to governments that they strengthen the environmental dimension of their macro-economic policies.
Another must be giving a higher profile to the considerable problem of trade at world level and of environmental protection, which is another concern of this Parliament.
A temperature increase of 2ºC by the year 2030, a rise of 50 cm in the world sea level, an alarming fall in the area of rain forest - the unwelcome trends in the environment go on.
I believe that only the EU will really succeed in providing the necessary political weight for conservation and development aid.
With this debate and with your report, Mrs Dybkjaer, Parliament has the opportunity to play a part in defining priorities with a view to the special session, bearing in mind the changes which have occurred.
In addition, as predicted, negotiations regarding a protocol on the Climate Change Convention, establishing binding objectives in the form of a reduction of emissions of greenhouse gases, are proving, predictably, to be very difficult.
Lastly, the Intergovernmental Group on forests concluded its deliberations last month without defining recommendations on a whole series of key topics, including the need for a forest convention.
Obviously, all these topics - commercial exchanges and the environment, climate change and forests - require political impetus at the highest level at the special session.
The resolution is on target regarding this point and, naturally, the Commission would be delighted to continue conversations with the European Parliament with a view to defining our strategy on the basis of our 1996 communication, which is still our major strategic approach.
It might be thought that progress on reductions could have been made more rapidly, but the fact that an agreement has already been arrived at on this thorny subject at the Council of Ministers is one more step forward.
In this context, we regard it vital to concentrate on legally binding reductions by 2005, 2010 and 2020.
The demand formulated in your report, in subparagraph 18 D of your resolution, for a global maximum emissions limit, is interesting, but, to be realistic, you ought to accept that this will in any case be a fairly long-term aim.
Another very important priority for the special session which the European Commission would like to highlight is the growing scarcity of fresh water and the implications of this for people, agriculture, food security and also poverty.
This is obviously an important aspect influencing sustainable development which makes it possible, as some of you have stated, to export environmental technology.
Lastly, regarding European Parliament participation, the Commission obviously agrees, as in the past at the Rio Conference, that the European Parliament should participate in the United Nations General Assembly session.
Secondly, will we be able to take to this Conference an evaluation of the national plans agreed to by the various governments which signed the Rio Agreements and, above all, Agenda 21?
Regarding this subject, as regarding all others connected with external relations, the Commission supports the Presidency of the Council/General Secretariat of the Council + Commission system representing the executive part and the management part.
Then we think that the European Parliament should be represented within the Community delegation as Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m.
The Commission has on the basis of the complaints about industrial products and agricultural products which in June 1995 and on 1 January 1997 were filed by the European Trade-Union Organisation and the International Free Trade-Union Organisation, carried out an investigation into alleged forced labour in Burma.
Forced labour means mass deportation of men, women and children in conjunction with the construction of certain infrastructures that often lead to the people forced to work being killed or mutilated.
The human rights situation in Burma has been of concern to the European Union and the European Parliament for a long time.
The military regime came into power by force in 1988.
Amnesty International declared the year 1996 as the worst year this decade for human rights in Burma.
A large group of Members of the European Parliament has therefore pleaded with Club Med in a letter today to halt its tourist packages to Burma.
I have hopes of Parliament supporting the proposal unanimously and that the Council on the 24 of March will decide to revoke the generalised tariff preferences.
Mr President, the European Union is for the first time imposing sanctions on a country which is violating workers' rights, and we must welcome this decision to withdraw Burma's access to the generalized preference system.
The Burmese army is involved in these practices and is maltreating these victims of forced labour.
Consequently, on 6 June 1995, the international trade union confederations filed a complaint with the Commission requesting that Burma be excluded from the GPS as far as industrial products are concerned.
On 1 January 1997, the same unions filed the same complaint with regard to agricultural products.
However, we would like to see the Commission adopting an even more pro-active attitude: in addition to the decision taken by the European Commission, it would also be appropriate for the Member States and the Council to adopt an identical position towards Burma and impose harsher sanctions, the more so since, although these procedures are commercial, their political impact must not be underestimated.
The grounds for these economic sanctions are quite clear.
The use of forced and slave labour in Burma breaches the Geneva Conventions of 25 September 1926 and 7 September 1956 and Conventions 29 and 105 of the International Labour Organization.
SLORC refused to accept the result of the 1990 election which was won by the opposition National League for Democracy.
Aung San Suu Kyi, who won the 1990 election, has been the victim of house arrest and continual harassment.
Mr President, Burma is a country with a violent military dictatorship, and with an elected opposition leader - or really an elected president - who received 80 % of the votes and has been under house arrest and effectively held hostage for six years.
It is a country where 80 % of the elected members of parliament are imprisoned or have disappeared.
It is a country where a sizeable section of the population are obliged, through forced labour, to help to build all manner of government projects, a country where slave labour is being used.
It is a country where, according to Amnesty International, the worst human rights violations are happening at the moment.
I am delighted that the Commission has reacted positively to Parliament's resolutions of July 1996 and October 1996, and has put forward this proposal to withdraw the system of tariff preferences.
I am therefore quite happy with the approach we adopted in 1994.
I hope that the steps we are taking in Parliament today are quickly followed up by the Council, but I hope most of all that the opposition leader who is currently being held hostage will one day become president of her country, that the members of parliament who are in prison can one day take their seats, and that human rights will be respected.
Mr President, according to various sources more than 2 million Burmese are involved in forced labour.
I should point out that 3 % of the Burmese GNP comes from this forced labour.
Pursuing a policy of interventionism in economic affairs, the Burmese military government is continuing to violate not only human rights but also children's rights, despite the fact that it has been a signatory of the Convention on Children's Rights since 1991.
We already knew that the children's rights situation was extremely serious, but it must be said that it deteriorated in 1996 when the government refused access to the United Nations Special Envoy for Human Rights.
Withdrawal of the GPS is intended as a sanction to force the Burmese military government into a dialogue with the opposition aimed at restoring democracy in that part of the world.
Mr President, today's debate is quite timely as industrial leaders in different parts of the world are pressurizing governments into dropping any plans for sanctions against Burma.
The Karen are seeking an autonomy which the British guaranteed them when they made Burma independent in 1949.
Amnesty International has estimated that almost 2, 000 people were arrested for political reasons in Burma last year.
The vast majority of them are believed to have been involved in entirely peaceful activities.
That is all to the credit of Commissioner Marín and it is all to our advantage, because the Burma question is one of his cases and I am very glad it is.
I think this decision to suspend the GPS is particularly important because a meeting to set up an international network of support for democracy in Burma has just been held in Tokyo.
So I think that the signal that could be sent by the European Union is particularly important for the Asian countries, many of whom attended this forum in Tokyo and exhibit a great deal more interest in this matter than the European Union does, I must admit.
Also, I believe the decision is an important one because it is the first of its kind in the European Union's policy.
It is also very good to have the opportunity to congratulate the Commission on what is a historically significant action.
You see the high emphasis that the SLORC regime places on international investment there.
Today I and colleagues Kinnock, Thomas and Ford have presented a strong protest to the Club Med travel company here in Strasbourg, demanding that they stop their tours and their activities there and take notice of the others that have pulled out, however attractive the Burmese people and country are.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the European Union granted tariff preferences to Myanmar - formerly Burma - in 1994, the political situation there was already extremely tense.
It has been and remains the aim of the European Parliament to make development cooperation dependent on respect for human rights, an example of this being last year's cooperation agreement with Nepal.
Hopefully this action will put further pressure on the military dictatorship of the SLORC in that sad country to stop its massive use of forced slave and child labour to construct its infrastructure of hotels to try to boost its tourist trade.
In 1990 her party, the National League for Democracy, received 80 % of the votes.
I would particularly like to congratulate Commissioner Marín for the very tough line he took in Singapore and the way he stood up to the criticisms from some Member States.
I also hope that the industrialists of Europe are listening to this and that TOTAL and Club Med will follow the line taken by Heineken, Carlsberg, PepsiCo, Levi, Apple and Thomas Cook.
The European Parliament is rightly emphasizing its links with Asia.
As one of the Bureau members of the Japan delegation, I had a meeting yesterday with other representatives of Asia delegations to talk about ASSET II, an inter-parliamentary meeting between Members of the European Parliament and the Asean parliaments.
An additional point, regarding the European Parliament's viewpoint: the Commission - I myself - recommended that the Council consult Parliament on this proposal owing to the political interest this institution had always expressed in the observance of a specific system of social ethics in international trade.
Essentially because the basis of the decision we have to make was specifically to verify the reality and extent of the use of forced labour in Myanmar and the responsibility of that country's authorities in this matter.
The decision depends on Parliament and the Council of Ministers.
Therefore, the Commission's services, in cooperation with internationally acknowledged experts who assisted us, proceeded with the task of verification and the analysis of 42 witness statements, and heard various witnesses who have had to be protected under the terms of a confidentiality agreement.
However, the Commission has upheld the idea that this is a procedure in which all sides can state their views, by protecting the confidentiality of those who were giving statements and, secondly, also giving the authorities in Rangoon the chance to have their say.
We arrived at the conclusion, under our responsibility, that forced labour continues to be used on a large scale under the direct responsibility of the authorities at all levels.
Forced labour in Myanmar affects the population as a whole, without distinction for age or sex, both in rural and urban areas, although the inhabitants of urban areas have greater financial resources enabling them to purchase exemption from such work.
Cultural and religious pretexts were refuted by the witnesses and, naturally, contacts were also made with the Buddhist area of the country, where it was in fact confirmed to us that Buddhism is in no way a protection against slavery.
Then we will have time to look at how to structure this initial solution in the future.
This is my point of view but, naturally, I respect Parliament's autonomy and sovereignty.
Finally, Mrs Maij-Weggen, Mr Ford and Mrs Theorin, I hope that the Council of Ministers makes the decision.
If, after all the work we have done, after all that happened in Singapore, after this debate in the European Parliament, we are incapable of making a decision in the Council of Ministers, I, for one, will be deeply unhappy.
The debate is closed.
