Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament, adjourned on Thursday, 5 September 1996.
Monday: The Green Group in the European Parliament has requested the inclusion, at the start of today's sitting, of its oral question to the Commission on the Convention on human rights and biomedicine.
We have requested, pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, that the vote on this motion today should be taken by roll call, in accordance with Rule 119.
on Monday, 16 September.
The vote was perfectly clear.
Mr President, on Wednesday afternoon we have on our agenda a statement by the Council on the political situation in Turkey and a statement by the Commission on the implementation of the customs union with Turkey.
It is unacceptable that we should treat an applicant state of the European Union in a time of crisis and tension to a three or four minute debate as part of the topical and urgent debate.
My group will be dealing with what has happened in Cyprus as an integral part of our discussion on the political situation in Turkey.
That depends on how you organize the debate.
The groups will mention what they consider necessary on Wednesday, and you will decide on Wednesday morning whether or not to leave the item 'Cyprus' on the list of topical and urgent subjects.
Mr President, I hope the cancelling of Question Time to the Council is an absolute exception.
This is really only intended as an exception, Sir Jack.
In this declaration, amongst other things, we vigorously condemn all forms of intolerance, hostility and use of force against persons or groups of persons on the grounds of racial, religious, cultural, social or national differences.
I am not allowing a debate on the matter now.
And if we have something important on the agenda, you have to be very familiar with our procedures and be here all the time to understand how everything works.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In view of this complexity, and taking account of the provisions of Article F.2 of the Treaty on European Union, I took the view that the European Convention on Human Rights was the proper legal basis for the preparation of this report.
It is important for us to distinguish between the traditional human rights that are enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and the economic and social rights which are also encompassed by this report, and which - as the House will be aware - are different in terms of both their legal nature and the degree to which they are protected.
Or do we really want to allow people who sit in the House but should really be in this report to determine how the human rights debate in the European Union should develop?
It is a question of who represents the law: the drug barons and the murder squads or the police and the justice department or the politicians.
Mr President, I should like to begin by sounding a warning note in this debate.
The world has never seen such long lists of human rights as in the constitutions of the former communist states.
It is shorter, and therefore more powerful.
We in the Liberal Group will be voting against several paragraphs in the report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the area of human rights involves enormous problems, and without wishing to neglect all the other issues associated with human rights, which are often flouted in the Member States, I shall confine myself today to talking about the predicament of those families without papers who are suffering violence at the hands of the French Government.
In France, the Pasqua laws of 1993 on immigration have 'clandestinized' - if I may use the term - many immigrant families and put them in a situation of permanent legal insecurity.
Our group supports these people without papers in their fight against a government whose immigration policy has been reduced to a low-grade policing operation for sordid political ends.
We are asking for the position of those without papers, who have settled in France legitimately, to be regularized without delay, out of respect for both human rights and international conventions.
The Esteban Martín report answers this in the affirmative.
The fact is that Article F of the Treaty already states that the Union is to respect fundamental rights, as guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights and, for its part, the Court of Justice has integrated them into its caselaw.
Finally, if the Community, or the Union, were able to conclude international conventions on human rights, this would doubtless mean that, in this area, it would henceforth have a general competence that has always been denied it in the Treaties.
So Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure has not been observed.
This has indeed happened to the native population in most European countries, but there is nothing about it in the report.
Finally, paragraph 93 states that the extreme right-wing parties advocate xenophobia.
The Hébertistes were xenophobes during the French Revolution; Blanqui was a xenophobe.
I am sorry, Mr President, I shall now return to what I really wanted to say, which is that Parliament devotes a considerable amount of time to condemning human rights violations in third countries, and quite rightly so.
I too would therefore draw attention to the remarkable achievement of the rapporteur in managing to reconcile these two disparate points of view.
Mr Bazin, your comments will be entered in the Minutes but I was generous because of my interpretation of the facts.
In my view the rapporteur has made a very good effort at that, but every year there is the recurring diatribe from those who believe that the report should concern itself strictly with fundamental human rights and those who want it extended to economic and social rights.
If we do want to try to include them in a single report, and I think it is possible, then clearly social and economic rights, within the report on human rights, cannot be confined to a repetitive list of all the objectives we are raising to the level of rights but which are not rights in the legal sense.
So I call for a debate on this issue of possible convergence before the next report on human rights so that Parliament can approve it much more widely.
Mrs Colombo Svevo's experience has in fact enabled her to encapsulate it perfectly: at the moment the report is again in the eye of the storm because we cannot get agreement on the concept of 'human rights' in this Parliament, nor can it be established whether we can or cannot effectively bring violations of the civil and general rights of Union citizens to general attention within our Community.
Mr President, I should like to begin my speech by congratulating Parliament on the step forward which it is taking and the political maturity that it is displaying in debating a report on respect for human rights in the European Union; because the fact is that human rights are being violated in the Member States of the Union, and not only the so-called 'modern' or social, economic and environmental rights, but also - and this is more serious - those enshrined in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
This is all the more important since - no doubt not by chance - it is an area in which the European Union has kept a low profile, probably for reasons of subsidiarity.
However, pre-eminent for the Liberals seems to be laissez faire economic freedom for individuals to do in the economic marketplace whatever they want without too much concern about the effects on people with fewer entrepreneurial inclinations or abilities or less economic power.
For Liberals individuals have the fundamental right to seek to become millionaires or to seek to create a large business or to live in a mansion, but individuals do not have the fundamental rights to live free from poverty, to have a job or to reside in decent housing.
Christian Democrats appreciate perhaps more than Liberals the idea of social solidarity in collective values and that there is such a thing as society which has a duty to support weaker individuals, yet when it comes to specific commitments in this area the Christian Democrats always seem to find reasons to vote against and, at best, just to resort to paternalism.
In conclusion, I call on all democratic Members of this Parliament to support this report and to have the courage to support full human rights in the European Union as we enter the new century.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, strong protection of human rights is one of the most important elements in the Union's foundations.
There is a private area, which lies outside that of politics, an area which is set to grow in many countries.
The 126 rights in the report make for some painful reading and provide a sorry but striking example of the fact that Parliament must not concern itself with everything.
If Parliament is to present these annual reports at all, the red parties should ponder on a couple of sayings we have in Sweden that go something like: ' true mastery lies in moderation' and 'reach out for everything, gain nothing' .
We would also have preferred the report to make some reference to violations in countries aspiring to join the Community or which have long influenced decisions positively or negatively through their power and specific weight.
We are talking about drawing attention in this report to situations in which respect for human rights - the meaning of which is quite clear to us when we refer to third countries - is deteriorating or simply does not exist.
Contrary to what some members of my group seem to think, I believe that it is sometimes necessary to make an effort to achieve a result, and that this report must be safeguarded as a report on the subject it seeks to address - and I repeat, I believe that we all know what that is.
And I would call on the other groups to do the same, since I think that it would be most frustrating to emerge from the vote without having adopted the report and, moreover, that this would jeopardize our work in this field in the coming years.
Mr President, we have had considerable difficulties over the last couple of years with these reports on human rights because of differences of view as to what constitutes human rights and other similar problems.
The European Union would be a vastly better place if all the proposals enshrined in this report were to be adopted.
We could all perhaps agree that the right to health is one of the most important, but all the detailed statistics show that people who are homeless, who are unemployed, who are in poverty, live much shorter lives and have much poorer health, than those whose social rights are safeguarded.
Paragraph 51 refers to the right of people who are arrested and imprisoned abroad not to have their trials indefinitely delayed and to suffer thereby because of technicalities like lack of translation facilities and lack of understanding of the legal systems in other countries.
The Commission put forward a revised proposal on 30 May 1996 which reflected Parliament's amendments.
With regard to combating racism and xenophobia, the Council of Ministers has, as you know, officially declared 1997 to be the European Year against Racism.
In its report for the Intergovernmental Conference, the Commission recommended the inclusion in the Treaty of provisions banning any form of discrimination and condemning racism and xenophobia.
In conclusion, I would point out that the Council has launched various programmes over the last 20 years to tackle poverty in all its manifestations at European level.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In February this year, Parliament delivered its opinion on a package of measures proposed by the Commission relating to inland waterway transport.
I should like to make a few brief comments about these.
Although the Committee on Transport feels that the Council's position is disappointing, it decided not to retable its amendments in view of the budgetary restrictions and the problems which the Council faced in making available even the ECU 20 million included in the 1996 budget.
We would have asked Commissioner Kinnock for his response, but perhaps Commissioner van den Broek will be able to speak on his behalf.
Parliament will no doubt have an opportunity to comment on the results of these negotiations in the near future.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PPE Group also regards inland waterways as an environmentally-friendly and safe element of the transport sector.
For these reasons we think it was very negative of the Council to reject the majority of the amendments approved by Parliament at first reading.
Finally we take note that as regards granting incentives for inland waterway transport, the Council has in fact accepted the position of the European Parliament.
In conclusion, I support a vote in favour of Mr van der Waal's amendments and proposal.
As has been mentioned overcapacity is possibly as high as 20 % in the European tanker sector.
The first proposal, on the systems of chartering and pricing in national and international inland waterway transport, aims to liberalize inland waterway transport by harmonizing the legislation which the Member States concerned are currently introducing, with full liberalization by 1 January 2000.
The new provisions which the Council has included in its common position are in line with the aims of the Commission proposals.
Amendment No 1 is intended to enable the Member States to introduce accompanying social measures for operators leaving the inland waterway transport sector voluntarily.
Amendment No 2 concerns the Financial Statement on the budget line for scrapping schemes in inland waterways transport, and the description and general purpose of the measure.
The Committee on Transport considers that there is at least 20 % overcapacity in the tanker sector.
This is why it is proposed that an additional scrapping scheme should be carried out in the tanker sector during the first year of the Commission programme, to reduce the tanker fleet by at least an extra 10 %.
The Commission considers this amendment superfluous, since it already has the opportunity under the existing regulation to allocate more of the funding available for scrapping tankers, if it feels this is necessary.
The second question you put to him in writing was whether the 'old for new' system could be extended for a further five years.
That is why I should like to know whether Commissioner Kinnock will consider introducing differentiation in future schemes stretching beyond the year 2000, so that it is not just the larger vessels which are taken out of service, since this simply reduces the scope and effectiveness of inland waterway transport.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Air carrier liability The next item is the report (A4-0228/96) by Mr Sánchez García, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a Council Regulation (COM(95) 0724 - C4-0209/96-95/0359(SYN)) on air carrier liability in case of accidents.
For example, the Montreal Agreement of 1966 increased the limit to USD 75 000 for all flights to, from, or with a planned stopover in the United States.
Similarly, over the last few years, the majority of European countries have introduced liability limits which are higher than those provided for under the Warsaw system, for both national and international flights.
In these circumstances, the Community considered it necessary to take steps to create acceptable conditions for the air transport sector, ensuring common liability rules and guaranteeing fair treatment for users.
Thank you, Mr Sánchez García.
Mr President, I would join with your good wishes for the rapporteur and congratulate him on his report.
It is an attempt to update the Warsaw Convention of 1929 and to harmonize existing voluntary agreements amongst European airlines, as the rapporteur has said.
Nobody ever thought much about flying in aeroplanes in those days.
I welcome the Commission proposal because it improves the situation for people who need to claim compensation in the event of an accident, both in terms of the amount they will receive and the speed with which they will be helped.
Pan Am aircraft No 101 was bombed and destroyed over Scotland.
In all honesty, we in this House must ensure that all outstanding claims should be met before another airline by that name should be allowed to carry passengers - certainly in the European Union.
I regret to inform the rapporteur that as far as Amendments Nos 3, 6 and 16 are concerned the Commission text is much clearer.
The Commission text for both Amendments Nos 6 and 16 is much clearer.
It is quite right that we introduce what is known as this fifth jurisdiction for those who currently have their domicile or permanent residence in a European Union country.
Amendment No 4 raises the strict liability of European Union carriers to the sum of ECU 120, 000 rather than the Commission proposal of ECU 100, 000.
The fact that the European Union action reflects that already undertaken by IATA and to be followed by ICAO will enhance consumer protection and fair competition in the European aviation sector.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the text before the House today on air carrier liability in case of accidents represents a very interesting step forward.
While we are awaiting the revision mentioned above, the report before us today puts forward a number of improvements to the Commission proposal, with a view to ensuring greater consistency between the Community document, the Warsaw Convention and the IATA agreement of 31 October 1995.
For this reason, my group will vote in favour of the report.
That is an intolerable situation as we approach the next millennium and nearly 100 years of aviation.
What are known as flags of convenience in the maritime sector are now spreading to the aviation sector.
After two decades of fruitless discussion, the question of liability is now finally receiving the attention it deserves.
The Commission is also prepared to accept the following amendments in principle, provided that certain changes are made to the text: Nos 3 and 10, which make it clear that the regulation lays down only the maximum financial limits for liability; No 12, which increases the objective liability under Article 3 from ECU 100 000 to ECU 120 000, in accordance with the IATA rules; No 17, which adds a new Article 7a giving air carriers rights of recourse; and No 19, which calls for an evaluation report to be presented in 1999.
As I indicated in my speech I would much prefer that we kept to the original Commission text unless the Commission gave us some extremely compelling reasons for those two changes.
The debate is closed.
