He was elected to the European Parliament in June 1994 and was an active member of the Committee on Transport and Tourism and the interparliamentary delegation for relations with Kazakhstan.
Furthermore, as you all know, on 23 April the former President of the Republic of Greece, Constantino Karamanlis, passed away in Athens.
As a statesman, he was responsible for the restoration of democracy in his country and its entry into the European Union, and he deserves recognition from all Europeans.
Mr President, next Saturday, 2 May, in Brussels, we are going to make an historic decision with regard to a number of aspects concerning the introduction of the single currency.
Whatever my personal opinion regarding the euro, or that of my group, we would like to remind you formally that the Edinburgh agreements confirmed Parliament's seat as Strasbourg and it is thus there that we should be meeting on Saturday.
Thus, by a large majority, the House decided that this extraordinary sitting would be held here in Brussels, which also enables the unique possibility of holding the session in the same place as the meetings of the Ecofin Council and the Council of Heads of State or Government.
During the night of 29 January he was taken away by armed men and he has not been seen since.
Thank you, Mrs Roth.
Our Australian colleagues are in Brussels to take part in the twenty-third interparliamentary meeting between the Australian Parliament and our institution, co-chaired by Mr Nicholson.
Northern Ireland The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the recent peace agreement in Northern Ireland.
During my talks in London, Belfast and Dublin, I was able to understand and observe the enormous determination with which both governments committed themselves to the peace and reconciliation process.
Today we have the opportunity to show our unfailing solidarity with them and with the people of Northern Ireland.
But it also makes a difference when individuals give of their time and their energy to support what is happening in Northern Ireland.
I am also very pleased to be speaking alongside my colleague, David Andrews, from the Republic of Ireland.
We must never forget that. (Applause) Finally, I acknowledge the work of the Commissioners and not just Jacques Santer.
I say a special thank you to Monica Wulf-Mathies.
I would also mention Padraig Flynn and our good friend and comrade Neil Kinnock for their support. (Applause and laughter) I mean comrade in the 'comradely' way.
I also, in a 'comradely' way, thank the Council for the endorsement they gave to the historic agreement setting out what we hope is a new beginning, the chance to achieve what we hope will be a lasting peace settlement.
As the Council acknowledged, it is the courage and the determination of the party leaders and the people of Northern Ireland which has been central in making this opportunity for peace happen.
We have been aided by the courage and determination of those party leaders and by the economic help that the EU programmes have given us.
It will bring together members of the Irish Government and members of the new Northern Ireland administration provided the referendum goes through on 22 May, with bodies below the ministerial council to implement decisions.
I will not go into the detail but everybody in this Parliament knows the amount of economic help you have given Northern Ireland over the previous years through various programmes.
So I thank those who came in person and the help they gave. (Applause) The Structural Funds have been, and will continue to be, an important aspect of funding to Northern Ireland.
There is a trauma centre in Belfast where people who have lost loved ones can go when the pain is very real to talk and discuss and come to terms with the pain that has been created.
There is a women's centre in Ballybeen.
There are some like the Greysteel Community Centre - people will remember the shooting in 1994 in the Rising Sun Pub where six people were shot at random.
That is the kind of difference that programme has made and I thank all who made it possible.
It developed in Northern Ireland but has an impact across many European countries.
The difference that made was that when we went through very tough times in the talks and people were not playing and not talking, there were 26 tables across Northern Ireland around which people were talking, people from both extremes and regardless of what had happened they kept going.
We thank you very much for creating that. (Applause) Finally, I would just mention the International Fund which the European Union has contributed to over the years: the recent ECU 17 m per annum for 1998 will enable the fund to continue its important work.
So the message today really is, thank you for the support.
We would not have got to where we are in Northern Ireland without the help from the European Parliament.
You have supported us on a practical level which makes a difference to people and which is what our EU presidency is about: jobs, crime, education; but you have also given us a hope and a belief that we can build a future, that if we work collectively in Northern Ireland we can do so much better than we can as individuals.
It is fair to say, as expressed by Mo Mowlam, that the immense welcome the agreement has received from our friends across the world and in particular from within the European Union underlines its truly historic and momentous nature.
I must in particular salute a distinguished Member of Parliament already mentioned by my friend and colleague, and 'comrade' from time to time, Mo Mowlam, namely John Hume.
I would like to place on record the pivotal and crucial role at all stages of the process from beginning to end of my friend and colleague John Hume.
We are deeply appreciative of the crucial role the Union has played in preparing the groundwork for the agreement.
We have also learned the lesson that, to adapt the words of the Treaty establishing the Coal and Steel Community, a new Ireland can be built neither through coercion nor through rhetoric.
Our experience as a small country within the Union has shown that there are many sectors in which there is a true commonality of interest between the two parts of the island of Ireland.
In this Parliament, too, the three Members for Northern Ireland - John Hume, Ian Paisley and Jim Nicholson - despite acute differences between them on political issues have been able to work together on many matters of importance to those they represent.
The EU structures have themselves been a guide to us in the negotiations on arrangements for cooperation and joint action within Ireland, the North and the South.
The European Union's economic support through, for example, the Peace and Reconciliation Programme and its contributions to the International Fund for Ireland has been vital and critical in making the peace process a tangible reality for many individuals and communities, both in Northern Ireland and the border counties in the south of the island.
The European example has also been of great moral significance.
The conflict in Northern Ireland which has led to so many terrible and needless deaths and injuries has been an affront to the values of our shared European civilization.
But Europe has shown that no society is condemned by some iron law of history to pace the treadmill of its past.
The real difference lies between those who look to the future, to new ways of peace and cooperation and those who cling to the past, to the old ways of violence and division.
My government, together with the British Government, looks forward to working with the Commission, the European Parliament and our partners and meeting the challenges of peace and reconciliation.
I therefore welcome Monday's agreement at the General Affairs Council that the Union should continue to play an active part in promoting lasting peace and prosperity in Northern Ireland.
Again, I extend my deep gratitude on my own behalf and that of my government for the invitation by the President of Parliament to be here and thank you and your colleagues once again. (Loud applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very honoured to address the European Parliament today in this debate of importance and significance for all of us in the European Union.
This agreement required considerable political courage and great determination.
That is a matter for the people in the North and South of Ireland to decide in the referendums on 22 May.
But we can - as we always have done - continue to support wholeheartedly the peace and reconciliation process.
As committed and dedicated Europeans is this not the credo of our daily lives - to bring all European peoples together in friendship, peace and reconciliation, in a spirit of tolerance and mutual respect, fulfilling the guiding principles of our Treaty.
Yes, this is our raison d'être and our lasting success.
So, today, in this House we rejoice in the progress that is being made.
During the talks leading to the agreement I believe the European Union has played an important role in three major ways.
Firstly, the European Union has provided a stable political reference point for both communities, a reference point that has shown how formerly divided communities and divided European countries can work together, trust each other and grow together successfully in the modern world.
Secondly, because our institutions - this Parliament, the Council of Ministers, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions - have all provided important political venues where members of the United Kingdom and Irish governments and politicians from Ireland, North and South, have been able to meet and work constructively together on many subjects.
So our institutions themselves have played their part.
In 1988 we became a major contributor to the International Fund for Ireland.
On my recent visit to Northern Ireland I saw at first hand some of the cross-community and cross-border projects - such as my visit to the Shankill Women's Centre or when I listened to the Ray of Hope Choir.
So I am very pleased to announce before this House today that the Commission has agreed this morning in the provisional draft budget to propose a further ECU 100 million for the Peace and Reconciliation Programme for 1999.
This brings the total for this programme to ECU 500 million over five years.
Let us not forget either the role other Community funds have played: the general Northern Ireland programme under the Structural Funds, INTERREG, URBAN and other Community programmes.
We have provided sustained support for all the communities over a long period of time - and rightly so.
In the future the European Union will continue to support social and economic regeneration in Northern Ireland as we have in the past.
Let me conclude my remarks this afternoon by saying that we salute the great courage of the people of Ireland, North and South and all of those who are involved in the peace process.
And we continue to pledge our support to underpin this bold and courageous process - now and in the future.
Václav Havel provides me with the words and thoughts I need to express my feelings and conclude my remarks this afternoon.
He said 'Je crois profondément en la coexistence de communautés régionales au sein d'une communauté globale de tous les hommes ' .
Mr President, I have to say that I am very pleased that the leadership of my own group has asked me to speak for the group today because I am quite sure that the vast majority of the people of Northern Ireland would want me to speak for them today to express their deep gratitude to all of the European institutions for the powerful strength and support that they have given to the peace movement on our streets.
We have, I believe, an historic opportunity now for a new beginning in which we can leave behind us our terrible and tragic past.
People often talk of European Union as economic this and economic that, but fundamentally, as I have often said on my streets, it is the finest example in the history of the world of conflict resolution.
Looking at the philosophical principles that create peace, what the peoples of Europe did was to build institutions - and those three institutions are represented here today - which fully respect the differences of their peoples.
No one in Europe has lost their identity but, and this is the important point, make them work together in their substantial common interests which are social and economic, as I often say 'spilling their sweat and not their blood' , and by doing that we can breakdown the barriers and centuries and the new Europe will have evolved.
They are creating institutions within Northern Ireland and between North and South and between Britain and Ireland that respect our differences but which allow us to work together in our common interests based on partnership, on equality, on mutual respect, on consent and agreement.
Indeed, Mr President, as that is happening I have no doubt that the continued support from the European Union and from the European Commission and Council of Ministers in particular, through economic regeneration, will play a major role in strengthening the common ground enormously and in expressing to our people at grass-roots level the massive international goodwill that exists for peace in the offshore island of the European Union.
We look forward in Northern Ireland to continuing support from our friends in the European Union and we thank you for it.
As we move into the next century let it be the first century in our island history in which we will have no killing on our streets and no emigration of our young people to other lands to earn a living. (Loud and sustained applause) Mr President, this is a time of great hope and gratitude in Ireland: hope for the future of the two referendums we are facing shortly, gratitude to all our friends and colleagues who throughout the years have given us such wonderful support.
Congratulations also for those who were directly involved over the last few years and particularly in the last few months in bringing this process to what we hope will be a good conclusion.
This agreement is one great step but we have a long process ahead of us as has already been said by both our ministers and the big process I believe we have to face in the next few years is how we bring the plain people of Northern Ireland in both communities together.
It was not just a physical boundary but it was also the boundary of the minds that divided us and that will be our most challenging job for the next few years.
The Women's Coalition made a significant contribution to this process and I believe they should be recognized as well.
Thank you all, colleagues and thank you everybody, particularly the Commission and those who worked so hard for this great day for us all.
First of all, Mr President I would like to pay tribute to the Secretary of State, Mo Mowlam, and to Foreign Minister, David Andrews, for the very important personal contribution they both have made to the negotiations which have led to the peace agreement.
I would also like to extend my appreciation to President Santer and his Commission colleagues for the continued support which they have given to this process since its inception.
The immediate priority is to have the agreement approved by the electorate in both parts of Ireland on 22 May and I hope that the European Parliament will be able to commend the agreement to the voters in both parts of Ireland when we adopt our resolution tomorrow morning.
I welcome the agreement to establish a North-South Ministerial Council and to underpin the function of this Council through the enactment of legislation in Westminster and in Dublin.
The North-South Ministerial Council will have a range of functions which will ensure closer cooperation between elected representatives in public authorities on both sides of the border, with a view to releasing the potential for generating further economic growth and job creation throughout the island of Ireland.
The European Union has played a very significant role in the peace process, particularly through its support for initiatives which have improved cooperation between the different communities.
The two communities in Northern Ireland have been divided for many years.
It is historic because both the British and Irish Governments are commending to this House and to the peoples of Ireland and the British Isles in general a unique agreement which heralds the prospect of a new beginning for Northern Ireland and its wider relations.
The Belfast Agreement reasserts the role of democracy, the rule of law and the primacy of constitutional politics.
Great credit, we believe, is due to all the political leaders who have had the courage to break free from the failed political stereotypes of the past.
Mr President, like the other groups in Parliament, my group has followed with great emotion the agreement signed in Belfast on 10 April by the British and Irish Governments and the parties representing the communities of Northern Ireland.
Our group showed its commitment to peace in Northern Ireland, during the previous parliamentary term, through the members of the Irish Democratic Left, and also through the work of Vice-President Gutiérrez Díaz in his capacity as rapporteur for the International Fund for peace in Northern Ireland and as member and chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy.
His work was a sign of our group's commitment, because we are convinced that in Ireland there are many men and women of good will, many men and women who believe in democracy, many men and women who also think of themselves as Europeans.
But the philosophy of renouncing violence in Ireland and making a commitment to peace and dialogue applies to everybody.
The Agreement is a development of deep historical significance and must be supported by all those who wish for an end to this ancient conflict.
Mr President, I want to thank my group for giving me the opportunity to speak on their behalf in what is a truly historic occasion.
Throughout the hard talking that took place I noticed how carefully Mo Mowlam had to choose her words and yet every word was spoken from her heart.
I have to praise also my longstanding friend from the 1960s, John Hume, who has given his lifetime to the process of patient, peaceful talking.
All the others, the Prime Ministers past and present, the politicians like David Andrews here today and David Trimble for holding the line when many Unionists panicked.
These magnificent politicians have built a bridge of hope and the optimists have beaten the pessimists.
I would like today to put on record my admiration for the people of Northern Ireland who have withstood the pressure and managed to remain in control and calm in the face of adversity.
I would also like to put on record the immense debt we the people of Northern Ireland owe to the security forces and the Royal Ulster Constabulary, the Royal Irish Regiment, formerly the Ulster Defence Regiment and the army which on many occasions in the past 30 years stood between sanity and oblivion.
Please do not believe that all our problems are over.
Many of the people I represent are extremely concerned that those who murdered and bombed for the last 30 years have not decommissioned one bullet nor one ounce of Semtex.
The European Union has been very constructive in the support it has provided in recent years.
The difficult way forward is to say 'Yes' and to pick up the challenge and build a new future for all the people of Northern Ireland.
The people of Northern Ireland are a warm and generous people.
I hope it reconsiders and adopts a better attitude in the future.
If we cannot have consensus on a joint resolution in this Parliament, we will have difficulties ahead of us.
Mr President, I rise to speak on behalf of people who have no voice now in Northern Ireland.
It is because they have been butchered and killed by the IRA and other so-called Loyalist groups.
Here we have all these young men who gave their lives in defence of both Roman Catholic and Protestant people in Northern Ireland, all murdered by the IRA.
The government is spending £3 million in order to win this referendum.
I firmly believe it is a new beginning for Northern Ireland and we must build on that.
Secondly, the release of convicted prisoners and, incidentally, but not to be under-rated, the future of the Royal Ulster Constabulary.
I would ask the Ministers present today to give us an undertaking that these issues will be given proper consideration.
Mr President, at the outset I want to thank my colleagues for giving me the opportunity to say a few brief words on this historic day for the European Parliament.
I know that the Union will continue to support the process and it is absolutely essential.
But they should do so now by granting Objective 1 status on a cross-border basis.
This would ensure priority access to European funding for regional, social, agricultural and fisheries development - on a cross-border basis, I emphasize.
In conclusion as a representative of the border region, I want to pledge myself to assisting the peace process in a positive and practical way.
Mr President, it is in helping to solve problems such as those in Northern Ireland that Europe shows its added value to the citizen.
The idea which inspired our European Union is not just the idea of peace but the idea that what unites us - our common humanity - is more important than what divides us.
If the proceedings of this House had been heeded fourteen years ago the ideas put forward by our former Danish colleague, Niels Haagerup, might have held sway.
I welcome the Presidency's recognition of the role that the European Union and others have played in reaching this historic agreement.
I look forward to the day when Ministers refer not to the two communities in Northern Ireland but instead to the community.
My party in Northern Ireland - the Alliance Party - has worked tirelessly for the building of a non-sectarian society.
I, too, in the short period that I have want to welcome the Agreement and to say that I sincerely hope it will be supported by the vast majority of the people of Ireland, North and South.
I want to congratulate, of course, especially John Hume for the immense investment he has made in time and sacrifice in this Agreement.
I want also to recognize the leadership of David Trimble in bringing the majority of the Unionists of Northern Ireland alongside and I want to thank Jim Nicholson, too, a Member of this House also, for giving his considerable assistance and influence in support of David Trimble's effort.
He gave a lot up to the very last minute and I believe what America has done here is an example for Europe as well of what a major power, through its influence and good diplomacy, can achieve throughout the world.
We would like to especially thank the EU for its quiet and unintrusive role in Northern Ireland, the framework of the European Union which helped Irish and British Ministers to work together the common agricultural policy, the common policies that created the single market where the people North and South cooperate together now without any border to prevent them from growing together and cooperating and trading together.
Mr President, having served as a politician in both parts of Ireland I am only too well aware of the difficulties in trying to negotiate an agreement which will be acceptable to all parties to the conflict.
Let me say to Dr Paisley, when he talked about the votes he received, one vote for peace and reconciliation and an end of conflict is worth more than a thousand votes for a continuation of the conflict.
Since the signing of the Treaty of Rome, the European Union has succeeded in providing a forum in which EU members sit around a table to debate their differences without resorting to violence.
I welcome the historic opportunity for the people of Northern Ireland to resolve their difficulties by exclusively democratic and peaceful means.
In my capacity as an elected representative, I join with the signatories in commending this Agreement to the people of Ireland, North and South, for their approval.
What keeps me going is when I get letters, day in and day out, from people that have suffered, that have family members that are injured and that have people that have been murdered.
They say, yes it hurts when you go in the Maze, yes it is not easy but if that means that another family does not have to go through what we have gone through - then let us build for the future.
Can I just say, Mr President, that I think the key words for the future which were mentioned by a number of speakers in the Parliament are respect and confidence.
Confidence and respect in the future, and between us I believe we can have a settlement that holds.
Thank you very much, Mrs Mowlam.
The debate is closed.
European Group on ethics, science and new technologies The next item is the Commission communication on questions relating to the work of the European Group on ethics, science and new technologies.
These developments are bringing about profound changes, both at the level of society in general and in our daily lives.
The prospects for progress are huge in areas such as employment, growth and improvement of quality of life.
Firstly, I would like to mention the characteristics which the former body and the new group have in common.
The new group, like its predecessor, is consultative, independent, multidisciplinary and multinational.
It is, of course, independent: it represents no particular economic or political power.
The group is able to organize its work freely.
Thanks to a new rule, the group will also be able to agree on its own internal regulations next May.
Finally, the group is multidisciplinary and multinational.
So, what are the main characteristics of the new group?
Finally, and this third innovation is a considerable one, the group must base its work on closer cooperation with the other institutions.
The European Parliament expressed this desire in its resolution of June 1977.
In this context, I would like to remind you that, since 1991, the previous group enabled a widening of the debate at European level by involving all parties concerned, including the general public.
Mr President, may I thank President Santer for personally presenting this European Group on ethics to us, which is, furthermore, attached to the Presidency of the Commission.
The new group which you have just introduced to us, Mr President, is an enlarged group with extended responsibilities.
You are aware that Parliament would have preferred a committee with an interinstitutional vocation, in order to guide our overall work more precisely, not regarding individual demands for patents - we never requested this - but in order that this institution would be of a nature that went beyond simply advising the Commission.
It is for Parliament alone to decide in what way it wants to submit to the group.
In any case, the group is open, and its members have agreed to collaborate as actively as possible with the other institutions, especially with Parliament.
I would like to ask how you envisage cooperation between the Commission's Group on ethics and this ethics group which has now been formally set up in the Committee on Research.
Of course, Mr President, this European Group on ethics is ready to collaborate fully with all the groups which are active here.
As I said, it is an independent group, a neutral one, which is attached to the Commission, but it will of course be open, in order to assure close collaboration with all other bodies created through other initiatives and other legislative procedures.
The response of the Commission is not what Parliament demanded; we asked you to submit proposals to the European Parliament but your response has been to expand your previous committee.
Firstly, I would like to emphasize that the group is a consultative body with the task of examining general questions on fundamental ethical principles.
The group is there to examine all questions, as I said, on fundamental ethical principles.
It is therefore possible to give the European Group on ethics responsibility for evaluating all ethical aspects of biotechnology.
Mr President, I am a little afraid that the task of this new committee may be somewhat vague because its mandate has been expanded.
President Santer, you are aware of my concern about this because of course on Monday of this week I sent you a fax asking you how as a Parliamentarian I could obtain the opinion of the new committee.
Nevertheless, your advice would be very welcome.
It is now for the group to organize its work in order to give you a response.
What I want to ensure is that the procedure is not an overly complex one and that Members of this Parliament may have direct access to the group.
Mr President, I would like to thank President Santer for his personal involvement in this issue.
My question is this: in future how will the group integrate the work which is done in Europe and is in part supported by the Commission with the work done by this advisory group - will there be a first reading followed by a report from the institutes which operate in this field, and then a second reading?
Mr President, from a scientific point of view, the work of this group, like that of the previous group, can certainly be compared to work which has been undertaken by groups on ethics in other countries.
So we must not demand more from this group than from those at a national level.
Frankly speaking, some criticism could also be made of those groups but we do not live in a perfect world, so let us limit ourselves to having a procedure and let us allow this group to work in full independence.
Consultation will clearly take place in this respect, and I hope that the results of the work of this group will be useful in enlightening not only the work of the Commission but also that of the other institutions, including the European Parliament.
The value of this group lies precisely in the fact, and I will repeat this because it is important, that it will be able to work completely independently, without being subjected to any internal influence on the part of the Commission, or external influence due to pressure from economic or other groups.
I believe that this group is doing its work.
Firstly, the group has already been set up.
Secondly, the group's mandate is not very wide because biotechnology remains our central concern, even if, naturally, over and above biotechnology it must also consider other issues in relation to fundamental ethical principles.
On the other hand, as regards the patent directive more directly, I will not go into the details personally, given that Commissioner Monti will be discussing this tomorrow, or a little later.
On our part, the group would like to assure you that it will pass all of its opinions directly to both Parliament and the Council.
Consequently, there will be no filter between the Commission and the work of the Group on ethics as it has been established.
In this Treaty the latest date for implementation was set at 1 January 1999.
There is a culture of stability developing in the whole European Union which is of fundamental significance to the success of the single currency.
On the recommendation of the European Commission, 11 countries have qualified for entry into monetary union on 1 January 1999.
Even the most strongly stability-orientated central banks assume that inflation rates of less than 2 % actually mean currency stability.
I believe that the public is not yet sufficiently aware that all 11 candidate countries have rates of inflation below 2 %, and therefore have stable currencies.
In 1997, four of the candidate countries had an inflation rate of 1.9 %: these were Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain.
The average inflation rate for the 11 candidate countries in 1997 stood at 1.5 %.
This shows that, with a view to monetary union in the entire European Union, a culture of monetary stability is already developing.
Interest rates in all 11 candidate countries are markedly below the reference value of 7.8 %.
In all the candidate countries, budget deficits are below 3 % of GDP, and budget plans and forecasts would suggest that a further reduction is likely.
This was important for our assessment.
The proposal presented to Parliament also requires all participants in European monetary union to observe strictly the Stability and Growth Pact.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has taken these facts into consideration and has come to the conclusion that the European Commission's positive assessment of the ability of all 11 countries to meet the debt criterion should be approved.
The legislative procedures required for this have not yet been completed in all the candidate countries.
After careful consideration of all these trends, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy agreed by a large majority that all 11 candidate countries should take their places at the starting line for monetary union on 1 January 1999.
However given a single monetary policy, it will be all the more important to increase cooperation in economic policy.
The budgetary policies of the Member States, the shaping of fiscal policy, the decisions of tariff partners on wages and earnings, labour market policies and decisions taken on certain social and ecological conditions will have ever greater effects on growth and employment in all the Member States of the Union.
The European Parliament is the appropriate and democratically legitimate forum for a public discussion on the formulation of European economic policy.
The resolution which we are debating today will prepare for the opinion of the European Parliament on this epoch-making decision, as stipulated in the Treaty.
Appropriately for a decision of this significance, broad Parliamentary agreement must be reached, for only then can we make it clear that the directly elected European Parliament is equal to its responsibility for the future of the European Union. (Applause) Mr President, the resolution in the name of Karl von Wogau represents a package and paragraphs 24 to 33 in that resolution form an integral part of that package.
It is a mark of the good working relationship between our two committees, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, that the opinion from my committee has been incorporated as a whole into this resolution.
That shows our joint concern and our concern as an institution to stress the importance of linking sound macroeconomic policies on the one hand with greater coordination of economic and structural policies on the other.
I see the recognition of the importance of growth and employment alongside stability in the resolutions of the Council, and the incorporation of an employment chapter and a new employment guideline procedure in the Treaty of Amsterdam, as good clear signals that the importance of this overall linkage has been recognized for the management of the Union's affairs as we move into monetary union.
In our own opinion we call on the Member States to intensify coordination between economic policy and active labour market policies and to speed up the implementation of the provisions of the employment chapter and the initiatives agreed at the special employment summit in Luxembourg last November.
This Union is founded on the principles of sustainable development and a high level of employment.
The central importance of these principles is clearly recognized in this resolution and, as chairman of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I am happy to recommend its acceptance to the House.
This is a very important time for the European Parliament.
Over the next two or three days the European Parliament will be the only democratic body to be able to express opinions on the very important subject of economic and monetary union.
On behalf of the Socialist group, I should say at the very beginning that we warmly welcome the recommendations by the European Monetary Institute and by the Commission that 11 countries should join the first wave of EMU on 1 January 1999.
When you look at the convergence criteria set down in the Maastricht Treaty, it is a remarkable success story for the European Union.
My group wants to ensure that when the European Central Bank is established and when the 11 countries create the euro zone, without prejudice to that price stability, we begin, with some urgency, to address the wider issues within the European Union, not least the question of growth and unemployment.
It is essential as a means of convincing the citizens of the European Union that this has been a worthwhile project, the project of consolidation in terms of our economies, that we can demonstrate that the EMU project is not just a monetary union but an economic union and a social union that will bring about reductions in long-term, structural and cyclical unemployment throughout the European Union.
I would say to Commissioner de Silguy that we achieved our balanced budget legislation with far less hype and excitement than the United States of America.
We will maintain price stability and we will maintain budget deficits within containable levels and I hope a balanced budget over the economic cycle.
However, on behalf of my group I give a warning that in accepting the strict application of the Pact for Stability and Growth, we accept the pact that was first proposed during the Irish presidency.
We will not accept new terms and conditions that emerge from any particular Member State either on Friday night when the Ecofin Council meets or at any subsequent point.
Finally, in relation to the presidency of the European Central Bank, the Socialist Group expects that this weekend a president for the European Central Bank and an executive board will be nominated.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr von Wogau, we all know that in the long term only a stable currency can guarantee prosperity and jobs.
The European Parliament, therefore, must state unequivocally today that it takes seriously all the provisions and criteria set out in the Treaty and that these must be strictly and closely observed.
The requirement in the von Wogau report that two Member States consolidate their total debt in accordance with the Treaty is, therefore, correct and necessary.
Europe needs confidence, Europe needs clarity, particularly in the sensitive questions about monetary policy.
The euro is the culmination of efforts undertaken since the appointment, by Antoine Pinay on 21 July 1952, of Jean Monnet as the first President of the European Coal and Steel Community, the embryo of a Europe which has constantly improved over the years and whose culmination can be seen in the introduction of the single currency.
But the end of this cycle is also a beginning.
This measure is essential in order that parliamentary representatives of the eleven European nations participating in the euro, along with their representatives - in Strasbourg as in Brussels - elected via universal suffrage to defend the point of view of the people of Europe, may be deeply involved in this historic act of the introduction of the euro.
On the issue we are debating here today, I would like to say that we face a weekend that is immensely important for the Union.
I want to state, in the clearest possible way, that the Liberal group not only notes with regret but with growing irritation the failure of the Council to resolve the controversy surrounding the nomination of a president for a future European Central Bank.
The Treaty is clear.
The length of the appointment at eight years is clear.
The way to demonstrate that is by making a clear strategic choice this weekend in line with the rule of law and the Treaty in terms of the length of appointment.
My own group has studied with great interest the work of the European Monetary Institute.
I like the current shape of the von Wogau report.
Mr President, this weekend the ruling powers of the European Union are entering the final strait in the realization of the most important choice of the Maastricht Treaty, the introduction of the euro, the common currency, from 1 January 1999.
Unaware of the dramatic, harmful repercussions - unemployment, poverty, social exclusion - on working people and on the broad strata of the population, the European Commission report and the report by the European Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy alike celebrate and welcome a convergence that has been achieved in name only.
Under these conditions, Mr President, our group cannot vote for the von Wogau report.
Mr President, the vast majority of the Green group agree with the basic view of the Commission that 11 countries can now start the formulation of a common currency.
We cannot accept that new demands are suddenly to be made on countries adopting the euro.
Another problem is that the report fails to mention the fact that economic development can happen on quite different time scales among the various regions of the Union.
And finally, monetary policy can in no way be entirely separated from economic policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, provided with two reports on convergence, that of the EMI and that of the Commission, the main task of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was to give its opinion on the outline of the first circle of euro participants, and with regard to this central question, the committee's analysis is completely unambiguous.
There is broad agreement in noting, firstly, the Member States' performance in relation to the convergence criteria and, secondly, in approving the immediate introduction of the euro in 11 countries which want it and which satisfy in general the criteria established by the Treaty on European Union.
Mr von Wogau's report expresses clearly this broad agreement on the fundamentals and this is already a sufficient reason for us to approve it.
In any case, it seems vital to us that, by tomorrow, all efforts should have been made to ensure a clear position on the part of the House on what is, once again, the most fundamental issue: the introduction of the euro in 11 countries.
But it seems essential to us that the democratic control of the European Central Bank should remain a matter for the European Parliament.
All we would say is that, in order to be a legitimate and effective instrument of a common European future, the European Central Bank must not appear to be something shared between only a few right from the very start.
Other concerns are mentioned by Mr von Wogau in his report.
It is a question of counterbalancing the single monetary policy with other instruments for economic action.
Mr President, in the whole of its history, France has never entered into a coalition where it found itself in this minority position.
Little importance is therefore given to applying the criterion relating to overall debt to Belgium and Italy, or applying the criterion relating to annual budget deficit to Italy, which would have fallen from 6.7 % to 3 % in one year, with a growth rate of only 1.5 %.
In fact, the emphasis of the last few days risks leading us to forget that, in displaying a great deal of energy and ability, each state will have to be able to adapt its system of development to the single currency and to forget about the need to inform both the economic sectors most involved and, on the other side, the weakest categories of the real opportunities and risks of the euro.
It is certainly useful to establish the independence of the European Central Bank to enable it to carry out its tasks, but it is also necessary and important to hold periodic consultations with the European Parliament.
I believe the second guarantee in the process of implementing the single currency associated with the Stability and Growth Pact is needed in order to balance national budgets during the economic cycle, with a ceiling of 3 % each year.
I therefore consider it necessary to establish appropriate strategies aimed at resolving the major problem of unemployment, particularly for the less developed European regions, both through suitable macroeconomic policies aimed at containing inflation and through a greater coordination of European structural policies.
The problem of unemployment can only be resolved through coordinated measures that must be taken in the individual national labour markets by means of education, followed by work experience or by a subsequent apprenticeship, by providing vocational training mainly aimed at the demand of companies and at the needs of the region.
Finally, Mr President, on behalf of the National Alliance, I wish to stress that monetary union must represent a first step towards political union, without which Europe would be much diminished and deprived of its historic vocation.
Mr President, the possibility that monetary union will begin on 1 January 1999 is the realization of a dream: the people of Europe have said yes to more Community spirit and to a degree of cooperation which goes beyond that of previous structures.
Following the promised strict examination of the prerequisites for participation in monetary union, and after checking the convergence reports from the European Monetary Institute and the European Commission, the European Parliament will quite rightly proceed on the basis of the report by Mr von Wogau to follow the recommendations of the European Commission in supporting a broad monetary union.
It is important that it is a broad union; this European Parliament has always been in favour of European Economic and Monetary Union starting with a large number of Member States.
So today we can confidently say that the European Community will be a stable community, and it is clear that processes which were started in the past are justified in the present.
Mr President, I would like to concentrate on the subject of the public debt: this is an important subject as its level is directly linked to the aim of ensuring that the euro area allows the financial markets to operate well, particularly with regard to the public component.
This is essential to give the euro stability and credibility to ensure that the single currency has the positive effects we are all hoping for.
I therefore believe that the single currency does not require a static and purely accounting, almost Manichaean, vision of public finance, but the ability to combine fiscal rigour with prospects for development, which is still the basic reason for Economic and Monetary Union.
I wanted to illustrate these concepts because I have proposed three amendments, included in the von Wogau report, to paragraphs 13, 14 and 15.
I support the formal confirmation that the European Parliament is preparing to give to the choice of the euro to 11 countries as from 1 January 1999, not only because this includes Italy but also because I believe in the political significance of this very broad participation in monetary union.
Today's Herald Tribune maintains that, by taking this step, the European Union is now something of a federal state: perhaps it is exaggerating, but the political message is clear.
I think that, even without definite orders, all countries, particularly those that have benefited most from the fall in rates, should continue to operate strictly.
Finally, it seems to me that, while expressing satisfaction over this historic stage for Europe, we should not forget the need to strengthen democratic control in the balance of the European institutions, by reviving the Union's institutional reforms and policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have noted with a great deal of pleasure that in this debate the spokespersons for the major parties have declared themselves in favour of the President of the Bank serving an eight-year term.
This is something the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs stressed in its report.
Secondly, it is essential that the role of Parliament as a democratic body that will monitor the actions of the Central Bank is given weight, and that we maintain that stance and ensure that the Central Bank justifies its decisions publicly.
But I would like to express my concern regarding the talks over what sort of new conditions are going to be imposed in respect of the Stability and Growth Pact.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the labour pains have started, the birth of the euro is unstoppable.
But we need to differentiate politically between two very different questions, that is, the plan to complete the European internal market using European monetary union, and the monetarist, neoliberal plan of the dictates of the financial markets.
To conclude, I believe that the recommendation, or the hope, that I give with my amendment, that will lead Parliament to ask the Council to appoint the President during this European Council, a President in office for eight years, is the recommendation to be made and the request we can make to the people we represent.
Mr President, this week fundamental decisions are being taken which will directly affect the future of Europe and of the citizens of the Member States.
The Commission's recommendation that eleven countries commence with EMU removes all foundation for any sensible economic argument about this kind of monetary union.
Eight countries have applied one-off transactions.
In the case of two countries this appeared to be necessary in order to meet the 3 % budget deficit criterion.
It is these two countries - and I am talking about France and Italy - which will be the problem children of EMU.
It is a sign of reckless behaviour when the governments of these countries are going to introduce the 35- hour working week after all, as if the expected effects of ageing in the case of uncovered pensions systems are not disastrous enough in themselves.
No-one speaks to him, he speaks to no-one, see Articles 107 to 109.
Italy had a 7 % budget deficit, now it is only 3 %.
And it is hard luck if, with 122 % debt in relation to its GDP, Italy is far from the 60 %.
Martyrs are needed: we have the 12 million unemployed and 50 million excluded.
After all, the Cecchini report in 1985 had already promised us growth and five million jobs.
The starting shot for the single currency, the euro, will be sounded for a broad group of countries while the financial and economic circumstances appear to be very favourable.
It is precisely because the economic circumstances in the Member States vary, and because monetary policy is no longer really able to tune into these differences, that the economic policy of the Member States will have to become much more active.
Individual Member States will have to pursue a much more anticyclical policy, as the ECB will be less able to take into account the different cycles in which the Member States find themselves.
The social costs incurred in order to realize this euro project were quite considerable; they included severe cuts and a downward trend in growth and employment.
The lesson learned from this monetary union now requires an equally ambitious objective in the sphere of growth and employment.
If the political will is there, it should be possible by means of a specific and coordinated policy to halve unemployment in Europe over the coming years.
And the von Wogau report underlines that solemnity with elegance and simplicity.
But above all, the von Wogau report highlights the fact that the euro is a leap forward, a big bang, in this process of continental political integration which began 40 years ago.
But, Mr President, if I believe and hope in religious terms, I also want to say - and I am sure you will let me make a special comment here, since I am the first Spaniard to speak - that for our country, for my country, today is an extraordinarily important moment.
Historically, when Spain stopped looking towards Europe, she turned in upon herself and became selfabsorbed, and a long process of civil conflicts began, creating the image of the two Spains in the eyes of the world.
The summary of Commissioner de Silguy's thoughts, whom we thank for his hard work and his patience, is as follows: we have made the euro and now we have to make Europe.
Mr President, the von Wogau report examines the capacity of the Member States to fulfil the various criteria.
A change in the Member States as radical as that entailed by EMU should only be possible if there is strong support from the citizens.
In Germany at least 60 % of the population is opposed to the euro and EMU.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reports from the Commission and the European Monetary Institute on the transition to the single currency are prisoners of the financial criteria defined by the Maastricht Treaty and for this reason they present a completely superficial analysis on convergence between European countries.
We need to examine more closely the underlying national realities in order to distinguish, over and above financial convergence criteria, three great criteria for divergence.
At the beginning of next year, for example, the future Central Bank is to apply the same universal interest rate to economies which are about to overheat and to others which are in a state of slow growth.
Some want very little control, as stipulated in the Maastricht Treaty, under the pretext of the independence and even the sovereignty of the Central Bank, according to the extraordinary statement in the von Wogau report.
That is why the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations is calling on the Council to take a global view of the situation and not to be limited by financial criteria, as stipulated in Article 109j of the Treaty.
We call on the Council to realize that today monetary unification is not possible in an area such as Europe, where a number of different peoples co-exist, without running major risks.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Karl von Wogau's report comes within the perspective of a forced march towards the euro which has been imposed on the people of Europe.
Monetary union between countries disparate in terms of productivity will cause an increase in unemployment in the less productive countries and will oblige the other countries to pay considerable sums of financial solidarity, thus causing an increase in fiscal pressures.
This model has already been historically observed in Germany: unemployment in the East and an increase in taxes in the West in order to subsidize the East: that was the result of German monetary unification.
In its report of 25 March 1998, the Commission was forced to recognize this.
Similarly, in Europe, the euro is the result of a political desire to remove anything that is national, without consulting the people in a referendum, and regardless of the economic cost of the move.
This will create a political situation which will be difficult to handle.
When French citizens understand that the power to create unemployment in their country will be situated in Frankfurt, it will be detrimental to the cohesion of our peoples.
Our colleague's report says clearly that monetary sovereignty - he uses the word sovereignty - will reside in Frankfurt.
Fiscal and budgetary sovereignty will be curbed by the Stability Pact put in place elsewhere.
The great Greek orator, Demosthenes, once said that no unjust and untruthful power can last for long.
My second observation is this: I note that, in the end, these famous criteria have been interpreted as they should be and, as the von Wogau report quite rightly states, not in a strictly quantifiable manner but in trends, although I am a little surprised that some of them have, on occasions, been able to change in the hierarchy of values.
My third observation is that we have modified the direction of our economic policy.
It is true that everyone recognizes today that monetary policy has an effect on the real economy and that the success of the third phase of Economic and monetary union assumes economic and social cohesion and respect for the objectives set out in Article 2 of the Treaty.
I would like to insist on two points.
The first is harmonization in the fiscal, social and environmental domains.
In this respect, I am naturally thinking of the policy initiated in my country regarding a reduction in working hours.
But it is also and above all the coordination of economic policies that is important so that, in the future, we may have greater growth in Europe, greater domestic demand, investment and jobs.
There is then, of course, the role of our Parliament.
If those who want to establish other forms of control wish to cause the death of this authority, the European Parliament, then they should say so.
It is here that democratic responsibility regarding Economic and Monetary Union must be exercised.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before it is even achieved, monetary union has already produced two spectacular results.
It is the first time that a crisis on such a scale has not resulted in an attack on weak currencies such as the pound or the French or Belgian franc, or in a rise in the Deutsche Mark, a currency of refuge on such occasions.
After monetary union, it will only affect 10 %.
That the communists and the National Front find themselves united today in a nostalgia which turns its back on the state of the world should not surprise us.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are asked to give our opinions on, irrespective of the aspect of greater or lesser rigour in respect of one Member State or another, involves the approval of the forthcoming intergovernmental decision on the entry into force of Economic and Monetary Union.
Italy, in particular, managed to make its fairly contrived accounts credible, thanks to a marked growth in tax revenue, brought about by increasing the tax burden to the detriment of manufacturing industries.
Following the adoption of a single currency, nothing in Europe will be the same again.
Now they all have to move along the lines of development indicated by monetary union: the consolidation of stability, the guarantee of democratic responsibility taken by the European Central Bank, the construction of a Union macroeconomic policy, the democratic strengthening of its political institutions.
One eminent American economist, known for his mistaken predictions, has seen in the future of the euro the threat of civil war between the European countries.
I congratulate Herr von Wogau on the efforts he has made in this report.
We also wish to demonstrate that while we understand the desire in this Parliament to achieve the broadest possible political support for this report, that has been achieved at the cost of denying the serious future difficulties that participating governments will have in running their public finances in line with the stability pact.
I myself am absolutely convinced that the euro of eleven will succeed in the long run.
Eleven Member States, comprising about 300 million people, will participate in the single currency from 1 January next year.
At the moment, votes are being taken and resolutions passed in the parliaments of the various Member States, and tomorrow we will vote on this report here in the European Parliament, as a sort of prologue to the solemn vote on 2 May.
Secondly, as a consequence of what I just said, this vote will allow people to see which of the European political forces support this momentous step in the building of Europe.
Thirdly, I want to emphasize that the resolution we are voting on today is a balanced text, which sums up the fundamental reasons behind Parliament's support for the introduction of the single currency.
Mr President, the efforts of our Member States to reduce budget deficits, to restrict total debt considerably and to consolidate public budgets have been successful.
This course will only be held, and Karl von Wogau's well-balanced report goes into this in detail, if the convergence criteria are safeguarded in the long term.
Mr President, the single currency has had many critics, not least in my own country.
When Sweden became a member of the European Union just under three years ago, we had a large budget deficit and high interest rates.
Today we have a balanced budget, low interest rates and a stable economy.
That gives us opportunities for the future.
In that respect the Amsterdam Treaty and the Luxembourg Summit are a success.
I can also reveal to you that the Swedish parliament has just voted for the Amsterdam Treaty with 226 votes in favour and 40 against.
The natural place for this democratic control is the European Parliament.
This time, when I return from Brussels to Austria, there will be a fixed exchange rate between the Deutsche Mark, the schilling and the Belgian franc, and in fact throughout all the 11 states.
Mr President, on entering Brussels at the moment, you can see a large poster with the slogan, "Let us be concrete and positive' , with regard to a Belgian political party.
The benign scenario of low inflation and low interest rates is a resounding tribute to the countries entering EMU.
Sometimes commentators do not see the wood for the trees - two countries in particular have been singled out for fevered attention on the sole question of the viability of their public debt to GDP ratios.
We, too, will apply a single currency in a single market in our singular Europe.
I wish to move the European Economic and Monetary Union in a direction which is more socially just.
A common single currency will strengthen our position in the world, economically and politically.
We in Parliament have fortunately taken a decision to get the ECB to accept democratic responsibility and agree to open negotiations.
The single currency of democratic countries will make demands on democracy.
Mr President, as we have seen, the decisions which will be made in Brussels in the next few days will be observed by many of us with excitement, and by some with enthusiasm.
However, a great number of citizens of the union are sceptical and concerned about the introduction of the euro.
The fact that in figures for total debt, only three candidate countries were under 60 % and two were over 120 % is in fact deeply worrying.
The European Parliament must call for a guarantee that the euro will be as stable as the most stable of those currencies which it will replace.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of an historic European Council, given that the Heads of State or Government are going to take a decision on the launch of Economic and Monetary Union, Mr von Wogau's excellent report enables us to measure the distance covered.
For once we can be delighted with this, and I am pleased with the extremely favourable response that the Commission's recommendation for the 11 Member States has received.
On this subject, and since the debate has been a general one, allow me to reflect for a few moments on the method which has led us to this success and which is worthy of some consideration, before I make a few comments and provide some information on the no less important task ahead of us.
Indeed, we should not now be concentrating on 2 May, but on what lies ahead after that date.
The euro must not be a problem child, but tomorrow it will be a new-born baby, and we must take responsibility for its harmonious and balanced development.
It has been the essential guarantee of an achievement unique in European history.
Every European Council since 1995 has, in spite of everything, expressed this unshakeable will on the part of the Heads of State or Government.
They have been able to use the political and practical consequences for each of them in order to proceed, for example, - and this is important - towards improving their public finances, and to reducing their deficits to less than 3 %.
I believe it is this very political will which enables me to inform you today that the statutes of the national central banks, mentioned less than a month ago in the convergence report as still not fully in conformity, are so today.
The four countries in question, Austria, Spain, Luxembourg and France, have completed or, in the case of France, should complete this evening, the parliamentary legislative procedures enabling compatibility of all of the central banks' statutes.
With regard to the European Central Bank, since many of you have mentioned this, and in order to dispel any misunderstanding, I would like to say that it is the Commission's position that the Treaty should be strictly enforced.
The Council cannot cut a mandate in two, they must appoint a President for the length of the mandate provided for in the Treaty.
Nevertheless, the less said for the moment regarding the problem of the European Central Bank, the better.
Mr Friedrich earlier said on this subject, "Europe needs confidence' .
The second important factor in the method is convergence.
This result, which is all the more impressive given the unfavourable economic climate, thus means that improvements in public finances have essentially been achieved through an effective reduction in expenditure: given an overall reduction of 3.7 % for the 15 countries, the reduction in expenditure has been 2.8 %.
It is this which leads us to say that the improvements in public finances are lasting ones, and the markets have recognized the lasting nature of convergence.
I have heard little mention of the durability of convergence during the debate, and this seems to me to be an essential factor in the transition to the single currency.
The markets have noted it, since interest rates are today at an historically low level.
Indeed, to ensure a good currency from the start, a good legal framework was required, a good regulatory framework.
It is on this second point that I would now like to concentrate a little, to share with you my thoughts on what I think our plan of action, our agenda, must be for the coming months.
I believe that the current period of economic growth must thus be put to good use in order to speed up budgetary consolidation.
To Mr Hughes and Mr Paasilinna, I would say that EMU does not necessarily mean more unemployment.
Tomorrow, we will be discussing the broad outlines of economic policy.
Similarly, the Commission is currently examining national plans which have just been presented and will give its conclusions in Cardiff.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me once again to say how pleased I am with the excellent collaboration we have had over the past three and a half years, which has been one of the keys to the success of this historic project.
I now believe that the European Parliament is going to see its role extended, whether in relation to the process of coordination of economic policy, in relation to the democratic accountability of Economic and Monetary Union or in relation to efforts to convince public opinion.
The debate is closed.
The present report mentions some aspects which have perhaps been marginalized by the very line of stability and solvency demanded by monetary union and the euro, but which need to be taken up again.
For example, we have to bear in mind the need to boost public and private investment for productive purposes - an essential aspect of increasing the productivity and competitiveness of the European economy; we must pay attention to and strengthen essential aspects of research and development, education and professional training; and, obviously, we must take account of all those aspects which can make this Europe, strengthened by the euro, competitive at an internal level - or in other words, see that it offers more opportunities for the economies which can adapt to the new demands.
The second aspect I want to mention concerns employment.
In our report we have been very conscious, based on the European Commission's report, of the euro as a driving force for employment.
Mr President, this is in fact the first annual report since the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Luxembourg Summit.
One of the important objectives of the Amsterdam Summit and also of the Luxembourg Summit was to create coordination, a balance, between macroeconomic policy and employment policies.
You will see in our report that we urge that proposals for coordination are made as soon as possible.
The Ecofin and Social Council should discuss this subject together - I am not saying how often, but it should be at least a few times a year - and not stay put in separate camps.
Perhaps even more important today, can I also thank the Commissioner and his services because we in the Socialist Group have long been calling for a better type of annual economic report from the Commission which addresses the real problems facing our citizens.
I am glad to say that for the first time in recent years we now have a report which can not only be read sensibly by people outside the European institutions but which also reflects their concerns.
I would like to thank the civil servants in the Commission for the work that they have done on this.
The Commission have recognized in the Annual Economic Report the fact that during this period of consolidation we have seen a very serious fall in the level of investment, and in particular public investment, within the European Union and the Commission themselves recommend that Member States must be very cautious that during the period of consolidation not to completely undermine public investment.
I hope that Commissioner de Silguy will press this point when he meets the Finance Ministers to discuss the conclusions of the European Parliament's report and the Commission's text.
In particular, in relation to monetary policy, we made the point earlier in the debate on economic and monetary union, that under Article 105 of the Treaty when price stability is guaranteed then the monetary authority can address the wider objectives of the European Union.
We want a monetary policy that will help to promote employment and growth within the European Union.
The Commission have mentioned this in their text in a very clear way and we want to make sure that the monetary authorities in Europe, particularly the European Central Bank, address this point too.
For the first time the Commission have said that the macroeconomic policy of the European Union must be based upon stimulating internal demand within the fifteen Member States.
It is not a question of international trade, it is a question of internal demand.
Let me say, finally, I particularly welcome the fact that we have held these two debates today.
First I would like to welcome the Gasòliba Report on the Annual Economic Report from which I believe it is clear that within the European Union there has been stable economic growth since 1996.
The macroeconomic pillars for the future coordination of national economic policies would, of course, be based on a monetary policy for the stability of prices and reduction of public debt.
What is important about all this is that we can be assured of low inflation and interest rates and in my own country, Ireland, the public deficit has been reduced by 11 % of GNP since the 1980s and the public debt has been reduced from 115 % to 65 % in the same period.
But it is also true, thankfully, that the situation is improving elsewhere within the Union.
It will be helpful, of course, for tourism which is also so important for our country.
Mr President, the Annual Economic Report for 1998 should have been an opportunity to evaluate the roads we have travelled along and to correct strategies and policies.
Mr President, this is a question not only of economic growth, but of economic growth which makes sense.
On 2 May we will celebrate the historic creation of a single European currency here in the European Parliament.
This is good and I am delighted about it.
In conclusion, I would like to say that I am happy because it will be an historic fact and because monetary union, which in ten years' time will be taken for granted, will be rid of its doom and gloom merchants, including those in my own group!
I cannot entirely agree with several points made in the report, however, particularly the assessment of the reduction in working hours, dealt with in paragraphs 39 and 40 of the report.
While in keeping with the principle of subsidiarity paragraph 39 confirms the inadvisability of a compulsory reduction in working time throughout the European Union, the following paragraph 40 provides a series of reflections.
In the first part of the text of paragraph 40, we read that Parliament "is in favour of reductions in the working time...when suitable' .
In fact, the general and abstract formulation of a principle of a need to reduce working hours seems destined to generate misunderstandings and ambiguities, for not only is it absolutely general but there is no specific reference in the report to the assumption of a reduction in working hours as a matter of necessity.
In short, paragraph 40 can be read as meaning it is the prerogative of each individual state to identify a general principle of need to impose an indiscriminate reduction in working hours over the entire national territory.
This latter assumption contradicts the considerations expressed in the Commission's report which, indicating the risks of the so-called statutory 35hour week, limited itself to admitting reductions in working hours only at microeconomic level or through negotiations between the social partners.
To conclude, owing to its general nature, paragraph 40 seems to be the result of a confused political agreement.
Consequently, on the basis of the considerations listed, I call on Parliament to vote against paragraph 40 of the Gasòliba report.
Mr President, in spite of this report's rather over-optimistic slant, it covers all the relevant points with great clarity.
The issue of occasionally but obviously excessive fringe benefits and the reduction of the tax burden on work will be priorities for European economic policy over the coming years.
Mr President, the report from the European Commission and the report by Mr Gasòliba I Böhm clearly emphasize that we are making preparations for using the opportunities of globalization and of European integration to favour growth, investment and employment, and to contribute to an increase in prosperity and social justice in the European Union.
Up to now, the fundamentals of economic policy have required nothing from any Member State.
I hope in the wake of this Annual Economic Report and this debate in the European Parliament that the coordination of economic policies in the European Union will finally make it plain that political union also means joint economic policy which is in the common interest and which stimulates growth, investment and employment.
I would like once more to stress that the extent of the reduction in public investment is irresponsible!
Mr President, even before it has come into force, monetary union is a success.
In order to take full advantage of EMU and to strengthen our competitiveness and the conditions for prosperity in Europe, policies must be directed at structural reform.
That is why I would like to congratulate the Commissioner on a courageous document which discusses the importance of reformed labour markets which work better.
We can see how countries whose political leadership has neglected and delayed modernization of the labour market in particular have increased the tax burden and thus reduced levels of employment and reduced common resources.
Despite our differences, even our divergences, he has made great efforts to bring Parliament largely together on a position, a common and strong economic analysis.
This is also what I am trying to do with my report on European industrial competitiveness, which will be considered in Strasbourg in a couple of weeks' time.
In effect, our institutions are now reflecting and working together to bring a strong European economy out of the multiple conditions, avoiding simple but entrenched confrontations, and limited to two or three solid points.
I therefore largely recognize my own views in the Gasòliba report, as amended by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
I would this evening therefore simply like to highlight five points.
Firstly, I would mention the importance of European research.
It is a basic condition and sufficient appropriations must therefore be given to the Fifth Framework Programme, in any case, more than ECU 16 billion should be set aside.
Finally and fifthly, I must mention job sharing and the reduction of working time which are necessary in order to give more time for life and so that the increase in productivity is not translated into further unemployment.
This is why, as a socialist, I am in favour of a reduction of working time in France, and I hope that our positive results in terms of jobs will lead to its rapid extension to the rest of Europe.
I hope that, in the wake of this report, in the wake of the euro, which is a fantastic vector for federalist integration, we will now be able to develop a political Europe and a social Europe.
It is also true that the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Luxembourg Summit marked a "before' and "after' in the employment policies of each Member State.
It is also important, ladies and gentlemen, that we have almost achieved a general consensus on the measures to adopt to improve the worrying unemployment figures suffered by the European Union as a whole.
At the same time, the new European society also has to adapt with almost breathtaking speed to the new technologies which surprise us daily and which call for a radical change in the traditional concept of work and business.
For example, teleworking, electronic commerce, telemedicine or the development of the Internet itself call for a major effort on the part of the Member States so that our young people in particular can adapt to this mutation within society.
In short, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us ensure that the Europe of the euro is the Europe of work, solidarity and wellbeing.
Mr President, the Commission's annual report states that a long-term economic revival has begun.
Although the Commission's annual report ignores the difficulties the crisis in Asia is causing for the European economy, the Commission has succeeded in compiling a very competent and comprehensive document.
The rapporteur says it is important to create a means of making comparisons in investment and employment throughout the Union.
The Commission's proposal to reduce VAT in labour-intensive sectors is most worthwhile.
Furthermore, Jacques Delors and many others have proposed this.
This is a balanced report, which properly identifies the main lines of action in economic policy at Union level and makes well-placed comments or clarifications in relation to the Commission's report.
Firstly, there is the reference to employment, which is treated at length, with the accent placed on growth, investment and structural reforms, including an interesting reference to the concept of employability which was popularized by New Labour - Tony Blair's Labour Party - and is becoming a keyword in the employment debate.
The Commission report was extremely optimistic.
The developments in Asia have not stopped and Japan, in particular, is in difficulty and I predict its difficulties will increase.
The Commission also claims a virtuous circle in terms of the economy for three reasons: the favourable monetary conditions, strengthened internal demand and improved confidence.
The Commission is relying on endogenous growth and it is a leap of faith which I fear many European citizens will not make.
I was elected to this Parliament in 1994 when the Delors report was all the rage and we had a quest to reduce unemployment by 15 million by the year 2000.
We are not being totally honest with the European public because unemployment in the European Union has not been reduced by anywhere near that amount.
People have memories and while we accept that 2 to 3 % growth will take place, it is not near enough to the 4 % that the US has consistently experienced to create the millions of jobs that it has to.
They are also the first to fall within the framework of the Luxembourg European Council's conclusions on employment.
Thus, the Commission's Annual Economic Report is presented this year as a first stage in the formulation of these broad guidelines.
It is an important exercise and I am glad that you organized a meeting with economic experts on 17 March to prepare this report.
I can assure you that the Commission will take your observations and suggestions duly into account when drawing up its proposal.
Since it is getting late, I would like to reply very rapidly to the questions which have been raised and say a few words on the state of the European economy before reminding you of, or outlining, the Commission's principle recommendations.
Last March we revised them downwards slightly, to 0.2 points for 1998 and 0.1 points for 1999, in order to take into account the effects of the Asian crisis.
Private consumption is increasing, from 2 % in 1996 to 2.6 % in 1998 and 1999.
Similarly, investment levels have been supported above what was forecast and capital investment will increase from 6.4 % in 1998 to 7 % in 1999.
This is compared with 4.4 % in 1997.
The Commission has taken every opportunity of stating this and, in particular, we will insist on this point in the new broad guidelines for 1998 economic policy.
This would pose a threat to the recovery which our economy has benefited from over a number of years, and we would lapse into a situation of deficit, with the consequence of higher interest rates and the ensuing negative effects on growth and employment.
Europe created 600 000 jobs in 1997.
These figures illustrate the need to promote more sustainable, employment-creating growth.
Mr Gasòliba suggests using benchmarks for this.
These two policies are inseparable if you want to promote growth and employment, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out.
The Commission has always tried to do this.
I have noted over the past few years that the broad guidelines of economic policy advocate a stable macroeconomic framework within Economic and Monetary Union, of which the three pillars are, naturally, a monetary policy based on price stability, the durable consolidation of public finances and a salary policy compatible with price stability and a return on investment.
But beyond this macroeconomic policy, in order to produce the maximum effect in terms of jobs, this framework must be complemented by structural reforms, reforms firstly at the level of the market for goods and services.
Similarly, greater growth should also bring about greater demand for labour.
There still exist too many administrative rigidities, too many administrative formalities, access to the capital markets is still too difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe, as the rapporteur noted.
I remember, nevertheless, that on 31 March the Commission proposed an action plan on access to capital investment on the part of small and medium-sized enterprises.
This action plan will be implemented as from autumn 1998 if, of course, the Heads of State or Government approve it in Cardiff.
Reforms are also necessary in the labour market.
A reduction in working time could have complex and contradictory effects on employment for, contrary to a generally accepted idea, employment is not a fixed quantity.
It is, on the contrary, an endogenous variable in the economic system, which fluctuates according to all the other variables.
We therefore have to be careful and to weigh up all the consequences of the measures to be taken.
A reduction in working time may encourage employment, but only under certain conditions.
Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission thanks the House for its contribution to these reflections and I can assure you that it will take your recommendations into account in drawing up the broad guidelines for economic policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, the link has been made twice or even three times here between unemployment, lack of hope and right-wing voters, to the applause of the House.
I can answer very clearly that unemployment is the scourge of Europe.
But it will take time.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Mr President, this will now go forward to the Council and the Commission.
As you know, child labour in the clothing and textile industries, particularly in Portugal, is mentioned in a wide range of opinions by the European Parliament.
Mr President, representatives of the Council and the Commission, the oral questions, and the resolution that has come from them, are an attempt to send a clear signal from this House to the Industry Council on 7 May, which, we hope, will be assessing the Commission's proposal on a 'plan of action to increase the competitiveness of the European textile and clothing industry' .
The purpose of this regulation formula is to tell you that neither by omission nor by mere observance of a ritual abandon will Parliament abandon its duty to state its opinion on the competitiveness of a major industry like textiles and clothing, which is of vital importance to the economy and jobs in some Member States.
We want competitiveness in the industry in order to fight against unfair and unbalanced competition, especially where social conditions are concerned, and that means we have to adopt ILO-based social clauses in our bilateral and multilateral planning.
Finally, this regulation formula is intended to tell you that we in Parliament are drawing up a report based on the Commission's document.
Mr President, I want to begin by saying that I regret the fact that the Industry Council planned to make a statement on the Commission communication about measures to favour competitiveness in the textiles and clothing sector without waiting to hear Parliament's position on that communication.
In contrast to what some people might think, this sector is neither in crisis nor headed towards extinction.
If the Council and the Commission really want to favour the competitiveness of the textile and clothing sector, they should demand that third countries respect the rules and disciplines of GATT, propose effective and flexible coordinated measures to combat fraud and the falsification of certificates of origin, protect industrial property, and get third countries to respect basic social and environmental rules.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is significant that the whole political spectrum represented within this Parliament is worried about the future of the European textile and clothing industry.
I believe that the fact that different political views are united in expressing this concern shows the importance of this sector which, on the one hand, has a very long tradition in European industrial development and, on the other hand, is characterized by something so important at the moment that it has not escaped anybody's attention - something we have addressed in our earlier debates this afternoon: the ability to generate employment.
So the social dimension of the textile and clothing industry should also be taken into consideration.
And thirdly, it is also very important to ensure that people receive the appropriate training so that - I repeat - the competitiveness of the European textile industry can allow it to survive and maintain the employment level we all want.
Mr President, the textile industry is very important to the European Union but is also very delicate, as my companions have already said.
We in this Parliament should denounce the situation and announce urgent remedies.
No matter what sector we are talking about, we cannot continue to have unfair competition and constant dumping in the European market, with adverse effects on our businesses and, finally, our people.
The current state of the European textile sector has partly arisen as a result of infringement of international and Community market rules, such as those relating to respect for the environment, and social and intellectual protection.
I have already mentioned the importance of the textile industry in most of the Objective 1 regions, the least developed of the European Union.
Perhaps for that reason, those regions are very vulnerable, not just to the effects of dumping we are complaining about here, but also to the Community market policy itself, with the recent entry into force of agreements with third countries such as Turkey, or liberalization with regard to countries in the east.
All these factors are hitting our Community textile industry.
And this is where we must insist and call upon the Commission to implement a Community policy which meets the needs of our textile industry and, above all, the needs of the regions involved.
It would be a good move for the Commission to increase the funding in Agenda 2000 and provide continuity for the Retex programme, which is so important for the sector.
Mr President, I should first like to thank the five honourable Members for tabling and speaking to their questions and the five other honourable Members who have stayed to hear the replies and for giving the Council the opportunity to reaffirm its support for this vitally important European industry.
The Council is very aware of the challenges which face all European industry in a world of increasing globalization and new technologies.
The European clothing and textile industry is a key economic sector in Europe in terms of production and employment.
The Council has always recognized the need for Community support to ensure the competitiveness of this sector of the economy.
The guidelines governing the Community's policies in this area were defined by the Council in 1994.
These guidelines established a general framework for European industrial strategy in the textile and clothing sector.
The strategy was devised to take particular account of the specific features which characterize each industry.
That communication was prepared in the context of the dialogue which has been taking place at the Commission's initiative between the parties involved in the textile and clothing sector and, in particular, the national and Community public authorities and the social partners.
These would spell out the Council's position on the initiatives identified by the Commission as areas for priority action.
All the issues raised by the five honourable Members today are highlighted as areas of activity within that plan.
In particular, the Council will want to consider five key questions: jobs and training; the development and dissemination of new products, methods and equipment in the communication and information technologies; the proper operation of the internal market; access to the markets of third countries and strict compliance with the rules and disciplines freely accepted under international agreements; and regional development.
The Commission's action plan does not contain details on which to base an assessment of its financial consequences.
The initiative suggested will be funded from within the current budgetary framework.
I commend the excellent document prepared by DG III in conjunction with Eurotex, the European Textile and Clothing Federation, which details in 91 pages and by sector where in each Member State funds can be accessed.
We would also expect the continuation of the Commission-led dialogue with all those involved in the sector, including the Member States and the social partners.
I will turn now to some of the more specific questions tabled today and which are not directly covered by the action plan.
The matter of child labour is covered by many ILO conventions to which all Member States of the EU are individual parties, in particular Convention No 28 on forced labour and No 138 on child labour.
This question has also been dealt with at Community level by Council Directive 94/33/EC on the protection of young people at work, Article 1 of which states that Member States shall take the necessary measures to prohibit work by children.
Honourable Members have also raised concerns about health and safety and the environment.
Framework Council directive 89/391 on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of workers at work and all the subsequent individual directives are also covered.
There was a suggestion and a concern that the European Parliament has not been given an opportunity to give its opinion.
I know this Parliament will pass a resolution tomorrow and I will ensure that the Council considers this carefully before it considers its action programme at the Industry Council on 7 May.
In conclusion, the Commission communication has had the valuable effect of instigating a broad discussion around the idea of a genuine European strategy for the textile and clothing industry requiring the full participation of all Community institutions and bodies as well as Member States and social partners.
In that context, the Council will not fail to take account of the opinions delivered here by the European Parliament on this subject.
I will reply successively to the different aspects of the questions which have been raised, either verbally or in writing, whilst trying to be as general as possible.
The number of applications which are approved depends on the quality of the projects and the capacity for coordination between the industry and the social partners.
In addition, there are programmes for training workers to adapt to industrial change, which enable stable jobs to be preserved within the Union.
On this subject, for the new programming which will cover the period 2000-2006, the Commission approved a draft regulation on 18 March, relating to general measures for the Structural Funds.
According to this directive, the minimum age is set at 15 or 16, according to the education system in place.
Member States have had two years to transpose this directive into their national legislation.
The Commission is currently examining the notifications of each Member State to see in which states this has been carried out and how the transposition has been effected.
Furthermore, within the framework of social dialogue, the unions and management have signed a charter of good conduct relating to working conditions in the European textiles and clothing industry.
In other cases - I am thinking especially of heavy metals - the pursuit of analytical work is still necessary, and an evaluation of the health risks which could occur through the use of these dangerous substances is underway.
Sixthly, can we quantify the necessary financial resources required for training in order to improve the competitiveness of the textiles sector?
Indeed, it is for the companies themselves to specify their financial needs for new investments and to use the amounts which are set aside for this purpose in the Structural Funds or within the framework of research and development programmes, or within the framework of Community initiatives such as ADAPT - ECU 1 400 000 000 - or Emploi , with the same amount.
In its action plan, the Commission described the initiatives which have been taken, and which are going to be taken, as a whole.
On the basis of these indicators, the social partners, the Commission and the national political powers will evaluate the progress achieved, within the framework of a meeting which will be organized by the Commission's services at the end of this year.
Developments in the sector over the last few years have highlighted a number of strong points and a number of weaknesses.
That is why, in its action plan, the Commission is convinced that the competitive advantage linked to innovation, creation, quality and know-how enable it to play the role of leader in the international markets, although over the last few years the sector has shown remarkable competitive performance.
And I will reply to Mr Novo Belenguer that its impact and its running have been widely discussed within working groups with all the economic operators involved in Europe.
This communication has been submitted to Parliament, to the Council and to the Economic and Social Committee, accompanied by an analytical table of the specific actions to be carried out between now and the year 2000.
Finally, the last question involved financial action and support for research and development.
Finally, with regard to the environment, discussions are underway in the WTO's Committee on Trade and Environment.
Lastly, in conclusion, let me say that, in the field of intellectual property, the Commission is currently participating in discussions concerning the application of the Trade-Related Intellectual Property Rights agreements under the auspices of the World Trade Organization.
Indeed, every day I hear of job losses in the textile sector in the East Midlands which I represent and only last month I learned of another 350 jobs that have gone in a women's clothing and child wear sector in Huthwaite in Nottinghamshire.
Markets are becoming increasingly liberalized as has been said by other Members in the debate, and this inevitably means that overseas competition will intensify.
Unfortunately, the Commission action plan does not go far enough in this direction.
A recent study by the UK Government, which I am sure the President-in-Office may like to comment on, looked at benchmarking and our partnership with business with the textile industry.
I am very disappointed that the Commission, in its anti-dumping policy, does not always comply with Community interests.
You must listen to the industry and when you take your decisions on anti-dumping you must listen to the Member States.
When Members States vote 10 to 5 against anti-dumping procedures, which they believe will not be in the interest of the industry, then you and the Commission must accept those decisions.
Therefore, I ask Council to take on board those issues in the Industry Council on 7 May.
When we find that between 1991 and 1996 approximately 600 000 jobs disappeared in the clothing and textiles sector, there is a tendency to pass it over as it is not happening in one single company.
The first concerns the implementation and observation by our trade partners of the rules agreed in the Uruguay Round in which access to the markets is the main factor.
The second priority is the development of a programme for research and development, and the development of information technology which will allow the 120 000 clothing and textiles firms in the EU to be contacted.
I can assure you, Mr President, Commissioner, that the social partners in the textiles and clothing industry will be able to reach agreement on a broad basis.
The crisis in the textiles industry is due essentially to management decisions to relocate and to an increase in imports, which as well as causing job losses have contributed to significant backwardness in the areas of training, research and equipment modernization.
A lack of purchase power has also led to a drop in consumption.
However, the textiles industry is still an industry of the future, with more than two million people employed in 120 000 companies throughout Europe.
They could be in the form of a social anti-dumping tax on products reimported into the European Union by firms established in low wage countries, something which is rightly mentioned in paragraph 5 of the joint resolution.
Thus, whilst eliminating distortions in competition and combating social dumping - and I would like to have the opinion of the Council and the Commission on the precise measures which are being envisaged in this area - it is also necessary at European level to commit substantial sums of money to encourage investment, research and development, training and equipment modernization.
Preferential loans for those companies creating jobs should be established, European regulations, in particular the OPA, must be reviewed, and clearly at national level, an increase in purchase power would allow for an increase in consumption and would thus be a means of reviving the textile industry.
In response, I would therefore like to have the Commission's opinion on these proposals and also on the level of funds committed, because we have not been given many details in this respect.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I personally noted in my report on European industrial competitiveness that, in spite of everything, the textiles and clothing industry remains, for me, an important factor in European industry, in its power and its future.
The Commission's response to this question is vital, since we are told that hundreds of thousands of jobs are still under threat, in spite of the past loss of more than 600 000 jobs.
And under such conditions, strong, clear, specific measures need to be implemented in favour of this sector to reduce the costs which weigh on jobs with a low added value.
I will say this once again, it is also necessary to fight against the savage and economically unjustified relocations which are taking place.
It is just as important that the Commission and the Council move in this direction from now on.
Mr President, facing the requirement to provide a positive answer to the problem of employment, the Luxembourg Employment Summit last November, and the Ecofin Council in the same period, pointed out, among other things, the possibility of intervening by lightening the tax or contribution burden in the highly labour-intensive sectors.
In the manufacturing industry, textiles and clothing certainly constitute the most highly labour-intensive sector, particularly in terms of female labour.
The Commission's action plan should therefore provide answers on how to meet the serious implication of the cost of labour on the overall costs in this sector.
We also need to help highquality products by adopting a policy to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the sector, to increase the fashion content and the quality of the raw materials used.
In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we have started discussing the Commission's action plan with regard to textiles and clothing, a plan which seems inadequate to deal with the problems in the sector.
The proposals should be revised, improved and made more specific and feasible.
Mr President, this resolution must not be interpreted as an open or covert demand for protectionist measures to reduce the EU's import of textile products.
This would then hit the kind of production in the EU which has a higher processing value than textiles and which will provide more jobs for EU countries in the long term.
It is therefore up to the public authorities, essentially at national level in this respect, given the lack of content, at least in the French sense of the word, of the so-called industrial policy at Community level.
Within the different aspects mentioned, the Community programmes enable the necessary support to be given to those European companies who so desire it and who fulfil the conditions, for them to continue their modernization efforts, which will enable them to develop and to make the most of their assets.
The debate is closed.
The preparatory work we have undertaken in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs was first and foremost a discussion, to find out whether this decision answered the demand put by the social parties.
The Informal Council of Ministers of Education and Employment, held in London last March, confirmed this direction, in the sense that it confirmed the commitment to promote work-linked training through partnership experiences.
In this spirit, the committee almost unanimously presented a series of amendments which I hope can be approved unanimously that substantially aim to create synergy between the incentives the Commission will have to produce and the actions of the national states, not in the spirit of a Commission that is not watchful and is limiting itself to recording what the Member States are doing but one that is encouraging and asking them to accept this proposal.
These amendments aim to monitor, through the EURES network, the experience acquired in the past, its effectiveness and the existence of a network of companies prepared to accept young trainees.
With our amendments, we want to promote the actual application of this decision by urging all Member States to take part, even those that have not yet provided for training in their regulations.
We want to guarantee security, the protection of these experiences in work places that are healthy and welcoming for our young people who adopt this system of work-linked training.
As yet there is no common legal framework, but only a decision to promote one.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has the potential to encourage the development of apprenticeships with an added European value.
Several amendments refer to the need for synergy between this measure and other Community programmes and initiatives.
Since it is very likely that the majority of those who take up these opportunities will be young people, it is particularly important that health and safety aspects are considered.
With the suggested improvements that have come forward from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, this scheme could improve both the mobility of apprentices and the quality of work-linked training received by apprentices and therefore make a contribution towards raising skills levels in the EU.
Mr President, almost two years ago the Florence European Council called for a report from the Commission on the value of dual vocational training.
The very practical nature of dual training qualifies young people for the ever more complex demands of the labour markets and helps to reduce youth unemployment considerably.
Firstly, there is the convergence report on the euro and the Member States.
But we are also looking at part of the future of vocational training.
There are 18 million long-term unemployed in Europe at the moment.
We are in the process of ratifying the Amsterdam Treaty which includes a special chapter on unemployment and we are introducing this new coordinated path of having national employment plans submitted to Brussels to be assessed by the Commission and evaluated at the end of the first year.
Between 1994 and 1999 the state-training agency in Ireland received £428 million for vocational training and education.
From an Irish point of view it is essential that this funding continue after the year 2000 and up to the year 2006.
It is essential that we in Parliament and the Commission, keep our minds, and our ears and our eyes open, for new ways of tackling the unemployment problem.
One of the problems faced by all Member States in attempting to promote employment among young people is that of promoting and encouraging closer cooperation between schools and businesses, and this is also one of the objectives contained in the White Paper on the learning society.
The Institute of Apprenticeship, while operating under various procedures in the various Member States, is considered a privileged meeting place between these two worlds and therefore a sector for priority intervention by the Union.
The mobility of students, workers, teachers, training officers and trade unionists throughout Europe has had a great boost in Europe on account of the Commission's incentives, provided through programmes such as PETRA, COMETT and FORCE in the past, or Leonardo and Socrates today.
We should therefore welcome the proposal we are debating today on the establishment of the "European pathways' programme and the "EUROPASS' certificate intended to establish specific quality standards for the promotion and achievement of placements and to introduce the practice of certification within a modus operandi that is currently too deregulated and lacking in guarantees for those taking part.
However, this proposal is not enough in itself to resolve all the problems and remove all the obstacles connected with mobility in the area of work-linked training.
The Commission has recognized this and has announced that, within the context of the new Leonardo programme, it wants to create an ERASMUS for apprenticeship to facilitate mobility in this area.
Not only do we need to create an ERASMUS for apprenticeship, but we also need to provide the social security resources to enable the mobility of apprentices and set up a monitoring system, as the rapporteur said in his speech.
As the European Parliament, we will ensure that the Commission keeps its promises, in the context of the proposed training and educational programmes for future generations.
Mr President, let me straight away thank Mr Castagnetti for his great efforts on this report and all those who contributed to the debate.
The aim of the proposal to the Parliament and the Council for the decision on the promotion of the European pathways for work-linked training, including apprenticeships, the Commission's objective is to promote mobility of people in training in Europe whatever their age .
In all of these three aspects mobility of people under-going training is so very important.
The Community's experience of bi-lateral and multi-lateral cooperation between Member States, demonstrates clearly that there is a keen demand for training at all levels, including higher education.
Between 1995 and 1997 the Leonardo da Vinci programme has enabled 100 000 people to receive support for a period of training in another Member State.
On this basis of the experience which has been build up and in view of the strong growth in need and demand, it is important for us now to increase this mobility and to ensure that it is as fruitful as possible.
To do this we must agree at European level on a common quality framework to develop real European pathways of training and to increase their visibility.
The proposal which is based on Article 127 of the Treaty has a two-fold purpose.
Firstly, it seeks to define the content and shared general quality principles for periods of work-linked training in another Member State, linked to the training which the person concerned is following in country which she or he comes from.
Parliament proposed 28 Amendments, 26 of which can be accepted including Amendment No 28 in part.
These amendments improve our proposal and in some cases even reinforce it.
I would mention in particular the amendments which highlight the role of SMEs and crafts in developing work-linked training, because the specific character of these types of business requires particular conditions, and those which stress the social partners and the other parties involved in the apprenticeships.
Then there are the amendments which aim to promote good information and wider based support systems for those European pathways such as health care, safety in the workplace and languages.
Thirdly, there are amendments which stress the voluntary character of the implementation of the European pathways.
The Commission is conscious of the diversity of polices in the Member States and this proposal does not seek to modify either the organization or the content of training systems and machinery in the Member States.
To conclude Mr President, I can assure you that what you propose for the future, particularly regarding the new programmes, and with a special emphasis on the Leonardo da Vinci programme, will be very carefully considered.
The debate is closed.
Supplementary pension rights The next item is the report (A4-0134/98) by Mr Ettl, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a Council Directive on safeguarding the supplementary pension rights of employed and self-employed persons moving within the European Union (COM(97)0486 - C4-0661/97-97/0265(CNS)).
That is a pity because he has produced excellent work in the form of this report.
Just one point of difference remained which had not been adequately addressed in the vote and that is now covered here in plenary in the form of Amendment No 18 with the full backing of the Socialist, EPP and Liberal Groups.
The proposal concerns the safeguarding of the supplementary pension rights of employed and self-employed workers moving within the European Union.
That freedom of movement for workers is enshrined in the Treaty but in practice a mass of real practical difficulties stand in the way of its proper realization.
One such practical difficulty concerns the shortcomings in the coordination of supplementary pension schemes between the Member States and the fundamentally different weightings of state and supplementary social insurance systems in the various Member States.
The approach suggested in that interim report is followed in the proposal we are considering here tonight.
The first is in Article 4 which ensures that the vested rights of members of a scheme are preserved when the member of the scheme moves to another Member State.
The third component concerns the situation of workers posted abroad.
All these provisions are important.
However, the Commission's proposal takes its idea from an amendment, or rather adopts it, of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the interpretation of Regulations Nos 1408/71 and 574/72, that is Amendment No 1.
This is very important because it offers an additional framework, from the legal point of view, between this proposal and the regulations the Commission had interpreted too rigidly, providing an interpretation connected with the compulsory pension schemes.
In fact, by replacing "only' with "primarily' , Amendment No 1 opens the way to supplementary voluntary, contractual pensions and therefore an integration that harmonizes the legislation fairly adequately.
In my opinion, this is therefore a positive proposal overall, which we should naturally see incorporated into the Green Paper which this Parliament will soon receive and which will constitute the mosaic in which the central problem will be situated.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the draft directive before us is indeed a minimalist proposal.
It is particularly unacceptable that a worker who, in the course of his professional life has made use of his right to free movement and who has paid contributions towards supplementary pension schemes in various Member States has only limited rights to a supplementary pension at the end of his career.
On the other hand, it has presented a new definition of workers posted abroad from a Member State and of Member State origin.
The proposal for a directive does not aspire to solve all problems.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain the position of the Socialist group.
As our chairman has already said, this report was adopted unanimously in committee and there is broad consensus amongst all the groups in the House on this issue.
The second reason, Commissioner Flynn, and I will say this openly, is that in the past the Commission was somewhat hesitant and sluggish in dealing with this issue; any progress made was blocked by the Council - the same old story.
But we know that in future these supplementary schemes will have a more important role than they had in the past.
The multiplicity of supplementary pension schemes simply does not permit a straightforward addition of periods of contribution payments, as is the case under 1408.
This proposal for a directive contains only some initial steps - as several speakers have indicated - towards a common approach to supplementary schemes.
The directive contains some of the measures proposed in the Green Paper on supplementary pensions.
This type of fund already plays an important role in several EU Member States.
The Ettl report does not cover this perspective of course, but rightly concentrates on the proposal for a directive from the Commission and improves it in some important points.
For this reason, the Group of the European People's Party will vote for the report.
I was actually rather taken by what Mr Ferri said in his report on the free movement of workers, that this requires a completely different approach to the transferability of pensions.
Nonetheless, in his written contribution Mr Ettl has pointed to problems, such as double taxation and in some countries the long qualifying periods for pensions, which should be consigned to the past.
In general, I can surely say that I believe the pension system is something which is being discussed in all Member States, in view, among other things, of the rising proportion of elderly, which means that more or less all pension systems need to be revised, especially state ones.
We are not discussing that here today, but these systems are the most important, and I would like to emphasize that for our citizens.
Mr President, I should like to thank all those who have contributed.
I thank all of you for the excellent work done here.
The purpose of this proposal for a Council directive on which your opinion is requested is to provide protection as regards supplementary pension schemes for the pension rights of workers and members of their families who move from one Member State of the European Union to another.
The proposal will have a positive affect on labour market mobility since workers will be less hindered from going to work in another Member State.
Similarly, the proposal will make it easier for companies who wish to second workers within their organization to work in another Member State.
As emphasized in the 1997 Green Paper on supplementary pensions and the single market, supplementary pension schemes play an important role as a second pillar of social security which complements the protection provided by the statutory schemes.
As more and more Union citizens turn to these supplementary pension schemes as a way of guaranteeing adequate income in their retirement, protection of the rights in these schemes becomes more important.
In this Green Paper the Commission looked at several issues, a number of which are intended to deepen the analysis of obstacles to free movement and are outside the scope of this present proposal.
In particular, it addressed the question of long vesting periods, difficulties with transferability of vested pension rights and tax difficulties linked to acquiring pension rights in more than one Member State.
The amendments the Commission is willing to accept are as follows: Nos 2 and 3 in principle, part of No 4 and Amendments Nos 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, 13, 14 and 17.
I must also reserve our position on Amendment No 18 which I have seen for the very first time tonight and which would seem to require some very careful consideration.
I cannot accept Amendments Nos 10, 11, 12 or 15 because these restrict the scope of the proposal.
Amendments Nos 10, 11 and 12 restrict the personal scope of the directive.
Amendment No 15 restricts the material scope of the directive since the trans-border affiliation for posted workers provided for by Article 6 should be limited only in schemes of comparable entitlement in the host Member State and in the country of origin.
You will note that Article 7 deals with taxation aspects of supplementary pensions contributions made on or behalf of a posted worker.
This is the most sensitive aspect of the proposal for which a political agreement in the Council is going to be very difficult to achieve anyway.
The tax aspects of supplementary pensions need a broader approach in order to find suitable solutions to the existing problems and by avoiding additional and simultaneous double taxation for persons moving within the European Union.
The debate is closed.
I should explain, Mrs Weiler, that according to my notes here your speaking time was two minutes.
That is why I had to interrupt you, because you were already over your time-limit by a third.
The Council has realized this and has now presented this draft convention on matrimonial matters, under the guidelines of what is beginning to be a Community competence - judicial cooperation - which so far involves Articles K of the Treaty on European Union.
This Parliament is just acting in a consultative capacity as regards this convention presented by the Council.
The amendments presented by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights - where they were approved almost unanimously - do not attempt to make any great change to the convention.
But obviously, the Amsterdam Treaty is not in force, so it is better to base things on the current competences of each of the institutions.
This draft convention known as the Brussels II Convention applies to civil proceedings with divorce, legal separation and marriage annulments and civil proceedings relating to parental responsibility over a child of both spouses.
Like the Brussels Convention, it assures that a court order obtained in one Member State should be recognized in another Member State without any special procedure.
Similarly a child parental authority judgment given in one Member State can be enforced in another Member State.
Like Mr Verde i Aldea, in the name of my group I should like to support the amendments he has proposed.
I give my group's official position first, after which I will make a couple of points myself as the President's mediator for transnationally abducted children.
They refer to points D, E and F.
The group is against the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs because it was adopted without formal procedure.
The two previous speakers have outlined the history and need for this Convention.
I hope very much that it will get unanimous support from Parliament.
The reason why I have asked to speak particularly tonight is because one of the amendments refers to my role as the mediator for the President of the European Parliament on transnationally abducted children.
We must arrive at some form of genuine cooperation between the courts; there are a great many areas in the legal systems in all of our countries that need to be carefully reassessed in the light of this very difficult and growing problem.
The report recognizes pragmatically the realities of a very recently introduced divorce law in Ireland and also historical realities which relate to the annulment of marriages and agreements with the Holy See.
The draft has a clear legal basis in Article K.3.
Parliament, therefore, should follow the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs and its motions for an amendment and support this important Council initiative for a European Union civil law.
Mr President, I am one of those who has long argued that it is unreasonable for it to be possible in the European Union to be regarded as married in one Member State and as divorced in another.
The convention is a concrete example of what we at EU level can achieve to improve the quality of life of citizens, families and children within the Union.
Closer cooperation leads to increased contact and relationships between individuals, institutions and companies.
The free movement of persons is an objective which today has largely become a reality.
An objective for us must be that disputes between individuals which involve the legal systems of more than one Member State can be resolved quickly and efficiently.
The convention also includes a number of rules which simplify and speed up the procedures for recognition and enforcement.
In practice, the rules mean that a ruling in a matrimonial case will automatically be enforced in another Member State.
The court will also be able to decide questions of custody if the children are resident in a different Member State on condition that at least one of the parties has custody of the children and that both parties accept that the court shall have jurisdiction.
A preliminary ruling can only be requested by a court of appeal or by the highest legal authorities in a Member State.
The Convention on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgements in matrimonial matters is an important step towards the Europe of the citizens.
It is my hope that the formal decision on the convention is taken at the Council of Ministers for justice and home affairs on 28 and 29 May.
Thank you, Commissioner Gradin.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the debate on trade and the environment is reaching a critical stage.
Since the agreements were signed at the end of the Uruguay Round and the World Trade Organization was created, not one positive decision has been taken, even though this House and other legislative assemblies only agreed to ratify the Marrakesh Agreements because those agreements envisaged a package that included environmental matters.
Firstly, those bodies have no legitimate right to decide to set aside national laws of major importance in the field of the environment, health and consumer protection.
Secondly, the Panels themselves have acknowledged their limitations and requested guidelines from the policy-makers of the World Trade Organization, and no such guidelines have been forthcoming.
For example, the international conventions for the protection of the environment, such as CITES, the Washington Convention, which seeks protection for endangered species, has been torpedoed by a recent decision of the GATT Panel.
The WTO's lack of decision-making power also causes problems regarding sustainable development.
We have had the banana Panel, which has caused some ACP countries very serious problems.
We have questions concerning public health and consumer protection, like the decision on hormones in meat: Europe does not allow the use of hormones to fatten livestock, but they want to make us repeal that legislation.
We have questions concerning the labelling of products, such as timber products from forests that are not under sustainable forms of cultivation, but the WTO does not allow us to distinguish between timber produced by destroying virgin forests and timber from sustainable plantations.
I would like to ask the Commission a direct question, and, to avoid any misunderstanding, I will ask it in English, so that the Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan, Commissioner Marcelino Oreja and their technical advisers can understand: I welcome the speech that Sir Leon Brittan produced in the Bellerive Globe Conference in Geneva.
But I can only welcome its proposal for a high-level meeting of ministers for trade and environment if two conditions are met.
Secondly, we need to have a clear position from the Commission about the idea of a special procedure before the Panel convenes in the case of a conflict between environment and trade in the WTO.
To be clearer, we want it to be more democratic, more open to the NGOs and to the outside world, to the experts on the environment before the so-called judges of a Panel start taking decisions on trade and environment.
Firstly, on the institutional level, a high-level ministerial group for trade and environment that will give the necessary political impetus that does not exist today in the committee on trade and the environment.
More and more often we are seeing results of appeal decisions at the WTO which have negative effects on the environment and, despite the provision of Article 20 of GATT, environmental protection seems to be far to the back of the minds of many of the international trade lawyers involved in this work.
But I certainly hope they are doing this.
If we had had more strong multilateral environment agreements, some of these problems could have been avoided.
It would be very sad if NGOs totally lost faith in the WTO because they could use the WTO tools for instance to battle for reductions in tariffs on environmental goods and services.
It should be an essential input to the main ministerial meeting on WTO and I hope that the Council of Ministers will listen to our concerns about the need to strengthen the WTO committee on trade and the environment.
The Commission has floated this idea of a high-level trade and environment meeting in Geneva in the autumn bringing together top-level policy-makers to push forward the debate on how to strengthen the CTE's work.
All these problems have a bearing on world trade and the way in which the WTO needs to develop and cope with them.
Mr President, the GATT legislation, as you know, is of crucial importance to the promotion of world trade.
The Union too, our own European Union, and the Member States can benefit greatly.
Partly through the efforts of this Parliament, the committee and the working programme got off the ground, and was laid down in the Marrakesh Agreement.
With the WTO ministerial conference in Geneva in sight, this is the perfect time to give the process a new impetus.
The Pimenta report does so in an excellent fashion.
On the one hand, the situation appears to be improving, because, partly as a result of Kyoto, the United States has become more interested again in the environmental aspects of trade.
I hope that we will all vote in favour of the Pimenta report.
We hope it is approved because, as the rapporteur rightly says, the WTO summit in Geneva in May will really be the last chance to adopt binding, essential political decisions to prevent the constant conflicts between environment and trade, health and trade, and social rights and trade.
I am thinking particularly of the fact that, when an individual state, or the European Union, wishes to adopt more rigorous measures in the areas of health or the environment, it is up to them to justify it.
Uncertainties regarding the harmlessness of certain products or processes are not sufficient to justify more restrictive measures, and this is not acceptable to us.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must say that the Commission thinks it is very timely to be having a debate on this report before the second WTO ministerial conference and the OECD ministerial meeting, where the Commission hopes ministers will agree on the importance of holding a more open public debate, with better information about the repercussions for the world economy of the liberalization of trade and investments.
The new report we have before us represents a fundamental contribution to the debate on trade and environment, both from a general point of view and in the WTO context.
I also think it is an essential element in the process of policy formation, since we are convinced that there can be no major progress in trade liberalization without the active support of civil society, not just in Europe but in other countries too, both developed and developing.
The Commission still believes that continuing the process of liberalization is good for the world in general, and for Europe in particular.
Nevertheless, the Members of the Commission also understand the worries globalization can cause, which have been expressed here this evening, and is convinced that we need to study more carefully how to define a framework for global liberalization which will guarantee that future growth benefits a great many people throughout the world and also represents a benefit rather than a cost to the environment of the planet.
That was the message of Sir Leon Brittan's speech on the environment to the Bellerive Foundation in Geneva on 23 March, and I hope the Commission can count on the support of this Parliament in producing new ideas in this respect.
Sir Leon was encouraged by the initially positive reactions of a large number of Members of this House, who are also following the debate on environment and development closely.
And in the same spirit, after the WTO ministerial conference in May, Sir Leon is going to ask his services to develop a transparent, wide-ranging dialogue about the repercussions of globalization so that, as we move towards the start of a future millennium round at the end of 1999, European public opinion will be not only prepared but also committed to the European objectives in these important negotiations.
This report poses a series of questions about the relationship between trade and environment.
Problems of adaptation will arise from time to time during the process, but that is exactly why the WTO Committee on Trade and Environment was created, as a first measure.
Maybe it has not progressed as much as some people hoped, but we should also point out that this lack of progress is certainly not due to any lack of effort on the part of the European Community, which has been a leader within the Committee ever since meetings began.
The Commission is not in a position to make a specific comment on this case, in which the Community is not a direct party, since, as everyone knows, the WTO has not yet published the conclusions of the working group.
In general terms, the Commission considers that the conclusions of a series of earlier WTO working groups and of the dispute settlement body have, over the years, established a sort of jurisprudence which is developing coherently in the direction the Community has always advocated.
If we take a more technical approach and look at the data and the analysis which the Community presented to the special group, as a contribution from a third party, we can conclude that the question is probably a little more subtle.
And the special group could probably have reached a different conclusion if the United States had made a more serious effort to reach an agreement with the Asian countries before imposing the ban.
In any case, that special group will stimulate debate within the Committee on Trade and Environment, where the Community has constantly advocated that multilaterally agreed measures should abide by WTO rules.
Mr Pimenta's report also addresses the question of WTO jurisprudence and Article 20.
Although there has been progress in this area, the Commission believes it is not enough just to resolve the question of exemptions established in Article 20 of the GATT through juridical resolutions reached within the framework of the dispute settlement system.
Article 20 is so important that it should be dealt with at a political level, perhaps in the form of an interpretation or a general WTO agreement.
And the Commission is convinced that the constant progress achieved by working group resolutions will offer a good basis for any interpretation of this nature.
In any case, these questions should not be added to the agenda of the Committee which, in the Commission's view, should continue to concern itself with specific problems which really have a bearing on the environment.
This maturity is largely due to the Community's constructive efforts within the Committee, and that work should be increased now.
Nevertheless, as Sir Leon said in Geneva last month, the Commission also thinks it would be useful to have a high-level meeting on trade and environment before the WTO ministerial conference in 1999.
That meeting, under the auspices of the WTO, could strengthen the Committee's work, in the sense of increasing the importance of trade and environment in the eyes of governments, ensuring that the matter remains firmly fixed in the WTO programme in the run-up to the 1999 conference.
More importantly, a high-level political initiative of this type could remove the block which has so far largely prevented us from progressing as much as we would have liked, and could resolve many of the questions raised by Mr Pimenta in his report.
As for the Commission supporting the idea of a solemn political declaration in Geneva, as suggested by Mr Pimenta this evening, we see the May ministerial conference as an intermediate stage between two ministerial conferences, and the Commission clearly has no plans to place the emphasis on that question.
Turning to the Commissioner, I would firstly like to thank him for being here, and tell him that I know him well and know from his background and his lifestyle that he is sincere when he speaks on environmental matters and participation in civil society.
Nevertheless - and I hope I can rely on your vote, Commissioner Oreja, as an ally of ours in defending these causes - I would like to make sure the whole Commission knows, first and foremost, that there must be a declaration on the environment in Geneva in May, because there was none made in Singapore.
Because in Singapore, as you know, the Committee on Trade and Environment (CTE) report was not even ratified, and if there is no declaration in May it will mean another year will be wasted on discussions at official level.
Secondly, a high-level meeting should not be a meeting of senior officials.
I would ask the Commissioner to properly forward to the Commission the fact that this House is seriously interested in political initiatives, and raises these questions at political level, without wishing to detract from the excellent work that has been done by technical experts, and especially European technical experts, in this field.
Mr President, I have certainly taken note of what Mr Pimenta said.
The debate is closed.
European City of Culture The next item is the report (A4-0083/98) by Mr Monfils, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Decision establishing a Community initiative for the European City of Culture event (COM(97)0549 - C4-0580/97-97/0290(COD)).
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 1985 the choice of the European Cities of Culture has been left to the Union's Council of Ministers.
Decisions were not always based on the cultural value of the projects submitted.
The directive presented by the Commission is aimed at giving greater importance to European cities and greater objectivity to the choices made.
On the basis of its opinion, on the proposal of the Commission and after consultation with Parliament, the Council will designate the European City of Culture by a qualified majority.
After a particularly in-depth debate, for which I would especially like to thank the members of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, some of whom are present today, I can say that this committee approved virtually unanimously the amendments presented to you here, which are furthermore in line with the suggestions I made in my report.
There are even some who would like the European City of Culture to be designated in turn by each Member State, or by the state holding the Presidency of the European Union.
Thus, after Great Britain, an Austrian city would be nominated by Austria for six months, then a Swedish one, then Danish, then Belgian and so on.
To do this would be to ruin completely the idea of a European capital of culture, which must not be designated by a State for reasons of circumstance or opportunity, but as the result of a proper cultural analysis of a project presented by the city and an appreciation of the capacity for influence within Europe of the candidate city's cultural project.
I am convinced that a very large majority of this House will share the virtually unanimous view of the Committee on Culture and will not accept the cheap selling-off of the very idea of the European City of Culture.
Secondly, we wanted to strengthen the independence of the Selection Panel and place the emphasis on quality, in particular at the level of cultural expertise.
Fourthly, we consider that a candidate city may present a specific cultural project in association with other cities, even if a state does not belong to the European Union - maybe to the European Free Trade Association or the European Economic Area, for example - but that the city presenting the project would be solely responsible to the European Union and would hold the title of European City of Culture.
Finally, my seventh point, we stand by the proposal for a European Cultural Month for the countries which are not part of the European Union but who would have an undeniable interest in this if it were to be made more dynamic.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Culture and the European Parliament have worked quickly.
As I said, we wanted to make the designation of European City of Culture one of the strong points of the Union's cultural policy.
This is undoubtedly the best known cultural programme in Europe.
The Ministers of Culture decide in a completely arbitrary way what is going to happen.
You anticipate this and you say that we will have a new procedure for the choice of the city, we will amend Article 128, and replace unanimity by a qualified majority.
This is an excellent proposal, but if you will excuse us for saying so, instead of the first and last word going to the Council, in your proposal the first and last word will be with the Commission.
As a Belgian, a Flemish citizen, I should be very satisfied, because the Council of Ministers has said that in the year 2002 Bruges will be the European City of Culture, but I am not satisfied with this.
We invite you, Commissioner, to fight this battle against the Council of Ministers jointly with us, and to ensure that the "European Cities of Culture' project is given a community dimension, a high qualitative dimension, a high cultural dimension.
The proposals in the Monfils report amount to an important signal to the people.
They prove that when a programme demonstrates its worth, European institutions are capable of recognizing it, in this case by proposing to increase the budget and extend the number of participants to enable the programme to realize its full potential.
It must also seek to ensure that local initiatives are publicized so that they reach other cities and regions of Europe.
Let us hope Member States will be able to see the potential of this means we are offering them to achieve our common objective: to reinforce the cohesion of the European fabric through cultural cooperation.
The notion that Melina Mercouri put forward thirteen years ago regarding the City of Culture event has been an undoubted success.
There is nothing there can be done about this in itself, but I seriously think that Finland too, and perhaps especially, given her status as a relatively unknown new Member State, should have had her own individual City of Culture celebration.
The birth of lasting cultural cooperation is one of the key goals of the Union.
Although cooperation among different cities is to be aspired to, it is the essential responsibility of just one city, and, if it likes, that city can adopt a natural partner to help in the formulation of its City of Culture year, a partner that has something in common with its geographical situation, history or culture: one of the applicant countries, for instance.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a common market, common political institutions and a common currency which we are seeking to set in motion today, are all the results of a European accord.
From time immemorial, European cities have been centres of culture.
The "European City of Culture' programme should awaken new interest amongst the citizens of the Union for the cultural heritage in our cities, and focus their eyes more keenly on their beauty.
All Member States of the European Union basically agree that, in order to maintain the cultural diversity of Europe, it is imperative to preserve the cultural sovereignty of the Member States.
Finally, I offer my warmest congratulations to the rapporteur for producing a sound report.
This new directive intends to give smaller cities a chance.
An important point regarding the participation of smaller cities in the programme is that Europe provides sufficient resources.
We hope that the approval of this directive can be finalized this year, so that from 2002 the selection can be made according to this new directive, as planned.
Parliament attaches great importance to the inclusion of the European City of Culture within the Community framework and demonstrates the need to support this event, which has met with increasing success ever since it was launched.
The purpose of the initiative presented by the Commission is to highlight the richness and cultural diversity of European cities and, at the same time, as Mrs Vaz da Silva reminded us a moment ago, draw attention to our common cultural heritage.
And that is in keeping with the spirit and the letter of Article 128 of the Treaty.
The funding for the European City of Culture initiative is provided for in the Commission proposal on the framework programme, which has not yet been adopted by the Commission.
In reference to the last part of Amendment No 9 and Amendment No 10, the Commission proposal certainly makes no attempt to marginalize Parliament.
As for Amendments Nos 12 and 13, the Commission does not consider their approach to be in keeping with the Community's commitments to associated third countries as regards the possibility of their participation in Community programmes and activities.
I will pass over the problem of financing, one to two million, when the European Union's budget is ECU 900 million or 1 billion - what am I saying! - 100 billion per year, the issue is clearly ridiculous.
Firstly, you cannot accept Amendment No 8, which is the amendment enabling cities to submit their projects directly to the Commission.
I thought you were the defender and the promoter of cultural development in the European Union.
To hand the choice of cultural city over to the Member States is to trivialize completely the role of European City of Culture and, my apologies for saying this, but you are playing into the hands of the Member States and not that of the Community that you should be defending.
Secondly, when you say that codecision will slow things down, Commissioner, may I remind you that you submitted your report to us a little before the New Year.
By 20 January it was being translated.
To tell me that we are not capable, at the level of the European Parliament, of giving an opinion on a European city, that is, of saying yes or no to Brussels, Salamanca, Helsinki or elsewhere, is clearly to make a mockery of the work of Parliament.
Consequently, Commissioner, I have the feeling that in this respect you are making a mockery of the work of Parliament.
I would like to end, Commissioner, in a word, by saying this to you: in your directive, you wanted a sign, a strong symbol for the European Union, in terms of culture, and we agreed with you.
They are essential in order to experience our culture in all its diversity.
I know that you oppose this.
Mr De Coene, I think there has been an interpretation problem.
We shall see what the Council says on 28 May, and immediately afterwards - as soon as you invite me to the committee - I will come and tell you what has happened in the Commission and in the Council.
You say the cities should compete directly.
I want there to be some sort of security, and a country provides more security than any city.
You now adopt decisions by codecision.
You know that the boundaries between what can and cannot be submitted to the codecision procedure are not always very well-defined.
Thank you, Commissioner Marcelino Oreja.
The debate is closed.
