It is no secret to anyone that growth is set to decrease in 1999, however it will still remain above 2 %.
The international crisis has, and will have, an impact on our economies, but the extent of the impact will vary according to country.
We believe that the second strategy is the best, as indicated by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in its vote on 24 February.
We agree with you, Commissioner, that we must continue to reduce budget deficits, especially in the three larger countries - Germany, France and Italy - which alone, it must be stressed, account for 75 % of GDP in the euro zone.
What is more, if public investment is to be increased, as we hope, at least in terms of human resources and research, it will be impossible to implement this policy without reorganising public spending.
To conclude this section on the policy mix, I should like to stress that wage negotiations must remain reasonable and workers' purchasing power should increase more or less in line with productivity gains.
And in this context, workers' purchasing power would increase, which, ladies and gentlemen, would also help to stimulate overall demand.
It is therefore evident that a sound macro-economic policy is needed to guarantee growth and employment, but it is only through far-reaching structural reforms that unemployment will decrease in the long term.
I will not go into this issue as it will be dealt with in more depth in the forthcoming report on the broad guidelines of economic policy.
I say 'an improved attempt' because I see the report itself as being unimaginative - unimaginative in terms of how we can improve on projected growth figures; unimaginative in terms of recognising that we are constantly having to revise the growth figures and we do not really know what to do in terms of trying to increase employment, growth and investment in Europe; unimaginative because, whilst it accepts that we have relatively high unemployment in Europe, it does little other than to accept the fact that jobs are being created but are also being lost.
The level of unemployment in Europe at the moment is the same as when I was elected to this Parliament four-and-a-half years ago, and that speaks volumes.
We accept that 20 % of the world is in recession; we accept that 10 % is close to recession.
But the benefits of the European Union and of the single market should mean that we can still create jobs satisfactorily despite what is happening outside the European Union borders.
The report itself states that EMU is itself a protection.
The fact that most of our trade is internal has been a protection.
That is why I think this is a failing of the annual economic report because what we need to do is look at how we can generate policies to generate jobs.
The report itself states that the European economy is now used to functioning with an inadequate level of employment.
My concern, in terms of policy and responsibilities, is that the Commission has failed to use the annual economic report as a stimulus for action and as an input into the broad economic guidelines.
Stability and growth pacts are important but public investment should not be included in those figures.
We need more private investment, more jobs, more productivity and more sustained growth.
The annual economic report does not call for one.
Therefore, these guidelines are extremely important for Europe as a whole and for each one of the Member States involved, particularly as national policy is being questioned in some of the larger countries.
When stability has been achieved, the benefits are clear, at least in my country.
We must address the question of structural reform in order to solve the only problem that really interests us all: unemployment.
I would urge that these issues should be given close attention in the context of the employment guidelines.
Mr President, the approach adopted by the rapporteur to the Commission's 1999 annual economic report is comprehensive and also sensible.
The report covers a wide range of issues and makes some very important statements.
The Commission states, and I quote: 'Member countries might learn from the positive experience of a number of Member States, especially Ireland and the Netherlands, where continued moderate wage increases over more than a decade have contributed importantly to improved unemployment outcomes.
Both of these countries have also in common that the appropriate wage behaviour was underpinned by tripartite consensus-based wage agreements and was accompanied by a reduction in the tax burden on labour.' My fear is that the Socialist-dominated governments of Europe are hell-bent on harmonising taxes, on raising tax levels and finding new ways of penalising industry and entrepreneurship.
This stifles economic and business growth and opportunity.
The Agenda 2000 proposals fly in the face of Article 104c of the Treaty which the Commission's annual report itself highlights.
Under this article Member States in the euro area must avoid excessive government deficits, and that I support.
Under the stability and growth pact budget deficits must be limited to a maximum of 3 % of GDP in normal circumstances, with the possibility of sanctions, including fines, for Member States breaching this limit.
However, despite its technical merits, it is not a satisfactory report because it does nothing to throw light upon the approach or the guidelines that have been followed so far.
We shall not dwell upon the already well-known points of disagreement between us concerning neo-liberalism and excessive budgetary restraint, but we should like to highlight another aspect: the way in which the labour market works continually against the workers' interests and treats them as though they were the cause of all our ills.
For our part, as well as sitting in the Committee on Economic Affairs where the report was seen as highly controversial and only passed by a wafer-thin majority, we have tabled amendments that we would like to see approved, not because they change the report or do anything radically to alter its macro-economic approach but because they would at least alleviate some of its harmful effects.
In particular we must: try and find ways of reducing working hours without any loss of pay, as a way of fighting unemployment, -devise a budgetary policy that stimulates growth and employment, while guaranteeing support for SMEs in particular, -bear in mind the importance of the Structural Funds and the trans-European networks as a way of promoting state investment in infrastructure and improving the skills of the labour force, -introduce a tax on speculative capital movements, making an effective contribution to stability through monetary stabilisation machinery or funds, -last but not least, break with the dogma of the stability pact; it should be replaced by another approach or even a growth and employment pact.
Madam President, Commissioner, the euro creates a de facto economic solidarity among eleven of our countries.
But the most pressing need is still to strengthen risk investment funds.
Madam President, the annual economic report confirms that the introduction of the euro has come at a time when the economies of the Member States are far too divergent.
To deal with this problem, it is proposed that the EU should introduce a new culture for - or, in simpler terms - a harmonisation of, fiscal, monetary and wages policy and a reform of the labour market.
This new so-called culture is very much in line with what the German Presidency says about the euro not being first and foremost an economic instrument, but rather a political instrument which transfers one of the most important areas of the nation state's self-determination to the Union.
The June Movement cannot abolish the euro, but we are voting against the report.
Madam President, the rapporteur rightly highlighted several points which are regularly censured by the single European thinking.
For example, recitals C and F, on the asymmetric shocks that threaten the euro zone, highlight a genuine problem for the future.
In paragraphs 28 and 41, he stresses the need to reduce labour costs through the reduction of taxes if we want unemployment to fall.
Paragraphs 44 and 49 mention possible deflation and slowing of growth and point out that growth forecasts in Europe have been revised and lowered.
In paragraph 48, he rightly calls for the study of varied economic policy scenarios to give a better understanding of how the economic situation is developing.
We actually agree with all these assessments but regret that the rapporteur was not prepared -evidently for political reasons - to admit that the majority of the errors criticised in the economic analysis in fact stem from one ideology, the socialist ideology which currently dominates Western Europe.
This ideology is responsible, in particular, for the high taxes and other levies we pay, for public deficits and for unemployment.
Therefore, the economic criticism in the Fourçans report must be accompanied by political criticism; without it, we will not find any better way of combating the continuing unemployment.
Madam President, in the annual economic report, which should be seen in conjunction with the basic principles of the Union's economic policy, we have been focusing time and again since 1994 on the question of whether we are actually doing everything possible at European level to combat unemployment and to stimulate investment and growth.
Policy coordination, after all, is part of the magic formula that has produced growth, investment and employment in the United States.
I wish to make a remark about the comments on the introduction of the euro at the beginning of this year.
I was expecting a rather more in-depth analysis, but of course as the report was published on 20 January, it was not then possible for it to adopt a position.
Monetary stability is part of a more general policy, and experience has shown that whenever we adopt an economic policy - and, even more so, a monetary policy - which has a single objective, ignoring consequences elsewhere in the economy, the results are not very good.
I do not think that attempting to solve economic issues which are purely internal to one particular economy by trying to establish a corresponding scenario at European level is particularly constructive.
Variation in economic policy, on the other hand, can lead eventually to real convergence between economies.
Experience has shown that all systems with fixed exchange rates, or large systems with the same currency, sooner or later get into a crisis.
Even now that we have the euro, growth, employment and stability are still being quoted as the main aims of economic policy.
Promoting employment was already the aim when the single market was created in 1992.
The causes of unemployment are structural, and solutions must be found specifically at regional level.
I hope that Parliament rejects them all.
But in order to reach this stage, we have had to adopt policies of restraint and they have had a negative impact on employment.
And so, from now on, the efforts of governments, economies and, consequently, the business community and the workforce must focus on relaunching the kind of process that will give us economic development and, as a result, boost employment.
Ours is a tradition of development that respects the conditions within society and, therefore, the needs of all: it is a balanced form of development which may perhaps seem slower in the initial stages but produces the right outcome in the end.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Annual Economic Report has evidently taken on greater significance since the creation of the euro zone.
Indeed, the Treaty states that once price stability has been achieved, monetary policy must be instrumental in achieving the other main aims of the Union, including, of course, employment.
As far as tools are concerned, Madam President, I should just briefly like to reiterate the need for a coordinated approach to both the broad political and economic guidelines and the employment guidelines.
To achieve this, we need to take a closer look at the role played by social dialogue, while ensuring that the importance of coordination between the Councils and between the Union's various policies is not overlooked.
The last point I should like to make is that we would have liked to have seen greater consideration given to the various possible economic scenarios in the Annual Economic Report this year.
It is much easier to lower interest rates, increase public spending and neglect the more difficult issues such as training the workforce, reducing labour costs, etcetera.
But the Federal Bank has a federal budget that is in surplus and a market that is totally fluid.
Monitoring is essential if we are to tackle properly the phase of structural reform which the introduction of the single currency is bound to accelerate.
The Member States must continue to pursue the objective of achieving budget equilibrium by reducing deficits but without increasing public spending.
Political control must be in the hands of the European Union and not individual states.
The Commission's communication is the starting point for establishing the broad economic guidelines, but presents an analysis that we cannot support.
The title of the communication is 'The EU economy at the arrival of the euro: promoting growth, employment and stability'.
I have tried to find where the stimuli for growth, employment and stability are in the communication.
There is indeed sufficient stimulus for stability, but you will not find stimuli for either growth or employment anywhere in the report.
After two years of growth that, incidentally, was not excessively high, the European economy is currently on hold.
We can debate whether or not this represents the build-up to a recession or if it is simply a slowing down of the economy, but the figures are certainly worrying.
The three largest economies in the European Union, which account for 75 % of the gross domestic product in the euro area, are behaving as follows: the German economy experienced negative growth in the last quarter of last year; the Italian economy has experienced very slight growth of less than 1.5 % over the past two years; and the French economy is currently reviewing its growth forecasts for this year, although it is experiencing the highest growth rate of these three countries.
Moreover, it would appear that excessively restrictive nature of monetary policy has been largely responsible for the increase in public deficit in the euro area in the 1980s and even in the early 1990s'.
It is in governments' interests to cooperate openly and in a more systematic manner within the Euro Council and to work on achieving the best possible harmony between the monetary and budgetary policies.
Despite everything, 1999 will be a year of economic growth in the European Union.
We need to keep a clear head in order to strengthen the coordination of budgetary, wage and monetary policies.
Public investment in the 15 Member States of the European Union came to 3 % of GDP in 1991.
Giving a fresh boost to the trans-European networks and investing in education, training and the information society could help to reverse that trend.
At the same time, we must reduce the tax burden on labour and reduce budget deficits.
These are the types of news, recommendations and forecasts that we hope to see in the major economic guidelines promised for 30 March.
Growth, employment and stability are the buzzwords in political debate today.
America emerged from the crisis of 1992 and gathered this momentum through the deficits created by Mr Reagan.
Our work is far from easy, as you were insinuating, and we are not looking for easy solutions.
Madam President, now that the European Central Bank has begun operations, all the EU financial machinery is in place to meet the challenges of future economic development.
There will be great scope for coordinated cooperation on the part of the ECB, the Commission and the various Councils, to try to ensure there is favourable development both for the EU as a whole and for the individual Member States.
Parliament should therefore monitor developments and, if necessary, speak up to advocate policies of growth, employment and recovery, as well as structural policy.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, although the need to coordinate economic policies is emphasised at every available opportunity, practice has shown us that there is still a wide gap between analysing and evaluating the main indicators of the economic situation and initiating the necessary decisions.
Madam President, the 1999 annual economic report, covering the first year of the introduction of the euro, duly mentions the progress that has been made in firmly rooting a culture of stability and an established framework of stability in the European Union.
This success was despite the background of considerable instability worldwide, especially in Asia, Russia and more recently in Latin America, with 20 % of the world economy in recession and 10 % nearing it.
Mr President, the annual economic report is an excellent opportunity for Parliament to have some input in the overall economic policy guidelines.
External factors play only a limited role, since external trade accounts for only 10 % of the Union's GNP.
The official inflation figure has fallen below 1 %, which means that the real inflation figure, allowing for miscalculations, must be almost zero.
Madam President, the presentation of the annual economic report always reminds me of the presentation of a list of grievances about what is not working properly in the European Union.
We know that the autumn 1998 growth forecasts of all the Member States have been revised downwards, and we also know that France, Germany and Italy alone now account for three quarters of GDP in the euro zone.
We are therefore faced with three new elements for which there are at least three responses.
And finally, we have a new market element: the big companies have their place, but it is in particular to the small and medium-sized enterprises that we have to look for the future.
In relation to the first point, I broadly share the rapporteur's view that Europe needs to give more attention to matters relating to communication and its infrastructures.
I fully believe that society must take on its full responsibilities in terms of training and education in both the short and long term.
As regards the second point, I have already asked Commissioner Silguy and Commissioner Monti on several occasions about the issue of taxation.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, André Fourçans, and congratulating him on his report.
But the reason for the decline of the euro against the US dollar lies primarily in the international finance markets' lack of confidence in the economic policies of our large Member States.
In the report before us, the majority of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy expresses its support for an economic policy based on the principles of welfare capitalism and its opposition to a dilution of the stability pact.
In 1994, deficits stood at 5.4 % and in 1998, they were 1.5 %.
Unemployment in 1994 stood at 11.1 %; in 1998, it was 10 %, so it has decreased in the European Union during the present legislature.
I should firstly like to comment on the state of the European economy, before looking at the various aspects of economic policy in Europe.
I have the latest figures here, which show that in 1994, as I said, the unemployment rate was over 11 %, in January 1998, it was 10 %, and in January 1999, it was 9.6 %.
This situation therefore backs up the Commission's analysis.
Maintaining effective coordination between the various agents of the policy mix must enable operators to remain confident and allow us to pursue and develop growth that generates employment.
This brings me to my second set of remarks which focus on the broad guidelines and the content of the various policies.
The Commission is of the opinion that the most important thing is to ensure that the Member States' economic policies are better coordinated in relation to the current situation.
Mr Caudron, you will perhaps think that I, too, am obsessed with reducing public deficits, but I only have one obsession, that is, my obsession with growth and unemployment.
Here I am replying to Mr Goedbloed, because reduction in this respect is really the basic requirement of the stability pact.
The Commission will remain extremely vigilant as regards the implementation of the stability and convergence programmes and as regards respect for the commitments made by the Member States on budgetary issues.
It means a monetary policy that is more difficult to implement, higher interest rates and, in fact, more unemployment.
As regards public investment, I would refer you to the Commission's communication of 2 December, which indicated that the level of public investment had fallen in relation to GDP.
At the start of the decade it stood at 3 % of GDP and it now stands at 2.1 % of GDP, which is unfortunate, even if the figures show that the situation varies from country to country.
The social partners have shown a very responsible attitude and today, in general, wage trends still meet the objective of stability in all the countries in the euro zone.
The debate in this House on structural reforms - our fourth topic of discussion - has been very lively.
It is true that these structural reforms are vital to overcome the traditional handicaps that hamper Europe's attempts to solve the problem of unemployment.
Mr Herman, you quoted the figure of 90 % for structural unemployment, which is perhaps too high.
In my mind, Mrs Berès, these reforms aim to guarantee a high level of social protection and must increase the number of jobs generated by growth.
It will be much easier for the ECB to implement the monetary policy in such a way so as to encourage growth, since the policy mix in the euro zone will not be knocked off balance by a relaxation in the budgetary policy.
It is a first step in the right direction.
That is why the Commission has always favoured, and still favours, close collaboration with this House on the current debate on economic policy.
I can therefore assure you that the Commission will carefully consider your comments on the Annual Economic Report, which it will take into account when drawing up its recommendation on the broad economic policy guidelines.
Therefore, having said all this, and after thanking you and congratulating you, all that remains is for me to invite you to attend the presentation of the recommendations on the broad guidelines on 30 March.
Madam President, Commissioner de Silguy made a point of contradicting my statement that unemployment had not changed over the course of this Parliament by saying it had changed from 11 % to 10 %.
If Commissioner de Silguy considers 1 % over a period of nearly five years a success then, if this was a national parliament, perhaps many Members would be asking for his resignation.
As it is, the extenuating circumstances are that there has been a global recession, although Commissioner de Silguy very often claims that we have withstood this global recession almost 100 %.
This is why I would strongly urge that we should use the employment guidelines to do the things that Parliament and the Commission have been calling for for years.
That said, Europe is set to create more jobs in the 1995-2000 period, generally speaking, than were lost in the 1990-1994 period.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, I should first like to thank honourable Members for their cooperation, suggestions and amendments which have been gratefully received.
Since the five Central Asian Republics - Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan became independent in 1991 with the breakup of the Soviet Union, the European Union has been engaged in the process of building bilateral relations with each of them.
Parliament was asked by the Council for its assent to the partnership and cooperation agreement with Kazakhstan in July 1995.
In the case of Kyrgyzstan it gave its assent in November 1995.
However, given the concern over the internal situation in Kazakhstan Parliament delayed its assent until 13 March 1997.
Thirty months on and human rights and democratic institutions have been further undermined in Central Asia.
In Uzbekistan, after a series of explosions in Tashkent on 16 February, the government has used this as an excuse to clamp down on opposition groups.
There has been particular concern for the safety and treatment of Mamadali Mukhmurdov and Munira Nasriddinova.
Since the main non-violent opposition parties, Erk (Freedom) and Birlik (Unity) have been closed down, the Committee for National Security (KNB) is also busy arresting and harassing dissidents.
I hope this will be extended to all Central Asian countries.
It is regrettable that Commissioner van den Broek could not be here today but I hope that he will keep the committee and Parliament fully informed.
Central Asia is an area of outstanding geo-strategic and economic importance to the European Union.
The natural resources of Central Asia, especially gas and oil, are considerable.
The role of TACIS, in particular the democracy programme, TRACECA, INOGATE and WARMAP are to be welcomed.
The legacy of environmental degradation, especially round the Aral Sea and the nuclear test ground of Semipalatinsk should also be tackled with an adequate response from the EU.
The region has suffered from both the Asian and rouble crises.
The Commission, Council and international financial institutions must consider measures to help protect the population of the region against severe economic hardship.
Currently the EU is the region's most important market outside the CIS.
If Central Asia is to develop its economic independence it will require foreign assistance in developing alternative gas and oil pipeline routes and new markets.
In conclusion, the EU should play its part in helping to build a democratic, prosperous and secure Central Asia in a region of fragile stability.
Central Asia may be far away but its future will affect us all.
When the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy appointed me rapporteur on the partnership agreement with Uzbekistan, I wanted to see the situation there for myself, so I went to Tashkent to meet political leaders and representatives of civil society and human rights organisations.
In December 1992, a new constitution was adopted, which makes Uzbekistan a pluralist democracy.
The problem is that the ombudsman is directly dependent on parliament and is therefore under its charge.
The President's party, the People's Democratic Party, won a landslide victory in the parliamentary elections in December 1994, after several opposition parties had been banned.
And in March 1995, President Karimov was re-elected for a period of five years.
In fact, freedom of expression is non-existent, censorship is in force, the press is not independent and there are only four newspapers available, all of which are subject to government control.
My conclusion was that democracy only takes root slowly - even here - and that 70 years of communism and totalitarianism cannot simply be forgotten overnight.
That is why I asked the Committee on Foreign Affairs to postpone our agreement and give Uzbekistan two years in which to make progress in terms of respect for human rights.
Time has unfortunately not changed the situation and today we are receiving some alarming reports from human rights organisations such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International.
The recent riots on 16 February demonstrated the violence those in power are capable of.
One of the prisoners, Mrs Akedova, is 60 years old and is the head of a human rights organisation.
It must be noted that the volume of drugs from Afghanistan is huge, and that 40 % of the drugs that reach Europe come from this region.
Pesticides that have been used for years in this area have destroyed everything and dried up the sea.
Infant mortality is 10 % higher in this region than in the rest of the country, as is maternal mortality.
We rapidly need to take action in this part of Uzbekistan if we do not wish to bear a heavy responsibility for these stricken peoples.
In any case, the Committee on Foreign Affairs will submit an annual report to the European Parliament on how the situation is developing in terms of democracy.
Ladies and gentlemen, we shall adjourn the debate at this point; it will be resumed after the topical and urgent debate.
I offer no comment on the issue they are raising, but I believe Members of this Parliament should be able to come into the Chamber without encountering any form of demonstration outside its doors.
Madam President, I would like to make a point of order pursuant to Rule 109 on order in the House.
I will give you a very specific answer, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy.
But I shall turn a blind eye, and we will take this roll-call vote all the same.
Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, you know that here in Parliament we never go back on a vote.
I am referring to the current vote but in relation to a vote that will take place later, namely the vote on Amendment No 98.
On compromise Amendment No 182 Madam President, I am surprised that compromise amendments have been admitted at this stage in the debate.
This House has demanded urgency on a statute for its own Members; it must treat its own staff with no less urgent respect.
Applause from the centre and the left Ladies and gentlemen, is there a speaker in favour of the request for referral back to committee?
Many of the proposals contained in the report are simply improvements, or necessary adjustments to a new situation resulting from the Amsterdam Treaty.
It is a fact that, under the Amsterdam Treaty, Parliament gains the right to approve nominations to the Commission.
Amendment No 69 on international representation is another example of an attempt to go further than the Treaty.
Amendment No 90 proposes that a single group may not table mutually exclusive amendments.
Large countries always have an advantage, for example when it comes to securing 29 signatures.
The intention behind this amendment is to tone down national political differences in this House and thereby to give it a more European character.
It is regrettable that, on this important issue of the future financing of the Community budget, this House, as is often the case, allowed ideological and political criteria to take precedence over the fairness and transparency which should characterise the financing of the European Union.
In fact, the solution proposed by the Commission and by the Court of Auditors in its report concerning the assessment of the system of own resources was to continue the development of recent years and increase the GNP-based resource, which is the only genuine indicator of Member States' wealth.
I naturally welcome the fact that the various paragraphs on cofinancing have been rejected.
Madam President, I should just like to briefly explain that after having drawn up a minority opinion on the Haug report, I voted in favour of it.
No country that is ready for the euro is in need of these funds.
Today the Danish Social Democrats voted against the report's proposal for cofinancing of the common agricultural policy through national budgets.
A change in the EU budget is desirable and necessary for the future.
We consider the proposal that the EU's biggest item of expenditure, the agricultural policy, should be financed jointly through the national budgets to be an important and correct step in the direction of reducing the total EU budget.
We oppose all the demands in the report that the EU should take on responsibility for fiscal policy and should direct the coordination of economic policy, especially against the background of arguments such as that of the Union having a role as a 'global political and economic actor of growing importance'.
We have strong objections to paragraphs 9 and 11, because they seek to give the Union clear responsibility for fiscal legislation, and moreover powers to raise and appropriate the taxes.
It is argued that the British Government secured too favourable a deal at Fontainebleau in 1984 with regard to the rebate which the European Union gives to it annually.
This is now a matter for negotiations between European Union leaders, the European Parliament and the European Commission.
A framework for the future financing of the European Union for the period 2000-2006 must be put in place.
The European Union annual budget will still be raised by means of a levy on individual Member States to the maximum of 1.27 % GDP.
It is clear that a compromise is going to have to be found between those countries which are claiming that they contribute too much to the EU, as equally, those countries which have received favourable treatment from the European Union annual budget in recent years.
The British Government certainly falls into this category and as the negotiations progress to the Berlin summit on 25 March next it is clear that there is bound to have to be a relaxation of the rules governing the amount which the British Government receives via rebates from the EU each year.
With regard to the future financing of the European Union, one option which cannot be considered is the possible renationalising of the common agricultural policy itself.
For the third time since the Luxembourg Treaty of 1970 and the Fontainebleau summit of 1984, we are faced with the problem of how to finance European integration.
For example, Belgium and the Netherlands seem to pay a great deal because there are customs duties on imports through Antwerp and Rotterdam.
Belgium and the Netherlands therefore seem to pay a great deal but they do not really have to bear the cost of these customs duties.
This technical impenetrability hides many mistaken beliefs, in particular, the belief that the European Union is financed by its own resources, by taxes, through VAT, whereas in reality, it is still financed by state contributions.
It is also a mistake to think that enlargement towards the East and the extension of the EU's powers will be achieved with the same budget envelope of 1.27 % of GNP, as the Commission would have us believe.
Whichever resource or resources are chosen, should they be progressive as Spain advocates, or proportional?
As a consequence, I think that those who voted in favour of this resolution are also in favour of eradicating the principle of compulsory expenditure.
Experience shows that if the European Parliament were ever to gain full control of the agriculture budget, it would progressively reduce it in order to transfer funds to other areas and policies, forgetting that the CAP is the only fully integrated policy at Community level.
In terms of the European Union's GNP, I should like to remind you that the agriculture budget only represents 0.5 % of the Member States' GNP.
A second factor influenced my decision to reject this report.
Several sections of the text adopted by the House propose increasing the budget of the EU's institutions through the creation of additional forms of resource, without, however, increasing the overall fiscal burden on the people of the Member States of the European Union.
It will not solve budget problems through cofinancing or by gradually reducing agricultural subsidies, but by providing these policies with the necessary budgetary allocations.
Not so long ago, before 1992, the CAP accounted for 70 % of the Community budget, and at the outset, it even accounted for almost the entire European budget.
Two other suggestions that could be implemented by the European Union are a tax on profits made from coin minting by the European Central Bank and a tax on short-term speculative investment (the Tobin tax).They are both very interesting, but need further consideration and, in any case, would make only small contributions to the budget.
There is a need to change and reform the EU's system of own resources.
However, I am opposed to the proposal contained in paragraph 8 of the resolution, because it will lead to increased supranationality.
I believe that in principle only the Council should continue to decide on the Union's own resources.
The current system of own resources has a number of shortcomings.
It is therefore entirely appropriate to carry out a detailed cost-benefit analysis of this source of own resources, as the rapporteur proposes.
Another important point is that the benefits and burdens of the EU budget are unfairly distributed among the Member States.
I think a compensation mechanism which applied to all Member States could be a perfectly viable instrument for helping to remedy the unfair distribution of the financial burden among the Member States.
I voted against this report mainly because of its outspoken demands for the Union to raise 'own resources'.
Monfils recommendation (A4-0106/99) The creation of a Community action to support the organisation of the European Capital of Culture should not only cover the nomination arrangements but also make available resources making it easier to nominate cities that are less prosperous but undeniably of a high cultural standard, at both national and European level, for the title of European capital of culture.
It is our hope and desire, therefore, that Oporto, due to be European Capital of Culture in 2001, can be a pioneer in putting these guidelines into practice even before they come into effect.
Lehne report (A4-0098/99) Madam President, the Lehne report focuses on an extremely worthy objective, that of rendering the treatment of Members' auxiliary staff and assistants more transparent and fair.
According to the rapporteur, this development would be based on a broad interpretation of the new Article 190(5) of the EC Treaty, as consolidated by the Amsterdam Treaty, which provides for the implementation of a standard European statute for the Members of this House.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations opposes this standardisation as, in our view, such a statute should remain under the remit of each country.
In our opinion, each Member of the European Parliament represents his country and should be remunerated or compensated by that country, and his assistants should be treated in the same way.
This is why I think that the equity needed in the management of assistants must be established at national level.
The present system has led to considerable differences in conditions of employment as between staff from different political parties and Member States.
Although the Lehne report seeks to regulate working conditions for the staff of Members of the European Parliament, the details have not been sufficiently well thought through.
The situation at present is that 23 % of the assistants have no contract.
Unfortunately, there are examples of assistants being employed without any salary or social security.
We have therefore voted in favour of introducing binding rules for recruitment, dismissal, remuneration, social security and pensions, amongst other things.
We have voted in favour of introducing binding rules before the end of this parliamentary term.
The rapporteur wants assistants working in Brussels to be covered by Community rules.
We were therefore unable to support the proposals in question.
Although the proposal before us is not perfect, we have still decided to vote in favour of the report, in order to put a stop to the black market in labour.
The European Parliament has just adopted, with several amendments, the Commission's proposal on a Council regulation on the situation of assistants.
The rejection of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and those put forward by the rapporteur have resulted in a simplified text.
It is regrettable that, because some of us have perhaps forgotten that all work deserves a fair salary, proposals have been put forward to turn our assistants into civil servants, and Members into heads of department.
Members of the European Parliament are elected by the people of the Member States and represent them in the EU.
Their employment should, like that of Members of Parliament themselves, be governed by the legislation of the home country or the legislation of the country in which the person is actually resident.
I voted against the proposal for common conditions of employment for assistants, mainly because the proposal would mean that in future assistants would also pay the so-called EU tax, i.e.
European Council in Berlin Madam President, my group has been entirely opposed to the tabling of a resolution in advance of the Berlin summit.
This House has, over the last few months, spent hours and hours in detailed work, passed by this plenary, on the Agenda 2000 package.
It was on that basis that we determined to vote against all the resolutions that were put forward in this House other than our own, which determined that we should adopt and abide by the Agenda 2000 package, as per our first reading.
Madam President, as rapporteur for the general regulation on the reform of the structural funds I voted against the PPE resolution and the compromise resolution.
This resolution does not fully reflect the negotiating priorities agreed by the PPE and the PSE in the McCarthy/Hatzidakis resolution and, as such, can only give a partial and partisan view of Parliament's priorities.
It is, in my view, deplorable that the PPE seek to undermine our joint rapporteurship and negotiations with the German presidency.
They have sent a signal to Berlin that these areas and communities are not a political priority for them.
I could not support this text.
Yet again the PPE have demonstrated their inability to sustain any support for the shambolic approach to Council resolutions and, in particular, Agenda 2000.
It is correct that Parliament voted down this compromise as it only sought to undermine agreements in Berlin.
Reform of the agricultural and structural policies and new agreements on the financing of the Union are absolutely vital if the Central and Eastern European countries are to be able to join.
We can live with the Commission proposal to set aside 0.46 % of GNP per year for structural measures in the period 2000-2006, but only under two conditions.
Secondly, the appropriations for structural aid for the applicant countries must be integrated into the EU programmes upon their accession without exceeding the expenditure ceiling of 0.46 % of GNP.
The Commission President is the most senior official in the European civil service.
The criticisms levelled against Belarus are reminiscent of those levelled against General de Gaulle by some Anglo-Saxon circles during the Fourth Republic.
There is far more respect for human rights in Belarus than in pro-American countries such as Turkey, which benefits from an association agreement with the European Union.
The Berlin summit, which will focus solely on Agenda 2000, is of particular importance for the future of the European Union.
We do not need to be reminded of the number of Europeans living in such areas to reaffirm the relevance of the URBAN programme and the need to maintain it, as the European Parliament has already mentioned.
In this respect, I agree with the fact that the European Union must consider establishing a system of own resources that allows us to prepare for enlargement without undermining the principles of solidarity and cohesion, two of the most fundamental ideas behind European Union integration.
Finally, I agree with the ideas on human rights and balanced development, which must be major objectives for those countries wishing to join the European Union.
The Berlin summit is undoubtedly of particular importance and it forces our leaders to send out a strong message a few weeks before a deadline when our citizens will take full advantage of the opportunity to express their views on the Europe they are being offered.
France's interests are different in all three cases.
The industrialised and Atlanticist Germany would easily sacrifice the agricultural Europe, giving Washington a monopoly over the food weapon.
With regard to this budgetary issue, France, which has lost more than FRF 20 billion in a single year of financing the European budget, is sensitive to the excessive inequalities in each Member's financial contribution.
For France, the accession of the countries of Eastern Europe, where 25 % of the active population work in agriculture, is going further than the problems posed by the present CAP reform, which goes against our national interests.
Another point to be emphasised is the approval in paragraph 6 of the proposal to earmark 0.46 % of the European Union's GNP every year for structural actions during the period 2000 to 2006.
and resumed at 3 p.m.
However, events in Cermis also show us that we need to reconsider and act to change the rules contained in the 1951 London Convention, so that tragedies of this kind - which would certainly be more likely were there to be a general feeling of impunity - are prevented in the future, and to guarantee that there would, in any event, be no obstacles in the way of the investigations and judicial proceedings against elements of NATO armed forces that violate the laws of the countries in which they are stationed.
Madam President, the few words I wish to say on this sensitive issue can be summed up by way of two premisses and three specific proposals.
My first premiss is that, in the Cermis incident, in which 20 people lost their lives, there was collective responsibility on the part of the NATO command in Aviano which has always authorised training flights, even over densely populated areas, because it has been too liberal in its interpretation of the 1951 London Convention.
It has been said in his defence that the military maps did not show the ski-lift cable: that is unbelievable given, after all, that it has been there for more than 25 years and was reconstructed after an earlier incident, on 9 March 1976, in which 43 people lost their lives.
However, you do not have to be a pilot to find it difficult to imagine that when you enter a mountain gorge at 800 kilometres per hour, at an altitude of only 80 metres, it is still feasible to consult a map.
When Parliament sent its condolences to the victims of this terrible accident last year, calls were already being made for a review of the London Convention, under which jurisdiction in the case of military offences lies with the country to which the military personnel in question belong.
We all agree that actual responsibility must be determined and fair compensation must be paid without delay to the families of the victims.
I would remind the House that last year, on 19 February, when we were discussing the Cermis tragedy, I tabled a resolution in which I called for the London Convention to be reviewed.
I therefore believe that not only should we call for the inquiry to be reopened to establish whether there is responsibility at a higher level, we should also consider whether it is necessary to retain the NATO bases, as if we were colonies of some kind, or to react and ask for the current rules to be amended so that the national courts are finally given jurisdiction over criminal acts of this nature.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is surprising how justice goes out of the door when it is left to the country of origin of NATO troops, which is responsible for accidents or breaches of the law, to assign responsibility and exercise a remote - in both a physical and a moral sense - form of justice, from thousands of miles away.
On behalf of the Padania bloc, which I represent in this House, and certain that I am speaking for the people, I therefore ask Parliament to be very firm in the stand it takes.
I am therefore asking for the wording of the resolution to be much more forceful than it is at present.
The Commission also shares your feelings regarding the conditions under which this accident took place and, like many of you, regarding the questions that remain unanswered.
Any decision to amend this Treaty is the sole responsibility of the members of NATO.
The issue must therefore be dealt with within and by the appropriate institutions.
The Community does not have the authority to rule on issues concerning the security of military flights.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Today, we have on the table a proposal from this Group, which the OSCE has entrusted with finding a solution to this long-standing conflict.
This is one of the reasons why, once again, we feel that this proposal by the Minsk Group is headed in the right direction, insofar as it proposes a large degree of autonomy within the existing borders, and we feel that this is a fundamental point.
A window of opportunity is therefore opening for us to begin a process that could bring about a solution to this conflict.
Madam President, the conflict in Nagorno Karabakh, which my own eyes have witnessed, is a conflict with innumerable tragedies.
The European Parliament supports the untiring efforts of the Minsk Group to find a political solution that will lead to a stable peace in Transcaucasia.
We call on the OSCE to continue its efforts and to set up an observer team which would constantly monitor respect for human rights and democratic development in those countries.
The European Union will continue to support the development of democracy in these young states.
We have had several opportunities to discuss the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh, in terms of the human problems caused by the war and as regards our desire to help solve the conflict.
Since 1993, the OSCE has been trying to find a solution, to negotiate and to draw up a peace plan, but we all know that these negotiations have encountered many obstacles, and that in November, the peace plan proposed by the Minsk Group was rejected.
In this respect, we want to firmly reiterate our support for the peace process in the Caucasus and also our support for the peace plan presented by the Minsk Group.
The proposals in question are a good basis for negotiation to help find a peaceful solution to this conflict, and it is essential that negotiations are resumed so that an agreement can be reached as quickly as possible.
At the same time, the European Union must continue to make its aid to the region conditional on visible progress in terms of human rights.
During all information and observation missions, the OSCE must also pay special attention to the level of respect for human rights in the area in order to prevent an escalation of violence if any incidents do occur.
To conclude, I would like to say that the European Union must increase its aid and assistance to the NGOs in the area, which, through discussion and political education, are trying to promote mutual understanding of the history of the communities that live in the region.
It is up to us to do everything we can to put an end to this conflict, to establish peace in the region, of course, but also to promote economic development.
Armenia, in particular, has come up with proposals that are likely to restore peace in the region.
I would like to add that, clearly, in co-signing this resolution, which relates to both Azerbaijan and Armenia, we are not forgetting the problems that both of these countries are facing.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Union is working to develop regional cooperation in the Caucasus region and it is supporting the efforts of the Minsk Group and of the OSCE, which is the most appropriate body to seek a peaceful solution to the conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh.
The peace plan presented by the three co-presidents is a good basis for negotiation to find a solution to this conflict.
In order to contribute to bringing the regional players together, the Union has set up technical assistance programmes through TACIS with the aim of developing cooperation between Armenia and Azerbaijan.
The presidents of these two Caucasian countries have demonstrated their support for these initiatives.
The Armenian and Azeri Prime Ministers also attended a conference in Brussels in February on the transport of oil and gas.
The Azeri, Armenian and Georgian Presidents have agreed to participate in a summit organised by the German Presidency in Luxembourg on 22 June to mark the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreements between the European Union and the Caucasian countries.
The main priority of these agreements is to support democracy and human rights, in line with Parliament's wishes.
Finally, the Commission notes Parliament's desire to strengthen the work of the 'democracy' aspect of the TACIS programme in the region.
However, up until now, it has only received a very limited number of projects from non-governmental organisations.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
So Europe must not change its policy here.
The opening-up of the economy has not helped the Cuban workers but party officials and a single Italian and Spanish investor.
Never again must Fidel Castro be given the red carpet treatment anywhere in the world.
Should not the international community be speaking out against the arrival of 300 Cuban troops in Angola and Brazzaville, as reported in the Portuguese newspaper Diario de Noticias ?
Madam President, last year, just as John Paul II was arriving in Cuba, the radical party was holding a demonstration in Rome against this visit and what it stood for.
From that point of view, this resolution does not go very far.
Madam President, this is not a resolution against the Cuban people.
The text that we are debating today, and which I should like to see approved, is a criticism of the corrupt and incomprehensible way in which the Cuban Government interprets freedoms, such as the freedom of expression, the freedom of assembly and the freedom of association.
We fully and unreservedly support Vladimiro Roca, Félix Bonne, Marta Beatriz Roque and René Gómez Manzano, who were detained on 16 July 1997 after having written and distributed a text entitled 'The homeland is for us all' which went against official government positions.
I sincerely hope that condemning the Cuban regime in this way will not destroy the fragile framework for dialogue that is still alive between the European Union and Cuba.
Even without a cooperation agreement, this House has given its full support to Cuban society, and the European Union is the largest donor of humanitarian aid to Cuba in the world.
And now we also have to speak out to defend human rights and democratic freedoms in Cuba because moderation becomes a vice when it means a lack of commitment.
I have already said in this House - quoting an illustrious colleague of mine - that the future cannot be imposed on individuals or peoples without their support and that there can be no individual dignity unless every man and woman is able to play a part in determining their future as a society.
As a result, this House must show its solidarity with those who are suffering and be firm in its inevitable demands for freedom.
Therefore, my group is once again calling for the release of Vladimiro Roca, Félix Bonne, Marta Beatriz Roque, René Gómez Manzano, Jorge Luis García Pérez and all those who, having been deprived of their freedom, fight in Cuba for their freedom and dignity.
Under the Cuban Penal Code, it is possible for opposition politicians to be found guilty of so-called crimes such as lack of respect and hostile propaganda.
Cuba is under intense pressure from the USA, through a long-standing economic blockade and other forms of aggression.
However, we believe it is important to help so that a process promoting human rights can resume, and so that democracy and freedom can be re-established, values that are clearly compatible with socialism.
I therefore believe that now is the time to make a considerable effort to bring Cuba into the framework of economic, political and cultural relations.
Colombia Madam President, the situation in Colombia is still very worrying, despite the promising reports we received some months ago that President Pastrana had started a new peace offensive.
I think the Union must continue to stand up for human rights, but it must do so in cooperation with President Pastrana.
The insurgent forces still have a chance of going down in Colombia's history as a factor in creating peace.
The years of violence have affected several generations.
President Pastrana's offer must have our full support and must have sufficient international economic support so that it can meet the social demands that are really at the root of this violence.
War, Madam President, is much more costly than peace.
These archives contain large amounts of information on persons who are actively campaigning for human rights and democracy in the country.
I therefore expect the Council of Ministers to prepare a very forthright declaration on Colombia for the forthcoming UN meeting in Geneva.
We believe this is an important issue, and we hope that the Council and the Commission will be helping to make that point to the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva.
Madam President, this is the third time in four months that this Parliament has held a special debate on Colombia and we will continue until the gross violations of human rights come to an end.
Terry Freitas had spent two years helping the Uwa indigenous people defend their territory from oil exploration by Occidental Petroleum.
Indonesia/East Timor Madam President, Indonesia is a complex country.
The resolution calls for a referendum under UN auspices on allowing East Timor the right to self-determination.
Mr President, this House has repeatedly condemned human rights abuses in many parts of Indonesia over the years and some appalling crimes have taken place in that beautiful country.
This resolution deals firstly with outrages which have been committed more recently on the Moluccan Islands.
This resolution again recalls the situation in East Timor, where appalling crimes have been committed.
Mr President, we are prepared to support the efforts to establish democracy in Indonesia.
I believe the entire House and the other EU institutions are also willing to lend material support to a peaceful democratisation process.
A new ice age has started in China, as everyone knows.
Human rights dialogue must carry on as normal, but if it is to be effective, we must also be prepared to bring public, international pressure to bear: the carrot and stick approach.
Mr President, I think that the resolution drawn up this time for the UN session is a very good and balanced one.
In this morning's Herald Tribune , there was a photo of the Dalai Lama in northern India, five years after the invasion of Tibet.
Mr President, over recent years the European Parliament has established a record on human rights throughout the world of which we can be very proud.
The achievement of full recognition of human rights in every country in the world is a challenge to us in our time.
The second point involves taking an initiative in favour of the ratification of the international court for war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity.
It is a policy that is slowly edging towards despair.
And in this era of globalisation, indivisibility also means linking political rights to social and economic rights.
We therefore call on the Commission and the Council - especially the Commission, since it also serves as a coordinator for the Member States - to put our message across in no uncertain terms.
A great many countries have featured in the resolutions of the European Parliament in recent months.
Applause Mr President, there are numerous indications that the history of human rights has entered a new era.
Belarus Mr President, the situation in Belarus is still very worrying.
I must say, however, that the argument which is currently raging over the elections announced by the opposition for 16 May 1999 will certainly have devastating effects.
The economic situation is unstable, the political situation is extremely unstable and as future neighbours, as my colleague rightly pointed out, we are called upon to do everything we can to help Belarus to find a decent path that will lead it to democracy.
Russia Mr President, Russia is never out of the headlines.
Our resolution covers various other areas under the same heading, areas which cause us grave concern.
That is absolutely imperative for this Europe of ours, because it would create solid common foundations for a peaceful and free Europe in the next century.
Along with colleagues in my party, the Transnational Radical Party, in Russia, we are trying to get past this deadlock by launching a campaign, which I think Parliament should support, to bring an end to military conscription and to establish a professional army in the country, which would be a significant step in the right direction.
Mr President, I believe we are at one in our criticism of the situation in Russia with regard to human rights and anti-Semitism.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists therefore backs the delegation in its mission to convey this message in very clear terms during the forthcoming visit to Russia.
Mr President, when we ratified the partnership and cooperation agreement with Russia, we criticised the fact that the human rights situation in Russia did not meet the criteria laid down in the human rights clause of the agreement, to which Commissioner van den Broek replied that the agreement provided an excellent basis for changing that situation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to answer point by point, as is the custom with human rights issues.
I will therefore begin with Cuba.
The Commission shares Parliament's concerns regarding the development of the human rights situation in Cuba, and it is concerned about the adoption of a reform of the criminal code which considerably reinforces the repressive nature of the legislation.
Nevertheless, the Commission will continue with firm but vigilant dialogue with the Cuban authorities.
The Community cooperation policy, which - I would remind you - is a European policy is governed by the principles established in the common position of 8 December, which, as far as I am aware, is revised with each new presidency.
This policy is aimed at encouraging a peaceful transition to democracy, promoting human rights and supporting the economic development of the island.
In this respect, the activities funded by the Community that are planned for the 1999-2000 period mainly involve food aid, support for economic reforms and the development of civil society.
Finally, at the end of June 1998, the European Union granted Cuba observer status in the negotiations between the European Union and the ACP countries.
With regard to the second issue, Colombia, the Commission entirely shares Parliament's concerns about the development of the situation in the country.
The European Union gave its support to the peace process in a declaration on 8 January.
A meeting between the government and the opposing armed movements is planned for 24 April.
Support for actions to promote human rights and help with the implementation of judicial reforms are a priority of the Commission in its work to help Colombia.
I must remind you, or perhaps inform you, of the figures: in 1998, the Commission set aside EUR 17 million for NGOs, along with EUR 2 million for human rights and EUR 12 million for ECHO to help displaced persons.
The Commission supports the steps that have been taken on behalf of the Union to inform the Indonesian authorities of Europe's concerns about the development of inter-ethnic tension.
In particular, the Union has asked the Indonesian authorities to ensure that the police forces act with greater restraint in Ambon, where there were several deaths in January as a result of repression.
The European Community Humanitarian Office, ECHO, sent a representative to the area who is working in close cooperation with the Commission representatives in Jakarta and the NGOs present in the region.
The implementation of this decision will be entrusted to the European NGOs present in Indonesia, in cooperation with the World Food Programme.
A programme worth EUR 7 million is currently being prepared for this purpose.
The Commission participates systematically and actively in the work of the 'Human Rights' group, and in all the meetings of experts in Geneva.
You know, as I do, that it is the Commission's job to take a position on the wishes expressed by Parliament in its motions for resolutions.
More specifically, regarding China, which many of you mentioned, all the Member States of the European Union decided in 1998 not to table a resolution condemning the country.
The Commission is extremely concerned by the recent deterioration of the situation in Belarus.
In this respect, the Commission fully supports the work of the OSCE towards restoring the democratic operation of the institutions.
The Commission is closely following the development of the situation with regard to human rights and fundamental liberties.
Mr von Habsburg, I can assure you that we aim to support the Belarusian people in this process.
Finally, the last issue relates to Russia.
On behalf of the European Union, the German Presidency has brought this issue to the attention of the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs and the leaders of the Communist Party and made them aware of its concerns.
The European Union has taken measures to promote tolerance and the advent of a civil society in Russia.
The Commission will continue to monitor the situation very closely and hopes that these anti-Semitic outbursts from another age on the part of certain members of the Russian Parliament will end.
I think that in my perhaps general answer, I have answered these more specific questions.
You have my word, I will do it this evening.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
And yet, the United Nations' force has played an important part in keeping the peace, not least by preventing the threat of the conflict in Kosovo spilling over into Macedonia.
But at the same time, it is essential that we have, as of now, the ability to make a virtue of a vice: if the United Nations Security Council fails to take a positive decision, the European Union and its Member States would have to shoulder the responsibilities hitherto exercised by UNPREDEP, in conjunction with the other institutions, primarily NATO and the Western European Union.
Mr President, I regret the fact that this resolution limits itself to stating the obvious, as it is clear that neither the United States nor the European Union can give in to the veto, to the attempts of the People's Republic of China to blackmail us over the presence of troops to guarantee peace and security in Macedonia.
The Union's funds to Macedonia are being reduced by ECU 3 million.
Here is a postcard with a lovely picture of the flag of the European Union, and, in the middle of that flag, the Macedonian flag, so that, in the coming months, Macedonia may be an official candidate for membership of the European Union.
Mr President, the Green Group also considers China's veto of the extension of UNPREDEP's mandate in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia totally unacceptable, not least because it amounts to a kind of retaliation.
But this also reveals all the limitations of the Security Council in its current form and therefore the need for Europe, as a whole, to seek to change the current UN system.
However, given that the problems of Macedonia are real ones - and we have only to remember what is happening next door to that region, in Kosovo, to appreciate the importance of continuing with the UNPREDEP mandate - it is clear that we Greens also believe that, were it to prove necessary, the European Union should shoulder its own responsibilities.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the only republic of the former Yugoslavia to survive the demise of that state more or less without bloodshed and to achieve statehood without warfare was Macedonia.
It is incomprehensible to me that a Chinese veto in the Security Council should jeopardise the safety of Macedonia.
As you know, China and Russia have often used their veto in the Security Council to prevent us from providing military assistance to people and nations that are subject to persecution and aggression, as has been happening for a year and a half in Kosovo, and as was the case in Bosnia for a number of years.
It ought to be designed in such a way that preventive measures, at least, cannot be vetoed, and it should naturally allow intervention to thwart the plans of a dictator and criminal, thereby protecting people and nations from such criminals, as in Bosnia and Kosovo.
Mr President, a few days ago, the UNPREDEP forces were actually withdrawn on the basis of a veto by the People's Republic of China.
The Commission believes that an international presence is more necessary than ever in this part of the Balkans, following the withdrawal of UNPREDEP.
I had prepared a response to the issue of the breakdown in diplomatic relations, but once again I promise to pass on his question to my colleague Commissioner van den Broek this evening.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rarely does this House deal with natural disasters, but there is no doubt that the disaster we are discussing today demands all our attention because of its enormity, its unpredictability and its scale.
That is why the avalanches which have struck various areas of this extremely important part of Europe should serve to draw our attention to these issues, which go far beyond the natural disaster, and stir us into planning for a range of measures - not only short-term and preventive measures, but ones that are designed to tackle this problem and this situation in a comprehensive way.
Nevertheless, the European Union should take account of the specific nature of mountain regions and increase its aid to the regions that are affected as well as its involvement in preventive measures.
My group has tabled several amendments on these two points.
Mr President, firstly, with regard to the distressing subject of avalanches, the Commission wishes to express its distress and to offer its heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims of these events.
The Commission's proposals on the 'rural development' aspect of Agenda 2000 will further increase the possibilities for aid for afforestation and forestry improvement, if the Council agrees with the Commission's proposals.
In the context of these proposals, compensatory payments could be made in order to preserve and improve the ecological stability of forests in areas where they have a protective and environmental role that is in the public interest.
Secondly, moving on from prevention to dealing with the effects of avalanches, I would remind you that in 1997, Parliament blocked heading B4-3400, which was precisely aimed at providing emergency aid for the victims of disasters.
The budgetary line B4-3300, which relates to civil protection and environmental emergencies, does not provide for intervention to reconstruct damaged areas through economic aid or emergency aid.
Nevertheless, it is possible to re-focus the existing provisions on measures to re-establish the potential for agricultural and forestry production that was harmed within the existing financial envelopes.
Finally, in the framework of the Community action programme for civil protection, the Commission is prepared to examine - within the limits of its funding capacities - any proposals submitted by national or local authorities to improve their ability to act when disasters occur.
The sitting was suspended at 5.20 p.m.
VOTES Mr President, a point of order under Rules 119 and 120 concerning roll-call votes, in which I know you have a special interest.
We are destined to have more again this evening and Members can look forward to a fairly healthy-sized volume of roll-call results in their pigeonholes tomorrow morning.
Rules 119 and 120 referring to roll-call votes state they shall be recorded in the Minutes.
The German Federal Minister of Finance, Oskar Lafontaine, has just resigned his posts as finance minister and party chairman.
Applause Mr President, I wanted to vote in favour of that, but my machine was not working!
The June Movement actively supports the development of environmentally friendly forms of energy, and believes that the Member States should have the opportunity to promote renewable energy with all the means at their disposal.
Robles Piquer report (A4-0085/99) If nothing is done, then energy requirements will have doubled in twenty years' time.
We therefore need to meet the objectives set at the Kyoto Conference in December 1997.
Therefore, we also need to look at the sustainability of economic development when discussing renewable energy sources.
Finally, at a time when jobs are in short supply, we cannot ignore the fact that renewable energy sources have an employment potential that is two to five times greater than that of traditional energy sources.
Bloch von Blottnitz report (A4-0084/99) In Kyoto, the European Union committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8 % compared to 1990 levels before 2012.
Given the fact that energy consumption in the Member States is set to increase by 50 % in the next 20 years, we need to make an extra special effort in terms of energy efficiency.
The European Union is one of the largest producers of greenhouse gases in the world.
Britain was instrumental in securing worldwide agreement to cut greenhouse emissions at the Kyoto Environment Conference in 1997.
Moreover, yesterday, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, announced new green energy taxes on companies and lower taxes for smaller, more eco-friendly cars.
Britain, however, cannot tackle a global problem alone.
I have therefore cast my vote in accordance with this principle.
I and other British Labour members voted against this report because it recommends increasing subsidies for growing tobacco, not in poor countries in regions totally dependent on growing tobacco, but in four of the richest countries in the European Union.
The battle against smoking, which, in my view, is essential, should not involve the reduction or abolition of this production, as some of my colleagues have suggested.
It would be immediately replaced by production from countries outside the European Union, which already account for 95 % of world tobacco production.
The Members belonging to the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations are aware of the importance of tobacco production for the economy of many rural regions.
We are all aware of the European Union's low level of self-sufficiency: it only provides 20 % of its own needs, which means that any reduction in aid will lead to a decline in European production to the benefit of tobacco imports from third countries, especially the United States.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations voted in favour of Amendment No 5, which provides for full compensation for producers for the negative effects of currency conversions in the transition from the ecu to the euro.
In France, for example, we know that compensation aid and official prices have fallen by 1.9 % for all farmers in the transition to the euro.
Amendments Nos 7, 8 and 9 aim to transfer the guarantee thresholds from group III (dark tobacco) to group II (Burley) and group I (Virginia).
This phased reduction would represent 3 % per year as from 2002.
A uniform phased reduction of 3 % will primarily penalise the sectors of production which receive the most aid, such as tobacco growing.
It is a mistake to think that our producers' productivity gains could compensate for this decrease in compensation aid.
The Commission proposal fails to take account of the real conditions and requirements of the COM in the tobacco sector, particularly as regards continued Community support for raw tobacco for social and economic reasons, the promotion of better quality tobacco for health and environmental reasons and the use of a flexible quota system.
For the above reasons, the non-attached Members will be abstaining in the vote on the report, as we do not consider the content of the report to be a sufficient guarantee that the interests of Italian tobacco producers will be protected.
By already imposing 100 % customs duties on imports, the USA is actively limiting the import of products, threatening the fragile economies of the less favoured countries and regions of the Union.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations supported the joint resolution explicitly asking the European Commission to use all the means at its disposal, within the framework of the WTO, to respond to the sanctions put in place by the United States in answer to the banana dispute, which contravene the rules of the multilateral organisation.
It is now essential to make the American leaders understand that the European Union and its Member States have the will and the ability to respond harshly to such a direct attack on their interests and their rights.
The absence of a firm and credible reaction from the European Union in other matters has surely been a deciding factor in Washington's decision to opt for a test of strength.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations regrets Commissioner Brittan's ambiguous and soft language in a context where the United States is testing our strength and where the European Union must therefore convince them now that it has a real capacity to cause trouble.
Yesterday, in this House, while giving the impression that he was adopting a firm position, the Commissioner basically left open the way for negotiations on a fresh modification of our COM for bananas.
One village after another is being burned to the ground with the aim of altering, so to speak, the ethnic composition of Kosovo, 90 % of the population of which comprises ethnic Albanians, and to swing the balance there in favour of the Serbian occupiers.
Luigi Colajanni's report contains several strong ideas and we must give them our immediate support.
Following the Wye Plantation agreements and the deadlock in the situation on the ground, the Palestinian authorities have decided to declare the independence of the territories unilaterally on 4 May.
As it is obvious that there is not enough time left to achieve the considerable progress that is necessary, I believe that the rapporteur is right to ask the two parties to engage immediately in negotiations in order to put back the date of application of the provisional agreement until after 4 May.
As I said in this House in 1998, to try to resolve each conflict in the region separately would be to erase all the historical, ethnic, religious and cultural differences and to forget the international strategies that aim to control the raw materials and maintain areas of influence through the military alliances.
I hope that the Euro-Mediterranean Conference to held in Stuttgart between 4 and 6 April will enable us to make progress in that direction.
However, what is much less pleasing to us as Europeans is that we have been in no way associated with the political negotiations, despite the fact that the European Union is the region's main financial backer.
There are two main reasons for this.
Firstly, despite a few institutional steps in the right direction, the Union's common foreign and security policy is still largely in its embryonic stages.
Having said this, like our rapporteur, I would like to stress the need for the European Union to establish a common position as quickly as possible, especially with the prospect of 4 May 1999.
Sakellariou report (A4-0095/99) We have voted in favour of the report because, in many parts, it highlights the value of improved cooperation between the EU countries and the states around the Mediterranean.
Adam report (A4-0088/99) Mr President, the idea behind giving aid to improve the safety of nuclear power stations in the applicant countries has always been that they should be shut down completely in the long term.
On top of that, the nuclear power industry in the West is also having its lifetime extended.
While the European Parliament has a major say on the EU Budget, it has, exceptionally, no real control over the activities which take place under the anachronistic and non-transparent Euratom Treaty.
They have made millions of ecu working on nuclear safety projects in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union, funded largely by the EU.
However, EU Court of Auditors Special Report No 25/98 on the PHARE-TACIS nuclear safety programmes recently showed that no real safety improvement has taken place, as we have claimed for years (and was shown in a Parliament STOA study commissioned at the initiative of the Greens), so that over 800 MECU have been largely wasted on producing reports.
And yet, the European Commission is currently considering three safety-related Euratom loans, for the completion of Khmelnitski 2 and Rovno 4 (k2/r4) in Ukraine as part of the Chernobyl closure agreement, for Kallinin unit 3 in Russia and for Kozloduy units 5 &amp; 6 in Bulgaria, all Soviet designed reactors.
These projects neatly illustrate the sort of problems associated with EU enlargement negotiations as far as the safety of nuclear power plants is concerned.
Kozloduy illustrates another crucial aspect of this problem.
Units 1-4 are of the more dangerous VVER 440-230 type, and should be closed forthwith.
Bulgaria made a closure agreement with the Nuclear Safety Account run by the EBRD for the G24 countries in return for finance, but the conditions attached had to be carried out by Bulgaria, allowing them to legitimately extend the closure dates by not meeting those conditions, which they have now done.
In both cases the interests of the Western nuclear industry takes precedence over everything else, something that must be changed during the rest of the enlargement negotiations - firm dates without escape clauses for the reactors are essential as a pre-condition for entry to the EU.
This problem is still with us today, as the science is manipulated, prevented or simply neglected, which shows that despite the reductions in levels, they are still way too high, as was demonstrated in a Parliament workshop initiated by the Greens, the basis of a STOA study published on this matter.
Since 1999, nuclear power has been an important issue for the European Union's relations with the Central and Eastern European countries and the new independent states.
It is essential that in the new enlargement process nuclear safety is put at the heart of the negotiations.
Agenda 2000, the European Commission's Framework for the Development of the European Union, states that most of the power stations operating in the applicant countries are still using Soviet technology and do not meet international safety standards.
The European Commission must agree to an energy strategy for each of these countries under partnership and cooperation agreements in which provision is made for the closure of unsafe nuclear reactors at an agreed date.
While the initial assessment by the European Commission and the Agenda 2000 programme is not sufficiently detailed, the Mochovce plant in Slovakia which is still operating must be singled out for special attention.
If this plant is to meet international safety standards, together with other nuclear installations in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Bulgaria, modernisation programmes will take at least seven to ten years to ensure that the highest environmental and public health standards are met.
All these problems are broad in their implications for the European Union and we must ensure that no enlargement of EU takes place until we are sure that the nuclear plants operating in the applicant countries meet the highest international safety standards.
For example, it is now fourteen years since the nuclear disaster at Chernobyl.
For example, the nuclear power industry in the EU countries is encouraged to continue its activities in the countries concerned.
Finally, in the vote I have supported all the amendments which we tabled in the Green Group and which are of great importance for the future.
Improving the safety of and eventually shutting down reactors in nuclear power stations in the applicant countries of Central and Eastern Europe and the New Independent States is a key element in the strategy for enlargement, because it touches on safety and public health in the whole of Europe.
I believe that our committee and rapporteur have succeeded in producing a very thorough report on nuclear safety in Central and Eastern Europe.
Fourçans report (A4-0102/99) A natural consequence of the introduction of the euro is that the euro countries will be compelled to follow a uniform economic policy.
Therefore, monetary union must either be followed by a new leap towards political integration or perish.
In principle, we believe that voluntary coordination of economic policies and currency cooperation between the Member States could be an excellent idea, but this report does not prepare the way for voluntary coordination.
The report calls for systematic coordination of the taxation of enterprises, capital and energy.
We are therefore voting against this report.
It is clear that the idea of greater convergence of the political choices made in terms of the general direction of economic policies and employment policies, as called for by the Commission and by the majority of those in the European Parliament, is resulting in more job opportunities in the sense of an increase in part-time and atypical forms of employment, as well as an undesirable restructuring of the social security system.
Moreover, the two reports that were published by the Commission on structural policies, known as Cardiff I and II, call for greater flexibility and for greater changes to be made in labour relations and in the labour market, which the Commission regards as the extra key ingredient in our macro-economic endeavours.
We call on the Commission to include in the next round of multilateral negotiations the problems created for international monetary and financial stability by the unchecked movements of capital, and to promote the adoption of measures such as the Tobin tax.
With increasing force and coordination, the people of Europe are demanding specific measures in favour of full-time, stable employment, budgets for the redistribution of income in favour of working people, an end to the scandalous impunity enjoyed by multinationals, a totally different policy in Europe, and that the Member States should pave the way for sweeping changes which will promote peace, progress and social prosperity.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the two rapporteurs in this joint debate.
I have been a member of the Central Asian Delegation for the last two years and was privileged to visit Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan with the European Parliament Delegation in May 1997.
The rapporteur said he was happy with it and the text before the House therefore takes due account of it.
It would have been unfair to ask these countries to behave in the same way as our consolidated Western democracies.
We also support the Commission communication on the whole of Central Asia.
For the second time today, I am led to wonder about the value of this human rights clause if there is no way of penalising violations of human rights, if such violations are simply condoned as before, and if the human rights clause cannot be used to guarantee the creation of genuinely democratic and stable structures in the country in question.
Mr President, the new states of Central Asia are particularly fragile.
We must of course be vigilant with regard to respect for human rights in all regions, but if we judge these countries solely by normal human rights standards, we are in danger of condemning ourselves to powerlessness and ineffectiveness, which other countries such as the United States know how to avoid.
It is therefore better not to subject the implementation of partnership agreements with these countries to conditions that would deprive us of any form of influence.
It would be more appropriate to provide ourselves with specific tools for action, which must be closely coordinated, under the auspices of the Council, with the Union's other instruments for external action and with the bilateral policies of the Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by ratifying the partnership and cooperation agreement between the EU and Uzbekistan, the European Parliament will send an encouraging signal to the Republic of Uzbekistan, which became an independent entity in 1991.
It is a country that is suffering from the effects of the Russian crisis as well as having felt the full impact of the fall in raw material prices, as is rightly noted in this report.
By conferring its approval, the European Parliament is also recognising the will of the government, which has at least been documented for the outside world, to improve the human rights situation in this part of Central Asia.
The fact that the Commission report calls for Parliament to be presented with an annual report on democracy and human rights and for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy to be kept informed of developments is a sign that Uzbekistan has a long way to go before it can complete the process of democratisation and stabilisation.
The brutal bombings on 16 January of this year illustrate how tense the situation remains.
Indeed, it was the most serious act of violence in Central Asia since Uzbekistan became independent.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the joint debate today highlights the particular importance that Parliament attaches to the issue of human rights in all the countries of Central Asia and particularly in Uzbekistan.
From an economic point of view, the fall in the price of cotton - which is its main export in terms of raw materials - is largely responsible for the deterioration in its balance of trade.
Mrs André Léonard, a moment ago, you mentioned that the Uzbek Ambassador was here to listen to your debates and I would like to welcome him this evening.
Despite these problems, the Uzbek Government is working to step up the economic reforms and to improve the protection of human rights.
The recent contacts that we have had with the authorities have highlighted their determination to continue along this path.
This report relates to the 1995 Commission communication and also focuses on the issue of human rights.
However, I would like to point out that, as in the case of Uzbekistan, all the partnership and cooperation agreements provide the legal framework and, in my opinion, a basis and an appropriate structure to look at the issue of human rights with the countries concerned.
This is the reason behind the political dialogue, which, for the first time in the Union's bilateral relations with these countries, is officially laid down in each agreement.
In this way, Parliament will itself be able to bring up the issue of the protection of human rights in an appropriate context and increase its control over the bilateral relations between the Union and the Central Asian countries.
Thank you, Mr de Silguy.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
My amendment has been approved by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I hope that it will also be approved here in the House.
One very serious problem in the European Union is that the customs authorities in the different Member States are still not in full, real-time contact with one another.
I still propose the addition of a new Article 1(21a), as supported by my group in my original proposal.
For this reason the Community must have the means to intervene in criminal operations or abuse on the part of exporters and the authorities in exporting countries.
In accepting these amendments, we will not only send out an unmistakeable signal from the Union on the fight against fraud; we will also help improve the competitiveness of businesses and, as a result, promote economic growth and job creation within the Community.
More than 50 % of all goods imported into the European Union are subject to what are known as preferential tariff arrangements.
Two of the rapporteur's amendments - No 9 and No 13 - relate to this point.
The risk of being convicted for a false declaration is too slight.
I therefore strongly recommend that Amendments Nos 9 and 13 should be reconsidered and, if possible, withdrawn.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1997 alone, a total of ECU 13.6 million was collected in customs duties.
The current debate on net contributors and recipients underlines the importance of applying the Community customs system effectively and efficiently.
The importer must be able to rely on the authenticity of a certificate.
Mr President, with a proposal that is incomprehensible and totally without foundation, the Commission is seeking to amend Article 5 of the Community Customs Code in a way that we believe will be the death knell for a sector which is already suffering unemployment and underemployment.
The Commission is now proposing to abolish the alternative possibility available to each Member State to make its own choice between direct or indirect customs representation, according to its financial needs.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and in particular the rapporteur, Mr Paasilinna.
I must also say that the debate has in addition been fuelled by a major problem of an institutional nature, one that threatens to deprive the Community, in the immediate future at least, of the drive for reform which is needed in relation to specific policies and, more particularly, the customs union.
The Community Customs Code is one of the pillars - the most important of all - that will help secure uniform administrative action within the limits dictated by the principle of subsidiarity.
Only in the light of that framework, Mr President, is it possible to understand some of the differences in opinion that are emerging as we assess what the outcome of the process of amending the Customs Code should be.
The Commission does, however, recognise that a period of transition may be needed; however, what I said a few moments ago means that we are unable to take on board Amendment No 11.
Amendment No 2 does not pose any problem, and nor does the first part of Amendment No 3.
That part of Amendment No 3 is therefore not acceptable; on the other hand, Amendment No 14, which shares the same objective, cannot be accepted because it is irrelevant.
Amendment No 8 fails to take account of the fact that the Commission has itself proposed deleting another provision: if both were deleted, we would be left with a clear legal vacuum; that amendment is therefore not acceptable.
Amendments Nos 9 and 13 concern the issue of the good faith of the economic operators.
However, Amendment No 13 seems to us a better indicator of how to find a more appropriate and balanced solution to the problem of the responsibility of economic operators.
In that sense, Amendment No 13 may be considered a positive contribution and, therefore, the Commission could accept it as the basis for a more extensive revision of Article 220.
We therefore intend presenting, in the revised proposal following the vote in the House, a new version of Article 220 to provide a better balance between the responsibilities of importers, exporters, third country authorities and the Community customs authorities responsible for assessing whether the parties have acted in good faith.
Turning, finally, to Amendment No 15, the Commission considers that the aim of that amendment, that is to say adequate controls, cannot be defined in theoretical terms in the Customs Code, but must be related to specific aspects, good faith for instance, or the risk element.
Let me end by inviting those honourable Members who are interested to take part in a demonstration of the system on 31 March.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Mr President, legislation has been adopted in all areas of industrial property in the European Union except in the case of utility models.
The fact that utility models exist allows small technical advances that aid the human race to also benefit their creators, even though the level of invention does not warrant as much protection as under a patent.
The utility model is especially useful for both individual inventors and for small undertakings.
What is more, the existence of an instrument providing an alternative for minor inventions means that the level of invention required can be interpreted more strictly.
The Commission has opted for harmonisation and has put forward a proposal for a directive that valiantly tackles the delicate task of approximating twelve laws with many different points and introducing legislation in three countries that do not have this system.
This proposal adopts three of the classic requirements in the protection of inventions: novelty, level of invention and industrial advantage.
The lower level of legal certainty offered by the utility model compared to the patent is the price that has to be paid for the speed and lower cost of the utility model.
In our report, we suggest a series of measures to add to the Commission's proposal in order to improve the degree of legal certainty of the model without harming the speed and lower cost of obtaining this instrument.
Therefore, as a first step, we propose that the definition from the European Patents Convention be adopted but in a less strict form than required by the Convention.
Therefore, Commissioner, in spite of my aim to add these measures, I agree with the Commission on many fundamental aspects.
This is an issue that could lead to a lengthy discussion, as could the definition of the utility model based on a structure or configuration but not on a substance or specific procedure.
However, at this time of night, these issues are probably of little interest to the Members and I only wish to say that the Socialist Group supports the amendments by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights as well as the two amendments tabled by the Liberal Group.
Thank you very much, Mr Medina Ortega.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the utility model is a means of protection used in one form or another by most European countries, with the notable exception of Germany and France.
What linguistic rules will be applied?
This proposed directive introduces the right to register a utility model.
This right does not currently exist in all Member States.
I must congratulate Mr Añoveros Trias de Bes on the quality of his report.
I welcome the fact that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizen's Rights has not queried the Commission approach to this dossier and that the features of utility models, as set out in the proposal for a directive, have been retained.
The Commission cannot, however, accept nine amendments, including Amendments Nos 1, 6 in part and 13 concerning the introduction of a one-stop shopping procedure.
I well understand what motivates these amendments, but introducing a procedure of that nature goes beyond the objective of this proposal for a directive, which is to align the national provisions on utility models which have a more direct impact on the operation of the single market.
This is a procedural issue that must be left to the assessment of the Member States, in accordance with the principle of proportionality.
However, Mr Medina Ortega, as in the case of the earlier amendments, the possibility of introducing an opposition procedure could be considered as part of the monitoring provided for in the directive itself.
I would draw your attention to the fact that excluding substances and processes from protection by utility model harks back to a now outdated view.
The consultation set under way with the 1995 Green Paper showed that most of the groups concerned were in favour of including substances and processes.
Currently, only four Member States regard three-dimensional format as a condition of obtaining protection by utility model.
There are other amendments which the Commission is unable to accept: Amendment No 15 which provides, in addition to control a posteriori , control a priori of the exemptions, cannot be accepted because it calls into question the fact that there is no formal examination of the conditions of protection; nor can we accept part of Amendments Nos 6 and 10 or the whole of Amendment No 16, which put forward practical or technical advantage as an additional condition for obtaining protection.
That would introduce a new requirement, whereas technical or practical advantage must be considered as simply justifying inventive activity.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
We welcome the Commission's report on social security.
Following the example of the European employment strategy - another successful element in the European Union's social and economic policy - and the criteria for economic and monetary union, comparisons must be made between the Member States.
Both of these groups tend to be very dependent on the social security system.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me at the start of this debate to express my regret at the resignation a few hours ago of the German Finance Minister.
You especially, Commissioner Monti, will understand my response to this news, because Mr Lafontaine had begun to implement the proposal you made quite some time ago on the reduction of non-wage labour costs as a means of making labour a less expensive production factor.
Many aspects of social protection in Europe, of course, are still not given nearly enough consideration in terms of their European dimension in many Member States.
We need quite specific legislative proposals, including proposals based on Articles 13 and 137 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The Commission also has our support in the negotiations, in the struggle with the Council of Ministers.
Applause Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my sincere thanks to the rapporteur for the work he has done.
Atypical forms of work present another problem.
Before the European Union is enlarged, the applicant countries must redefine and improve the criteria for the convergence of their welfare systems so as to avoid unforeseen consequences for the entire EU.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Pronk report contains a whole raft of measures which we really need to take, and the convergence of social security and taxation is becoming a particularly important issue, partly as a result of the introduction of the euro.
Another example is the lack of policy coordination on supplementary pensions, both on the question of deductibility and on tax on the eventual payments.
This morning in our discussion of the annual economic report for 1999, I called for greater international mobility of labour.
We therefore need to work together to achieve convergence in this field, both on social security and on taxation.
However, it is true that if social Europe is stumbling, it is because we do not have sufficient legal bases.
This is the reason behind the determination of politicians such as Bartho Pronk, who is making every effort to bring about a social Europe, and his report today is proof of that.
It is with this in mind that I completely support the rapporteur's objective of establishing a certain degree of social convergence in Europe, not through standardisation, but through increased cooperation between the Member States on social matters.
I am convinced that adopting guidelines on social matters would genuinely encourage our governments to seek a productive and essential balance between solidarity and competitiveness.
The resolve to devise a coherent plan to tackle this as soon as possible and to reduce the number of socially excluded and poor people in Europe is really something that we in the Green Group support.
The current differences in the cost of social protection distort competition between the Member States and thus threaten employment.
On the other hand, there are sound reasons for the mutual recognition of different systems, so that people who move from one country to another can avail themselves of their social benefits in the new country.
When Sweden applied for membership 10 years ago, in 1990, we had unemployment running at 2.3 %.
There are immigrant areas in Sweden which, ten years ago, had an unemployment rate of 50 %; the current rate is 75 %, perhaps even 90 %.
We now have 18 million unemployed and 50 million people in poverty.
The introduction of the euro has undoubtedly had an impact on wage policies and hence on social protection in the various Member States.
At the same time, despite a high level of economic activity, Europe is struggling to cope with a vast army of unemployed.
The objective, namely tax coordination to which he made reference, does not aim simply at improving the single market but has also a social objective in making tax systems more labour-friendly.
In the instruments there are indeed striking similarities between what has been devised to fight harmful tax competition and what the rapporteur is proposing in terms of a code of conduct for avoiding harmful competition via social security systems.
We need new, innovative approaches if our social protection systems are to continue to perform their traditional and very important roles: income redistribution, building social cohesion, and providing security against social risks as they have done over the last fifty years.
In 1995 the Commission launched a debate on the future of social protection.
The aim was to trigger a process of joint reflection to look together for solutions and to learn from each other.
Not having been an initiator of this - it was Commissioner Flynn - I can say in retrospect, on a personal basis, that this was perhaps one of the very first examples of trying to achieve progress through comparison, through peer review, and similar processes, which I find very helpful.
The Commission's main message throughout this process has been that there is an urgent need to modernise social protection in the European Union.
At European level alone, since we launched our debate on modernising and improving social protection we can take note of the following: the Amsterdam Treaty has been adopted and will shortly come into force, incorporating a new chapter on employment and other relevant developments to do with social exclusion, non-discrimination and public health.
The European employment strategy has been successfully put into place and Member States have made a good start on implementation.
Enlargement negotiations have been launched with five countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
It is important to recognise that these developments will impact on both Member States' social protection systems and our ways of cooperating at European level.
The time is ripe to take the process of joint reflection on the future of our social protection systems a step further.
The proposals made in Parliament's resolution go in the right direction.
There are considerable differences between the systems of the 15 Member States.
Nevertheless we are facing common problems and challenges.
We have common objectives.
You also send a clear message to the Commission and the Member States to be ambitious in this process.
The Commission will keep these views very much in mind when we come back with our proposals on how to take forward these ideas on social protection.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Thank you, Mr Schiedermeier.
With that, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda.
