Madam President, I do not see my name amongst those who voted for the final resolution on maize.
I would like it shown that I intended to vote in favour, like my group.
Madam President, it is nice to see so many people here for the discharge debate.
In theory I have five minutes for each but for the first report - the follow-up to the 1994 discharge - I can be extremely brief and spend the majority of my time on the 1995 discharge.
I move on now to the 1995 discharge, which has in the report a motion for a resolution with 89 articles.
What is different about this year's request is that at least eleven of those articles call on Parliament to do the work rather than simply asking the Court of Auditors or the Commission, as is normal.
The motion for a resolution covers all those areas where Parliament either has concerns or has proposals to make.
I have to say that the main philosophy behind the report lies in the explanatory statement.
For example: on the DAS, Article 14 of the resolution is, in effect, a condensed version of Paragraphs 9 to 23 of the explanatory statement.
It is in these latter paragraphs where the problems of the DAS are outlined in specific detail.
This is, indeed, a problematic area because the one vote that I, as rapporteur, lost in committee on Monday concerned olive oil.
Paragraphs 31 and 32 of the explanatory statement spell out the problem.
The Commission itself in its recent options paper of 12 February this year clearly shows the continuing problems of this sector.
Unfortunately, and particularly in years when olive oil prices are high, it is extremely tempting to mix olive oil with seed oil and make a profit at the expense of the consumer.' And so it goes on.
I would then go on to say that the Commission, pursuant to Article 13 of the Council Decision of 31 October 1994 on budgetary discipline, should initiate proceedings forthwith to suspend or reduce monthly advances in this sector.
Let me give another example from the report: Article 74 of the resolution calls for ECU 2m to be spent on sports development in the townships of South Africa.
This has been put in because it was part of the remarks to budget line B7-5070, which we, in Parliament, voted on in December 1994 and here we are now, in April 1997.
When you look at Paragraph 52 of the explanatory statement, you will see that for that budget line in the year 1995 there were ECU 125m on the line.
So, the reference to grants for whisky-makers in Article 35 may leave some people confused, because that is not touched on in the explanatory statement.
Once again, I hope Parliament can discuss it in depth and before the next budget make some concrete proposals on where we stand.
It only remains for me to thank those people involved in drawing-up the report, especially the members of the secretariat.
Madam President, Parliament has always dealt with the discharge in respect of the budget for Parliament.
And it is also the intention of the Committee on Budgetary Control that the Council budget too should be added to the list next year, since it is of course out of the question that a budget of more than 300 million ECU should not be subjected to public scrutiny.
For example the fact that in the European Parliament's budget many of the appropriations earmarked for information were axed simply because the necessary decisions were not taken in time to have those appropriations made.
These must now be applied, and we need to complete an evaluation of these rules and how they are applied before we embark on the new programme for the structural funds.
The Committee on Budgetary Control asked the Commission at the beginning of February for a memorandum on the legal means of redress currently available for recovering monies improperly used.
Commissioner Liikanen finally helped me out on that after I had waited one and a half months, though that was not his fault.
Nevertheless it is not proposing to change the relevant legislation but is trying within the framework of SEM 2000 to tighten up the scheme via an implementing regulation on Member States' obligations and the introduction of a system of net reductions.
It is rather a small sum which we are offering.
We have now had to convert 10 % of our capital into shares which may not be redeemed for 70 years, and we all know that that money has been wasted.
This represents ECU 25m.
But it is possible for everything to change and for the whole situation to improve, because one of the problems with the Eurotunnel is that the British Government will not grant a licence for 99 years.
I would like to have an answer to this here.
There was in fact only justification for ECU 170m.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the particularly explosive aspect of the discharge in respect of the sixth and seventh Development Funds for 1995 is certainly the fact that this House refused to give discharge to the Commission in this area for 1994.
Today I am recommending the House - on the basis of a unanimously approved report by the Committee on Budgetary Control - to give discharge to the Commission in respect of the development funds for 1995, and I would like to explain this recommendation briefly.
The Commission has tabled a formal proposal in the Intergovernmental Conference that Declaration No 12 annex to the EC Treaty be deleted.
This problem seems to have been resolved.
The object of refusing discharge in 1994 was to make the political point in the strongest possible terms that this House could no longer tolerate the loss of democratic control.
In principle, when one comes to deal with this subject for the first time - even as the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgetary Control - it is very hard to understand how one can continue to operate with instruments like the Development Funds, that have already expired, and at the same time have to operate them in parallel.
I believe that the Commission, too, should try to find a more intelligent solution than the present system for future Development Funds.
Although we found that the allocations were not always used in a satisfactory manner, we should stick to this policy and continue developing it.
The macroeconomic policy enshrined in the structural adjustment programme must be geared to ensuring the provision of basic social benefits for those living in poverty.
We know that a very high commitment of human resources is necessary in various countries, and we hope that the Commission will come up with a clearly structured human resources plan which will also cover the delegations in the recipient countries.
Madam President, on behalf of the Committee I can say that we are extremely positive about the implementation of the 1995 budget, with one exception to which I shall return in a moment.
As regards the exception I mentioned: this concerns spending on tourism under budget line B5325.
My question to the Commissioner is whether this work will be finished by June as promised.
My request to the Council President now is that he should help to agree the right legal basis so that the funds agreed in the 1997 budget for tourism, namely Philoxenia, can indeed be disbursed.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to present to you the Council's recommendation to grant a discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the 1995 budget.
Madam President, in making its recommendation on17 March the Council was anxious to stress once again the fundamental need for all players involved in implementing the Community budget to ensure that the spending of Community money goes hand in hand with rigorous compliance with the rules and principles of good financial management, thrift and transparency.
The Court's criticism, also expressed in its special report in support of its statement of assurance, will encourage us to continue along the path chosen, specifically as regards subsidiarity and the specific financial corrections required, though a number of improvements have in fact already been made.
Concerning the budgetary appropriations for the institutions, the Council has taken note of the Court of Auditors' comments on a number of weak points of management concerning the staff of external delegations and buildings.
Consequently it warmly welcomes the announcement of the SEM 2000 programme to improve the Commission's financial management.
The Council wishes to see this programme implemented speedily and in full so that the various errors in the underlying transactions relating to payments can be significantly reduced.
In conclusion, I should like to take this opportunity of thanking your Committee on Budgetary Control for the substantial work it puts in every year as part of the discharge procedure, and consequently not only on behalf of the European Parliament but of the whole of the European Union.
It now remains for Parliament to exercise its powers and reach a decision on the discharge.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a discharge decision and a discharge debate are naturally concerned with the past.
We hope for the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference.
An enlargement which is not only a political decision but also calls for the celebrated strategy of the pre-accession phase, a strategy that was announced to us by Commissioner Liikanen and one where, we hope, we will be involved in the discussion and in the budgetary procedure.
The resolution which I hope will be adopted tomorrow is, much more than past resolutions, addressed to this House itself.
This is the big political problem, the problem we are going to have to examine very carefully in the future, I can tell you that on behalf of my group - that is something we have learned from this debate.
Because it is unacceptable that we appropriate monies to a budget line for political objectives which the Council and Parliament have decided upon, appropriate resources in the budget, and argue about how much money to earmark, and then a year or two years or three years later we find that those resources were never distributed at all.
But to split it up and then pay it out to the Member States in a few years' time is a game that we are no longer prepared to play.
If that is true - and in principle anyone might have said the same - then I see a very great danger here: if people think we have too much money and that we lack not just the administration but even the political ability to distribute it, then the result will be renationalization not just of finance but of politics too.
Madam President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, this is an important day for the members of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Today is the day to send a message to the citizens of Europe: a message of transparency and reliability in Community accounts.
If we were to send this message and the accounts were not really clear, we Members of Parliament would be failing in one of our fundamental duties.
Furthermore, it is clear that the current balance between obligations and resources means the Court of Auditors is at risk of being unable to continue to meet its commitments effectively.
We have an obligation to draw up a more ambitious framework of collaboration between the Court of Auditors and the national control institutions, and the European Parliament should take the political initiative to achieve this framework.
We expect the Commission to make a significant improvement in its auditing and we call for the Member States, managers of 80 % of the Community budget and responsible for 90 % of the irregularities, to be increasingly involved in the improvement of financial control of Community expenditure.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, 1995 was the first year of the mandate of the new Commission headed by Mr Santer.
The figures tell us that expenditure has been kept 13 % below the ceiling agreed for payment allocations.
A budget is a management tool, but it should also be a factor for progress.
The most striking example is surely the European social fund: ECU 6.7 billion was available in payment appropriations but only ECU 5.1 billion were actually spent, leaving 24 % of the appropriations unused.
The second important failure to be highlighted in the implementation of the 1995 budget relates to fraud.
At ECU 1.14 billion, 1.7 % of expenditure, identified irregularities have hit a new record.
The measures for combatting fraud are still completely inadequate, because fraud has become general, virtually an economic attitude, as the temporary committee of inquiry into Community transit made very clear.
The problem is alarming.
In three years, the volume of fraud has been multiplied seven times.
In 1992 identified irregularities amounted to ECU 204 million; in 1995 they were assessed at just over ECU 1.1 billion.
The Commission implemented precisely the policy agreed in the MacSharry reforms of 1992.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our committee has dealt separately with the experience of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, on the basis of the special reports by the Court of Auditors on EU administration in Mostar and election observation in Palestine.
Unfortunately, we were able to confirm the desolate situation regarding the administration and control of the funds distributed there.
This is another area in which the Commission must be given complete responsibility, so that Parliament is in a position to give a meaningful discharge in the first place.
As far as this House is concerned there was a dramatic increase here in 1995 and 1996, especially in connection with the equipping of the new Parliament building.
In order to counter the proliferation of refusals of approval, it would be of great assistance if the Court of Auditors were to publish them in future in its annual report.
Transparency is the first and most important condition for doing away with this mismanagement.
I think Parliament is fulfilling its role in the procedure of discharge to the Commission extremely well.
I certainly agree with the rapporteur when he expresses satisfaction with the spirit of constructive cooperation which has been established between the Commission and the Court of Auditors, and when he notes that the Court of Auditors' control of the consolidated income and expenditure account has improved since 1994.
But I find that, once again, the rapporteur and the Committee on Budgetary Control fail to draw the right conclusions from the Court of Auditors' analysis.
The latest innovation, the new panacea, is to propose discharge of the Council for the budget.
First, the amount of identified irregularities: ECU 204 million in 1992, 403 million in 1993, 1.08 billion in 1994, 1.14 billion in 1995.
In 1994 they represented 4 % of expenditure, and in 1995 nearly 6 %.
Next, there is the underspend of the appropriations: some 20 % for the structural funds and 24 % for the European social fund, in particular.
Clearly, where there is underconsumption of appropriations, we must not persevere with pointless expenditure, but cut excessive budgetary estimates and take account of these facts, these observations repeated year on year, during the revision of the financial perspectives for 1999.
Secondly, I want to say a few words to the Commission.
I want to reiterate in that long way ahead one or two of the things that were said last year and, in particular, remind Commissioner Liikanen about the commitment he made at this stage last year to the policies of greater concentration; what he last year called 'policies of critical mass' , so that we actually have more coherent, more easily identifiable and more readily controlled policies.
I want also to say a couple of words to the Court of Auditors.
I am not sure it has not turned out to be a non-statement of assurance or a statement of non-assurance.
But it certainly is not a statement of assurance.
We have seen a major argument between the Commission and the Court of Auditors about statistical methodology which is detracting from the whole value of the statement of assurance process.
I must say to both institutions: sort that statistical row out and assure us, assure the Member States, assure the citizens that we have an agreed basis for a statement of assurance where we can all have confidence in the methodology.
The Council and Parliament share a common language but I am not quite sure that we yet share a common philosophy.
We share a common language when we all genuflect to words like 'efficiency' , ' sound financial management' and 'proper budgetary discipline' .
I can applaud the President-in-Office of the Council when he says all of those things.
So I ask them, when they talk about Sound and Efficient Management 2000, to not only say this to the Commission but to make sure it is put into practice in the administration of the 15 Member States who are controlling the 80 %.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it was no easy matter on this occasion for the Committee on Budgetary Control to submit the report for the discharge in the time laid down - laid down, indeed, by the Financial Regulations.
We received it one day before we were to vote in Committee on Mr Wynn's long report on the budget.
This time the reference to the responsibility of the Member States is clearer than it has been in the past.
Four out of five ECU in the Community Budget are spent by the Member States on a decentralized basis.
This becomes clear in the motion for a resolution.
Although more than 90 % of expenditure is in order, the remainder is not.
It is a good thing that the Court intends to define the errors, and therefore their avoidance, more clearly in the future.
For example, in the Social Fund, about 24 % of the resources are still unused, and yet unemployment is continuing to rise.
Another worrying example: of the ECU 580 million or so appropriated since 1990 for the safety of nuclear facilities in central and eastern Europe, the Court of Auditors tells us that only 140 million had been spent by '95.
If we are recommending giving discharge to the Commission despite this, we are doing so as a kind of downpayment on trust, because we want things to be put right, and we expect to hear in the autumn that a great many of them have been.
That our work is not useless is clearly demonstrated here, in that the Commission has accepted the single recommendation and modified the strategy for the PHARE programme, so that the objective and priorities are geared towards expansion.
Not that this mistake has cost a lot of money but, as a matter of principle, the decision to provide a loan of 353 million ECUs to the Great Belt project instead of 170 million ECUs is a mistake.
Madam President, the size of the sums that have gone astray and the obviously out-of-date expenditure structure cannot fail to cause anxiety, to say the least, among the taxpayers in the Member States in the attitude they take to the European Union.
Here we are in a time of drastically rising unemployment in a situation where about 24 % - ECU 1.6 billion - of the Social Fund has not been used, a policy that can only be described as cynical.
Yet in the same year expenditure on cereals and arable crops alone rose by 22.6 % to over ECU 15 billion, in defiance of the declared objective of keeping costs down in the agricultural sector.
It is that end statistic which seems to be what everybody is interested in instead of all the work behind it.
I do not think that the discharge report or resolution or debate is the right arena for commenting on the procedures used by the Court in producing this certificate.
I want to thank the Court for its work in producing these extra reports on the new satellite agencies, covering their beginnings sometime in 1994 and then 1995.
It is only gradually dawning on public awareness, or the awareness of those involved, that 80 % of the expenditures are administered by the Member States.
But the Member States must also react to the report of the Court of Auditors.
But Parliament itself can certainly do something to improve its own work, for example in the co-operation of the other Committees with the Committee on Budgetary Control in connection with the discharge.
But I regret the fact that the Committee did not support the call for a separate report on this.
Even so, I am hoping that the Court of Auditors will supply us with some additional material on this, particularly with a view to the new 1999 Financial Regulations.
The most remarkable thing about the budget for 1995 - by contrast with national budgets, which are plagued with overspending - is that we turn out 13 % below our commitments.
It is not necessarily a good thing, but it is certainly a lot better than the problem of overspending, which we hear so much about at national level.
My own experience of Ireland, which has done particularly well and is held up as an example, is that the money we have transferred over 15 years - which peaked in 1992, before the present programme - went to public sector pay and social welfare rather than to economic infrastructure.
Anybody who examines closely trends in public spending will find that, and the fact that this has not been identified by either the Commission or the Court of Auditors means that there is some weakness in our system of evaluation.
A number of Member States have, for example, already accepted the invitation to respond directly to points made in the Court's reports.
The contributions will be reflected in the follow-up report later this year, as requested in the Wynn report.
The adoption of the definitive decision is on the agenda of the Commission next week.
In the future, clear guidelines on recurrent eligibility problems will be included in all programming decisions.
I want to reply to some of your comments.
The Commission proposes to proceed with a twin-track approach.
Firstly, we are tabling a draft Commission Regulation to clarify Member States' responsibilities for financial control; this will be based on Article 23 of the present Council Regulation on the management of structural funds.
This will be based on Article 24 of the above Council Regulation.
With regard to the method, I would like to be a little more precise because I know Parliament's great interest in this issue.
I see that the resolution before you invites the Commission to make a proposal to amend Article 24 of Council Regulation 4253/88 to ensure that effective corrective action is taken in the event of irregularities.
I find it quite natural that when we make new proposals for structural fund programmes after 2000, a new regulation is also a part of this global package.
We are not talking about the very distant future.
It is the year 2000 that they enter into force but proposals must be made before that.
In the context of SEM 2000, efforts are being made to improve cooperation with the Member States on budget forecasting and execution.
As last year, Terry Wynn's report describes very clearly the results and the difficulties.
I would like to emphasize that the problem is that there is a considerable lack of experience.
The results from the first two DAS exercises have differed without good explanations on the ground.
Secondly, on PHARE, the difficulties described by the Court and underlined by the Wynn report can only be acknowledged.
As a first reply, the Commission decided on 19 March new policy guidelines for PHARE.
We are trying to go further in some other areas in the budget.
It is not easy in the Commission but you know as well as I do that it will not be easy in Parliament either.
We must remember that we are now running a budget in a Union of 370 million people.
Coming back to PHARE, further elements will become clearer when the Commission presents its pre-accession strategy after the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference.
This work will be undertaken in close collaboration with Parliament.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, in normal circumstances this debate on a Euro-Mediterranean Interim Association Agreement on trade and cooperation between the European Community and the PLO would be just a formality.
It is supported, anyway, by all of the political groups, as was shown in the discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs a few days ago and also in the vote.
Secondly, we should pay particular attention to the clauses of Article 68 which allow each of the parties to take measures that it considers essential for its security in the event of war or internal strife.
Mr President, the Committee on External Economic Relations is also delighted with the interim agreement on trade and cooperation between the European Union and the PLO, for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority of the West Bank and the Gaza strip.
First, because it will contribute to consolidating an area of peace and stability in the region, given that it is designed to facilitate the development of the former occupied territories, in line with the policy maintained by the European Union since 1970 and making it the major donor of humanitarian aid and aid to the economic and political development of the Palestinian people.
Secondly, because it formalizes, albeit provisionally and only until 1999, bilateral relations between the European Union and the Palestinian Authority, just as this committee requested, and because it confirms the Palestinian people's status as a full Mediterranean partner when the legal status of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip have been definitively established.
Mr President, I am grateful for this opportunity of making a statement here on behalf of the Council concerning the present situation in the Middle East.
The Council is extremely concerned at the latest developments in the Middle Eastern peace process.
Israel's decision to build 6 500 houses on a hill close to Jerusalem, called Har Homa by the Israelis and Jebel Abu Gneim by the Palestinians, prompted a marked deterioration in the situation in the region.
Terrorist suicide attacks have been mounted against Israeli civilians.
The European Union regards the Israeli settlements as contrary to international law and inconsistent with Security Council resolutions 242 and 338 which form the basis of a peace settlement.
When the decision went through the European Union made its opposition plain, through the presidency and in the United Nations.
An attack was mounted on a café in Tel Aviv and recently there were two suicide bombs in Gaza.
As already happened in the past Israel reacted to the latest terrorist attack by closing the border with the Gaza Strip and the West Bank.
The European Union is anxious to improve the social and economic situation of the Palestinians and has an extensive programme of aid to this end.
The Council President has visited a number of capitals in European Union partner countries in the Middle East to prepare for the Euro-Mediterranean ministerial conference which is scheduled for 15 and 16 April in Malta.
The President had in-depth discussions not only on the Euro-Mediterranean process but also on the current situation in the Middle East.
Although the Barcelona process is a separate thing from the Middle Eastern peace process it offers a forum for cooperation to all those involved.
He spoke to President Netanyahu and President Arafat, and with members of their cabinet.
The day before yesterday, on 7 April, special envoy Moratinos and representatives of the Member States met in the Council for an in-depth analysis of the situation.
The Council presidency is liaising closely to this end with the United States which has just had talks with the Israeli premier and tomorrow, on 10 April 1997, premier Netanyahu will be visiting The Hague.
Mr President, thank you for giving me the chance to make this statement.
The European Parliament and my group have hitherto refused to sound the death knell of the peace process - though there are those who wished for just that - or to propose extreme measures, such as requesting that the Council and the Commission freeze the agreements between the European Union and Israel.
The Organization of Arab States has, however, called into question the new economic and political relations with Israel, which have formed an important step in the peace process.
We are told that, after the unsuccessful meeting with Clinton, the Israeli government is intending to propose global negotiations which will solve at a stroke all of the problems, both the issue of Israel's security and the second and third stages provided for under Oslo.
We are told that the intention is to speed up the peace process, so that it does not last two and a half years but is brought to a conclusion in nine months.
Meantime, we welcome the fact the House has moved very rapidly to approve this association agreement, which certainly represents a contribution of the right kind and in the right direction in a peace process that is currently locked in a very difficult phase.
That applies more particularly today, at a time when a gradual increase in tensions and difficulties is threatening to sweep us off course.
It is therefore extremely important that, in the wake of Barcelona, Europe should make clear its own commitment - and not just its financial but its political commitment also - to the region.
The reference to Barcelona and the next conference at La Valletta is necessary precisely in order to link the agreement into the process more generally, the aim being to create a free trade area in the Euro-Mediterranean region by 2010.
It is in fact right to accord the Palestinian people the rights the MEDA programme guarantees to them, and the conclusion of this agreement will mark an important step in that direction.
It is also right to provide the definite legal framework necessary for trade and cooperation with the Gaza Strip and the West Bank, specifically in order to reinforce this approach based on openness and mutual interest in relations between the European Union and all the countries of the Mashreq and Maghreb - and peace in the region is the absolute prerequisite for this.
The agreement has a value which is political rather than economic, and we have therefore to mention here the unusual nature of an agreement signed by the Organization for the Liberation of Palestine on behalf of a State that has yet to be recognized and that is struggling to assert its own right to exist, including within its own frontiers as it conceives them.
What we have now to hope for is that the international legal status of the Palestinian Authority will be regularized with the same speed and decisiveness, so that when the interim period laid down in the Oslo agreements is over, that is to say at the end of 1999, it will have the full capacity to negotiate with the other States.
But - and there are many who have now said this - the essential prerequisite is the restoration of security and acceptable living conditions for all.
It is clear that an escalating situation of conflict has taken over from the peace agreement and the way to peace.
The interim association agreement being negotiated between the European Union and the Palestinians is one of the building bricks of that policy of trust and will bring a better balance to our relations with Israel and the Palestinians.
It takes into account the realities of Oslo and creates a strong legal framework for expanding mutual trade and cooperation between the Union and the Palestinians.
Mr President, Mr President of the Council, ' you can do it if you really try!' That thought is inspired by the association agreement signed between the European Union and the PLO for the benefit of the Palestinian authority.
You have been able to remove legal obstacles and set diplomatic pressures aside in record time to take what may prove to be a great initiative for the success of European Union foreign policy.
A great initiative, certainly, because it in fact confers on Palestine the international recognition it is entitled to.
In fact the text of the agreement stipulates that its objective is to support the economic and social development of the Palestinian territories and participate in building an area of peace and stability in the region.
Far from a rejection of Israel, this strong political act would, in our view, be a gesture of solidarity towards those who are bravely mobilizing within Israel itself, like the tens of thousands of men and women who presented the world with a dignified, peaceful and responsible image of their country.
Mr President, In the latest issue of the Journal of Palestine Studies the American researcher William Quant says that if Israel concluded a peace agreement today on the basis of the two State solution, everything which was being sought prior to 1967 would be gained.
After two years of step-by-step negotiations, when the Palestinian authority controls exactly 7 % of territory militarily occupied by Israel, we must show our solidarity with the people of Palestine, as well as with the hundreds of thousands of Israeli citizens who fervently support peace and respect their Arab neighbours.
The agreement before us today is a factor for stabilization throughout the region.
Its political scope is obviously even more important than its economic and financial side.
The Union must be present on the ground, especially at a time when the American government, which has been so involved, so active and sometimes so effective, now seems to be having difficulties in restraining the ardour of a rabble-rousing head of government.
Consequently the European Union must demonstrate its determination to promote peace and justice.
Mr President, in terms of the existing trade relations between the European Union and the West Bank and Gaza Strip the practical benefits of the proposed agreement with the PLO are not great.
That too is important in the context of the peace process.
The Palestinian administration for its part will do everything possible to stop the terrible killings in Israel.
On the Israeli side, premier Netanyahu last week conveyed a proposal to President Clinton that accelerated talks should be held within six months on a definitive settlement of the status of the autonomous Palestinian territories.
In the hope that the agreement between the Union and the PLO will further the economic development of the Palestinian territories and encourage the Palestinian administration to conclude a safe and final peace settlement with Israel, we are happy to endorse this agreement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we of the Freedom Party welcome the broader and deeper consideration of political co-operation in the present agreement with the PLO, particularly with regard to the consolidation of democracy and respect for human rights as a way of safeguarding peace and stability in that war-torn region.
We must, however, reject the additional importing of agricultural produce into the EU, as in view of the present surplus agricultural production in the European market the importing of more agricultural products would make matters worse for the farmers and could result in a further fall in prices.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone recognizes that the situation today in the Middle East, in Israel and the Palestinian territories is difficult, even dangerous, if not explosive.
I am not sure that this is either necessary, helpful, or indeed positive for the resumption of the peace process that a large majority of the Israeli people hope for and that many Palestinians still support, in spite of everything.
What is really needed is joint international action by the United States and the European Union, and the President-inOffice of the Council has set out the means.
Even if the Oslo agreements allow them and do not prohibit them, the creation of new colonies must be halted, not just because they are a source of tension and short-term deadlock, but especially because they will be unmanageable in the long run, whoever is in government.
In parallel, economic cooperation with Israel must continue in full and, of course, it must be accelerated with the Palestinian Authority.
Without these agreements, the very idea of peace through cooperation and partnership would be damaged.
As we have frequently stated in this Parliament, economics is not enough in itself to restructure the equilibrium of the area: economic cooperation must also be accompanied by political initiatives.
That is why we welcome the fact that the basic aim of the provisional agreement consists in offering an adequate framework for a global dialogue which permits the development of close relations between the parties, as well as progressive and reciprocal liberalization of trade, supporting the economic and social development of the Palestinian territories.
Our satisfaction extends to the complementary agreement under the form of a joint declaration on political dialogue, which seeks to strengthen relations between the parties through regular coordination on issues of common interest, like peace, security, democracy and human rights.
Security, peace and stability in the area are good for everyone, and we in this Parliament must commit ourselves to strengthening and reinforcing that.
Mr President, the interim association agreement with the Palestinian Authority has been finalized at an unusually fast pace, and the proper procedures have not always been followed.
But that does not affect the new situation for the Palestinians who can now apply for money from MEDA funds.
That means more chances of development for the Palestinian territories but also more dialogue between the European Union and the Palestinian Authority.
It is a provisional agreement, which means that fully-fledged political dialogue cannot yet take place, but in any event it is an agreement which can promote the social and economic development of the whole region and thereby bring stability and be good for the peace process.
We shall be evaluating what has worked and what has not worked and we want to make progress in the areas of security, economic and financial wellbeing and social and cultural policy.
We all know that in the region itself there are turbulent and sometimes negative things going on but ultimately this agreement will help to bring about a positive turn of events in the Middle East.
Mr President, peace in the Middle East will only be achieved by applying the Oslo Agreement correctly in terms of timing, depth and form.
The European Union must play an active and autonomous role in supporting the peace process.
And I think suspension of the interim European Union-Israel Agreement should be considered.
Mr President, on the eve of the Malta meeting the peace process is wounded and we must hope it is not dead.
Clearly this situation will have a decisive influence on the outcome of the La Valletta meeting, because it should not be forgotten that the Euro-Mediterranean Agreements are the first offer Israel has had to escape from the enclave situation it has existed in since its creation.
I think the statement was very clear and for once, as we are always complaining about foreign policy, we must applaud the Council for stating that what is happening is against the UN declarations and that the settlements policy is not only contrary to the Oslo agreements but to the UN declarations as well, which clearly advise against settlements, repeating that at the end, and express opposition to terrorism.
And I would also add that we cannot remain impassive faced with a policy which could bring a whole people to despair and wipe out its leadership.
It is very important to re-establish the climate of confidence and have a code of conduct adopted, which Ambassador Moratinos is trying to take forward.
In my opinion something that empowers the port of Gaza, Gaza airport, the safe corridors, is important, and Israel could give a positive signal.
Otherwise we will find ourselves forced to take more serious decisions as regards our trading relations with Israel.
The first thing is the new agreement between the European Union and the Palestinian Authority.
The second thing is the peace process.
The third thing is coordination between the parties involved, Europe and the United States.
The fourth and final thing is the fact that this debate is happening just a week before Barcelona II is due to take place in Malta.
The Barcelona II conference gives Europe a fresh opportunity to set out a new framework based on the trustbuilding measures in the region as a first requirement for salvaging what little remains, regrettably, of the peace process.
So if I may, I will reply to some of the speeches in order to clarify the European Commission's attitude to the agreement with Palestine, the situation in the Middle East, and the meeting next week - Tuesday and Wednesday in La Valetta, Malta - on the Euro-Mediterranean Conference.
But in the end, it is positive that the Council of Ministers has signed it and the European Parliament is unanimously in favour.
The initiative taken by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers after the meeting on Monday on political cooperation, and the proposal put forward by Ambassador Moratinos are, in my opinion, an intelligent and appropriate way of achieving something the European Commission considers fundamental.
The European Union must now participate in the process.
That would be useful to Israel, useful to the Palestinians, and I venture to say useful to the United States first and foremost.
This time the European Union should be able to participate directly in the negotiations, playing a complementary role.
Thirdly, La Valetta.
Naturally, I am not pretending that the context of La Valetta is the same as the context of Barcelona.
Barcelona, the Mediterranean process, is not the peace process, but there is no doubt that this process can feed the dialogue in the very difficult situation we are experiencing at the moment.
Everybody has been very supportive of Ambassador Moratinos today, but I believe that we in the European Union have been totally sidelined in the process.
The proposal before the House involves amendment of a 1990 directive.
Five of these have been included in the common position taken by the Council.
The Commission was prepared to accept the common position for two reasons.
In the second reading the European Parliament proposes to introduce certain amendments which had been omitted from the common position in the Council.
The Commission continues, as at first reading, to agree with the general substance of Parliament's amendments.
But in the absence of the necessary technical amendments and technical supporting data, it is obliged to accept the reticence of the Council to take on specific legal obligations at this point in time.
Against this background, the Commission is not prepared to accept Amendments Nos 1-10 in Mrs Ojala's report.
As regards Amendment No 11, introduced for the purpose of advancing the date by which Member States must have implemented all the national laws required to give effect to the amending Directive of 31 December 1998, the Commission is prepared to accept this amendment and to submit a modified proposal to the Council on the point.
I am confident that Mrs Ojala and the other Members of the House who expressed some concern about the position taken by the Commission in the debate on Monday evening, are now reassured of my intention to follow up in a practical way all of Parliament's requests.
With respect to Article 3 of the proposed directive, all the reported transactions must be included in the payments system irrespective of whether the participant has provided sufficient assurances for covering its payments.
Ojala recommendation for second reading (A4-0072/97) Since arsenic is also one of the transmissible heavy metals, the substances listed in Amendment No 5 really should be included in the scientific evaluation.
Farassino recommendation for second reading (A4-0087/97) The sole purpose of the Commission's proposal to amend Directive 91/439/EEC was to convert the conditions on which the holder of a driving licence can drive a vehicle into clear codes valid for the whole of the Union.
The common position thus did not include these proposals by the European Parliament.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted against the recommendation from of the second reading of the common position adopted by the Council on the amendment of directive 91/439/EEC on driving licences.
The two proposed amendments in the recommendation provide that suspension of a driving licence in one country would automatically result in suspension of use of that driving licence in all the other Member States.
The Danish wishes with regard to joint rules on the suspension of use a driving licence are that there should be a comprehensive exchange of information between the national authorities so that the individual countries are in the best possible position for taking a decision on whether to suspend the right to drive after a licence has been suspended in another country.
I wish to specify the reasons for my vote on the draft recommendation for second reading consequent to the common position agreed by the Council on driving licences.
And I do not think such recognition falls within the powers of the Community under article 75 of the treaty.
So in voting on this draft recommendation for second reading, we have kept to the common position of the Council which represents an advance on the road towards 'functional' harmonization of European rules and an improvement in the daily lives of the citizens.
Palacio Vallelersundi report (A4-0030/97) We think that the right of resale has an important role to play in giving the originator the right to remuneration.
This is why we were pleased to see the introduction of this legislation in Sweden on 1st January 1997.
The number of large sales which would move to other Member States which have not yet regulated this issue is infinitesimal.
The European Commissioner has failed to carry out a cost-benefit analysis of the proposal.
Indeed, it has treated the British Government with scant courtesy in failing to reply to a strongly worded request for a proper cost-benefit study sent by Technology Minister Ian Taylor on 6 March.
We were not sent to the European Parliament to vote in favour of a proposal which will damage an important British industry.
The art market is global, not European.
According to the evidence submitted to the European Parliament by both the French Commissaires-Priseurs and their Belgian and Luxembourg opposite numbers, 90 % of the revenue which is currently raised by the artists' rights levy in Paris and Brussels is on works of art whose creators are dead.
Resale right is the right of an author of an original work (excluding manuscripts) or his heirs, to receive a percentage on the resale price of his work up to 70 years after his death.
Within the European Union, resale right exists in the legislation of eleven Member States, but it is only really applied in eight.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of the report on the proposed directive regarding the resale right to the benefit of the author of an original work of art.
Lindqvist (ELDR), Eriksson, Seppänen, Sjöstedt and Svensson (GUE/NGL), Holm and Lindholm (V), Bonde, Lis Jensen, Krarup and Sandbæk (I-EDN), in writing. (SV) We have voted against this report as we think that harmonisation of the classification of works of art is unnecessary.
Firstly, because the rights in question are not protected by legislation in all of the Member States and, secondly, because of the very substantial disparities between the legislation of the various countries as regards the types of work covered, beneficiaries and the rates payable.
The situation is particularly serious in certain countries, like the Netherlands.
Our Parliament is preoccupied with the defence of human rights in the world.
Anti-racist justice in the Netherlands is no better than in Peking or Djakarta.
Secondly we are concerned about the chosen legal basis, Article 235.
The European Commission maintains that everything depends on supply.
Today, two years later, the tone has completely changed.
In the annual economic report presented to us, we read that growth suffered a sudden setback in the second half of 1995, that the deceleration was particularly violent in the countries whose currencies had appreciated during the monetary crisis of spring 1995.
The final conclusion is also very different: globally (that is, including the dollar effect) growth in consumer demand, which had reached almost 3 % during the previous 18 months, fell to just 1 % in the second half of 1995; growth in real GDP fell from 2.4 % to 1.2 % in the space of six months, a much larger difference than had been announced earlier.
Commissioner Silguy amplified this disturbing fact by verbally adding that Europe lost 1.5 million jobs at that time.
We think the initial position, the 1995 position, was actually dictated by considerations of political strategy: on the one hand the negative effects of the internal monetary fluctuations had to be recognized (how could the Commission deny them?) and the prospect of the eventual solution of the single currency held out, but on the other hand they had to be minimized to prevent their disastrous nature inciting the Member States to take immediate measures, which would have demonstrated that the problem could largely be resolved without the strong medicine of the single currency.
The theoretical deadline for the single currency is now quite close, the monetary fluctuations have calmed down, and if it was asked again the Commission could always reply that the deadlines are now too short to take intermediate measures.
This says a lot about its authoritarianism and its contempt for people and countries.
We have abstained in the final vote.
On the contrary it is the EMU's convergence criteria which are the cause of the restrictive and deflationary policies in Member States.
The expansive policy advocated by the report is in contrast to the EU currency policy which is why the currency policy must be changed and the notion of a European currency must be given up.
The average income per capita in Ireland is now over 84 % of the EU average and this is primarily due to large transfers of EU monies through the European regional, social, agricultural, fisheries and cohesion funds.
Firstly, Ireland receives over 11 % of the overall EU Structural Fund package 1994-1999.
Post-1999, this figure will come down to about 7 % or 8 % of the EU Structural Fund package 2000-2005.
The Irish Government, which has increased spending sizeably in the last two years, has not put any structures in place to deal with the shortfall in EU monies post1999.
While growth rates in Ireland have varied between 7 % and 10 % in recent years, the Irish Government's spending policies have been geared towards short-term gain with no long-term economic strategy in place.
I believe that Ireland should join EMU at the first available opportunity, but we should implement government policies that take into account the above inflationary increases in public expenditure, the fact that there is still under-funding for essential infrastructure and the fact that it will be difficult to sustain current growth rates while economic activity in other EU countries is weak.
There must be maximum coordination of the disbursement of EU Structural Funds through the European Regional Development and Social Funds and regions within Member States whose economic performance is lagging behind that of their European counterparts.
In Ireland, for example, the debate must begin now as to how the next EU Structural Fund monies will be disbursed during the years 2000-2005.
As MEP for the constituency of Connaught/Ulster, I believe that the counties of Donegal, Cavan and Monaghan, together with the province of Connaught, must retain Objective 1 status during the years 2000-2005.
Objective 1 status, which entitles regions to the maximum amount of European Regional and Social Funds, is normally only granted to areas whose average income per capita is below 75 % of the EU average.
If the EU is serious about linking Structural Fund polices to economic performance of regions, then the region of Connaught/Ulster will be granted Objective 1 status during the period 2000-2005.
With inflation within the European Union moving in a positive downward direction and a corresponding increase in GDP it is more important than ever that this welcome trend is managed in a manner which stimulates further economic activity from which sustainable jobs can be created.
In allocating European Union and national Funds to employment projects, special note should be taken of the success of existing community-based programmes such as 'LEADER' and 'County Enterprise Boards' which have the capacity to generate employment at a level not normally reached through national-based schemes, thus helping to retain a reasonable urban/rural infrastructure.
This mechanism rarely operates (the last time it was used was in 1993, for the benefit of Italy) which is understandable because at the moment each country still has the right to pursue a separate economic policy, even if it is more or less coordinated with those of the others.
The Metten report says it should.
In fact, in the future monetary union as adopted at Maastricht, there is no federal European budget to serve as a shockabsorber in case of crisis, local or general.
I voted in favour of the Metten report since the Member countries involved in Economic and Monetary Union will now have recourse to a medium-term financial instrument should they run into difficulties with their balance of payments.
The problem which now arises is that of whether this mechanism should lapse in relation to countries moving on to the third stage of EMU and yet belonging to the EURO, or whether it should be recreated, clearly in other forms but in the same spirit.
For example in Portugal approximately 80 % of our trading is with countries of the European Union and, as regards those which belong to the EURO, it will not be possible to measure the financial fluctuations corresponding to the different currencies.
Furthermore, it must be borne in mind, as the Commission's Annual Economic report for 1997 says, that the degree of Community openness in relation to the world economy is relatively slight and comparable to that of the United States of America or Japan.
In 1995 European Union openness was approximately 10 % as compared with 12 % for the United States of America and 9 % for Japan.
Despite the overall reduction in this amount, the fact has to be faced that countries of the European Union, or the Union as a whole, for exceptional reasons are beginning to have problems as regards balance of payments, above all because, in contrast to what is happening in the United States, for example, workers have less mobility - especially because of language differences - and the automatic stabilizers and the scale of the Federal Budget operate in the United States as shock absorbers.
Thus the European Parliament has just approved, with my support, a resolution proposing that the Commission should submit to us and to the Council a draft regulation on the possibility of assistance in the third stage of EMU for a Member state encountering difficulties in its balance of payments, with the suggestion that the maximum possible benefit should be linked to a percentage of the GDP of the beneficiary Member States.
The Government of National Unity under premier Fino is treading a careful line between the socialists on the one hand and President Berisha on the other hand.
Recommendations were also made for support from the international community in setting up a dialogue between government and opposition, collecting in weapons, preparing new elections, drafting a new constitution and tackling macro-economic problems.
The General Affairs Council of the European Union on 24 March decided to send a mission to Albania to advise the Albania authorities on humanitarian, economic and political issues and on questions of security.
This advisory mission will operate within the framework of the OSCE which will coordinate the efforts of the international community in Albania.
But the ultimate responsibility for coordination rests with the OSCE.
Between 26 March and 2 April a mission was in Albania to prepare for the advisory visit of the mission.
This preparatory mission comprised representatives of the Dutch presidency of the Council, the European Commission, the OSCE and the Council of Europe, plus members from the United Kingdom, Italy and Greece.
The job of the mission was to advise on the remit and composition of the subsequent advisory mission and it reported on 4 April.
The results of the mission will be debated shortly both by the European Union and by the OSCE in Vienna.
Secondly, the more political part: elections, human rights, greater democracy.
In this area the OSCE will play an important part in close co-operation with the Council of Europe.
Thirdly, a multinational protection force to which a number of countries will contribute troops.
There will be close liaison between the force commander and the OSCE representative in Tirana.
The preparatory mission's report says that the police framework envisaged should be a joint effort by the European Union and the Western European Union in cooperation with the Council of Europe.
The police team will also make specific recommendations on how the Albanian police can be helped in the short and medium term.
And then the monitoring of the situation.
At present the ECMM (European Community Monitoring Commission) is operating in Albania with a group of ten observers.
Finally there is humanitarian aid.
As yet there is no talk of a general situation of emergency but this may well arise within a period of a few weeks.
Given this background it is most important that the Union should work at all levels with other institutions such as the OSCE and Council of Europe and that the efforts made should be properly coordinated.
Only if the work of cooperation is structured in this way can the international community give the best possible help in solving the crisis in Albania.
Madam President, by its very nature the advisory mission to which the Council President referred can count on the full support of the European Commission.
It is true that the presence in Strasbourg of the leaders of the main parties in Albania which support democratic change - the presence of those leaders who are here in the Chamber at this very moment - has helped us to get a better understanding of what is happening in that country.
Over the course of the last few days, Fatos Nano, the leader of the Socialist Party, Neritan Tseka, the president of the Democratic Alliance, who is an observer member of the European Christian Democratic Union, and Skender Kinoussi, the president of the Social Democratic Party, have spoken with all of the political groups.
The creation of a government of national reconciliation appears to be the first step in a process of institutional change, which is encouraging.
The Council of Ministers has not managed to agree on joint action to tackle the problems in Albania.
They need help not only in order to survive, but also in order to bring about change.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said previously during our last part-session here, Albania is an appalling example of what a communist government does to people.
The fact is that we shall not succeed in creating or consolidating democratic structures with financial aid alone - the European countries also need to send human resources to Albania.
My group welcomes the formation of the all-party government.
We welcome the decision by the Council of Ministers to allow some Member States to provide close joint co-operation by sending troops to protect the humanitarian aid workers and help promote stability in the region.
Of course, a genuinely joint action would have been even more effective, but this flexible manipulation of the instruments of foreign policy is a welcome step forward when we compare it with the way we were hamstrung in past years in Bosnia and other parts of the former Yugoslavia.
Unfortunately, the socialists in Albania are still playing a dubious role.
On 28 March they tried to establish official contacts with the self-styled leaders of the rebels, instead of supporting the lawfully elected town councils and mayors, including some of their own political complexion.
If we, as members of the European Parliament, are no longer prepared to support the local politicians who were lawfully elected in September, how can we expect the rebels to do so - especially when their political and professional backgrounds are particularly dubious?
My group is in favour of early elections, but a precondition for those elections is universal access to the mass media and the laying-down of arms.
The latter point is particularly important to allay the fears of these armed gangs felt by normal citizens in Albania - which means the great majority.
First of all because the UN mandate which, in combination with the good will of some States, means that a multinational force can be sent to Albania, is rather a fragile mandate, since it does not permit weapons to be recovered and the militia to be disarmed.
This is, moreover, a situation in which the Council has again shown itself unable to face up to its own responsibilities out of fear that the right of veto will be used, in this instance - I believe - by the United Kingdom.
The machinery that regulates European foreign policy is not fully functional, and great dangers now threaten the military and humanitarian mission which is about to begin, particularly since there is a great deal of anti-European and anti-Italian feeling in Albania, as a result of the impact of the sinking of the Albanian ship, with the loss of more than 80 people in the Adriatic.
I ask myself and I ask you whether, in the final analysis, the intention is really to reestablish peace and create the conditions for the restoration of democracy or to instal a political party in government in Albania.
I ask myself, and I ask you, Commissioner, whether something has not gone wrong here when all this aid has failed to take effect; most of all, though, I ask you why the democratic political principles on which this co-operation was founded have apparently been consigned to oblivion.
Because that is the real and very important task of the OSCE - to function as a political early-warning system for imminent crises.
Madam President, there have been several occasions during this century when Italy has been an occupying and colonial power in Albania.
That is why this is basically a military operation and why it offers no guarantee of that the way to free elections in Albania and, particularly, to fresh presidential elections will be opened up.
We are calling upon the United Nations to assume full responsibility for a humanitarian action in Albania, instead of contracting it out to Italy, and we urge that the military support for the mission should, most especially, not be Italian.
Sadly, however, we have to recognize that a common European policy has failed in regard to Albania, and in those circumstances we have also to say that the dispatch of humanitarian assistance is now necessary and that it needs the right kind of escort, in accordance with the mandate set out in the UN Security Council's decision of 28 March.
Madam President, as you will have noticed, the last two speakers have given us a glimpse of Italian domestic politics.
I too could point out that a country unable to secure respect for the constitutional state within its own frontiers is perhaps ill-suited to lead this multinational force.
I wish to thank Commissioner Van den Broek for being here once again today for issues that fall within his strict area of responsibility, and I hope he understood what I was trying to say yesterday when I referred to the code of conduct on attendance by commissioners.
Madam President, Commissioner, as this House debates the situation in Albania, the Italian Chamber of Deputies is preparing to vote on a text, a technical agreement, requiring the government to implement immediately the decision of the United Nations concerning an aid and security mission to Albania in the form of a multinational force under Italian leadership.
This is a decision of great responsibility, in terms of freedom in Italy, in terms of the nation but also in terms of Europe, since Italy has for the first time been given responsibility for leading an international mission.
The crisis in Albania has highlighted the need for Europe finally to establish a common foreign and security policy.
We can only hope that a solution will finally be found within the Intergovernmental Conference, allowing a Community decision in these areas is able to be taken rapidly and by a majority of the Member States.
Despite all the delays and the more or less disguised attempts at sabotage, a European peace force is about to leave for Albania.
A further positive element is that Italy is going to be coordinating the mission and that the other European countries participating in the mission have displayed confidence in Italy.
I want to take advantage here of the presence of the President-in-Office and the Commissioner to point to the need to learn the lesson of a number of critical events which led to this crisis.
And even though I cannot ask the President-in-Office and the Commissioner to state, unequivocally and clearly, their views about who is responsible for bringing us to this state of affairs, I venture to say that we, as the European Union and as the countries of the European Union, have some share of responsibility, by confirming, for instance, almost blindly, that there was election rigging.
But the European Union, which has the capacity to give expression to the common will of the governments and peoples of all 15 Member States, is absent from Albania.
I got the impression that they were speaking not for Europe but for another continent, and for another Union, and certainly not for the European Union.
The tragic events in Albania have caught you on the hop.
Madam President, in contrast to my group, I have signed and will be voting in my personal capacity for the compromise resolution on Albania, because I approve of what it says and agree that there is an urgent need to send an international humanitarian mission.
I hope that a new common foreign and security policy will be able to prevent fresh crises, including through the use simple majority voting.
In the case of Albania, the solution involves sending in immediately the international force that has my support, and I shall be voting for the resolution notwithstanding the view of my group.
Madam President, I would like to begin my contribution by paying tribute to the many very brave men and women in Albania who have risked their lives and their livelihood in order to try to preserve peace, order and decency in that country.
Their bravery deserves our admiration and indeed our support.
It is in that context that we have to see our debate today.
I share the concern that has been expressed by some Members today that the multinational protection force is not sufficiently representative.
Madam President, in two minutes there are only two things I can say: the first concerns the role of the Union in the current crisis in Albania, a role which, despite the support of the UN, does not provide for the Union to assume full and direct responsibility on the basis of the Treaty in force.
It is in fact merely co-participation, even though the mission in Albania lines up a number of states in the front line, starting with Italy.
The risk is that in the heart of old Europe we are seeing perpetuated the situation that Luigi Sturzo described when he said that in every state all of the citizens are disarmed and only the government is armed.
In our continent all of the states are armed and only international authority is disarmed.
And since there can be no peace without law nor law without sanction, either Europe manages very rapidly to acquire a unitarian structure for security and crisis prevention or our continent is destined to remain a prisoner of the state of nature in which all nations are prone to mete out justice for themselves and slide back into barbarianism, as happened in Bosnia and is likely to happen in Albania.
Secondly, in Albania now, the real problem, as has been said, is not so much all the humanitarian aspects - the need for food and drugs - as the urgent need to restore, on democratic bases, the authority of the state and the sovereignty of the law.
The mission will have some hope of success only if those basic rules are respected.
It is, however, destined to fail miserably if the Leninist approach that still exists in the socialist party, which has a tendency both to support the Fino government and to establish political agreements with the revolutionary committees and armed bands, is not discouraged.
Neither you, nor the UN under Anan, nor all the international organizations put together, nor anyone else can deprive the Albanian people, who have decided that enough is enough, of their inalienable right to determine the fate of that man.
And anyone who still talks about the dubious role of the socialists in Albania should be asking himself whether he is striking the right note.
Because what matters now, as I see it, is that all men of good will should pool all their resources to work to improve conditions in Albania, to work together, and Berisha himself must play a constructive part in this process of reconstruction and do his bit for it.
I should like to emphasize how seriously this House has taken, and still is taking, the debate on the situation in Albania.
I believe the debate, and the joint motion for a resolution, which addresses all the important factors, show that we are prepared to do what is necessary to help support the building of new political and economic structures; all speakers in this debate have clearly expressed that point of view.
Mention was made at the beginning of this debate of the ECU 500 million or so that have found their way to Albania through the PHARE programme.
I believe, at the end of the day, the international community and especially the European Union, the OSCE and the International Monetary Fund, now have a duty to support the macroeconomic development in Albania so that people there can once again have a future.
Without that compensation any political solution will be founded on shaky ground.
In the case of Bulgaria, it sided with the peaceful demonstrators against the Videnev government.
Madam President, you will appreciate that it is not easy to respond to the points raised by twenty different honourable members, many of whom have quite rightly demonstrated their own particular concern and emotion at the developments in Albania.
The second question: when the total collapse began in February/March, did the European Union react adequately then?
The crisis in Albania, Madam President, is not a civil war.
The place to start, ladies and gentlemen, is with the restoration of some degree of order and authority, because otherwise nothing can be done.
That agreement was concluded, and as a result the Fino government was formed which is now trying to make its mark.
The problem is a total collapse of the social and economic system and of national authority.
I am particularly glad to see that a number of countries have formed a coalition of the willing - not as an initiative of the European Union, because it has no authority for that, the Council has no military authority - backed by a declaration of empowerment in a resolution of the Security Council to provide a multinational protection force.
Madam President, I just rise, since it is obvious that I have not been here during the whole of the debate, to say that my colleague, Hans van den Broek, expresses his strong regrets at the fact that he unavoidably had to leave the Chamber early in order to catch an aeroplane.
He has also asked me to say that if there are specific questions of detail or information arising out of the proceedings of the debate, to which he will obviously pay close attention, he will be happy to provide answers to those specific questions in writing.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at noon.
Situation in Hong Kong The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Hong Kong.
Madam President, I am grateful to you and to Parliament for asking me to speak today on Hong Kong.
In less than twelve weeks from now Hong Kong will revert to the People's Republic of China.
The Council views the future of Hong Kong with confidence and is sure that the close relations between the United Kingdom and the People's Republic of China will guarantee a smooth hand-over of power.
What happens to Hong Kong is relevant to all the trading nations, including the European Union's Member States, whose trade with Hong Kong totalled some 43 billion ECU in 1996.
In December last China set up a provisional legislative body, the so-called Provisional Legislature, which after 1 July will take over the duties of the present Legislative Council, Legco.
The Council hopes that this Provisional Legislature will not hamper a smooth hand-over and the future development of Hong Kong.
We are working energetically to continue our ties with the SARHK in the World Trade Organization and in other instances where Hong Kong can act independently by virtue of its Basic Law.
The Dublin summit also stressed its full support for the special status of the SARHK and its citizens in every respect, including their right to representative democratic institutions of the kind already in place.
The European Council in Dublin expressed its support for Hong Kong.
The Council will monitor developments up to the time of the hand-over of sovereignty and afterwards too, when China shapes its policy of one country, two systems, in what will then be known as the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong.
The Council has faith in Hong Kong's future and will work for close cooperation in every possible area.
Mr President, the Commission welcomes this opportunity to discuss Hong Kong and I am grateful to Parliament for providing this facility by tabling these motions today.
We believe that Hong Kong will play an important and positive role in our relations with China in the decades ahead.
As the House will know, over recent years the European Union has taken every opportunity to stress the importance it attaches to the future of Hong Kong.
The European Council has repeatedly emphasized the Union's strong stake in Hong Kong's future peace and prosperity.
Hong Kong is our tenth-largest trading partner with over 100 European Union financial services companies and about 250 regional headquarters of European Union companies settled there.
The Commission believes that effective implementation of the Sino-British Joint Declaration and full observance of the Basic Law is the best way to protect the European Union's very real interests in Hong Kong, and of great importance to preserve the well-being of the people of Hong Kong.
The effective application of the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law will mean that Hong Kong as a special administrative region of China, enjoys a high degree of autonomy, not only in economic affairs but in administration, finance and the legal system.
The Declaration and Basic Law also confirm the essential core freedoms in Hong Kong, including freedom of speech, of assembly, of association and of religion in practice and belief.
The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Convenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights will continue to apply to Hong Kong.
The arrangements are, however, laid out very specifically in the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law and this must be regarded as the fundamental guarantee for the people of Hong Kong.
Hong Kong will continue to be a distinct voice as a separate member of numerous international organizations and will be able to sign international agreements in areas within the Hong Kong SAR's autonomous responsibility.
In the years to come we will be expecting Hong Kong to maintain its status as an active and autonomous partner in economic affairs and in the other policy areas reserved for the SAR.
I emphasize that it is in the interests of everyone outside and inside China to maintain international confidence in Hong Kong.
That is why we are concerned about some developments in recent months relating to the Legislative Council and to civil liberties legislation.
This is a sensitive time and it is very important that reassurances are given to the people of Hong Kong and to the international community about the preservation of democracy, civil liberties and the rule of law.
A clear announcement that elections for a new Legislative Council elected on a free and fair basis will definitely take place soon after the handover would be a clear and important reassurance about Hong Kong's future stability.
The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, as provided for in the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law will, obviously, be unique but that very uniqueness makes it doubly important that people in Hong Kong, in the rest of China and in the international community give the Hong Kong SAR a chance to work as intended.
In addition, we in the Commission intend to build on the progress made in recent years in intensifying ties with Hong Kong, as so many individual European citizens whether students, visitors or businessmen - and many others, including this Parliament, have done.
That office will continue to perform this function in the future.
Firstly, after 1 July Hong Kong will no longer be a solely British issue, it will become a concern for the whole of the European Union.
And secondly, as has been said particularly by Commissioner Kinnock, a peaceful transition of Hong Kong is in the interests of all concerned.
A successful transition will benefit us all.
An unsuccessful transition will equally damage us all.
Of course there is no reason, as has been said by the Council and the Commission, why the transition should not go well.
Furthermore, the decision to maintain in place the existing Chinese civil servants in Hong Kong is an important vote of confidence in the area, particularly given the high quality of the individuals concerned.
There are of course one or two areas of concern.
The intention to repeal or to amend the Bill of Rights Ordinance - which includes provisions of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights - along with the Societies Ordinance - which was aimed after all at dealing with the Triads - as well as the Public Order Ordinance which deals with meetings and demonstrations must cause us some concern about the future of human rights in Hong Kong.
Furthermore, the way these measures are being proposed by a preparatory committee meeting in secret gives us no confidence for the future.
I do not believe these proposals match that requirement and therefore it is important, as Commissioner Kinnock has indicated, that elections for a new Legislative Council are held as soon as possible.
Article 70 of the Basic Law says that these elections should be held within three months of the dissolution of the existing Legislative Council.
The best guarantee of human rights is the ability of people to cooperate at an international level.
It is therefore vital that we get a message across today that human rights are not some add-on extra, they are an essential prerequisite of a modern economy.
You cannot have economic freedom without political freedom.
That is why it is important that the Council of Ministers speaks with one voice on this issue - not as it has done on some other issues recently - and makes it clear that we are committed to ensuring the future prosperity of Hong Kong.
That way we can ensure that all of us benefit from the continuing prosperity in Hong Kong.
The Council might have had its statement written in Paris: the optimistic tone regarding China's intentions seemed to have been written in French.
Thanks also to the Commission for a very comprehensive statement which goes a long way to reassuring us that at least the Commission is going to pay some regard to the situation in Hong Kong after the handover.
It is of course true that Hong Kong is of great importance economically to the European Union.
The Commission has already spelt out some aspects of this but I would like to say that there are 45, 000 European citizens in Hong Kong; that the European Union is its third largest trading partner after China and the USA; that Hong Kong is the European Union's twelfth largest trading partner in the world; and that our exports to Hong Kong amount to about ECU 2, 000 per head in Hong Kong, whereas Australia takes only ECU 400 and Japan ECU 200.
Hong Kong has of course been an entrepôt for exports to mainland China for generations but recently, since the reforms in mainland China in 1978, these have risen about 500 %.
Might I add that Hong Kong with a population of 6 million produces about 23 % of the wealth of China as a whole and currently enjoys 100 % democracy.
We need to be very vigilant, and this Parliament as a whole, I hope, will be so.
The agreements signed by this major trading partner of many Member States of the European Union are also being broken, given that, according to the new Chinese leadership in Hong Kong, the Legislative Council democratically elected in September 1995 is going to be dissolved, the laws that provide for and safeguard the freedom of the press and the freedom of association are going to be repealed, associations are no longer going to have the right to maintain links with foreign organizations and there will be restrictions on the right of assembly and expression.
We are demanding that by the end of May there should be a report back to the European Parliament on the human and civil rights situation; we are calling upon the Commission to increase its own diplomatic representation in Hong Kong and for the situation to be closely monitored.
Mr President, it is 13 years since the signing of the Sino-British Joint Declaration; that is 13 years of the UK telling its European partners: ' Have no fear, Hong Kong is safe in our hands.' There is now fewer than 13 weeks until Hong Kong becomes a Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China; fewer than 13 weeks for Europe to make up its mind on how to build a coherent common position on Hong Kong and how to deal with unfinished bad business.
The President-in-Office spoke of the importance of Hong Kong to business.
His statement to me seemed not to be written so much in Paris as in the hallowed halls of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London.
If we are having a problem with human rights for 1.5 billion people, what hope is there for the human rights of 6 million in Hong Kong?
China has announced its intentions to repeal parts of the Bill of Rights Ordinance and 25 other ordinances and to abolish the directly elected legislative Council.
I hope that the Council will join with the United Kingdom in seeking referral of the question of abolition of Legco to the International Court of Justice.
But if, when he talks of traditional Chinese values, it turns out to be the same as the Asian values practised elsewhere in Asia or worse, as the famille-patrie-travail once advocated in Europe then the liberal and democratic forces, whom we also met in Hong Kong, will face a daunting task and they will need our continued help.
In conclusion, Liberal Democrats in this Parliament want Europe to have new watchwords on Hong Kong: vigilance, active assistance and zero tolerance.
Mr President, the peaceful solution to the problem of Hong Kong is a positive example of negotiated settlement of a serious bone of contention.
But it is obvious that democracy and human rights have an intrinsic moral and political value which must carry more weight than international agreements which have been entered into over the heads of the people concerned.
The problem is to make the leaders of the People's Republic of China understand that the system in force in Hong Kong should become the system for the whole of China.
Democracy is also a legal system and a court system which works: some Chinese authorities are beginning to understand the importance of all these things.
It can only change with a common foreign policy.
However, he is fundamentally wrong when he says this debate is not about China.
I have been listening to Chinese politicians for the past 13 years and that tone of deep resentment is either on the surface or very shallowly beneath the surface.
The argument that they are belated seems to me misguided.
We must understand that those reforms brought in by Governor Patten now have broad support.
Mr President, systematic abuse and denial of human rights continues in mainland China, yet the Western world remains embarrassingly silent.
It would seem they would prefer to forget the events in Tiananmen Square and yet at the same time they will protest loud and long about the denial of democracy and human rights in other parts of the world with which they have no significant trade.
Events in Hong Kong after the hand-over in July later this year will be pivotal and revealing as to the role that mainland China intends to play in the region.
The European Union must ensure that these international commitments are fulfilled.
In that sense I welcome the statement of the Commission, although I am concerned about the comments of the Council.
The European Parliament should use this debate to make a statement and to send a message to mainland China, saying where the European Union stands.
As this represents the end of the colonial period one must understand the satisfaction in China with its long-term goal of reuniting Hong Kong with the mainland.
But very clearly this unique experiment can only succeed if one recognizes that Hong Kong for 150 years has been strongly influenced by western cultures apart from the traditional Chinese values of hard work and perseverance.
Many colleagues have underlined that basic values and freedoms, the rule of democratic law and democratic electoral processes are as much a part of Hong Kong as of western Europe or the United States or for that matter any other democratic country.
That will ensure confidence not only internationally but also locally, Mr President-in-Office.
But Europeans should look to the future.
Albeit belatedly, the United Kingdom is recognizing this as a European problem.
Four or five countries do not have visas, others have, including I believe the United Kingdom.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission and the Council for their statements.
But there are worrying signs that both Hong Kong's economic success and its political and civil freedoms could be put at risk after the hand-over on 1 July.
The provisional legislature appointed by Beijing should not become a permanent puppet legislature.
When the existing Legislative Council is abolished new elections must be held within a matter of months as both Mr Titley and Commissioner Kinnock have indicated.
Indeed this is written into the Joint Declaration and Basic Law which guarantee the continuance of Hong Kong's existing way of life for at least 50 years.
China must deliver on Deng Xiaoping's promise of one country, two systems.
Mr Watson put the point succinctly but forcefully too.
The consequences of recognizing that will be beneficial not only for that country and for Hong Kong but for the world in general including the European Union.
The benefits which easy travel gives to developing economic and other contacts, and the importance of demonstrating confidence in Hong Kong's future, suggest that freer access to the European Union would be in the interests of both the EU and Hong Kong.
I look forward to the further debate that will come as a consequence of the publication of the Commission's communication and I am sure that at that time and for many years in the future honourable Members, like the Commission, will sustain a close and vigilant interest in the affairs of Hong Kong.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
I think Auto/Oil can be described as more of a political study than a technical one.
The study was carried out under the very clear influence of industrial groups, car manufacturers and oil refiners, and, as such, there cannot be much technical confidence in the measures proposed in it.
So we think balance should be reestablished and we will not really be fighting air pollution and therefore we will not be improving the quality of human health unless we base ourselves on guidelines and values that are much more prescriptive and much more constraining, both for oil, petrol and diesel and for cars.
That is the line taken in the reports before you today.
So I say that the economic basis of this Auto/Oil study is clearly geared to and principally serves the interests of the industrialists.
It is hard to see how it serves the interests of consumers, who were not consulted even though they have a strong interest in the quality of the product served to them from the pumps, every day and across the whole of Europe.
The improvements I propose essentially bear on the fact that standards must be set, not targets, and that these standards must be set for 2000 and 2005.
For example, a diesel car using the diesel fuel recommended by the Commission emits 25 % more particles of pollutants by comparison with a diesel fuel which is already on the Swedish market and has a much lower sulphur content.
In view of this situation, and with particular regard to the air quality in cities like Athens and Madrid, we need better quality fuel for all vehicles, new or old.
We also need binding limits for the years 2000 and 2005, because we have an internal market.
This is clearly apparent in Germany, where initial efforts are already being made to license Euro III vehicles now.
It is precisely when engines are claimed to be environment-friendly because they consume less fuel that we cannot make any exceptions.
But this on-board system has to be capable of being serviced not only by franchised workshops but also by small garages, automobile clubs and technical inspection facilities.
What use is it if a car produces outstanding figures when tested at 20 degrees?
And we need in-service tests, a very costeffective measure because manufacturers are naturally keen not to become entangled in recalls.
In any case, the five major European environmental organizations and 40 million motorists who are members of associations like the ADAC, the RAC, etc.
Measurements of air quality in the city tell us that the air is seriously polluted on days like this.
As recently as 1991 the Commission put the cost of car transport to society at 200 billion ECU a year.
These 200 billion ECU are incurred by the damage which motor traffic causes to agriculture, water quality and public health.
And in this programme the Commission seems all of a sudden to have forgotten its own calculations and its own objectives.
The reduction in ozone-creating substances which the Commission proposes will mean that only 37 % of the territory of the European Union will meet the standard laid down by WHO.
Regarding the strategy to be followed, I am very much in favour of setting mandatory standards for the year 2000 and the year 2005.
It has set its schedule of meetings for 1997 and this includes plenty of scope for the analyses which are needed in the area of employment indicators and comparison of services, what is known as 'benchmarking' .
The Dutch presidency will also present an interim report on employment to the European Council in Amsterdam.
It is true that a proposal was put forward in Dublin on a new chapter on employment but I think that we need to put more flesh on the bones on the proposal from Dublin.
I cannot comment on it here on behalf of the Council.
That is not to say that even without amendments to the Treaties, and I certainly would not wish to underestimate or indeed overestimate the importance of Treaty amendments, the Council, Commission and European Parliament can do quite a lot as regards, shall we say, the coordinating and encouraging role which the institutions of the European Union can play in improving the prospects for economic growth and thus for jobs.
The honourable member's question is undoubtedly most apposite and the costs of enlargement will have to be considered most carefully in due course.
My suggestion is thus that we do not have this debate now, but later when we have the communication which the Commission will be producing as soon as possible after the end of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Everyone knows that it is politically impossible to turn to the Member States and ask for an increase in the Membership fee.
For example: what would it cost to apply the common agricultural policy in its present form to the four Visegrad countries?
At the same time all manner of other estimates are used, for example this one: policies on agriculture and the structural funds together make up 80 % of the European Community budget, and this structural policy is then extrapolated as well.
But there one is starting from such a static situation that I find it unrealistic to take that as a starting point for shaping policy which will apply in the first decade of the next century.
I mentioned the Visegrad countries simply because one of the most hotly discussed reports quoting figures in the billions had to be do with enlargement to include the Visegrad countries, but you can take it from me that that implies no judgment on the Council's part as to how the future process of enlargement will unfold and which countries will be involved.
In line with the conclusions of the Cannes European Council of June 1995 accession talks with Cyprus will begin on the basis of proposals from the European Commission six months after the end of the Intergovernmental Conference, taking into account the outcome of that Conference.
The Union's position remains the one established at the meeting of the Association Council on 25 February 1997.
At the same time the prospect of Cyprus's joining the European Union provides an opportunity to push this year for a general resolution of the Cyprus question in line with the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council, culminating in a federation with two communities and two zones.
According to the Council's conclusions of 6 March 1995 Cyprus's accession to the European Union must create greater security and prosperity for each of the two communities on the island.
The Council stresses that it did indeed fail to reach a consensus on what the Union position should be at the meeting with Cyprus scheduled for 25 February as part of the 'structured dialogue' .
I would point out in conclusion that the Financial Protocol signed in June 1995 includes support for efforts to promote a general settlement of the Cyprus question.
The sum of 12 million ECU has been made available for possible initiatives agreed with Cyprus for projects to promote confidence-building measures.
If the Republic of Cyprus can in some way accommodate the North and include it in its discussions, fine - that is a matter for Cyprus - but can the Council confirm that the EU itself will not go back on the pledges it has made?
As the Council understands it, the Government in Ankara has a veto on the start of accession talks.
I think it would represent a total rejection of all EU requirements for democracy if we were to accept that a country such as Turkey be allowed to dictate to us the conditions under which we should accept new members in the Union - I am thinking of course of Cyprus.
Turkey must therefore withdraw its troops in order that negotiations may commence.
So the Council is very much concerned to persuade both the Cyprus Government and the Turkish Cypriot authorities and Ankara and Athens that they should do everything possible to create a climate in which the parties themselves are willing to negotiate.
They must do everything possible to make sure that there is never disagreement at any time in the future within the European Union about the accession of Cyprus as a result of an unresolved question which has dogged us for the last 25 years.
So in this specific case it is not the place of the Council to state a view on it.
But in general terms the Council would make the point that with regard to civil liberties and human rights in the European Union all Member States are parties to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms which was signed in Rome on 4 November 1950.
Under Article K2 of the Treaty on European Union matters named in Article K1, including judicial and police cooperation in criminal matters, are dealt with in compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights.
I thank the President-in-Office for that reply.
And that is and remains the objective.
This assistance will be spread over the various structural policy objectives of the European Community and is continuing with undiminished vigour under the Dutch presidency too.
In short, the combating of unemployment is and remains a prime objective of the European Community's structural policy.
We note with satisfaction the concern about the continuing unemployment situation expressed by the Council under the Dutch Presidency, as was also case under the Irish Presidency.
Question No 6 by Mr Pirker (H-0218/97) Subject: Europol Europol should be created as swiftly as possible as an effective weapon in the fight against organized crime.
In reply to Mr Pirker I am glad to say that the Member States have undertaken on several occasions and notably at the European Council in Dublin in December 1996 to do everything possible to complete the ratification of the Europol Convention and the Protocol on the Court of Justice by the end of 1997.
To date the United Kingdom is the only Member State which has ratified these texts, in December 1996.
Of course each parliament has its own procedures and ways of operating so that the time scales may differ.
Nevertheless all the Member States concerned have confirmed that the target date can be met.
We all know that the citizens of the Union have a right to security, meaning that they expect the Union to ensure that EUROPOL does eventually come fully into force.
Secondly, we know that the situation in the countries of origin is a tragic one.
I invite the honourable member and the House in general to pay a visit to The Hague where Europol's precursor is in fact already operational in terms of its organization, institutions and the testing of its cooperation methods, but all this on the basis of a provisional mandate which is yet to be ratified.
And then there is your question about whether Europol will be able fairly soon to initiate cooperation with third countries or whether it will be able to do this at all.
I think the powers of the European Union and its institutions to cooperate with third countries under the third pillar are currently limited because this always has to be done through international treaty, through intergovernmental construction of the third pillar, and treaties of this kind have to be ratified.
Mr President, if cooperation with third countries is being considered, could we make it a condition for Europol, which is, of course, of immense value in the fight against crime, that it should not take action against individuals based on suspicions of committing acts which are not offences in the European Union but may be offences in third countries which do not recognize civil liberties and freedom of expression in the same way that we recognize them in the Union?
If specific proceedings are instituted in a specific Member State, that is always done under the political responsibility of that country's government and by investigating officials of that country.
Europol officials can never have political responsibility for such measures or responsibility for investigating them.
As regards the future enlargement of the Union to include the associated countries in Central and Eastern Europe, Poland being one of them, I can only refer to the Dublin summit which confirmed the timetable for the enlargement process which was set in Madrid.
Immediately after the Intergovernmental Conference ends the Commission will be presenting the Council and the European Parliament with its opinions on each country individually and a comprehensive document on enlargement as a whole.
This procedure guarantees that all countries applying for membership are treated equally.
The Commission will also put forward its assessment of the consequences of enlargement for Community policies and a communication on the future financial framework of the European Union as from 31 December 1999, taking account of enlargement.
In substantive terms I think it is pointless now in 1997 to make pronouncements, quite apart from the formal argument that all these accession mandates still have to be discussed, on how things should look in the year 2002, 2003 or 2004.
I would urge you not to speculate on how the labour market in Eastern and Western Europe will look in the year 2002, 2003 and 2004, what specific arrangements that will necessitate, whether it will require transitional measures or derogations for the new members.
In reply to Mr McMahon's question about technical measures to maintain fish stocks, I would stress that the Dutch presidency attaches particularly great importance to this.
The presidency is working hard on these at the moment, but given the highly technical nature of this subject the Dutch presidency does not intend to place this item on the agenda of the Fisheries Council scheduled for next 14 and 15 April.
It is rather unfortunate that Parliament has been pushing ahead with the Adam report and held emergency meetings only on Monday of this week, being told it was to meet a deadline from the Council.
Yet again, the presidencies, in particular the Dutch, have treated Parliament with a rather cavalier attitude.
When Mr Patijn meets the representatives of the European Disability Forum, as he will be doing within the next week, is he going to give them a more open answer and have a more open discussion than we have been able to have in this Parliament tonight?
Question No 10 by Mr Lomas (H-0226/97) Subject: Interference by EC Commissioner in British elections In the run-up to the UK's general election, EC Commissioner Leon Brittan is quoted in the British press as having criticized the Labour Party for suppressing debate on Europe.
In reply to Mr Lomas's question I must do as my predecessors and I myself have done on many occasions in similar cases and that is stress that the Council cannot express a position or a judgment on things which are said outside the formal framework of its meetings, and certainly not when they are said by persons outside the Council.
These statements are widely reported in the press.
Jacques Santer recently berated Member State governments who had some queries about the single currency timetable.
In reply to Mr Morris's question about the dangers of clenbuterol as a growth promoter in animals intended for human consumption I can say that the Council is well aware of the need for vigorous measures to counter the illegal use of anabolic steroids in livestock farming, with a view to protecting the consumer.
To that end the Council adopted Directive 96/22/EEC on 29 April 1996 in order to tighten up the measures taken in 1981 and 1988 and ensure that they were implemented better.
Also adopted was Directive 96/23 on supervisory measures for implementing this tougher policy.
So some use is permitted, but never in animals intended for human consumption.
The Council shares the honourable member's concern over the difficult position of children in Romania.
In this context the Commission, together with the Romanian Government and non-governmental organizations, is helping with a broad programme designed to improve the position of children in the country.
A budget of 12 million ECU has been set aside for this.
I also wonder how a situation of that kind could arise in the heart of Europe, and I do not know whether the Council has answered that.
We all know that some countries of Eastern Europe are deep in political and social crisis as a result of their transition from a dictatorially controlled economy to a democratic free market economy.
As the author is not present, Question No 13 falls.
Question No 14 by Mr Sjöstedt (H-0235/97) Subject: The EU as an association of free and independent States Representatives of the Swedish government maintain that the EU is an organization of free and independent States.
As President-in-Office of the Council I am all the keener to emphasize that the Council and its members attach the utmost value to this communal basis and to the legislation adopted under the Treaty and generally referred to as the acquis communautaire .
Mr President of the Council, I am grateful for your reply but I would point out to you that in our experience when a question is not put at the right time, the Council or the Commission will say it has not been put at the right time.
We have here an interim report which was in principle reliable, which was put to the parties and which has been leaked.
Parliament is asking for a Mediterranean country to be offered the prospect of participation in Euro-Mediterranean policy.
I must point out that, as a member of the great Arab Maghreb, that country, Libya, is part of the Maghreb Delegation to the European Parliament, and is working indirectly on Euro-Mediterranean policy here in this very building in Strasbourg, where more than one meeting has been held.
I sincerely believe this reply is a mistake, and I ask the Council of Ministers, between now and 15 and 16 April, the scheduled dates for the meeting in La Valetta, the second Euro-Mediterranean meeting, to open up this prospect.
I would remind you that the European Community in Madrid - we were talking about it earlier - asked the Commission to make a thorough analysis as soon as possible of the European Union's financing system, so that immediately after the end of the Intergovernmental Conference a communication could be presented on the future financial framework of the Union after 31 December 1999, taking account of the prospect of enlargement.
After that the Council will be able to take due note of the Commission communication which I mentioned and which will then form the basis for further talks on, among other things, the future of the EU structural policy after 1999.
I think that on the basis of the policy developed since the European Council in Essen we have the ability to make our current structural policy, under which dozens of billion ECU will be spent in the next few years, as relevant as possible to the fight against unemployment.
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank the President of the Council for attending and for his answers, and I would inform you that as the time allocated for Question Time to the Council has been used up, Questions Nos 18 to 29 will be answered in writing.
There are perhaps some sentences that I do not entirely go along with, but as the report was unanimously approved in the Committee on the Environment, I prefer not to dwell on them - for example there are words like 'rejection' of voluntary agreements which I do not support and which could have been worded differently.
All the rapporteurs for this package of measures agree on certain points: these relate to air quality, carbon dioxide emissions, and fuel quality.
First, the European Commission itself believes that if energy measures are not taken, the Rio Conference commitment - to be reviewed in New York in June - to stabilize CO2 emissions at 1990 levels by the year 2000 cannot be met.
This objective seems to be difficult to fulfil, so the Commission's proposal seems weak because it does not specify any legislative measures which might ensure that we achieve these objectives.
The first criticism is on voluntary agreements.
So in the report from the Committee on the Environment, we propose that, in accordance with the provisions of the European Commission's own legislative programme for 1994, a directive be drawn up to cover CO2 reductions, making compliance obligatory.
The proposal for immediate renewal of vehicles in circulation and the proposal to tax fuel indiscriminately - put forward in an amendment discussed in the Committee on the Environment - make no distinction between those least able and most able to afford them in Europe.
So there are a number of measures the Commission cannot always take and they have to be designed for Member States to take, but they can help reduce CO2 emissions.
Finally, Madam President, Mr Commissioner, if the amendments to the four reports are accepted in general, I believe this package of measures will take us towards the objective of reducing CO2 emissions, transforming the polluted air we now have in Europe into purer air and making fuel less polluting.
Madam President, I am giving the opinion for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on fuel standards and specifications.
In respect of the plans for fuel specifications in the year 2000, the Economic Committee proposes limited reductions in sulphur content targets as against those limits recommended in the Auto/Oil Programme.
In respect of the year 2005, the Economic Committee, anticipating an Auto/Oil 2 Programme, suggested Annexes III and IV and sets out in these annexes indicative standards that it would like to see taken into account in an Auto/Oil 2 Programme.
Indeed, I note and welcome the Environment Committee's support for this proposition.
The Economic Committee spent considerable time in trying to develop an appreciation of the cost differential impact by Member State and noted that there were considerable differentials in cost for the refining industry between northern and southern countries.
The Economic Committee proposals are realistic and, at second reading, they will be closer to the ultimate centre of gravity of this Institution's bargaining with the Council.
Madame President, first of all I should like to thank all my colleagues for their excellent cooperation.
We have drawn up opinions and reports in a number of committees in a good spirit of mutual understanding.
I should like to draw your attention once again to the fact that we are now being asked to take a decision on binding emission standards for 2005, rather than indicative standards, as proposed by the Commission.
In this connection, in all its opinions and reports Parliament has strongly advocated tax incentives.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy considered the issue in the light of industrial competitiveness as well, and noted that if the European automobile industry does not develop new technologies rapidly, the Japanese will.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy has also been very closely involved with the auto-oil programme.
Madam President, my opinion deals with the future strategy for the control of atmospheric pollution.
Similarly, we in EMAC worked cooperatively to produce our three opinions, finding common positions which enabled us to gain support from colleagues in our committee.
The outcome, in my view, was a strengthening of the Commission's proposal to a realistic level with a sensible compromise between cost-effectiveness and the best available technology.
Such high standards give us two bonuses: cleaner air in Europe and achieving the leading edge of environmental technology.
But this very week councils in my constituency produced an excellent leaflet entirely in line with Parliament's report, making solid proposals for better air quality in Northamptonshire.
If Parliament and the Commission, as I hope, endorse these reports our 360 million citizens will enjoy cleaner, healthier air and lives will be saved which could otherwise be lost.
I have to say right at the outset that I am representing my colleague, Giles Chichester, who is the rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Research, Energy and Technology.
Here is Mr Chichester's speech: It is important to recognize the progress towards cleaner air that has already been achieved in the reduction of vehicle emissions.
It is also important to remember that these measures are aimed at improving air quality in urban areas where the concentration of vehicles is greatest.
The question is: has the Commission set the levels for reduced emissions at the right values or has it been too soft on the fuel and vehicle industries?
Those who want 50 parts per million regardless of cost or technical feasibility must recognize that it is the consumer who will pay for all these measures and that we should proceed on the basis of properly researched and balanced proposals.
In its document the Commission stresses the need to step up inspection and maintenance of vehicles as an essential factor for reducing pollution.
The Commission also proposes carrying out studies of measures to be applied in the sector, examining alternative fuels, alternative propulsion systems and alternative energy sources.
Secondly, we also want alternative solutions set out for the improvement of air quality, like support for research into alternative car engines and measures applying to traffic.
Thirdly, we insist that the governing principle in terms of protection of the environment and public health cannot be costeffectiveness, because the greater part of that cost falls directly on the consumers.
Fourthly, we underline the need to develop better and less polluting fuels: the effort should be balanced between vehicle manufacture and fuel production.
Fifthly, we propose the application of tax incentives both for better quality/ less noxious fuels and for better/more efficient car engines.
Finally, I want to point out that southern European countries will have to make a greater effort in order to reduce the percentage of sulphur in their fuels, because, as we all know, southern countries get their fuel supplies from the Arab countries, while northern ones use North Sea fuels.
The proposals may appear radical in comparison to the Commission proposal but, in fact, they are only a starting point for future negotiations with the Council.
We are debating a package tonight of which all parts are necessary if we are to achieve real progress in all areas, not only protection of the environment and the public health of Europe's citizens, but also economic development and ensuring Europe's future economic development and progress.
And that will not just be acceptable in Europe, it will give us cars that are acceptable in other parts of the world to which we can sell and export them.
It will also give us a future in the two very important industries that we cannot ignore and ensure Europe's future prosperity.
That cannot be a bad deal; it is a small cost for protecting our environment, the health of our people and the future prosperity of Europe.
Mr President, I have been the rapporteur for the technical committee on the issue of reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
It is important to point out that the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions must continue after the year 2005, with a new goal for the year 2010, one for 2015 and so on.
So we would remind the Commission that, before the fifth framework programme for research, it must put forward a strategic plan for research into a reduction in the use of fuel in vehicles.
This must contain not only short term solutions but also basic long term strategies for changes in technology, function, materials and production techniques.
Madam President, I have drawn up the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism on the report by Mrs González Álvarez.
In combating CO2 emissions, we obviously have to look at the transport sector, because it is after all responsible for nearly a quarter of these emissions, most of which are caused by private cars.
If we are eventually to move towards a sustainable society, the use of cars will have to be dramatically reduced, while at the same time cars will have to be made a great deal more efficient.
But also the introduction and enforcement of a speed limit of 100 km/h - which you may be amazed to learn the Committee on Transport has approved - and campaigns to promote suitable driving and mobility behaviour can make an important contribution.
Madam President, I originally drafted the opinion on fuels for the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy but now speak for the Socialist Group.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the present drafts relating to measures for the further reduction of vehicle emissions reflect a new approach.
In fact, in the case of the petroleum industry, I would be inclined to say 'deal' rather than 'competition' , because price deals take place at board level.
But this concept only has prospects of market success if for example denitrification catalysts and clean fuels are introduced.
But if we take that route we shall be sacrificing part of our fuel industry, the refinery industry, to the 30 % excess capacity that exists within the European Union, and then we shall have to take the consequences - the demand for aid to make good this shortfall.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking tonight in place of my colleague Gérard d'Aboville who had to jump ship at the last minute and asked me to take the tiller instead of him.
To reduce the threshold even further, to 50 ppm, as the rapporteur demands, does not take account of the cost-effectiveness relationship in the search for better air quality, because above 200 ppm this reduction involves considerable investment for a minimal reduction of emissions.
As regards diesel fuel, the first difficulty lies in the sulphur content.
The Commission has set a threshold of 350 ppm, instead of the current 500 ppm, which represents an important effort and a substantial advance.
The rapporteur is asking for a threshold of 50 to 30 ppm, which would also involve excessive cost without appreciable benefit.
So our group asks for the rejection of amendments 42 to 49 (except 46) and maintenance of amendments 51, 52 and 59.
As regards the points raised in the Lange report, it seems unreasonable, indeed counter-productive, to force the motor industry to adopt stricter standards for a lesser result.
In our view the Commission's proposals on the standards for 2000, based on a cost-effectiveness analysis, represent a good compromise between the imperatives of economic efficiency and the indispensable objectives linked to the improvement of air quality.
As regards the standards themselves, both for cars and fuels, the Auto/Oil Programme is a disappointment.
Madam President, at a time when the European motor industry is shaken by unprecedented upheavals, there is no question of our being accomplices to its demise and the ensuing social cataclysm, especially in our country where it represents 10 % of jobs.
For our part, we have always criticized the current free trade system; we have always had this economic system imposed on us in areas where competition is distorted and we have suffered.
The American government goes even further by massively supporting research.
If we accept certain ludicrous standards contained in the report, we risk killing off the French and European motor industries.
Some of these provisions are technically impossible.
I also want to remind Parliament that emission standards for new vehicles have been the subject of seven successive sets of measures since 1970, decimating emissions from private cars.
There are other solutions too, as Mr Pompidou specified just now, and I do not have much time to mention them: old vehicles, further research into fuel, public transport.
So I think we should be more reasonable today and consider the environment but also oppose certain provisions in this report which go too far.
Madam President, we support the position of the Committee on the Environment of the European Parliament for four essential reasons: competitiveness, public health, improving the environment and enhancing the role of the European Parliament.
Whilst the Commission and some elements in the oil industry are pleased that the sulphur content is fixed at 220 ppm for petrol and at 350 ppm for diesel, Japan has already announced a cut of 50 ppm in the near future, which will require new catalytic converters which will reduce the emission of gases into the atmosphere.
As regards the Commission's original proposal, we think that an effort should be made, both as regards questions of sulphur and for questions of lead-free petrol, to strike a balance which provides an acceptable exemption for those Member States who do not have the time or the money or rather more time and investment to alter their refineries.
A third point I should like to stress is that this initiative is, taken as a whole, an initiative to improve the environment and this Parliament had two possible courses: either to adopt a more cautious position, along the lines of the Commissions' initial proposal, and thus lose its leverage for applying pressure in talks and strengthening its role, or, as it to opt, as the rapporteur rightly did, particularly with the Mamère, Lange and Eimer reports and, as the Committee on the Environment rightly did, to opt for a tougher position, thus making it necessary to hold talks on the procedure to be followed.
That is why we fully support the Lange report, which proposes binding levels for the year 2005, not just guidelines.
As far as the exhaust levels go - there are 14 items, or 18 if we take the totals - we propose in the Lange report a further reduction for six of them.
But there is another thing we must bear in mind: we have already achieved many successes, with levels in some cases being reduced by 90 %.
The environment is, perhaps, the first of these commitments and, fortunately, it is increasingly becoming a fundamental consideration in the activities of the automobile industry.
The Auto/Oil programme which we are debating today basically covers three points: a reduction in motor vehicle emissions to combat pollution, an improvement in fuel quality and control of emissions from road transport.
In the last 20 years pollution caused by motor vehicles has fallen by 90 %.
For the remaining one per cent, we cannot demand very short deadlines and costs which, ultimately, the consumer has to shoulder.
We are critical because, in the final analysis, certain proposals make neither economic nor environmental sense, and fail to take account of other fundamental issues.
In short, we intend to adhere to the principle of sustainable development.
Madam President, there are only two ways to improve air quality.
The cost of the first option is exorbitant, even if we only consider the renewal of the vehicles in circulation.
The second seems more plausible to me and would have immediate impact.
The development of bio-fuels can only happen if excise duties are adjusted.
Madam President, the Lange report on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, in which other draftsmen have been involved giving their committees' opinions, is extremely important, as may be inferred from the number of committees involved.
Member States are asked to grant tax relief and other economic incentives to the industry to promote the use of environment-friendly engines and fuels.
I regard as important the idea that there is a need to take prompt action to achieve a drastic reduction in fuel consumption by motor vehicles in a broad sense, by 2005 under the Auto/Oil Programme, with a maximum consumption of five litres per hundred kilometres.
Madam President, the Auto/Oil Programme is an excellent initiative for an integrated strategy designed to reduce atmospheric pollution and based on a different approach to traffic management, technical improvements and measures relating to motor vehicle maintenance and fuel quality specifications.
Indeed, atmospheric pollution causes serious illnesses and therefore triggers high social costs, and, unfortunately, despite the initiatives which have been duly taken in the last few years, levels are pollution are increasing, especially in urban areas, as a result of traffic expansion.
But the guiding principle must be protection of the environment and the health of our citizens, who can only make their voices heard through their representatives in the only democratically elected Community institution.
I would simply like to say that I welcome the report which sets the scene against which the Lange and the Mamère reports must be regarded.
The Eisma report makes it clear that the European Parliament is not prepared to give blanket acceptance to a strategy worked out by the Commission and the industries concerned.
In fact we are in the rather curious position that many of those who have made representations to us seem to believe that there is absolutely no need to alter the Auto/Oil programme in any respect whatsoever.
Members of the European Parliament will want to probe the validity of the Auto/Oil programme's proposals in the light of the priority which we all want to give to the health of this generation and the future prospects of human life on earth.
Through my connection with the Peugeot company in the United Kingdom I bring some knowledge of the auto industry to this debate and I must emphasize that it is in Europe's interest to have a modern car industry in place giving people jobs but also meeting increasingly stringent emission standards.
Some of the amendments, particularly in the Lange report, require the car industry to conform to very high standards without any particular justification on the basis of gains in air quality.
Secondly, a minor point but one which has excited a lot of interest in my country, and I suspect in other countries, is the proposal by the European Commission to ban the sale of all leaded petrol by the year 2000.
One thing that is quite clear to me is that the Parliament is very, very under-resourced as regards the necessary research with which to back up the points which are made in Lange and Mamère.
Consequently, the Spanish socialists will vote for the Lange report but against the Mamère report because strengthening the objectives for the year 2000 and already setting a second set of objectives for 2005 means that for some countries - including mine - those objectives will not only be very expensive, but virtually unattainable, not to mention producing very serious alterations in supply or geopolitical changes in the market for crude.
The first is that this vote against the Mamère report implies agreement with the deadlines established by the Commission in its proposal for a directive.
In our view the Commission has done serious work, not only from the technical point of view, but also in the political field, and obtained a difficult consensus.
Madam President, I should like to start by saying something about the CO2 question.
We need a phased plan for limit values, as far as CO2 is concerned, going beyond the year 2005 and as far as the year 2010.
We have been giving the car industry a hard time in recent years, and I think the industry has done a great deal.
Madam President, Europe has major problems to overcome at present: unemployment, environmental pollution and many others, too.
The auto-oil programme is a project along these lines, and I believe the objective can be achieved if the amendments proposed by Parliament in the Lange, Mamère and Eisma reports are accepted as they stand.
The Mamère report deals with fuels, and I believe some very important decisions can be taken here, because a better fuel in a less good engine brings an immediate improvement in air quality.
No good legislation ever comes about without revision, and we will only be able to achieve the binding values that Parliament has proposed for 2005 if we keep a constant eye on how everything is being implemented.
Madame President, the proposal for a directive on fuels is satisfactory in principle, since it seeks to bring about improvements in the quality of the air and to protect people against atmospheric pollution.
In the proposal for a directive, summer begins on 1 April and ends on 30 September.
In southern Finland, spring may already be fairly well advanced, but in northern Finland, i.e.
The inclusion in the directive of a fuel suitable for use in an Arctic climate would eliminate this problem.
The Auto/Oil Programme is quite evidently a result of that.
Madam President, Parliament has previously shown its strong commitment to the environment as far as cars are concerned.
The regulations governing emissions were considerably tightened in 1989 in accordance with a proposal from the Commission at that time.
The proposal put forward by Parliament on the use of fuel in private cars is, in my opinion, unrealistically tough.
A reduction in fuel use of one tenth of a litre per 10 kms by every private car in the EU will certainly reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
Parliament is proposing, for example, that the Community should adopt a new way of thinking, involving the use of tax instruments to achieve better air quality at a reasonable price.
In order to encourage everyone else, I can say that this has been achieved in a short space of time and at a genuinely reasonable cost.
We have taken a great step forward with the announcement of a future strategy for combating emissions from cars and with the proposed legislation for implementing that strategy.
In the report Parliament criticizes the preparation of the technical basis for the Commission's proposal, namely the joint programme with the oil industry and car manufacturers, which we refer to as the Auto/Oil Programme.
We are also discussing here today the Commission's announcement on CO2 emissions from cars, and Parliament is also in the process of considering the Commission's Green Paper on noise.
The Auto/Oil Programme is based on directive 94/12/EEC, one of the first directives concerned with the procedure for joint decision-making between Parliament and the Council.
The Commission believes that, by its strategy for combating car emissions and the related proposals, it has fulfilled its mandate under directive 94/12/EEC, and this was accepted by Parliament and the Council.
Many of the technical and political ideas in the Lange report are interesting, and it is very likely and possible that they will be included in the European Parliament's and the Council's final decision.
The provisions for tax concessions in the directive on emissions are a compromise aimed at fulfilling two of the EU's objectives: a well functioning internal market, and protection of the environment.
Therefore Amendments Nos 91, 92 and 94, which are not in line with Amendment No 34, cannot be accepted.
The report recommends changing the requirements on self-diagnosis systems, which we abbreviate to OBD, with respect to access to the information from these systems by independent repairers and spares manufacturers.
Some of the amendments contained in the report may however improve the Commission's proposal, so I am able to accept the following amendments in full: 67, 68 and 85, and the following in part: 14, 78 and 81.
I can accept all the amendments which relate to the test procedure for evaporation emissions, namely 53, 54, 55, and in part 56, 57 and 58.
I can accept other minor amendments or changes of wording concerning Amendments Nos 5, 6, 7 and in part 30, 52, 64, 86 and 89.
I would like to make some comments on the amendments which the Commission is unable to accept at the present time.
The report proposes tightening the limits which will apply as from 2000 and changing the reference fuel used in the test.
These limits are a sensitive issue and they will be discussed until the last moment, since technology is always developing, which means that greater environmental benefits can be achieved at lower cost.
In the report the Commission's so-called guideline limits for 2005 are made compulsory limits, in addition to which the limits are tightened.
The report also proposes a new test procedure which would reduce emissions under cold weather conditions.
The Commission's proposal on the control of motor vehicles in use is an important step forward along the way towards better emission control with the help of testing, harmonized at an EU level, and the control is carefully adapted to the existing provisions on type approval and monitoring to ensure that production complies with the approved type.
Therefore I cannot immediately accept the amendments on selfdiagnosis systems for diesel run cars.
The Commission cannot accept increase of the durability requirement from 80, 000 km to 160, 000 km.
With the existing technology we cannot keep emissions down both when the vehicle is new and after such a long period of use.
So I must conclude my speech by addressing the last amendment, namely the question of CO2 emissions from cars.
Madam President, we all know that it is possible to build a car that uses 3 litres per 100 km.
Parliament's draft resolution lays down a requirement for further steps to reduce CO2 emissions from road traffic, and this we can only endorse.
The Commission will examine Parliament's proposal with great interest in this area.
I am aware, Madam President, that this has taken rather a long time, but these are major, important proposals and I hope I have covered most of the questions raised during the debate.
We chose the economically most efficient measures which include the cleaner fuel specifications that we are proposing to bring into force in the year 2000.
As regards the inter-relationship between fuel quality and new advances in engine technology, such as catalysers for dealing with oxides of nitrogen, there is still great uncertainty about the economically most efficient linkage between sulphur concentrations and the design of new technology vehicles.
We believe that by the end of 1998, on the basis of the second phase of the Auto/Oil programme which, as you know, is already under way, we shall have the requisite additional information for the taking of a decision at that time on recommended fuel standards for 2005.
At the same time, however, this present proposal allows the Member States to use special fuels, if necessary, as a means of tackling particularly pressing air quality problems in specific zones such as large conurbations.
The Community already has a framework within which the Member States are empowered to impose varying levels of consumption taxes on different fuels to promote, of course, environmental objectives.
The Member States were urged to encourage the use of lead-free petrol via Directive 85/210/EEC in the middle of the eighties.
After proper study this concept could be incorporated in future via a special text.
We cannot accept Amendments Nos 4, 18, 20, 21 and 34 because, in our opinion, they are not compatible with the methodology proposed for the second phase of the Auto/Oil programme for achieving an economically efficient package of measures to apply from the year 2005.
We cannot accept Amendments Nos 12, 13 and 19 because they disregard the provisions of Directive 92/81/EEC on the use of tax incentives in regard to fuels.
Amendments Nos 5, 16, 26, 27, 30, 33, 40, 41, 49, 53, 58 and 61 cannot be accepted because, in our opinion, the problems they refer to are not substantive.
The first and second parts of Amendment No 1, the first part of Amendment No 8, the second part of Amendment No 10 and Amendments Nos 14, 15, 17, 24, 54, 56, 57, 63 and 64 cannot be accepted because they introduce details which are either unnecessary or require further technical scrutiny.
The Commission has proposed fuel specifications for the year 2000.
Parliament has indicated the need to encourage cleaner technologies via the introduction of cleaner fuels and has proposed values for diesel sulphur, for example, as low as 50 ppm.
I don't see how that can be the case, because the mandate for it has only just been granted by legislation in Parliament and the Council.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, even though Article 119 and six directives adopted since 1975 constitute a firm legal basis for equal pay and equal treatment between women and men, and a very large number of judgments have been given by the Court of Justice in the last 20 years, women continue to suffer discrimination, and one of the main problems which they have to face is precisely that of proving that discrimination based on sex still exists.
In the meantime, as I said, the Court of Justice has given a large number of judgments in this area, so it is a matter of importance that there is now this new proposal for a directive, which is actually based on the judgments of the Court and initiated through the Protocol on social policy, so that it should be easier to reach agreement on the final text.
This again underlines the need for the Protocol on social policy to be incorporated in the Treaty, because otherwise we would be faced with the second directive on equal treatment not being transposed in the United Kingdom.
This directive is important, and Parliament demonstrates this through the report - because existing case-law has not been uniformly applied in Member States and many women have been, and still are, faced with problems even where there appears to be a prima facie case of discrimination.
Firstly, the definition of indirect discrimination (Article 2): this is the first time that this concept has been defined in Community legislation.
I would mention that in only three Member States - Italy, the United Kingdom and Ireland - is there a definition of indirect discrimination in national legislation, and the proposals for amendments which we are presenting relate in particular to a judgment which was a milestone in this matter, namely 'Bilka' ; similarly, the amendments to Article 4, which highlight one of the fundamental elements in shifting the burden of proof, namely transparency, relate to the 'Danfoss' judgment.
Another important point is the sphere of application: we add a reference to the directive on parental leave and we regard as fundamental a new paragraph, based on Article 6 of the Social Protocol, specifying that this directive will not prevent positive action measures from being adopted.
I should like to conclude by asking the Commissioner to comment on these amendments, in the belief that, thanks to them, the proposal will contribute towards reducing the number of infringements of the principle of equal treatment, which are still all too common and too evident in many Member States.
Mine was spent originally on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and then, subsequently, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, and then I took part in the rather shambolic vote in the Committee on Women's Rights.
The Committee on Women's Rights largely ignored the amendments of the Economic Committee.
In that context I consider the Commission's initiative appropriate and well grounded in the treaties and I think the political objective should take precedence over the technical and legal questions in this first reading.
Having said that, from the technical and legal point of view, the proposal for a directive does prompt reservations and - to be blunt - criticisms, particularly in respect of the burden of proof, the non-transparent decisions under article 4, and the procedural rules under article 5.
The plaintiff's burden of proof is established in the proposal in terms which are not only entirely alien to legal technique, but - this is the most serious point - highly imprecise.
On article 5, as I said, I agree with the political purpose behind this rule, but I have to express my doubts from the technical and legal point of view.
Finally, Madam President, Mr Commissioner, referring back to my initial remarks, I suggest we vote in favour of the report as a whole - including article 5, which I have criticized - expecting, as I said at the start, Parliament's political position to prevail in this first reading over legal and technical issues, which we should nevertheless bear in mind.
I know that there has been discussion about point 4.1c in the Council and that the majority of countries want to remove this point while others want it to remain.
But in this instance the Commission has been more progressive than Parliament.
The burden of proof is a critical point for ensuring that women are better represented in the professions.
We Social Democrats, including our male members, have therefore been campaigning for a considerable time for a Directive reversing the burden of proof in cases of discrimination based on sex.
For us Social Democrats, this Directive is a further step towards a social Europe.
I believe this will enable us to win back much of the confidence that the female electorate should have in us as Members of the European Parliament.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, the issue of whether a reversal or adjustment of the burden of proof could contribute to better application of Community legislation in the area of equality of treatment and opportunity between women and men has been using up plenty of ink in our Community for over ten years.
The adoption of the report in the Committee on Women's Rights took place in conditions that would normally be intolerable, without the texts of the hastily adopted opinions, and a fortiori without translation into the official languages.
We also know that the Council has already carved up the text of the Commission's proposal, for instance, by simply amputating article 5 on national procedures, which actually has no place in a Community directive, in my humble opinion.
And in terms of its scope, the Council has already eliminated the reference to the directive on equality of treatment under social security systems.
And are you sure your article 5 on procedures has a legal basis in the treaty, when eminent lawyers in this Parliament and beyond - I am not one of them - are of the opinion that the internal legal arrangements of Member States come under the third pillar?
Mr Commissioner, please be frank about your opinion of these various amendments, so that we can vote in full knowledge of the facts.
The directive codifies the case law of the Court of Justice and ensures that it will be consistently applied.
We think this directive is needed to implement the principle of equality, which is turning out to be so difficult at this century's end.
This proposal for a directive introduces very positive elements: the need to establish a definition of indirect discrimination, the compatibility between the application of the directive and the application of positive programmes or measures to protect women, their application before the year 2000 and follow-up application in the Member States, with a progress report to the Commission every three years.
Madam President, I too welcome the Commission's proposal to introduce a shift in the burden of proof in cases of discrimination in 14 of the 15 Member States.
It would appear that the Council wishes to trim this proposal to the bone and to include neither the social security directives nor indirect forms of discrimination in this directive.
I should also like to congratulate Mrs Fiorella Ghilardotti for the excellent report which she drew up on such a legally thorny issue which might well prove to be so important for those suffering injustice, especially women.
This draft directive is of great importance for a country like mine, where attempts have long been made to obtain similar legislation, so far without success.
The fact that the European Parliament has approved this report could be decisive for future developments in this situation, either because the Portuguese Parliament decides now to adopt similar legislation or because the Council of Ministers for Social Affairs comes to accept the new proposals and they are required to be incorporated in national legislation.
The inclusion of a clear definition of indirect discrimination, the possibilities for the information to be made available to those suffering discrimination so that they can defend themselves and assert their rights and the control which the Commission and the European Parliament are to have over situations which already exist, will turn this directive into one of the major instruments for making equality of opportunity between men and women into a reality.
Madam President, for 20 years now, the campaign for women has been waged from Europe, which means that everyone knows, no matter which Member State they live in, that Europe is the champion of equal rights and equal opportunities for men and women.
At the moment, there are still a number of disadvantages for women in the labour market.
We have some doubts about Article 4, and also Article 5 - not Article 5(a), but 5(b).
In any event, in the final vote tomorrow - although we might vote differently on Article 5(b), not least in the light of the discussion we are having here - this directive which will benefit both men and women in European society can also count on the support of the PPE Group.
I would, however, like to mention two points which, in my view, are non-negotiable.
It is well known that indirect forms of discrimination exist in all of the Member States.
The objective should be to remove all discrimination based on gender, particularly in the areas of employment and insurance.
Transparency must be available for all citizens, but especially for women and all social groups, with regard to decisions and measures which affect them directly, and it must apply, specifically, to methods of recruitment, reasons for redundancy and compliance with maternity law and other such areas.
Those problems generate other problems, such as lack of witnesses or the reluctance of people to act as witnesses and the inability to produce satisfactory evidence when documents are withheld by an employer.
Madam President, Commissioner, a directive on the burden of proof in cases of discrimination based on sex is greatly welcomed by many women's associations and individuals, and has been long awaited.
So we are concerned here not so much with a political resolution as with radical intervention in the legal systems of the individual Member States.
There are a few points in the report which increase my doubts about its practicability.
I refer in particular to Article 5 and to Amendments Nos 15 and 16.
I hope, Madam President, that in future the work done by the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament can be better and more effectively co-ordinated.
Madam President, the proposal for a Directive reversing the burden of proof in cases of discrimination based on sex has already been under discussion for 10 years.
In my work as a personnel consultant I very often came up against these problems, whether in connection with appointments or promotions or pay, and so I know better than most how difficult it is for the women concerned to prove their point - I know that they were unable to succeed in their claims because they were women.
That would be an important step towards equal treatment of men and women within the European Union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, equality between men and women often exists on paper only, with far too little reflection in reality.
But the rules of evidence for proving discrimination based on sex are unsatisfactory.
The discussions on the Ghilardotti report were anything but simple, both in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and in the Committee on Women's Rights - I am a member of both.
Article 5 - and I refer here especially to Article 5(b) - represents a radical interference with national legal systems.
Madam President, as we approach the end of this night sitting, I can only support those colleagues who are saying that we are genuinely pleased with the fact that, after ten years, a directive is at long last being produced.
But the problem is that the national courts and national legislators have not always been equally careful in following the case law of the European Court of Justice, let us make that quite clear.
I am also annoyed by the fact that a number of Members are still arguing that Article 5 is out of place in European legislation.
We are not talking here about the harmonization of legal procedures between Member States.
Madam President, there is still a long way to go to achieve equality in a Europe of women.
In addition it is difficult, as many have pointed out this evening, for us to prove this fact, the fact that many of us really do experience sexual discrimination both in our every day lives and our political lives.
It has almost always been necessary for the discriminated person to prove unfair treatment, but of course it would have been better if we could have gone just a little further and perhaps, as we heard earlier, included Article 4.1c which was present in the Commission's proposal.
Madam President, I wish to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to the debate.
The proposal you will vote on has a very long history, as has been said, although it was only formally submitted to the Council in June 1996.
The first proposal of the Commission on this issue dates back to 1988 and was then based on Articles 100 and 235.
The current proposal is thus now based on the agreement on social policy annexed to Protocol No 14 on social policy annexed to the Treaty and, in particular Article 22 thereof.
You have my total support for that.
Secondly, I wish to confirm to you today that the proposal you have examined is exactly the same proposal examined by the Member States within the Council.
Amendment Nos 2 and 3 are not acceptable, because the references they aim to insert via two new recitals are really too far from the procedural objective followed by the Directive and there would be no corresponding provision in the text of the articles.
The deletion proposed in Amendment No 10 is not acceptable, although it would have been very tempting to accept it, because it would automatically bind the legislator in the future, which is not legally or politically acceptable.
The words that you propose to add to Article 3(1) in the proposed Amendment No 11 are not acceptable, because it appears that they would confuse the now clear reference to the procedures which would be affected by the Directive.
Amendment No 13 on Article 4(1) cannot be accepted because the wording in the Commission's text derives directly from the case law, in which no distinction has ever been made between indirect and direct discrimination in this respect.
Amendment No 16 on Article 6 is not acceptable, because it would give the impression that the list in the article is exhaustive, which is not the case.
Amendment No 4 on recital 10 and Amendment No 9 on Article 3(1)(a) are obviously acceptable as they update the Commission text.
The parental leave Directive 96/34 was not adopted when the proposal was submitted to the Council but it should now be included in the scope.
I would like in particular to express my appreciation of Amendments Nos 5, 6, 7 and 8, whose purpose is to strengthen the definition of indirect discrimination, which is at the very heart of our proposal.
Amendment No 12 concerns another central provision - Article 4(1)(a) - and is partly acceptable.
Amendment No 14 relates to Article 4(1)(c) and is in line with the case law as it deletes the reference to the intention to discriminate.
Amendment No 15 is of a linguistic nature.
I have already indicated that I accept the principle of Amendment No 17, which contains a less extensive reference than Amendment No 18 to positive action and it can be accepted for the reasons I have already given.
Finally, we can accept Amendments Nos 19 and 20, which relate to Article 8 on the implementation date - that is the 1.1.2000 instead of 1.1.2001, and insert a new provision calling for a report on the application of the Directive.
The two amendments that came in late - Amendments Nos 21 and 22 - relating to the formulation of wording concerning the shifting of the burden of proof do not really achieve any improvements in the proposal and they would really confuse and make less clear the situation for national judges.
This particular directive will not apply in the United Kingdom.
However, it would be my intention to maintain this provision in the revised proposal.
Judging by what the Commissioner has said this evening, the Commission has grasped the basic objective of our work: the strengthening and clarification from the legal point of view of the fundamental elements of this proposal for a directive: that is to say the definition of discrimination, the burden of proof and the retention of Article 5, which relates to procedures, in other words the three elements which form the substance of the proposal.
I should like to add my thanks to all those who have spoken in the debate, the representatives of the Council and Commission, and all those Honourable Members who have stayed here until the end.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
