The television sets in our offices can, I believe, receive 36 channels.
We will try to do that, Mrs Díez de Rivera Icaza.
Mr President, you are going to have a number of these incidents over the next months.
I would not like this discussion to become a personal confrontation between Mr Coates and yourself.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on minimum reserves is one of the many building blocks in the intensive dialogue conducted between the European Parliament and the European Central Bank for the purpose of formulating a set of basic conditions for monetary measures.
In his address to the Subcommittee on Monetary Affairs on 22 September 1998, Wim Duisenberg re-emphasised the importance of a minimum reserve requirement as a potential instrument of monetary policy.
First of all, a system of minimum reserves could contribute to the stabilisation of short-term interest rates.
The ECB considers this helpful, because it gives the Bank greater leverage to operate efficiently as a provider of liquidity and to respond effectively in the longer term to the development of new payment procedures, such as electronic money.
Thirdly, the minimum reserve system of the ECB could also serve as an instrument for controlling the supply of money, since it is able to influence demand for money by means of interest-rate elasticity.
Nevertheless, the use of minimum reserves an instrument of monetary policy is not universally accepted, since it can result in distortions of competition with countries outside the economic and monetary union.
The first is that the ECB should submit a study dealing with the inclusion of off-balance-sheet items in the basis of assessment for the minimum reserves.
The second point I wish to make is that, in view of the increasing importance of electronic money, which the ECB itself has also recognised and studied, something it had not yet done a short time ago - at the hearing there was talk of a 10 % ratio, but a good deal more thought has been given to the matter since then - the policy on minimum reserves should be devised in such a way that it can respond flexibly to such future developments.
The inclusion of electronic transactions in the basis for the calculation of reserve requirements could prove to be an important aspect of the control of money supply.
Let me stress that the purpose of the present report is to provide the ECB with an effective instrument and to enable the Bank to make flexible decisions on how to use the instrument to respond to present and future developments.
That is why I assume that the Council will adopt this recommendation at the next ECOFIN meeting on 12 October 1998 in order to support the ECB in the implementation of its monetary strategies.
Under Article 34(3) of the ECB's Statutes, the ECB is entitled to impose sanctions in connection with its rules and decisions concerning the carrying out of its duties in the area of formulating monetary policy and, in a more limited way, in the area of monitoring the banking system.
But where inflation is concerned, many factors have played a part: not just the policy of the central banks, but the financial policy and the policies of governments in the area of prices and incomes.
The information is to be collected either from the competent national authorities or directly from economic agents.
The draft recommendation for a regulation is quite straightforward in a number of respects.
However, I am concerned about certain matters relating to the confidentiality of statistical information supplied to the ECB.
The good faith of the NCBs in collecting the information on behalf of the ECB should not be prejudiced by the ECB failing to respect the confidentiality of the information in its possession.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in exactly 87 days' time European economic and monetary union will begin.
Today's adoption by Parliament of the secondary legislation permitting the imposition of sanctions for failure to comply with the monetary element of minimum reserves and on the collection of statistical information represents a very important step in this direction.
For the first time in history, nations are ceding sovereign rights to a federal European institution.
The involvement of the European Parliament in this legislative process is only one element in establishing the democratic legitimacy of European monetary policy through monetary dialogue between the European Central Bank and the European Parliament.
If the European Central Bank is to achieve the aims set for it in the Treaty and if monetary union is to succeed, care must be taken to ensure that the ECB has a set of differentiated and efficient monetary instruments at its disposal.
The minimum reserve is one such key monetary instrument; it is able to steady the banks' demand for central bank money and thus to prevent highly volatile short-term interest rates.
Active use of this instrument to prevent speculative flows of capital, as happened in Germany, for example, in the early 1970s after the abandonment of the Bretton Woods system, does not feature in the armoury of European monetary policies at the present time.
As has been the case over the past few months, European monetary union is still on schedule and undergoing thorough preparation so that it can begin 87 days from now, on 1 January 1999, and can do so with an European Central Bank which is equipped with an efficient set of instruments.
He assured the subcommittee that the relevant deadlines and provisions were being met as required to ensure that the operational mechanisms of the European Central Bank run smoothly when the euro comes into effect on 1 January next year.
And I believe that - from Mr Duisenberg's speech and the comments that have been made here in committee debates on these basic issues - there is still an excessive imbalance between the running of the European Central Bank and the application of economic and monetary policies by Member States and their own central banks.
This is a matter that we should resolve as soon as possible, and we must take all the necessary precautions to ensure that the euro runs smoothly from 1 January next year.
Mr President, today we are dealing with three regulations pursuant to Article 106(6) of the Treaty, covering the application of minimum reserves, the power to impose sanctions and the collection of statistical information by the European Central Bank, which have been drawn up according to a special procedure laid down by the Treaty.
In this case the European Central Bank and the Commission are agreed that the bank itself prepare the projects for recommendation to avoid duplication.
With regard to the regulation on the collection of statistical information, our group, for its part, considers that the amendments adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy define yet again the area and the methods of collecting statistical information by the bank.
The text before us seems to be satisfactory.
With regard to the regulation on sanctions, I note that the bank has been granted powers in a wider area of responsibility than most national central banks on the subject of statistics.
Finally, the obligatory reserves are an instrument of monetary policy aimed at stabilising the rate of interest of the monetary market and at mastering the growth of money supply.
Mr President, the reports of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unreservedly approve the three draft regulations concerning the powers of the European Central Bank to impose sanctions, apply minimum reserves and collect statistical information.
These regulations demonstrate the excessive power of the Central Bank.
The direct management of the measures involved would effectively be handed over to the ECB without any intervention by national governments or even national central banks.
We cannot allow the Central Bank to become the censor of national budgets by imposing policies, in the name of the fight against inflation, which are restrictive in social and employment terms.
Our citizens and their elected bodies must have the means to control this Central Bank.
It is therefore essential to establish the transparency and democratic control of its activity, particularly through control by the European Parliament and the national parliaments and by opening up the major economic and monetary challenges to public debate.
We cannot only protect the rights of those who own monetary assets; it is high time we also closed the open wound resulting from the lack of democratic legitimacy and control of the European Central Bank.
The three regulations in question relate to the application of minimum reserves by the European Central Bank, the power to impose sanctions and the statistical information to be provided by the Member States.
These are essential measures in ensuring the smooth operation of the third phase of monetary union, and they are no doubt consistent with the way in which the money supply in the 11 euro countries will be controlled with a view to making the markets not only more attractive but also safe, which is no simple task or foregone conclusion.
As we know, a system for the application of minimum reserves has three fundamental functions: first, to stabilise interest rates on the money market; second, to create the conditions to deal with a structural liquidity shortage and third, to control monetary expansion.
The 10 % level proposed by the ECB, on which interest is payable and including electronic money which is increasingly widely used, and the broader scope of its application merit our approval, as do the remaining proposals.
The balance between the ECB and the national central banks under the regulation is particularly appropriate: while both the ECB and national central banks can initiate a sanctions procedure, decisions can only be handed down by the competent bodies of the ECB.
Lastly, let us consider Mr Hendrick's report on the collection of the ECB's statistical information.
This explains the precautions contained in this regulation and all the provisions that it includes.
I share the rapporteur's belief in the absolute need for confidentiality of the information that is made available by national central banks to the ECB.
We hope that this new currency will become a factor of stability, not only in Europe, but throughout the world.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy was invited to comment on the ECB's recommendation for a Council regulation concerning the application of minimum reserves.
If monetary policy objectives can be achieved using the other instruments available to the ECB, he argues, the possibility of a 0 % lower limit could be envisaged.
Provided it has the right foundation upon which to work, I am confident that the ECB will be capable of taking the necessary monetary policy decisions.
Information can in principle be very sensitive.
The ECB should therefore draft general rules on the public's right to access documents in its possession without delay and to acquaint themselves with the open regulations on restrictions and exceptions.
Confidence in the market is not enough.
We seem to have given up the monitoring and control of money, which has resulted in money controlling us and currency speculators controlling entire states.
We have to remember that we have 18 million SMEs and 17 million unemployed.
Many particularly large companies are prepared for the third stage of the euro, the figure being 64 % of them in my own country, Finland.
This is hardly true of the SME sector.
The situation is even worse in companies in the service sector.
Mr Hoppenstedt mentions in his report that minimum reserves act like a tax on the deposits of the banks' clients.
We have entrusted the European Central Bank with the task of independently managing our European currency - the euro - whether or not this suits some of my colleagues sitting opposite me who are clearly nostalgic for systems which have failed where they have been applied, for example in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy voted for some of my amendments, including those which specify that the statistical information may be used to carry out basic tasks, in accordance with Article 5(2) of the Treaty.
Regarding the first regulation on the application of minimum reserves, there is clearly some concern about the possible distortion of competition if such reserves are seen as a tax on deposits, and also about the broad margin of manoeuvre that is permitted.
This might be a good time to reflect on the role of reserves in the banking system.
But what we would like to emphasise in this brief statement is that the approach and philosophy adopted in the other two regulations give the ECB substantial power to impose sanctions.
We do not question the need for reliable and timely statistical information, but the power to impose sanctions, particularly in connection with statistical information, could create a series of obligations and pressures whereby the ECB acquires new and more broad-ranging power without the necessary political and democratic constraints and limitations.
The G7 decision to set up an emergency fund must be seen in this light and is naturally a welcome step.
That affects growth rates in turn, but - and this is a decisive point - the use of interest-rate policy as a means of currency stabilisation, especially through the minimum reserve ratio, is an object lesson to European banks on how to behave in a deregulated supranational economic system.
One reason for this is that up to 1.8 trillion dollars is moved around daily on the international finance market in the form of speculative transactions - that represents about 10 % of global GNP.
This naturally provided greater scope for the hedge funds, which operate not only in the money market but also in the commodity market and which, because they can be quickly liquidated, lead to a doubling of costs for entire industries.
May I congratulate Mr Hendrick on his report.
It is very important that we give the ECB the greatest possible degree of independence, but at the same time its activities must be governed by the legal principles that apply in the European Community.
Lastly, it is perfectly natural that the sanctions provided for in the regulation should be governed by the general principles of criminal law and statistics.
Mr President, we are debating three Council regulations which confer enormous powers on the European Central Bank and which should be considered very carefully indeed by the European Parliament, especially at this time.
Minimum reserves constitute an extraordinarily important monetary policy instrument - one which we deployed with great success in Sweden until 1985.
The result was financial mayhem, with annual increases in borrowing of 25 %.
That is why the Conservative Party in my own country that voted yesterday to have nothing to do with the single currency for 10 years, is a real ostrich sticking its head in the sand and doing nothing for British or indeed European industry.
On the critical question of minimum reserve requirements, it is very timely that we are discussing this matter today.
The problem that we have at the moment in financial markets is the leverage that major financial institutions are exerting around the world.
When Commissioner Bangemann responds, and certainly when the Central Bank responds to us, we need to ensure that they understand it is their responsibility to monitor this process and to ensure transparency.
We need to clarify the powers of the European Central Bank in two areas: firstly, its role in relation to its own member states and secondly, its role in relation to financial institutions in general.
The debate is closed.
I have spent a considerable amount of time - perhaps the Commissioner could comment on this - on the vexed question of harm to the network and the likelihood of harm to the network.
I have tried to ensure that my recommendations on this matter, both in the first and second readings, are in proportion to any likely damage.
The proposal, and Parliament's response to it, also recognise there have been very major technological changes between the first and second proposals.
There has been an enormous amount of work, for which I thank colleagues in Parliament, the Commission and the Council, to arrive at a workable text which satisfies all of those reservations.
In the Netherlands if a telephone company, such as Telfort, for instance, can show that an item of equipment seriously harms or abuses the network, the national radio communications authority in Groningen can decide to remove that equipment from the market.
But imposing the condition that documented problems must have arisen before equipment is taken off the market will stop operators from possibly abusing this directive in order to keep new competitors out of the market.
Regrettably, Mr President, the industry was not involved to a sufficient degree in the preparation of the Commission proposal.
This directive takes account of the needs of the 50 million or so handicapped people in Europe and all praise to Mrs Read for that.
So I think this flexible approval procedure will allow the fast-growing telecom market to work better.
There is an enormous disparity between the prices of the equipment which consumers can buy in Europe at the present time and equipment prices in other continents.
More and more inhabitants of the European Community are returning from holidays in the United States or Asia with equipment that is considerably cheaper than in Europe.
A method must be found to enable the Member States to exclude substandard equipment from the market without affecting competitiveness.
We also support the proposal she has presented again here on merging Amendments Nos 15 and 18 into a compromise to avoid the need for conciliation with the Council.
The very fact that this directive replaces two directives that we previously adopted, as well as about 1500 national instruments, is proof of its importance.
It is true that, come what may, we shall have the opportunity next year to review this entire matter if necessary, and I should like to express my gratitude for this opportunity to continue our cooperation.
The debate is closed.
We can therefore see clearly now that the decisions on the euro may be unreservedly reaffirmed and that this European monetary union can enter into force on the appointed date of 1 January 1999.
The Commission communication covers three sectors in all: the Community budget, agricultural policy and administrative expenditure.
The third field covers the operational aspects of the changeover, which relate to statistics, treasury and financial management, information systems and communication issues.
On the expenditure side, about 44 % of payments have been made in ECU and just under 56 % in national currencies, while the vast majority of the EU membership contributions are paid in national currencies.
In the past this has necessitated an enormous input in terms of financial management and resources, since all payments were based on national exchange rates and currencies, but this will not be required in future for the 11 participating states.
The third sector is administrative expenditure, which amounts to about ECU 2.7 billion.
The Committee on Regional Policy agrees with the warm welcome the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has given to the communication from the European Commission on the impact of the changeover to the euro on Community policies, institutions and legislation.
It is clear that, within the framework of the Structural Funds, the fact that contributions and payments are already expressed in ecus will make the changeover smoother and, at the same time, the exchange risk will be eliminated for participating countries in the euro area.
We also welcome the fact that in his report our rapporteur has asked that priority be given to a common conversion policy for the entire European statistical system.
Our committee asks, too, that we use this opportunity to create a cooperation network for administration in the fields of informatics and statistics in order to guarantee coherent systems, not only for routine follow-up financial information but also, and above all, for the general information needed in decision-making.
The Committee on Regional Policy believes that in its information campaigns the Commission should do its utmost to ensure that regional authorities and beneficiaries of Structural Funds are well informed of the impact of the changeover to the euro.
Finally, we would like to point out that there is still a need for a more efficient and detailed study of the impact of monetary union on existing disparities between regions in light of the principle of cohesion.
Mr President, in what is undoubtedly a good report, the rapporteur has made it very clear how much work awaits the European institutions and how important a prompt changeover to the euro will be to the future of the Community, not only because some 4000 legislative acts will be affected by the changeover, but also because the coming of the euro age will manifest itself in substantive changes to the positions adopted by the European institutions.
In adopting the Green Paper on the introduction of the euro, we in the European Parliament made it very clear that we believe the public sector must lead the way in the introduction of the euro.
Sadly, we could not fail to observe that this has not been the case in the Member States or within the Commission, for it must be remembered that the communication has been in circulation since 1997.
Indeed, the Commission itself concludes in its report that the overall assessment is clearly positive.
For instance, it should be accepted that the communication proposed in conclusion No 27 detailing all the monetary references in the 4, 000 Community acts in which the monetary denomination will change to euros is of secondary importance.
Judging by the manner in which the process is currently proceeding, both economic operators and citizens in general will immediately identify with the new currency.
The expectations generated by the euro are prompting companies to publicise their choice as a sign of efficiency and modernity, as is occurring for instance in my country.
Our group has drafted some oral questions on this point for the next part-session.
Mr President, it is imperative, when the new euro currency and the euro rate come into existence in January 1999 and when the green pound is abolished, that farmers do not lose out in terms of the value of their income supports under the common agricultural policy.
In Ireland at present there are two green rates: the first is for CAP support, such as the payment of export refunds and intervention stocks and has varied substantially over the last eighteen months.
The green rate for these payments has been frozen at a favourable level since 1995 and therefore has not been subject to currency fluctuations.
The Commission has brought forward proposals to the Agriculture Council on this issue outlining possible courses of action.
A working group has been set up in Europe to bring forward conclusive proposals on the basis of draft regulations which have been drawn up, so that a level playing field can be reached on this issue.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Langen report deals with the impact of the changeover to the euro in three sectors, namely national and local authority budgets, agriculture and administration.
However, let me express this earnest plea quite clearly here and now to the responsible Commissioner in particular: in the domain of consultancy, please do not portray women, for example, as disabled persons, but rather adopt a different approach to the issue.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not quite understand the reference made by our colleague from the Green Group to Italy and the lack of transparency in the handling of Italian monetary policy; she can explain it to me later.
In conclusion, I hope that you will accept these two amendments from the Group of the European Radical Alliance.
Mr President, I have often heard two one-sided opinions expressed in the debate on the euro.
But the new agrimonetary system is still open-ended in that compensation will be paid for revaluations but no action will be taken for devaluations, even though the income of the farmers concerned will temporarily have improved.
There is something of a distortion of competition in that.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and monetary turmoil in the world, as I said before, is so great that it is producing shockwaves in the lives of ordinary people far and wide, including people in countries other than those it which it began.
The changeover to the euro will reduce losses of income for those who practise agriculture, at least in the respect that exchange rates will become stable.
Mr Langen's report quite rightly details all these moves, and says in essence that a number of positive elements should be borne in mind.
In my country, for example, 500 euro are equivalent to a million lire, and the highest value note in Europe corresponds to half a million lire, or 250 euro.
Mr President, the report presented to us is an excellent catalogue of all the financial implications that the introduction of the euro will have for the European Union.
The stringent savings packages adopted by the EU Member States in preparation for the euro have drastically reduced the volume of public investments in Europe, thereby contributing to a rise in unemployment.
The total savings should therefore be specifically used to fund a practical reduction in the Member States' contributions to enable them to take special measures to combat unemployment.
Had the system been based on market prices, products would have been priced in an international currency - the dollar or ECU - and incomes in national currencies would still have varied.
It is true that a considerable time has now elapsed since the communication was adopted, and so it might be appropriate for me to give you a brief résumé of the present situation.
This proposal can also be adopted before the end of the year.
Mr Langen has rightly drawn attention to the importance of the information campaigns directed at the staff of all European bodies.
The first phase of this campaign was launched at the start of this year, and a second phase is now being prepared.
I therefore believe we can say that the targets set out by the Commission in its communication have been achieved on time, so far at least.
Following on from the request made by Mr Dell'Alba, I should like to ask whether the issue of external representation of the euro area and the role of the European Central Bank in international conferences could also be included in the report.
As I mentioned briefly before, ECB President Wim Duisenberg said last week that there will be considerable problems with the legal status of the ECB in international organisations because the ECB is not a state, and only states have hitherto been actively represented on these bodies - the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the G7.
In any event, Article 105 of the EU Treaty gives it a quite clearly defined responsibility for the maintenance of stable exchange rates and prices.
However, I must point out to him that there is quite a considerable difference between the subject of the report we have been dealing with today and the issues he has raised, very important though they undoubtedly are.
The report deals with the practical problems that occur in connection with the implementation of our decision to create a common currency.
At the last ECOFIN meeting, when these problems were also discussed, the Commission was entrusted with the task of making proposals in a report of its own.
We plan to submit that report before the end of this month, so that you can then enter into the discussion, and together with the Council and yourselves we can adopt a position which will ensure that the European Union is duly and properly represented in the global institutions where monetary and economic decisions are made.
I presume that in this report we shall not only emphasise the need for our involvement but shall also make sound proposals to that end.
The debate is closed.
The problem is, however, that to be covered by Regulation No 1408 presupposes that the persons concerned already have the right to freedom of movement.
As things stand at present, citizens of third countries do not enjoy freedom of movement within the Union.
I welcome this proposal from the European Commission because it will remove an anomaly in current social security rules for third country nationals.
I commend this proposal to Parliament.
Leperre-Verrier report (A4-0342/98) I am fully in favour of Bulgaria participating in the Youth for Europe programme.
Similarly, the immunity of the great aircraft manufacturer and Gaullist deputy, Marcel Dassault, who was deported to Buchenwald, would be waived given that he described in length in his memoirs the role of the Communist 'capos', led by the Communist, Marcel Paul, and given that, in particular, he described the reality of this camp in a manner far removed from the legend which some are trying to impose here.
However, when using its power to waive or not to waive parliamentary immunity, the European Parliament must not take any account of the person involved.
Whether they are Liberals, Socialists, Christian Democrats or of other political persuasions, they all claim to be supporters of the 18th century rationalism of Voltaire, Rousseau or even Kant or Goethe.
The purpose of the law is not to protect dogmas, but rather to protect freedom of thought, because no one holds a monopoly on the truth.
Consequently, this German law whose defence is being claimed in this case is based in the tradition of the Third Reich.
Jean-Marie Le Pen remembers the German mine that killed his father, but he has forgiven the German people.
It is not Jean-Marie Le Pen who built the concentration camps.
In France, the definition given in dictionaries for the word 'detail' has been changed to allow more room to condemn Jean-Marie Le Pen.
A Member is performing his duties when he is in the European Parliament building.
This is so true that the accounting rules for the reimbursement of travel expenses are not based on the official nature of the building to which we travel, but on the political purpose which we are pursuing.
And this is also so true that, on 23 June 1789, when the Revolutionary Assembly considered immunity for the first time, it decided that those who attacked the State were to be regarded as traitors and criminals acting against the State.
Your vote represents a very serious blow for democracy in Europe, because one of the essential principles of democracy is the separation of powers.
It was precisely to protect the legislative power from the judicial power that parliamentary immunity was established.
Madam President, I voted in favour of waiving Mr Le Pen's immunity.
Madam President, I have to say that this is the first time I have voted to waive the immunity of Mr Le Pen.
Mr Le Pen yesterday asked to be treated like a citizen.
Madam President, although I demonstrated yesterday the perfidy of the Munich public prosecutor, 420 Members have voted to waive my immunity.
Madam President, as expected, this Parliament has once again brought disgrace on itself.
The fact that everyone is voting according to group instructions and not according to their consciences is particularly shocking.
Madam President, it is incredible and scandalous that this Parliament is today waiving the parliamentary immunity of a man whose father was killed by the Germans.
Immorality rules in this Parliament.
The lifting of parliamentary immunity of a public elected Member of the European Parliament is a very serious matter.
However, the European Parliament has had to look at this issue following a request made on 17 April 1998 by the Public Prosecutor's office in Munich relating to statements which Jean-Marie Le Pen had made at a press conference in December 1997.
Mr Le Pen uttered similar statements in France which subsequently led to him being fined substantially.
Censorship is always a very difficult issue to address and the European Union and national Member State governments of the EU must strike a balance between freedom of expression and the protection of public policy.
The right of free speech is enshrined in the Irish Constitution but there comes a time when the State must be given the necessary power to tackle naked hatred which can result in breaches of national public policy or national public security.
Mr Le Pen's comments were made in Munich in December 1997 during the presentation of a book 'Le Pen, the Rebel' written by the former MEP Franz Schönhuber, the leader of the German Republikaner Party.
I believe that the French and among them, I am sure, the majority of the electors or members of the National Front, share this opinion.
They are being asked only if, in response to the request of the Munich public prosecutor, the parliamentary immunity of Jean-Marie Le Pen should be waived.
In order to combat a risk which, in my opinion, is non-existent - namely the risk of a revisionist contagion on the question of the gas chambers - we should not risk committing an abuse which is much more palpable, much more immediate and much more menacing in many ways - the abuse of muzzling the freedom of expression by an official line of thought.
Once again Jean-Marie Le Pen is trying to pass himself off as a victim, the scapegoat of a vast European political plot.
This is why he has offered us a new set of words, in an attempt at pathos ...
I voted today in favour of waiving the immunity of Mr Jean-Marie Le Pen, just as I voted some time ago in favour of waiving the immunity of Mr Bernard Tapie.
The principle of parliamentary immunity is nowadays outrageous.
In strictly legal terms, this request poses serious questions.
In this case, the aim of parliamentary immunity is not to shelter the Members, but is one of the guarantees of the freedoms of our citizens.
For my part, I believe that an unsound idea is best combated by ideas, reasoning and confidence in the intelligence of our citizens.
Read recommendation (A4-0337/98) We voted in favour of the report, since the telecommunications market requires a regime of the kind described.
Hoppenstedt report (A4-0332/98) The European Central Bank has just made a proposal to the Council for a regulation allowing the ECB to impose a system of minimum reserves on banks, which may help to regulate the liquidity of the market.
Firstly, an important question must be asked between now and the end of 1998 relating to the convergence of the short-term interest rates which will be unified on 1 January 1999.
The gaps are currently very wide, ranging from 3.2 % in Austria to 6.4 % in Ireland.
The end of December is only three months away, and it seems unthinkable to unify everything suddenly.
Finally, also, nobody wishes to answer the question about the increase in budgetary deficits which is starting to be predicted for 1999, the first year of the euro, and which is becoming very worrying in the case of Italy.
He seems to be ignoring the fact that these reserves are already, in the main, invested in the economy.
The Danish Social Democrats today voted for the reports on minimum reserves (Hoppenstedt), powers of sanction (Katiforis) and collection of statistical information (Hendrick) for the European Central Bank.
The content of the Hoppenstedt and Katiforis reports will have no direct consequences for Denmark of any kind, since it only concerns countries which participate fully in EMU.
The application of minimum reserves means that credit and financial institutions are required to maintain a certain liquidity reserve, which is sensible for a variety of monetary policy reasons, for example the money market interest rate is stabilised, and better control of the country's money supply is achieved by restraining the creation of money by private banks.
The aim of the Hendrick proposal is to give the ECB the right, in cooperation with the national central banks, to collect relevant statistical information so that the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) can carry out its work.
The information collected will of course be treated as strictly confidential, in the same way as statistical information from Danmarks Statistik , the Danish Central Statistical Office.
The Swedish Parliament decided that Sweden would not participate in the third phase of EMU, which will see the introduction of the euro as of 1 January 1999.
With regard to Mr Hoppenstedt's report, the maximum rate of 10 %, with a practicable minimum of 0 %, represents a clear sign of flexibility in the use of this instrument.
The ECB recommendation we are debating, concerning a Council regulation on the powers of the ECB to impose sanctions, provides in Article 3(8) that revenues derived from the imposition of fines belong to the ECB.
Hendrick report (A4-0327/98) The proposal before us today would allow the European Central Bank to adopt rules for organising the collection of statistical information useful to its work, based on an arsenal of sanctions which it would be alone in deciding.
The aim is to provide comprehensive indicators of monetary development in the Member States 'which are viewed as one economic territory'.
These provisions result logically from the principle of a single supranational currency, as adopted at Maastricht.
Leaving aside the question of the principle of the single currency, this text poses three major problems relating to confidentiality of information, equality of treatment and uncertainty as to its limits of application.
With regard to confidentiality, the ECB, which prepared the draft, seems to want to take its quest for independence to the extreme, even to the extent of absolving itself from Community rules on the preparation of statistics, as observed by Eurostat.
We would ask that the ECB be subject to all the standard rules of confidentiality, in particular the Council Regulation of 17 February 1997 on Community statistics.
The second problem is that all the members of the Union would be subject to the statistical rules of the ECB, but only those participating in the euro zone would be subject to the sanctions.
Thirdly, how can the text be applied to national official authorities which themselves produce statistics or which define the conditions for the production of these statistics by other bodies?
No one is prepared to admit that prohibition has been an utter failure, that 95 % of drugs are moving around freely, that 80 % of crime in our cities and towns is drug-related, and that over 50 % of our prison population is made up of drug addicts.
That session was held last June and the report is therefore being discussed three months after the event.
The European Parliament's position on these amendments and its attitude towards the undermining of the wording of recommendations 10 and 11 were the criteria guiding our voting behaviour.
Furthermore, delegating anti-drugs measures to local and regional authorities could create 'islands' in Europe which depart from national regulations and, hence, from the democratic will of citizens in the Member States.
The European Union must not adopt a policy which amounts to resigning itself to a society compelled to live with drugs, and merely trying to limit the damage they do.
The cooperation needed in this respect must be better planned.
The d'Ancona report cannot be blamed for wishing to link drug problems to poverty and unemployment.
There is a clear contradiction between parts A and B of the report.
The proposal for a recommendation B4-1238/96 is extremely dangerous.
The policy against drug trafficking, as conducted in Singapore, is apparently producing excellent results.
The report complains that the current policies restrict individual freedoms - on page 17 - although it is obvious that the repression of illegal trade is always going to restrict freedoms.
The policy of decriminalising and demarginalising the use of drugs and the 'controlled distribution of heroin' would profit only the traffickers, as indicated by the former head of Interpol, Car Persson.
It is a disgrace to this Parliament that this report could have been put on the agenda of a plenary session.
While it is positive that the report asks the Member States to 'acknowledge that the aim of anti-drugs efforts is a drug-free society', it is to be regretted that the explanatory statement has little coherence with the actual text of the recommendation.
Moreover, in this respect, the European Parliament approved a resolution three years ago which underlined that a policy of complete repression had not produced any tangible results.
As underlined by the rapporteur, I am convinced that we must base our European drugs policy on the success of local experiments and that we must develop strategies of cooperation.
Having been referred back to committee, the d'Ancona report on European drugs policy has emerged looking considerably more balanced.
I am pleased that this report by our colleague can finally be discussed in plenary sitting.
I am unreservedly in favour of establishing and recognising experiments carried out locally, as in my commune we have been supporting for years the associations fighting against drug addiction and tackling the drugs phenomenon from the medical and social perspectives.
This is what Mrs d'Ancona's report demands, and that is why I voted for it without any qualms.
As stated by our rapporteur, this problem has many causes: pursuit of profit, social impoverishment and marginalisation, and also curiosity, prosperity and fashionable trends.
The fight against illegal drugs must therefore be undertaken within a comprehensive approach which combines sectors of action as diverse as the information and education of young people, the transformation of objective socio-economic conditions which contribute to the development of drug addiction in all its forms, assistance for drug addicts, the fight against traffickers and money laundering, and the economic and social development of the producing countries.
We must now advance beyond this fruitless debate and concentrate on how to implement, as effectively as possible, the conclusions of the UN General Assembly special session on international cooperation in the fight against drugs which was held in June.
This is even more important now as it is clear to everyone that the eradication of illegal drugs - which must be our common aim - requires, more than anything else, close international cooperation, particularly in the areas which are wanting, highlighted by the UN special session: reduction of production and demand by 2003 and international legal cooperation in its various forms.
The capitalist system will never solve the drugs problem, not just because it is the inherent cause of its existence, but mainly because it is both served and nourished by the problem.
Let us not deceive ourselves: apart from anything else, the drug market deals in vast sums of money, supports governments and 'adjusts' markets.
I voted for this report as did most Labour MEPs because I feel that in this highly charged and controversial area, the rapporteur has achieved in her resolution a good, balanced approach.
It proposes greater coordination and cooperation between Member States in dealing with the serious problem of the escalating use of illegal drugs, whilst recognizing that - with the current divergences of view in the policies adopted by different countries - full harmonization is not practicable at the present time.
Amendment No 3, which calls upon the Council to confirm that drugs legislation should be handled at national level, therefore determined our decision on the final vote.
I welcome this report from the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs of the European Parliament which highlights the dangers of synthetic drugs in society and the need to fight organised crime in drug trafficking.
While most European governments including the Irish Government are trying to implement policies which have the objective of reducing drug use, some members of the Green group of the European Parliament are promoting policies which clearly have the effect of increasing drug use with its resulting social problems.
I would like to welcome the fact that the Irish Government has set up a young people's facilities and services fund at a cost of £30 million which was put in place earlier this year.
We find it rather strange that Parliament should reject Amendment No 4, which argues that the development of new strategies to combat drugs should be in line with the UN's drugs conventions of 1961, 1971 and 1988.
For these reasons we voted against the report.
While the main drug circulated in Ireland is cannabis, the most serious problems relating to drug abuse are associated with heroin, ecstasy and other drugs such as LSD.
The 1997 Annual Report on the state of the drugs problem in the European Union, published by the European Monitoring Centre for drugs and drug addiction, points out that the upward trend in the number of drug-related deaths has continued in Ireland.
Measures to improve the EU response to the drugs problem have continued through the activities of the Horizontal Drugs Group.
A key part of this work has been the development of a post-1999 EU drugs strategy and the elaboration of priorities for the period 1998/1999.
The Treaty of Amsterdam is another important element in the EU's fight against drug trafficking and organised crime.
It sets out a more specific mandate for closer cooperation between police forces, customs authorities and other law enforcement agencies within the European Union, which is also to be welcomed.
The Danish Social Democrats today voted for the d'Ancona report on European cooperation in the framework of the UN General Assembly special session on drugs.
To believe that it is possible to achieve a completely drug-free society is utopian.
The d'Ancona report makes a large number of positive recommendations which would be of enormous use in the fight against drugs.
I also welcome the fact that a recommendation in an earlier draft, suggesting that more consideration be given to legalisation of some drugs, has been dropped.
The main thrust of the recommendations has received qualified support from organisations in Dublin working on the drugs problem.
Europe must work towards trying to achieve a drug-free society.
I also want to see the EU acknowledging and directly supporting the role of local communities in combating the drugs problem, particularly in relation to community and family support systems to cope with the consequences of drug addiction on the health of the family as well as on the individual.
For this reason we strongly support recommendations 15 and 17 of this proposal.
The local COUNCILS, in direct partnership with FAMILIES and SCHOOLS, have a decisive role and should receive ample financial and technical support from the European Union and the Member States.
The series of recommendations contained in the d'Ancona report certainly demonstrate a very positive endeavour to seek consensus on the issue of combating drugs.
Indeed, the connection between the drug addiction phenomenon and the social causes which are largely to blame, be they unemployment, poverty or social exclusion, is an important aspect of this report.
Only one of the 27 recommendations deals with this important (and decisive) dimension of the fight against drugs.
The search for artificial havens demonstrates their need for absolutes; however, neither work, nor science, art, sport, ecology or politics, whether at national or European level, are such absolutes.
We have emphasised the importance of cooperation at all levels.
In conclusion, I am glad that my Group has been able to support this report.
The erratic course of the Ancona report which is once more before the House, in a more coherent but much weaker version, reveals the disorientation in the minds of politicians which in turn accounts for the disparities between national drugs policies.
And sufficient experience exists in a number of Member States to show that the only course is to change priorities in combating drugs.
A single language and press and the fact that each country in isolation makes up a smaller unit than the EU will make it easier to maintain democratic control over money that is used on the citizen's behalf.
Our colleague Rinaldo Bontempi has undisputedly become an expert on the fight against organised crime and the anti-corruption policy of the European Union.
It is right and proper that this report insists on the need for more transparency in decision-making processes, for more clarity in the rules on tenders and for more effectiveness in internal controls.
It also raises the difficult problem of the policy of cooperation with third countries.
The fight against organised crime and corruption, the latter being one of the manifestations of the former, is a typical area in which European cooperation is helpful and should make national policies more effective.
The European Union is 'an asset' in this case, since it reinforces the action of the Member States.
If there is an area where the sensitivity of European citizens is particularly acute, it is corruption.
The Bontempi report has the merit of establishing the broad outlines of a comprehensive anti-corruption policy, and I congratulate its author for having attempted this integrated and coherent approach which is the only one likely to succeed.
However, at the same time as implementing measures aimed at reducing corruption at international level, both inside and outside the frontiers of the Union, I feel it is both useful and imperative that, as a priority, Europe reinforces the fight against corruption within its own institutions by using firm and visible measures encompassing prevention, detection through increased controls and sanctions for all forms of corruption committed by natural or legal persons.
In this area of the fight against corruption, citizens keen on democracy demand transparency.
As with all European texts, this transparency must apply to the decision-making processes, to the simplification of the law and also to the financial situation of anyone - including MEPs - who occupies a post open to corruption.
It is also essential for these people, officials in particular, to undertake special training enabling them to be fully informed about the different types of corruption and the means to effectively combat these.
Furthermore, a close link must be established between the report before us and the Bösch report which we are also considering at this part-session.
For those engaging in these activities, which are as lucrative as they are criminal, corruption is clearly one of the favoured means of action, both in the public and the private sector.
Recent events have shown how our countries and our institutions are also to a greater or lesser extent affected by this world phenomenon.
The need is clear for the Commission to follow a decisive initiative, within its terms of reference, in the fight against corruption.
The fight against corruption must therefore be one of the priorities of the European institutions and of our states.
Legal and cultural differences are clearly so important in this respect that it would for the moment be unrealistic to set the objective of achieving legislation which is identical in all points in all the Member States.
The problem of corruption is, as the Bontempi report points out, one that also affects the EU's Member States and, not least, the EU's institutions.
The question is then how that scourge is to be combated.
Langen report (A4-0304/98) The European Commission has just published a communication pompously entitled 'Impact of the changeover to the euro on Community policies, institutions and legislation'.
Contrary to the impression given by the title, the communication contains no comprehensive analysis of the impact of the euro on the development of European integration, but only a list of the legal amendments required in various technical areas such as the budget, agricultural policy or administrative expenditure.
The Commission and the European Parliament are taking this opportunity to congratulate themselves on the 'considerable simplification' which the euro should bring.
Leaving aside the question of the transition and adaptation problems, I would simply point out that the imposition of a single currency on countries in different situations will cause major lasting problems of conciliation, generating incessant conflicts and likely in the end to divide Europe.
The President of the European Central Bank, Mr Wim Duisenberg, confessed to us, at the meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy of 22 September, that the establishment of a monetary strategy was proving to be more complex than he had previously anticipated.
The introduction of the euro will have overall positive effects for the whole zone.
The Langen report, therefore, following the example of the communication from the Commission, targets three sectors in particular: the Community budget, the agrimonetary arrangements and administrative expenditure.
Part of the Community expenditure uses national currency, in particular agricultural expenditure which constitutes the largest part of the expenditure of the European Union.
It is clear that, with the euro, the exchange-rate risk will be eliminated as expenditure and income will be in a single currency without any conversion being necessary.
In respect of the CAP, agricultural prices are set in a unit of account which is based on the ECU.
This means that, in the event of a devaluation or revaluation, agricultural prices are directly affected, leading to considerable variations in the agricultural income of the Member States affected by these exchange-rate fluctuations.
The introduction of the euro will also positively affect the sector of administrative expenditure.
The salaries of officials, calculated in ECU but paid in national currency, obviously must remain constant.
This involves adjustments and sometimes greater costs due to the exchange-rate variations.
In fact, the budget expenditure in ECU varies every month.
When you consider that, in the laws of the Member States, all the monetary references in tax, criminal, commercial, social and other codes will also have to be altered, the extent of the administrative and other costs involved in carrying out these simple legislative adjustments can be appreciated.
Certainly, for the European institutions, the euro may lead to a reduction of the costs of budget management, since 56 % of Community payments which are currently converted into national currency will remain in the euro, hence the disappearance of the exchange-rate risk.
There will be no more payments in the national currency of the country of employment, which is currently the case for 76 % of the ECU 2 700 million in administrative expenditure.
The advantages of the euro for agricultural policy are also obvious: its introduction from 1 January 1999 will facilitate trade in all products, including agricultural ones.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this report on the future of UCLAF was on the agenda back in September.
Article 206 of the EC Treaty, on which our approach is based, had even been forgotten by one or two of the officials in our own administration.
We took the opportunity to call back to mind the extensive powers of control vested in Parliament in connection with the granting of discharge.
Secondly, the headlines of the past few days are a sharp reminder of the importance of this subject in terms of the credibility, and hence the future, of the European Union.
I hope that through this report we can help to consolidate, or even recover, some of that credibility.
What the Commission is lacking in many areas was described by the Court of Auditors - and let me emphasise that it was the Court of Auditors, not the European Parliament - in its special report as a 'zero-tolerance policy'.
According to the findings of the Court of Auditors, as many as 1400 files were opened over the past year, though in a good few instances two or three of them related to one and the same case.
The files that are opened on the various cases are not drawn up in accordance with uniform rules and often fail to meet the minimum requirements laid down for documentary evidence by the judicial authorities of the Member States.
The flow of information between UCLAF and the competent authorities in the Member States and the coordination of approaches reveal considerable shortcomings on both sides.
An intensive discussion of this issue was kick-started more than a year ago by Mrs Wemheuer's report on fraud in the tourism sector and Mr Fabra Vallés's report on the MED affair.
UCLAF would then literally be left hovering in a vacuum without access to important internal information and without the inspection rights it enjoys today as part of the Commission, particularly its hard-won right to conduct site inspections on its own initiative.
On the other hand, it would be equally disastrous to leave the present structures as they are and merely to increase the staffing of UCLAF above the present level of 126 officials.
The proposal that, to this end, OLAF be created by a joint decision of the participating institutions has been misunderstood in some quarters.
It is not a matter of creating a new institution in addition to those that already exist, nor is it a matter of jumbling together the powers of the various institutions.
All the institutions of the Union have a duty to act against corruption and fraud within their own ranks, and they are all entitled to undertake this sort of task jointly.
We shall ensure that all necessary decisions are taken and that the way is clear for the establishment of OLAF when we face the voters in a few months' time.
That is why, at the beginning of my term of office, together with Erkki Liikanen and Anita Gradin, I launched the SEM 2000 initiative to considerably reinforce the management and supervision of the use of public funds.
Before considering the heart of the matter, I know that there is one point which concerns you in particular: the forwarding of information on investigations in cases of internal fraud.
I shall now turn to the Bösch report and will firstly make some comments on this.
My first comment is that a sweeping criticism of the results obtained by the Commission hitherto in combating internal fraud committed against the Community budget leads to inaccuracies which thus result in generalisations.
Firstly, UCLAF coordinates the work of combating fraud in the Member States.
In this respect, approximately 5 000 cases were dealt with in 1997 involving ECU 1 400 million.
Secondly, UCLAF conducts direct investigations using its own resources.
Thirdly, among these investigations, there are some which may obviously implicate officials.
UCLAF must be judged on its work in its three areas of competence.
The function of coordination with the Member States has been proven and is appreciated.
My second comment relates to the internal investigations.
It was this Commission which, on 14 July, laid down the principles applicable to the conduct of internal investigations, in order to give UCLAF inspectors a clear and solid basis for their work while fully respecting the guarantees of personal rights.
Since 1995, this Commission has dealt with 49 disciplinary procedures, not all involving cases of fraud but also reprehensible behaviour.
As a result of these procedures, the Commission has decided on eight dismissals, two demotions, four downgradings in step, 11 reprimands and four warnings.
The European Parliament denounces the absence of a clear policy on the part of the Commission with regard to corruption.
I totally, steadfastly and resolutely reject this attitude.
Finally, I am not prepared to sit back and allow the sullying of the image of excellence which the humanitarian work of the Union has acquired throughout the world, through the daily work of ECHO on the ground, in very difficult conditions and in collaboration with the United Nations, the Red Cross and a large number of non-governmental organisations.
The urgency of these often external tasks and the inadequacy of the resources immediately available were at the root of these administrative acrobatics which had to be eliminated.
I therefore understand the irritation on the part of some of you who, having made a personal effort in this respect, see that certain practices continued for some time and are now wondering whether these practices have in fact totally disappeared.
With regard to ECHO, the practice of mini-budgets ended in June 1995.
I will inform Parliament, in all transparency, of the results of this check.
If problems do remain for the Commission, the budgetary authority will be clearly told of this so that we can find solutions together.
I cannot accept the connection made, in the Bösch report, between the alleged lack of independence of UCLAF and its subordination to the Secretariat-General of the Commission.
Having set the record straint on these points, I will now turn to the proposals made in the Bösch report.
First of all, I said at the beginning of my speech that there are many elements in this report with which I agree: the concern to standardise and clarify the rules according to which investigations are conducted; the demand for a clearer and more uniform definition of the rules for handling confidential information, and an identical and consistent handling of files.
The responsibilities must therefore be clarified and the Office given well-defined rules, in order to guarantee maximum efficiency in accordance with respect for and protection of individual rights.
This new structure must be based on mutual confidence between the institutions.
This implies that these institutions must have the same rights and obligations when participating in a supervisory body, in proposals for appointments and in relations with the Office.
Furthermore, a joint report of the institutions involved should be prepared as soon as possible.
This report should list the measures to be taken, before and after the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty, together with a timetable for their implementation and, in particular, proposals for amending the relevant Council regulations.
The purpose of this debate is to consider the report of the Court of Auditors which highlights a number of serious shortcomings in the functioning of UCLAF.
But at the same time, the Court of Auditors' report makes the point that over 80 % of European Union money is spent in the Member States and that scrutiny of that spending depends very largely on the willingness of Member States to cooperate with UCLAF.
Mr Bösch has just presented his report and I think we are totally in agreement on a number of essential points.
The Socialist Group too is resolutely opposed to fraud and corruption both in general and in the institutions - where there is much room for improvement.
My group applies a number of principles in considering how we can counter fraud more effectively and make UCLAF more independent.
Also, there are a number of institutional issues which arise over the combating of fraud and corruption.
The combating of fraud and corruption is only partly a Community matter.
Most of the law-making and action in this area is decided on in intergovernmental cooperation under the third pillar.
So we cannot expect an institution or unit responsible at European level for anti-fraud measures - to the extent that such powers exist at that level - to be able to do much more than collect and analyse information and cooperate with national authorities in the detection of fraud.
Even after Amsterdam, the European Parliament has no powers in this area.
Mr President, I must point out that the Bösch report is being presented to the plenary at the behest of Parliament's resolution of 22 October 1997, which required Parliament and the Committee on Budgetary Control to submit the report.
The same has happened concerning many other subjects which you will be hearing about as the days go by and which perhaps will also influence Parliament's attitude towards the Commission's discharge in respect of the implementation of the 1996/97 budget.
The situation is quite unacceptable, and that is why it is so important for us to strengthen the role of UCLAF and give it more powers and better tools to get to grips with fraud and corruption.
So, Mr Santer, what we need is something more concrete from the Commission on what the Commission really intends to do in this area.
Mr President, President of the Commission, I still think that controls mean controls and that they actually serve a useful purpose.
The fact is that the whole system of projects and programmes in the Commission functions in such a way as to give officials responsibility for very substantial sums of money which they frequently cannot themselves control adequately.
We also know that today, in 'Le Monde', UCLAF said that the control carried out was of a metaphysical nature.
And we know that the Member States themselves hamper UCLAF's work by frequently failing to make available material which could be provided if they really wanted to combat fraud in their territory.
The Bösch report indicates that UCLAF has only a limited capacity for action.
The Commission frequently cites the responsibility of the Member States which manage 80 % of the expenditure.
However, the fight against fraud cannot be discussed without noting that total freedom in the circulation of goods and capital - that is, the absence of any controls - favours fraud and trafficking on a large scale.
This situation definitely requires attention and measures at the highest level.
The people of Europe must see responsibility being borne; that applies to ECHO and to all other cases.
That, however, is untenable, not only in this case, in which, after all, aid funds amounting to ECU 2.4 million were misappropriated - not embezzled in the legal sense, but nevertheless channelled into other directions.
The lack of communication between Parliament and the Commission is primarily due to the fact that our quest for information and supervisory powers is systematically interpreted as distrust, because the principle that good administration must, with few exceptions, be publicly accessible has been inverted by the Commission, at least in those areas in which criticism is voiced and in which Parliament exercises its supervisory powers.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bösch's report deserves our full support.
UCLAF was not set up until 1989 and went through many teething troubles.
The staff would naturally have to be increased to 300 specialists able to work effectively with the national judicial authorities.
As far as we are concerned, the proposal is very important in seeking to regulate cooperation between OLAF and the national judicial authorities via legislation in the shape of new regulations.
I have seen six new Member States join the Community and I have seen a systematic and welcome increase in Parliament's powers.
You have done a great deal to combat hormone fraud in Belgium.
In the municipality I live in, no taxpayer would accept that 10 % of the local authority's budget should be lost in fraud.
I think it is the same for everyone in this Chamber.
As is clear from the title and substance of the report, it is based on special report No 8/98 of the Court of Auditors and hence on Article 206 of the Treaty.
Our Committee on Budgetary Control has never subscribed to the misinterpretation of this legal basis.
This is regrettable because, in view of the revelations of alleged abuses in the European Community Humanitarian Office, a rapid response by Parliament in the form of proposed remedies would have been useful.
The Bösch report gives a clear political signal and we must heed it.
This Parliament only has the institution responsible for the budget as the institution with which it dialogues.
If that situation is lost, to whom is this external inquiry office responsible?
Perhaps the director should be nominated by the Court of Auditors or the Court of Justice and with an institutional agreement to work together with other institutions.
The ECHO case and the dubious manner, to say the least, in which it has been dealt with by the Commission, particularly in its relations with Parliament, have guided us to this inevitable conclusion and we therefore welcome the proposal to turn UCLAF into an independent body.
The Court of Auditors' latest reports have contributed evidence of the need for an external unit to fight the internal corruption and fraud that are clearly occurring within the EU institutions.
I believe that the Court of Auditors' report has not been mentioned sufficiently, given that the Bösch report is based on this.
Mr President, I agree with your acceptance of the improved operation of UCLAF and your rejection of the creation of a new institute, as also voiced by Mr Dankert.
Mr President, Mr President and Members of the Commission, there can be no doubt that measures to combat fraud within the European institutions need considerable improvement.
The Court of Auditors' report has brought a number of serious shortcomings to light.
One of them is the fact that UCLAF has hitherto been able to conduct investigations only within the Commission, not in other EU institutions.
The rapporteur rightly makes the point that all the institutions need effective safeguards against fraud.
The responsibility for investigating outside the institutions, for example cases in Member States of frauds against the Community budget, remains with the Member States.
Only an independent OLAF, cooperating with the Court of Auditors and, of course, with the Commission and answerable to the European Parliament, will develop into an incisive instrument in the fight against fraud and cooperation.
What has driven some of us to put the 1999 ECHO budget for humanitarian aid in reserve is precisely this lack of information and inability to be able to judge for ourselves.
Edith Müller was absolutely right to say that, in certain instances, without of course conducting a witch hunt, where there is responsibility then that responsibility must be taken up.
The EPP would like to support the Bösch report even it is not supported by his own colleagues because we believe that progress must be made.
No doubt once we have had this debate and voted, we can also take into account the remarks made by the President of the Commission, so that we can have a really efficient procedure for anti-fraud to take us into the 21st century.
The Bösch report contains sound proposals that should be fully endorsed.
The responsible Commissioner is no longer there either.
Even today, and I particularly regret this in view of the latest ECHO revelations, neither Commissioner Marín nor Commissioner Bonino is here, and the same thing happened last time for part of the hearing.
Mr President, we welcome your proposals that the ideas put forward by Mr Bösch be further developed.
I believe there is one thing that really would be a problem, namely if the debate we are holding on this report today were to be shelved until next year when the new Commission is appointed, and we should then have to sanction all the mistakes that have been made during the present five-year term.
I hope that no-one will throw up their hands in horror if I say that whilst examining the report on ECHO, Parliament lost faith in the anti-fraud unit.
And there is no better way to redefine its organisation and legal framework than to make use of this key moment in relations between Parliament and the Commission.
In short, it will be an office with the necessary equilibrium to ensure that its work is in the interest of the Community and not any particular Member State.
Mr President, when voting on the Bösch report, there can only be one way to vote: either we are for or we are against change.
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. 1996 discharge The next item is the report (A4-0289/98) by Mr Miranda, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the discharge procedure for the 1996 budget: Section I, European Parliament-Section IV, Court of Justice-Section V, Court of Auditors-Section VI, Economic and Social Committee and Committee of the Regions.
There are two factors that have had a particularly marked effect on the discharge procedure for 1996.
First, Parliament lost an excellent opportunity to reduce the final cost of the D3 building in Brussels by some ECU 30 million, which had been our priority for this financial year; second, the administrative irregularities revealed by the audits carried out by the Economic and Social Committee itself and by the Court of Auditors cannot be overlooked.
Let us consider the matter of the ECU 30 million.
Everything must be done to ascertain not only the professional qualifications but also the solid professional experience of the institutions' main administrators.
Still on the subject of Parliament, I would like to draw attention to a few other points, including the increase in cancellations of appropriations, the various refusals of approval, particularly regarding interpretation, and the need to regularise the discrepancy of some ECU 4 million between the cash situation and accounts, which has been outstanding for several years.
However, certain measures have subsequently been instituted and remedial action taken but, if discharge is to be granted, it is essential that the Court of Auditors and UCLAF take note of the conclusions, particularly as regards responsibilities, the reliability of the new system of reimbursement and the conditions for recovering sums overpaid.
We likewise regret the irregularities revealed by the Court of Auditors regarding the Committee of the Regions, and we take due note of the interim report which brings us back to the matter of recovering sums incorrectly paid and the administrative measures taken.
Paragraph 19 says: 'Regrets the 1994 triennial inventory check has not been completed by the end of 1996'.
As far as Parliament is concerned, we are closely monitoring the measures that were adopted on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report in relation to Members' expenses.
We had to delay by several months the discharge that can now be given to the Secretary-General, because our committee wished to await the findings of the inquiry conducted by the Bureau into the cancellation of funds amounting to about ECU 30 million.
The Bureau has decided on the question of personal responsibilities, and we respect that decision.
I only wish to point out that the problems dealt with by the Court of Auditors in its report on Members' allowances will have to be considered in our discharge for the 1997 financial year, since we only received this report two weeks ago.
The 1996 budget was not affected by this anomaly, but it would be useful if we could reach an agreement with the Bureau as quickly as possible.
The situation described by the Court of Auditors is so serious that the Council, in its recommendation on discharge, asked the Court of Auditors and UCLAF to conduct an inquiry in order to establish the precise scale and implications of the irregularities..
This is also one of the reasons why we have been calling for the Bösch report on the independence of UCLAF and demanding that UCLAF be permitted to conduct its investigations in the other institutions too.
I hope we shall have the opportunity to apprise the new Secretary-General of the situation at our next meeting.
It is not easy to be responsible in this place and to make recommendations to the Committee on Budgetary Control and Parliament, because we are monitoring other institutions.
In paragraph 4 we are dealing with the matter of the ECU 30 million.
He must make sure that Parliament staff follow the financial regulation and follow Parliament's internal rules.
If that had happened we would not have lost ECU 30 million.
Paragraph 19 refers to the 1994 inventory, not completed by 1996.
We should never, and particularly from now on, allow inaction or omission in this House to lead to situations being overlooked, situations that may later become deadly weapons aimed at the heart of the European Union, that is, its credibility and its honest image.
However, I would like to clarify two specific points.
The legal services of this House may have their limits, and their operation must certainly be improved, but to cast doubt on them does not help our work.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Part of my thanks goes to the Council and the Commission, which recognise that as part of the budgetary authority Parliament has a role in deciding the future of the fee structures for this agency.
Getting that inclusion has come after a considerable delay and a great many problems have been created for the Agency in London as a result of that delay.
So the first two points which need to be stressed as far as this report is concerned are: firstly, Parliament must automatically be involved in future decisions affecting fee levels without delay; secondly, as and when fees are revised in the future that must be done within a budgetary deadline so as to allow the agency to manage its affairs in a proper and efficient manner.
This particular agency has always been most accommodating of Parliament's requirements concerning budgets of the Community's decentralized bodies and is to be congratulated on the excellent report it received from the Court of Auditors.
The actual evaluations are carried out by the Member State rapporteurs, who receive 50 % of the agency fee to cover the costs of producing the report.
The Commission claims that the fee levels do not cover the costs incurred either by the Member States or the agency and that they should therefore be increased.
So our next recommendations are that: firstly, with the assistance of the Commission - for which we thank Mr Mingasson and his staff - the agency should complete its installation of a complete automated financial system, which will provide a breakdown and facilitate a cost analysis of the work of the agency; secondly, the Commission should require member State agencies to make similar information on their costs available to us as the budgetary authority; thirdly, in two years' time we come back to a full review of fees based on an evaluation of real data.
This will tell us if it takes longer, for example, to evaluate an application for a veterinary product which would end up in the food chain as opposed to one which does not, or whether a variation of an original application takes the same amount of work or only half or quarter as much.
Although it was envisaged that the agency will become self-funding, we have to recognize that it is not going to happen in the immediate future even though we have continued to diminish the EU contribution as a proportion of the agency's total budget year on year.
These principles will apply to all agencies, not just London.
This new line is to allow additional activities to be incorporated into the agencies' work programme, as long as doing so does not involve increases in staffing or capital expenditure beyond the limits of existing budgets.
Many of the agencies are still in their start-up phases.
Many were frozen in mid-growth by the standstill budgets of the past two years.
The automated financial systems, which not just London but almost all the agencies will have up and running in the near future, will help.
The next agency budgets will take place in the new parliamentary term.
Firstly, the agency is a splendid example of subsidiarity.
I hope the conciliation meetings will find an opportunity to raise this matter with the Council.
The agencies are proving to be an excellent working instrument within the Commission.
Therefore, the three committees that have drawn up reports all express their support for the Agency and its excellent work.
It was necessary for fee levels to be updated - as provided for in the regulations establishing the Agency - and I therefore believe that it is appropriate for this Parliament to support the change in these fee levels.
Above all, I believe that the annual fee proposed by the Commission is extremely important as it will help meet the costs of post-authorization surveillance and maintenance activities, which are very important in this sector.
However, Mr President, whilst I support an increase in fees, I would like to highlight the pressing need to maintain the Agency's independence.
The contribution from the EU budget must be safeguarded - in other words, it should be maintained and reductions be avoided - as the Agency is working for the pharmaceutical sector in Europe but it also has the interests of millions of patients, health professionals and consumers at stake.
We must remember that Parliament has always supported this fundamental question of the Agency's independence.
Only recently, Mr President, in connection with the marketing of the Viagra pill, we saw how useful the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products is, because it was on the strength of the Agency's opinion that the Commission decided to license it.
I quite agree with the rapporteur because this Agency is to some extent concerned with implementing the policy of the single market and safeguarding public health.
The rapporteur also says that the Agency made a loss of 20 % due to currency fluctuations and the effect of the corrective coefficient or weighting.
But as you see, we in the Environment Committee are doing our best to safeguard the budget for this Agency.
The current level and structure of fees payable by the pharmaceutical industry to the European Agency for the evaluation of medical products was set out in the 1995 Council regulation.
The proposed increase in fee levels is clearly demonstrated and supported by a cost survey of the national competent authorities and the EMEA.
It will take on board the following issues: the suggestion that future amendments to the fees regulation will be based on a complete evaluation of all costs of the Agency - Amendment No 16; clarification that the fee for evaluation covers all strengths and pharmaceutical forms of a product - Amendments Nos 10 and 11; increase of the additional arbitration fee for veterinary medical products - Amendment No 12; increase of the fees for changes to a maximum residue limit of a veterinary medical product - Amendment No 13; the introduction of a flexible fee for scientific advice; Amendment No 14.
Article 10 of the 1995 regulation already gives a precise and specific legal basis which has to be respected.
The Agency has lost 20 % because of these.
Mr President, I think that as Mr Kellett-Bowman might well attest, in the budget arrangements for 1999 we put in a series of amendments to ensure that the Commission actually tops up on the third or fourth payments every year the losses made by any agency through exchange rate fluctuations or the weighting arrangements.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended until 5.30 p.m.) Question Time (Commission) The next item is questions to the Commission (B4-0483/98).
Nonetheless, we would like to welcome him and ask that he answers Question No 30 by Marjo Matikainen-Kallström (H-0885/98) Subject: The impact of the crisis in Russia on the country's energy production and nuclear safety The deepening economic, social and political crisis in Russia has given rise to fears that the coming winter may cause major energy management problems there.
At the same time the implementation of the TACIS programme which is currently under way, particularly in the energy sector, will enable us to acquire the information that we need.
It is with this programme very much in mind that the Commission and the Russian authorities are developing fresh strategies.
Since the start of the programme around ECU 300 million has been made available to improve nuclear safety in Russia.
It is hoped that the strategy will be fully in place before Viktor Kliman, Jacques Santer and Boris Yeltsin meet in Vienna on 27 October.
Thank you very much, Mr Liikanen.
Mr President, does the Commission really have any idea at all just how dangerous the Russian nuclear plants are and what condition they are in?
ECU 300 million has been spent on this, and there has been an immense amount of cooperation among experts.
I give the floor to Mr Liikanen to answer Mr Kristoffersen's question.
To ensure equal treatment for all candidates, the Commission will be organising new preselection tests as soon as possible for the start of 1999.
The Commission deeply regrets the inconvenience which this situation has caused to those candidates who participated in the competitions honestly and in good faith.
I can promise you, Commissioner, that we will be given a hard time in the election campaign that is due to get underway soon now.
Mr President, I agree completely.
The third point is something that will obviously have to be discussed, and that is whether in future it will still be appropriate to hold these large-scale competitions, or whether it would be preferable to try and restrict the number of candidates so that the competitions can be better controlled.
Thank you very much, Mr Liikanen.
This question has certainly aroused a great deal of interest in the House to the point of four supplementary questions being tabled.
Mr De Coene, you have the floor for one minute.
Commissioner, your principled reaction does you credit and you have done what was necessary.
As the questioner rightly said and you confirmed, a moral as well as a financial loss has been sustained here.
Mr President, there have obviously been problems in three areas here, and in these there are two guilty parties.
It is important in terms of people's rights that no one should profit from the deception, but that everyone is genuinely in the same situation in the new competition.
Question No 33 by Angela Sierra González (H-0912/98) Subject: Death of Semira Adamu in Belgium The death by suffocation at the hands of the Belgian police of a young Nigerian woman who was to be deported to Togo, after she was smothered under two pillows in the aeroplane which was to take her from Brussels to Lomé, has caused widespread concern among Europe's citizens.
The basic principles are enshrined in the 1951 Geneva Convention.
The individual concerned must be outside his or her country of citizenship and be unable, or not want, to benefit from the protection of that country.
The EU Member States have endeavoured to achieve a common interpretation of the Geneva Convention.
On 4 April 1996, a common position was adopted on the definition of refugee in Article 1 of the Geneva Convention.
The treatment of people seeking asylum in all EU Member States is absolutely appalling.
Commissioner, in relation to your speech on the Status of Refugees and the Geneva Convention, I would like to ask if the Commission is considering recommending to the European Union countries that, in all matters relating to political asylum for women, and in matters that exclusively affect women, such as abuse and other gender-linked issues, this political asylum be extended.
We could do this as we have proposed in other areas in the Union such as when we are talking about persecution of third parties, or about refugees staying for a shorter time.
In some countries, EU citizens staying only for a short while have to declare their arrival to the administrative authorities or the local police.
In order to make this easier, some Member States allow citizens of other countries to declare their arrival through forms completed in hotels, campsites or guest houses and a copy of this is sent to the local authorities.
After all, one of the benefits of the Community is supposedly free movement and if, for example, one takes a day trip to another Member State or stays in private accommodation, there is no such requirement to provide details of identification documents or passports.
If it is in the interests of security or information on visitors, why is the information not required from every visitor?
What I do believe to be important is that which the Court of Justice has maintained until now, in other words, that such arrival declaration systems are compatible with Community law.
Question No 35 by Joan Vallvé (H-0865/98) Subject: Inclusion of the Misteri d'Elx on the World Heritage List The Misteri o Festa d'Elx (Mystery Play or Feast of Elche) has been put forward for inclusion on UNESCO's World Heritage List.
The Festa, whose origins date back to the late 14th century, is staged in the city of Elx (Elche) on 14 and 15 August each year to commemorate the Feast of the Assumption of the Virgin Mary.
The European Commission is aware of the importance and significance of the Elche Mystery Play (Misteri d'Elx ) in the history of European religious and musical theatre.
And, as the procedure for inclusion on the World Heritage list dictates, the UNESCO World Heritage Committee is the body that has statutory responsibility for taking decisions on these matters.
Within the framework of its powers, the Community does not have any formal or material possibilities, as far as Article 128 of the Treaty is concerned, that allow it to intervene in the procedure of naming World Heritage events.
In other words, it is a locally acclaimed event but, at the same time, it has world-wide significance and it is for this reason that we believe it deserves to be recognised as a World Heritage event.
Therefore, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his kind words and I am sure that the local authorities in Elche will take the necessary steps to ensure that this play receives the recognition it deserves from UNESCO, as European heritage to be shown to the whole world.
Nonetheless, the word from the Commission, through me - if my colleagues permit it - is that I think that the Elche Mystery Play will be recognised as a high-profile project.
I therefore believe that all this points to one thing - and it is important to highlight it -, namely, that Europe's wealth stems from the differences in the varied cultures which exist in Europe.
And now that we have, in fact, reached the legislative stage, I would like to ask that this stage be speeded up as much as possible in Parliament, and that it progresses quickly at first reading, so that on 17 November, if possible, the Council can adopt a common position, and so that we might already have this framework agreement before the end of the year.
Thank you, Mr Oreja.
The question of whether the Ilois people of the Chagos Archipelago would be entitled to British citizenship is a matter between the UK Government and the concerned persons.
I should also like to know if the Commission has any legal advice on this matter.
We know that the governments and the people concerned are discussing this issue but apart from that I cannot go any further.
I thank the Commissioner for that very helpful answer.
We can all have an opinion on the future and the prospects of what the future holds for us.
Question No 38 by Ulla Sandbæk (H-0847/98) Subject: Supreme Court injunction on financing any new projects because of the EU's legal basis for granting aid In the light of the suspension of all grants from a number of budget lines involving the Commission's DG VIII (possibly including the one relating to the 'Gender action on the WTO' project), which puts all projects on hold until the spring of 1999 at the very earliest, what has the Commission decided to do about projects that are directed towards development education and advocacy work concerning the preparations for the WTO's Third Ministerial Conference due to take place in the US in the autumn of 1999?
From January 1999 - and this is extremely important - an antenna of the ACP secretariat will be set up in Geneva for coordinating ACP positions within the WTO.
Also we financed a preparatory seminar before the second WTO ministerial conference held in May 1998.
The Commission also confirms that it has a received a proposal for gender action on the WTO presented by the International Coalition for Development Action, for financing under budget line B7-611.
The Commission is, however, ready to examine project proposals for eligibility under other existing budget lines which are open to development education and advocacy projects and which already possess a legal basis and can therefore accept projects for financing.
Mr President, it is the last part of the Commissioner's answer regarding the other budget lines that I am interested in.
If other budget lines are found, is word then sent back to the NGOs that these budget lines are available, or are they simply told that money has already been appropriated via these budget lines?
The second is about gender issues and the promotion of these issues as regards not just WTO but all concerns of development.
So in my opinion it is fully justified that WTO - trade and development and trade-related issues - should also be mainstreamed as regards gender.
Question No 39 by Marie-Arlette Carlotti (H-0907/98) Subject: EU support for the presidential elections in Gabon In the framework of the support traditionally given by the European Union to the ACP countries in organising democratic and transparent elections, could the Commission tell us what technical and financial arrangements it intends to make for the presidential election due to take place in December 1998 in Gabon?
Such an approach, conducted with the assistance of all the political forces, would allow the necessary conditions to be created in Gabon to ensure the essential transparency of the future elections.
I share your concerns about the time which is passing, particularly since Gabon is currently an extremely important country in this region of Africa.
We all know that President Omar Bongo is the most senior of the African leaders.
He has tried to play a peace-making role here and there, and it is absolutely essential that the presidential election in Gabon is totally transparent.
Our letter of 3 September deserves a response and I believe that it will get one.
And I can assure you that, following this question, I shall personally look into what is happening and insist on having a response as soon as possible.
Question No 40 by Eryl McNally (H-0844/98) Subject: Rational Planning Directive What progress has been made on re-introducing the Rational Planning Directive or equivalent legislation?
Many of Parliament's amendments were incorporated in the amended proposal and served to clarify the directive.
Unfortunately, during the Council's working group discussions, the proposal received only limited support and some Member States declared that they would prefer the proposed directive to be changed to a recommendation.
I quite agree with you, Mrs McNally, that this is a particularly important and topical objective, especially since we are operating in the context of negotiations based on the commitments we entered into in Kyoto.
I sincerely believe, and that is why both I and the Commission insist, that a directive would be a very important contribution towards the efforts by Member States to achieve that target.
Yet when the Commission expresses its opinion about that restructuring, it has a duty to ensure that the decisions taken are compatible with the provisions of the Treaties.
The Commission's comments concerning that company's production in 2001 are based on a substantial and transparent analysis of developments over the last few years.
And that analysis showed that, because of the theoretical basis of certain calculations put before it, the production from underground seams envisaged in the said agreements for 2001 would not in reality be reduced by the amount estimated.
However, Commissioner, I have my doubts.
When Decision 3632 was discussed here in Parliament, I was the rapporteur.
And, in both the Council and Parliament, the concept of European reference costs was explicitly rejected and the text therefore talks of social and regional reasons and of working towards reducing costs.
I also believe that the directive is being interpreted in a rather limited manner as we are talking about reducing costs here and that does not necessarily mean reducing production.
Mr President, I say again that the Commission is always ready to cooperate with the Member States concerning problems of a sensitive nature at national level, especially problems with particularly sensitive social and regional dimensions.
The Commission also respected the agreements signed between Spanish companies concerning cuts in production.
From the analysis carried out by the Commission's services, it emerged that the production of 2 100 000 tonnes in 2001 from underground seams proposed by Spain for the HUNOSA company corresponded almost exactly to production in 1997 from the underground seams.
I give the floor to Mr Papoutsis to answer Mr Seppänen's question.
to double the contribution of those sources to the Union's energy supply from 6 % to 12 % by 2001, is an ambitious but at the same time a realistic objective.
The White Paper analyses in some detail the way in which that overall target can be achieved, on the basis of the most reliable estimates available of the probable contribution from each renewable source.
The proposal presented on the strategy for increasing renewable energy sources in each sector is based on the best combination of technologies and makes it possible for the Union to achieve its aim within the framework of existing technical, practical and economic limitations.
So we are at a stage when great efforts are needed to promote them in the market and to apply the policy of promoting renewable energy sources in practice, in all the Member States.
The Commission's proposal goes together with an indicative financial allocation covering the period 1998 to 2002.
The allocation refers to an increase in the budget for Altener from ECU 14.4 million in 1998 to ECU 17.1 million in 2002.
However, as you know, it is you in the European Parliament together with the Council who have the final say in budgetary matters.
Mr President, the Commission has done everything possible to present all the proposals that could be put forward in the context of agreements within the Commission and in the Member States, to give a powerful impetus to the use of renewable energy sources.
So it is up to the Member States to make the most of all these possibilities provided by the European Union's legal framework and, at the same time, to utilise the Community finance available from various Community programmes to help industry produce cheaper technology, while at the same time making it possible for the regions and large cities of the Member States to exploit the new technologies for making use of renewable energy sources.
As the author is not present, Question No 43 lapses.
I therefore agree with the finding of the survey that intervention by the European Union is now seen not just as desirable but indeed as essential by a vast majority of Europe's citizens.
All the activities envisaged in the Commission's statement of November 1996 have been implemented as a matter of urgency.
At the end of 1998, the Commission now intends to submit to the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions a report on the implementation of all these measures and on the progress that has been achieved.
However, the fact that Europe's citizens already recognise that the Commission is active in this area provides real encouragement for us to continue our efforts.
Let me refer briefly to an initiative concerning support for the coordination at European level of national information and awareness campaigns against sex tourism which victimises children.
The information activities currently being carried out, which are supported by the Commission, are based on the development in various Member States of two complementary programmes.
Within this tourism exhibition, the Commission will have at its disposal a substantial area in which it will present all the initiatives it has taken to combat child sex tourism.
Secondly, in the Commission's opinion, have all 15 Member States taken action with equal sensitivity and practicality concerning these issues?
In any event, what we must and will persist with - alongside the contribution from the industry and of course the cooperation of the 15 Member States and the governments of third countries, mainly those where the phenomenon is rife - is our joint effort to develop a tourism ethic and at the same time to find ways in which, through economic aid, we can contribute towards economic development so as to improve the standard of living of the population, especially young people, create new jobs, and in that way prevent escalation and combat the phenomenon.
Thank you very much, Mr Papoutsis.
I give the floor to Mr Papoutsis to answer Mr Titley's question.
However, the Commission will submit appropriate proposals for these payments too, aimed at establishing rules equivalent to those envisaged in the directive with regard to public authorities.
In accordance with the working document on the amendment of the Financial Regulation of 22 July 1998, the Commission intends to harmonise the current provisions concerning payments, so that all the Community's bodies will work to the same standards laid down in the proposed directive.
In parallel, the Commission has undertaken to carry out a study on its own delayed payments, the conclusions and proposals of which will be announced before the end of the year.
Beyond that, however, and I wish to stress this point, in July 1997 the Commission approved the principle of paying interest in cases of late payment, to compensate the beneficiary for the delay.
Thank you, Mr Papoutsis.
Mr President, just over four years ago in September 1994 the roll-on/roll-off passenger ferry Estonia sank in the Baltic with a loss of over 900 lives.
The Estonia tragedy was only one of many ferry disasters in the past decade.
I can name others, including The Herald of Free Enterprise , back in 1987, or, indeed, the more recent Scandinavian Star .
Indeed, thanks to the determination of Commissioner Neil Kinnock, we have witnessed a series of measures to learn and apply the lessons.
Firstly, we believe all ferries - old and new - should be fitted with black boxes within five years, closing the loophole in Article 5 which would allow exemptions from compliance in perpetuity.
Thirdly, within 12 months of the entry into force of this proposal, a thorough assessment should be made to determine whether enough has been done or whether further measures are required.
As a further guarantee of ferry safety, we believe an annual safety report should be produced.
These three amendments reflect our determination to make ferries safer, to guarantee that ferry safety remains at the top of our agenda and, indeed, to enlist the support of the citizen and passenger in ensuring that these high safety standards are met.
Firstly, given the reliance on Member States to enforce the new safety regime, what resources will be made available to ensure compliance throughout the Community?
Finally, I wish to thank all my colleagues and our staff.
Mr President, in an election year such as this, people often ask us: what do you actually do in the European Parliament?
The figures - over 140 million passengers spread over 500 ferries - speak for themselves.
It is quite funny when you think of it that, when international rules drawn up by the IMO are to be enforced, we have to transpose them into a directive.
I hope that this directive, but not least the implementation of the directive, will help to strengthen the common legislation and guarantee safety in the future.
Passenger safety must be the same for everybody, as must accident investigation, regardless of the age of the vessel or the Member State in which it is registered.
Mr President, we certainly welcome this further legislation, which is absolutely essential for the safety of passengers for whom this is one of the main forms of travel between Member States.
This has been mentioned by the EPP group and concerns me in a number of areas of legislation.
The presence of a voyage data recorder, and the Transport Committee's proposals such as those for an annual report on the safety of ships and for a data bank open to the public, are in my view important steps, although still not sufficient.
Given this opportunity, perhaps I ought to mention that we were very concerned indeed about the fact that, in another directive on the safety of passenger craft, which requires the refitting of vessels which will be 27 years old in October 2000, Greek vessels are being exempted.
Over the past ten years, the safety record of ferries in Europe has been marred by a number of very serious accidents.
It became necessary for the EU to act.
His report is certainly an excellent memorial to the victims of the Estonia disaster.
However, there are no positive measures on behalf of shipping.
These legislative texts are all the result of a Council resolution of 22 December 1994 on the safety of ro-ro passenger ferries, adopted after a number of tragic accidents to ferries operating between European ports.
The proposal for a directive will cover nearly 550 vessels and high-speed passenger craft and 277 European ports.
In conclusion, may I compliment the rapporteur on the quality of the arguments outlined in his report.
I am glad to be able to tell you that the Commission will support a substantial number of the amendments proposed in the report.
To be specific, with reservations about a few changes to the wording, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 4, 5, 10 and 11, and can also accept in principle Amendments Nos 9, 12 and 15.
Many of these amendments seek to ensure and maintain consistency with other directives and regulations concerning maritime safety.
However, the same concern about consistency prevents us from accepting Amendments Nos 3, 7 and 14.
Amendment No 6 proposes that the IMO guidelines, the International Maritime Organisation's Resolution No A.746, should apply as they stand during the surveys, in accordance with Article 13.
We think this possibility of allowing exceptions is fundamental, and consequently we cannot accept that it should be limited to five years as in Amendment No 8.
The issue of transparency brings us to Amendment No 15, which requires the Commission to assess progress in the area of ro-ro ferry safety in the light of the 1994 Council resolution.
For that reason, I propose that the assessment called for should take place three years after the directive comes into force, and the related submission of the annual report should take place within the already existing framework for submitting reports on the implementation of Community law.
Mr President, very briefly, on some of those points, most of us would welcome the comments in relation to Amendment 15 regarding the safety assessment.
Secondly, why can we not trust the public to decide for itself whether or not ferry travel is safe?
While I appreciate that a response may not be forthcoming tonight, I would appreciate a response in writing to that particular point of detail.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, the cooperative pan-European transport network policy must be seen as part of a dynamic process that has already found expression in different procedures and in the previous pan-European conferences that were held in Prague and Crete and that certainly did not end in Helsinki.
One of the priorities should be to establish and consolidate a global strategy that will finally lead to the creation of an integrated and multimodal pan-European transport infrastructure network.
And, above all, we need to have the cooperation of the governments, the international financial institutions and the private sector.
But if we are to achieve the desired results from this process, it must be carried out in a transparent manner.
The role of the TINA group is to analyse the existing transport infrastructures, to calculate the estimated growth in the volume of traffic, to assess infrastructure needs and to determine the future trans-European transport networks in an enlarged Union.
The careful completion of this work is extremely important as only in that way can we ensure that Community resources and activities are being used appropriately.
This is all the more important since the modern transport infrastructure networks of the Member States have been developed according to a vision that is completely different to that of the possibility of a market without borders and the role the infrastructures must play in the development of this market.
The interoperability of networks is therefore a matter that should be resolved beforehand, because if there is no interoperability, there will be no free movement.
As always, the main problem is how to finance the construction of the transport infrastructures.
When public debates on financing transport infrastructures use the word 'finance' with no other clarification, they usually overlook or misunderstand the difference between financing in the strict sense and paying.
Therefore, the fact that the resources allocated and the participating agents in each of these operations can be - and often are - totally separate is overlooked.
From this standpoint, financing transport infrastructures, in the strictest sense of the word, implies an intermediary operation which involves obtaining and providing the immediate resources required to allow investment to be made and objectives to be met.
However, paying for transport infrastructures is a more final operation which involves providing final resources that will allow the economic cycle of investment to be brought to a close.
In the present economic circumstances in the European Union, with deficit amounts and public debt being severely limited, it is very difficult to find the levels of investment needed for the pan-European transport infrastructure networks.
The Community's obvious concern over the problem of private funding for transport infrastructures has led the Commission to present a communication on public-private partnerships in the trans-European transport network projects.
Mr President, better connections between European transport networks and those of our neighbours is an objective which the European Union has been pursuing for many years.
The Commission communication on connecting the Union's infrastructures is a coherent and rational response and is altogether consistent with the implementation of the findings of the third Pan-European Transport Conference in Helsinki.
Clearly, the prospect of enlargement makes this multi-directional approach all the more essential.
The REX Committee congratulates the Commission on the general structure of this communication, but has raised a number of questions in its opinion.
Nor must we underestimate the environmental and social problems which a growth in transport, especially road transport, will bring.
So we can only welcome the result of the Swiss referendum of 27 September last, even though the negotiations are not yet completed.
If European transport policy were as comprehensive and well-structured as his report, we would be living in a very happy Europe in terms of transport.
The funding is inadequate.
With its referendum, Switzerland recently sent out a signal that is important for Europe too, namely that it is quite prepared to make financial resources available in the form of a performance-related freight transport charge, in order to develop rail transport.
Precisely in regard to developing the railways and reorienting transport policy, I hope and expect quite a few changes and new initiatives so that we can put more emphasis on developing public transport, in particular the railway infrastructure, to ensure intermodal transport and interoperability in future too.
Yet we must remember that some of these countries are very poor and that, not surprisingly, it is in some of the poorest countries that the need is greatest.
In this connection, since I attach great value to developing the railways, although without forgetting road transport, I believe the European railways will also have to assume more responsibility for development not just in Western but also in Eastern Europe, which means the railways will have to cooperate.
Agence Europe reported today that a certain unease had emerged in the discussions about eastward enlargement.
It is unacceptable that a lorry should be made to fork out a charge of 325 Swiss francs for a one-way trip from Basel to Chiasso from the year 2001 instead of 25 Swiss francs, even if it is one of the 40-tonne lorries that will then be authorised.
At any rate, let me say to my colleagues in the Group of the Party of European Socialists that we cannot accept the proposed agreement with Switzerland, if only because we do not even know whether Switzerland will approve the construction of the two new railway tunnels and the necessary funding in a month's time.
But in that case we really should tackle the special project decided in Essen in 1994 and make a start on building the Brenner tunnel; perhaps you should discuss this with your government some time.
Let us be very clear.
So I am glad to see that Mr Sisó's report several times raises the question of environmental pollution and suggests how it might be controlled in future if Central Europe joins the European Union.
I believe it is possible, or should be possible in future, to make use in Central Europe of the latest sustainable and environmentally friendly technologies which we have only been to apply in Western Europe very recently, in a way which will avoid the mistakes we have made for too long in Western Europe, namely paying too little heed to public transport and continuing to build far too many roads for far too long.
My group sees two priorities here.
But the strategy only works if one is able to ensure that neighbouring countries and Member States are serious and will honour their commitments.
Secondly, the communication represents a huge leap forward, without subsidiary aims or description of methods.
I know of a good example as regards shipping in the Baltic area, but I also know only too well of a bad example in connection with the development of motorways.
The rapporteur has indicated one major problem: access to private capital.
The transport sector is vital to socio-economic growth in the Community, and so a long-term, across-the-board strategy is needed for the development of social relations within the European Union.
Therefore our request to the Commission is that it provide more precise information, both on the progress and timetabling of these actions and on the relevant sources of finance.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, transport routes have been vital to trade and commerce since time immemorial.
The economic growth of a region and the prosperity of its people depend on opening up trade routes.
Under the PHARE and TACIS programmes, interregional and cross-border projects are to be supported.
The rural areas of Central and Eastern Europe need a well thought-out transport infrastructure for their development, to prevent large-scale migration to the towns and to promote employment and economic growth.
But we must realise one thing: within the Union, and in view of enlargement, our priority aim must be to shift traffic to environmentally friendly transport modes.
Secondly, I would like to briefly refer to the Commission's well-chosen title for this communication: 'Towards a pan-European Policy'.
It is strictly a Community policy and, therefore, should remain under heading 3.
Some aspects of the report are problematic.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our policy on transport infrastructure in Europe, there is a clear distinction between on the one hand the strategy concerning the transport network on the continent of Europe as a whole, and on the other hand the special situation applying to countries which are candidates for accession to the European Union.
The Helsinki Conference supported the idea of that partnership, recognising that it concerned us all.
It concerns the countries involved, it concerns the European Union, the European Investment Bank, the other international financial institutions, it concerns private sector investors, and of course it concerns the social partners.
Our policy in the area of transport infrastructure has two basic priorities: first of all the creation of a cohesive transport network for an enlarged Europe involving a reasonable price structure and, secondly, the mobilisation of the necessary financial resources for the establishment of that specific network.
But there will also be a substantial contribution from the EU's budget, at least for the countries which are candidates for accession.
Between 1992 and 1998, the PHARE programme provided a total of some ECU 1000 million.
We also give priority to the mobilisation of sufficient financial resources for elements of the European transport networks outside the future enlarged Union, in the Community of Independent States or even in the Mediterranean basin, so that the necessary infrastructure can be created in good time.
However, the potential for providing Community finance for those areas remains limited, given that the TACIS and MEDA programmes can at present only provide finance for technical aid.
Consequently, I am sure that the need to mobilise financial resources to improve the quality of the projects, but also to increase economic productivity, which led the EU countries to set up various partnerships involving the public and private sectors, will now provide an important incentive for similar efforts in Central and Eastern Europe.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, the Commission communication seeks to establish a framework for action at EU, national, regional and local level, and puts forward five priority areas: traffic information services, based on the RDS-TMC system; transport data exchange/information management; electronic fee collection; the human/machine interface; and system architecture.
The system of emergency satellite or cellular links should cut reaction time for the emergency services by more than 40 %, and the survival rate should increase by between 7 and 12 %.
The collision alert system, coupled with on-board computers, should increase driver safety and, what is more, the VMS should cut traffic delays by 20 %.
These data should, I believe, be investigated further in respect of the cost of not using telematics; in other words, the social benefits should be assessed in financial terms.
For example, it would have been logical to regulate the equipment requirements for vehicles with technological instruments or the tendency towards abusing tollbooths, even in protected areas.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, I would like to highlight the most significant elements of this Community strategy.
It certainly deserves the most resolute and urgent political support from all the European institutions and, of course, from this House.
Mr President, this strategy must be the first in a series covering each of the interfaces of all other modes of transport, as telematic applications for the various forms of transport must fit into a strategy aimed at developing a general, integrated transport system.
The Commission must also calculate the costs involved in the overall programme in order to allow an assessment of the correlation between the resources used and the practical results.
Similarly, the research programme should cover the development of telematic assistance systems for use when driving in fog or should seek to create the possibility of using on-board receivers of the 'no hands' type with GSM functions.
Community strategy in support of telematic safety measures in the carriage of dangerous goods should also be strengthened, as Mr Baldarelli stressed.
In this respect, we also need to devise a range of models for cooperation between the public and private sectors.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Baldarelli's fine report continues the discussion on transport telematics that we started at the beginning of our legislative term.
That reflects the very rapid developments in this field, or at least in the area of road transport telematics.
When we speak of an integrated transport system in transport policy and say that is the only way to achieve sustainable mobility in the long term, that means we consider two types of integration necessary: quantitative integration of the individual modes of transport beyond national borders, and qualitative integration, namely linking up the transport modes to form a multimodal transport system.
The integration of road transport alone could even prove counterproductive for the overall project.
We also expect a parallel strategy for introducing the technically superior DAB system.
The PPE Group supports the development of framework conditions for the deployment of telematics in road transport because transport telematics can significantly increase road safety, improve traffic flows and thereby reduce the environmental damage caused by traffic.
We thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
On my first point, electronic, distance-related charges - called road pricing in short - for goods transport by road or even for private motorists may in theory be fairer than non-use-related charges.
But we Christian Democrats fear that the costs of introducing and maintaining this kind of gigantic electronic system - for all 15 countries and not just one or two, and here I agree with Mr Stockmann - will be so enormous in practice, for the Member States, the private HGV companies or indeed the individual citizen if this kind of system is also applied to private cars, that it will no longer have any economic advantages over the current system of road-use charges or tolls.
Telematics can serve individual citizens, vehicle fleet operators or indeed emergency service providers, and of course they can benefit public transport agencies, while at the same time creating opportunities on the labour market for our industries and helping to ensure a more efficient use of energy resources.
We also share the view that RTT services will only be more effective if they have been incorporated in transport strategies aimed at achieving specific policy aims - in other words, RTT is a tool to help in the implementation of political decisions.
The communication published in May last year identified some very specific actions for the sectors with first priority, and also indicated actions in other sectors.
Most of the first-priority actions have already been completed, as many Members will know from the excellent hearing held by the Committee on Transport and Tourism at the beginning of this year.
For example, we have already concluded memoranda of agreement in the RDS-TMC sector for the radio broadcasting of data and road traffic messages and for the exchange of data, which have already been signed by the main players in these sectors.
Alongside these arrangements, the situation is now developing through European regional projects and national projects financed by the budget for trans-European transport networks.
Indeed, in the next few weeks we expect to be submitting a communication on interoperational systems for electronic fee collection in Europe.
These projects envisage the creation of RTT services in cross-border regions and have already attracted the participation of 12 of the 15 Member States.
Their contribution is of truly fundamental importance in securing the interoperability of RTT systems and the continuity of RTT services across the borders of these countries.
In some projects, indeed, there is already cooperation in the sector of interoperational systems for electronic fee collection.
The Commission agrees that there is a need to establish standards at a high technical level for this sector, and for that reason it has commissioned the European Committee for Standardisation, the ECS, to carry out a project on matters which we regard as having particular priority for the achievement of our aims.
The Commission hopes to submit detailed proposals both to Parliament and to the Council on how this can be transformed into a self-imposed memorandum of agreement, a code of practice with which manufacturers of equipment and motor vehicles, and those who assemble them, will have to comply.
At any rate, I can assure you that if the self-imposed system we have proposed does not work, the Commission will not hesitate to submit new proposals for legislation in the sector.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The Commission's report arrived at a key moment for the future of the Community tourism policy, between the problems of fraud concerning certain actions in the early 1990s and the major challenge that the start of the new millennium represents for us.
Perhaps for this reason, my intention as rapporteur is to present the report more from a strategic point of view than from the point of view of giving due recognition to Community activities in the field of tourism in 1995 and 1996, although it must be acknowledged that there have been many such activities and that they have been extremely varied.
The Commission's communication on Community measures affecting tourism in 1995 and 1996 was presented to Parliament in accordance with the requirements laid out in Article 5 of the 1992 Council Decision, which establishes a Community action plan to assist tourism.
I would point out that this plan ended on 31 December 1995 and has not been renewed, mainly due to the lack of a legal basis in the form of a multiannual programme.
In any case, the resolution suggests that the tradition of presenting an annual report to Parliament on the Community measures affecting tourism should continue, together with an evaluation of the actions.
This will allow us to hold an annual debate in Parliament and to impose democratic control on future Community measures.
I would also like to highlight the main problems that, in my opinion, are hindering the development of a Community policy.
Firstly, there is the unwillingness of national authorities to entrust the European Community with the role of coordinating activities and supporting the tourism sector.
This was reflected in their refusal to adopt the PHILOXENIA programme last year, which meant that there was no legal basis to finance supplementary actions at Community level.
Secondly, there is a lack of confidence, once again on the part of national governments, in the Commission's own services that does not allow it to develop an action programme; this is mainly due to the incidences of fraud detected in 1991, European Tourism Year, and in the most recent action plan.
Thirdly, the lack of human and financial resources means that the European Commission is having difficulty in developing a tourism policy that effectively coordinates the various Community policies affecting this important sector.
Finally, there is a lack of planning and long-term strategy.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is shocking that, in this day and age, there is no shared vision between the Community institutions and the various Member States of a sector that makes up approximately 14 % of GDP and provides 10 % of jobs in Europe.
However, it seems to me that now is the right time to relaunch a Community tourism strategy.
Secondly, we also believe that the time is ripe for this as, in July, the Commission itself published its official response to the report by the Court of Auditors on the previous, allegedly fraudulent actions.
Thirdly, the meeting of the group of experts on tourism and employment, chaired by the Commissioner, was an excellent initiative and we are currently awaiting its conclusions and recommendations.
In conclusion, Mr President, I defend and support the added value that the European Community can bring to tourism in Europe.
Precisely because tourism is increasingly international, fiscal policy hugely distorts the level playing field, notably with regard to VAT.
Information about the introduction of the euro and the greater freedom of movement within the Schengen area should be disseminated at Community level since citizens of the European Union account for some 90 % of the tourists received by these countries.
I would once more stress the need for a specific legal base for tourism in the Treaties.
Until then, Commissioner Papoutsis, continue to endeavour to coordinate the 6 % of the Structural Funds that are spent in the tourism sector and use all the possible legal bases to continue the Commission's action in support of the increased competitiveness of the European tourism industry.
Tourism is the industry that has proven to be most effective in stimulating depressed areas by creating economic activity and employment.
Its effects are extremely beneficial for regional development, be it urban, rural or coastal.
Tourism in Europe is coming to the final stage of a long process that will lead to good value for money and increased competitiveness for SMEs.
We would like to congratulate the Commission for having promoted the organisation of a conference on the impact of the euro on the tourism sector in order to help develop changeover strategies for businesses and consumers.
I believe that there are sufficient elements to warrant an action programme that could form a legal basis and that would be warmly welcomed by the Member States.
I therefore believe that immediate action is needed in three fundamental areas, which have been highlighted both in the report and by previous speakers.
Finally, a Directorate-General for tourism should be created and, in the reform of the Structural Funds, particular attention should be devoted to integrated projects which identify tourism as a factor of development and environmental protection.
The European Union ought to create a suitable framework for the future development of tourist policy, as is being discussed in the Philoxenia programme.
Another positive step would be to submit a white paper, following on from the Green Paper, to define the future strategy - not the communitisation of tourist policy but a strategy.
Mr President, let me, as a representative of the most tourist-intensive country in the European Union, say a few words on this excellent report.
The report calls on the budgetary authority to make a functioning budget available for direct Community measures for 1999.
As the Commission report shows, this results in an unfair distribution of resources, which is a serious disadvantage to Austria, among others.
And since it has no legal base, neither does it have any activities: the PHILOXENIA programme is still on ice.
We all know that regional policy supported tourism-incentive projects during the 1994-99 period to the tune of ECU 9 billion, but this cannot be used to justify the absence of a Community action plan for tourism, because there are areas in which potential exists for Community added value, with external promotion outside the European Union, reduction of seasonal variations, coordination of the activities of different programmes and policies where they affect tourism, fiscal harmonisation, classification of tourism structures, safety and information for tourists as consumers.
The crisis in Asia and Russia will reduce the numbers of tourists from those countries visiting Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Europe should assert its difference in tourism as it is doing in the information society.
The Novo Belenguer report appeals for a European tourism policy, and rightly so.
This policy should, on the one hand, seek to create within the Commission a structure that is able to carry out studies, compare statistics, promote training, encourage innovation and facilitate cooperation networks and, on the other, encourage coordination structures in the Member States to enable Europe to maintain its leadership as a tourist destination.
The recent example of the establishment of the 'Europa Traditionis Consortium' to promote tourism in traditional private homes is just one example of a joint initiative in society which is on the right track, but which will be but a drop in the ocean if it is not publicised and extensively replicated.
The European Union could and should have a role to play, both in promoting cooperation networks and in training professionals, making them aware of the medium and long-term advantages for the sector itself of a sustainable type of tourism which respects nature and heritage.
If the Council persists in hesitating to deal with tourism policy at Community level, it should but consider the impact of its failure to do so on the competitiveness of the sector in Europe and on the development of its peripheral regions.
The same statistics state that, in the year 2000, tourism will be the world's number one industry.
Currently tourism around the world accounts for 12.5 % of GDP; in 2007, the statistics say, this figure will rise to 12.8 %.
Here are a few more numbers in spite of the late hour: 19.1 million people are employed in tourism today in the European Union, the equivalent of 12.8 % of total jobs. 65 % of these posts are occupied by women; by 2007 there will be an additional 1.8 million jobs.
Let me now refer briefly to the basic priorities you have set out in the motion for a resolution and which many of you have just mentioned in your speeches.
I absolutely agree that the application of new technology and the smooth operation of the internal market are essential prerequisites if Europe's tourism industry is to maintain the strong position it holds today at world level.
The Commission is already looking into the specific needs and actions required for tourism, which will have to be taken into account when implementing the fifth programme of research and technological development.
Taking part in those consultations were banks, credit institutions, professionals in the tourism sector, and of course consumer associations.
The results of that work will be presented at the conference due to take place in Brussels on 18 October.
User-friendly guides for tourism companies are in the final stages of preparation and will be available by the end of the year.
Fourthly, there is the issue of the Structural Fund reform proposed in Agenda 2000 and the opportunities which could arise in that context for full exploitation of tourism potential in the less favoured parts of Europe, or even in declining areas.
Fifthly, there is the question of applying the principle of sustainability to the development of tourism.
I also agree on the need for a more widespread use in tourism of Community resources to protect the environment, and to protect and promote Europe's cultural heritage.
Together with the Member States, we must strive for broader dissemination of the results of certain previous worthwhile programmes in that sector.
This directorate includes three operational units respectively concerned with matters of policy, competition and sustainability.
Before I end, I would certainly like to mention the Community action to combat sex tourism which victimises children.
Thanks to your support, and especially thanks to the decision by the budgetary authority to establish a special budget line, very considerable progress has been made in connection with informing the public about the problem.
We are continuing our initiatives along these lines, and towards the end of the year I am glad to say that I shall be able to put before Parliament a report on what has been done in this area over the past two years.
In any event, however, I sincerely hope for the European Parliament's active support so that these efforts may be successful.
The European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the whole of Europe's tourism industry, all the agencies involved in the tourism sector and 14 out of the 15 Member States are in favour of this programme.
At last, I think the time has come for the Philoxenia programme to form the legal basis for a multiannual programme on behalf of tourism.
The debate is closed.
