In this we say that under no circumstances do we want a 100 % subsidy.
Yesterday Mr Fischler, in anticipation of this vote, said he would not accept the 100 % withdrawal, and that he insisted on it.
Now we come to the interesting bit, where the sales subsidies, which is what concerns the rapporteur and ourselves, will only be 60 % and 80 %.
Before that we shall follow with keen interest whether the Commission resolves its insecurity, which was obvious, about the withdrawal of the 100 % subsidy for the industry.
However, if one side wants to introduce something which should be taken for granted, namely the identification and traceability of beef for consumers, and must accept the financial liability, then there is no sense in paying the other side, the industry - and then a full 100 % at that!
Admittedly, setting up the logistics in abattoirs for this tagging is not insignificant, but 100 % subsidies are almost immoral.
Between 60 and 70 % of French consumers questioned said that they found the "original beef' logos reassuring.
Through this initiative the decline in consumption was limited to 15 % on average in the second half of 1996, whereas following the announcement of the outbreak of BSE, the decline exceeded 30 %.
As my colleague Edouard des Places mentioned during the debate, our group rejects most of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur.
Agri-monetary system for the single market The next item is the report (A4-0261/97) by Mr Hallam, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the report from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the agri-monetary system for the single market: 1 July 1995 to 30 June 1996 (COM(96) 0636 - C4-0026/97) Mr President, I am delighted to see the rather large turnout of Members today, which indicates the importance attached to this subject.
It has produced a report - which is the one under consideration today - for the period between July 1995 and 30 June 1996.
Farmers in my constituency have lost nearly 20 % of their earnings under so-called green pounds in the last year.
There are already too many variables in farming and it is essential that we ensure that these variables, which we can control, do not fluctuate so widely.
I want to assure the farming community - not just in my constituency but in every corner of the European Union - that this Parliament is aware of the difficulties which it faces, and this Parliament will do its best to ensure that it can serve its consumers as effectively as possible, at a decent price and in a way that enables them to maintain a relatively good lifestyle.
The agri-monetary report presented by the Commission at the end of 1996 fully confirmed suspicions of deviation of major financial flows, which will take the increase in the base level of the agricultural guideline to about 28 %.
If I have read the report properly, I have understood between the lines that he is already a long way ahead of his government and his party because he is already arguing in favour of all the countries of the European Union being part of the future EMU.
The main point is also - and I am mentioning it because I am the rapporteur for the 1998 agriculture budget - that in the whole agriculture budget for 1998 not a single provision has been made for contingencies of this kind.
I should also like to know the Commission's position on what Mr Hallam has just set out: at the moment there is an upper limit of 5 % before action is taken and a lower limit of 2 %.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this present report from the Commission keeps the pledge given at the Agriculture Council meeting in June 1995 to compile a report each year that analyses the impact of currency fluctuations and the current agri-monetary system on the CAP and the single market, together with suitable proposals to counter any difficulties that might result.
The drafting of preamble A, as proposed in Amendment 1, tallies with the part described in the Commission's report.
The conversion rate differential between these two tariffs may reach 5 %.
I would also like to assure colleagues that he did not write the text of my speech this morning, any more than I did the text of his speech yesterday on my report.
Fluctuations in exchange rates add a further hazard in terms of forward planning.
We will have something like 80 % of the economy of the European Union in the system and there will be one or two countries who want to join but whose currencies are too weak.
There is no need to have any other system.
The Commission proposal on the agri-monetary system of a single market is, in its basic outline, correct.
With the green ECU scheme there is an intention to implement the two goals of article 39 of the Treaty of Rome: the guarantee of a reasonable standard of living for farmers, and the freeing-up of markets.
The second question is agricultural production and its importance, even more than before, in view of world markets.
Nor do we benefit from offset payments which are affected by this monetary system, but we obtain our prices from the market; we get the prices from the quality of our products and from the awareness of our consumers that these products have a special value for them.
I am quite sure that Commissioner Fischler is looking forward to the debate on Agenda 2000 and agricultural policy, and I shall make a point of not dealing with that on this occasion.
The Commission believes that it is too early to put forward a proposal for a Council Regulation on the adaptation of the agri-monetary system on the basis of the Euro.
I am therefore pleased that an amendment is being submitted for the first reading to limit it to the period covered by the report, that is, from 1 July 1995 to 30 June 1996.
The debate is closed.
We will now vote on Mr Hallam's report.
I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent report.
The conditions in paragraph 1 (d) of the draft resolution do not remove the openended nature of the system.
The Commission wishes to wait until 1 January 1999 to review the system.
