Mr Poettering, I too have noticed that only the names of the full members appear in the Minutes.
The plan that was distributed shows that my colleague Luís Queiró and I, Ribeiro e Castro, should be sitting here.
Therefore, in the Minutes and in the verbatim report of proceedings, both concerning my intervention on Macao and also on the subject of the question to the Bureau at the time of the resolution on Chechnya, I was incorrectly identified as Luís Queiró, my colleague who sits in seat 571, and not by my own name, Ribeiro e Castro, and I sit in seat 662.
I would be grateful if these corrections could be made and if the plan could also be corrected because it shows two Members sitting in the same seat, which is obviously not right.
Madam President, in point 38 of the Minutes, which is Questions to the Council, I have noticed that there is an error in the Spanish and German versions, at least, in that Question 9 is missing.
Question 9 has been omitted in printing.
I would therefore like to ask you if it would be possible to get round this inconvenience by working on one sector at a time, thereby making it possible for the Members to access Parliament even during the Christmas holidays.
Mr Cappato, I can only suggest for the moment that if, for specific reasons, Members wish to enter their offices over this period, they must say so and the necessary steps will be taken so that they can have access to the building and their offices.
Thank you, Mr Fabra Vallés.
The Commission can also accept Amendments Nos 6, 20 and 25 in principle.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Absolutely, Mr Papayannakis.
Commissioner Byrne told us very clearly yesterday that these were merely guidelines.
If it is tabled as an official Commission proposal in accordance with our procedure, then the Council will vote in favour of it.
This is the second time because this was the case in 1997 when the Council bowled us out of the codecision procedure with a unanimous decision.
This time, where codecision applies quite clearly under Article 152 of the Amsterdam Treaty, it has used this procedure to bowl us out a second time.
Madam President, we cannot allow my report to be referred back to committee because a decision must be taken by 31 December.
If nothing has been decided by 1 January, there will be a legal void which will cause chaos on the market.
The Council will likely do whatever it wants but at least we can vote.
Thank you, Mr Bourlanges.
This vote illustrates once again that a difficult procedure can lead to an easy vote.
This has been true in this case and I must say that all those who participated in this procedure are experiencing some amazement at the ease of this vote given the conciliation difficulties.
Thank you, Mr Bourlanges.
Finally, I would just like to express my thanks also to all the officials on the Committee on Budgets, who have had to work very long hours and, at the same time, I thank Parliament as a whole and my own group in particular for their steadfast and energetic support at every stage.
Thank you, Mr Virrankoski.
Madam President, this is the first time in fourteen years that I have acted as rapporteur for a budgetary procedure.
Madam President, I do not know if you are aware of it, but this is an historic moment in the budgetary procedure of the European Union.
Well, I hope that next year too we will vote on the 2001 budget a few days before Christmas, with at least an equivalent increase with regard to this year' s budget.
I hope that a way can be found in the Council of Ministers of increasing this budget line to EUR 15 million, as in 1998 and 1999.
cost EUR 65 million.
Mr President, the President of the European Parliament has just signed this budget for over EUR 90 billion.
Following today' s decision in the European Parliament, the EU' s Budget for the year 2000 is an important step in the right direction, that is to say in the direction of the EU taking ever greater responsibility for its citizens.
The Budget process has nonetheless been very complicated and entailed major examinations in cooperation with the Council of Ministers.
With this Budget, the reconstruction of Kosovo will be successfully financed during the year 2000 within the Budget framework.
In the first reading of the Budget for the year 2000, the Council of Ministers proposed a 10 per cent linear reduction in category four.
Bourlanges/Virrankoski report (A5-0095/1999) - (FR) For the second time this year, the EU' s credibility is at stake in the Balkans.
The budget for the reconstruction of Kosovo has emerged as the main difficulty at second reading.
Certainly not the Commission, as it clearly showed in Seattle, nor the Council, which at second reading trimmed EUR 450 million off compulsory expenditure.
The budget is a fundamental act which makes political choices.
The maximum figure for Category 4 does not have to be amended permanently other than by using a flexibility clause to the full.
Karlsson, had taken steps against the person who had supplied the mass media with information about the content of the annual report.
We have therefore chosen to abstain from voting when it comes to appointing Giorgio Clemente, Jørgen Mohr, Aunus Salmi and Jan O.
Murphy recommendation for second reading (A5-0099/1999) Mr President, I voted for the Murphy report.
In Italy, for example, 10, 15 or even 20 years go by before an elderly person, even a 90 year-old, receives their due.
This is why I have a very positive view of the Murphy report and have voted in favour of it, since it reintroduces aspects which the Council had eliminated in drawing up the common position, but which are of unquestionable benefit to SMEs, in particular the obligation to legislate for the establishment of standardised payment terms in commercial transactions and for this obligation to also be incumbent upon public entities.
As a part of the EU Single Market, they have access to over 370m potential customers - over 6 times more than in Britain alone.
In a few years time, following the enlargement of the European Union, they will have access to a potential 500m customers - as big as the American and Japanese markets put together.
Papayannakis report (A5-0101/1999) Mr President, the Commission could not have produced anything better than this text on labelling as evidence that France is right to keep its ban on British beef.
It also decided on the labelling of beef which would initially be optional but would become compulsory from 1 January 2000.
Mr President, I am very pleased that this measure on the labelling and identification of beef has been approved, but I hope that the citizens, those poor souls, are labelled too, particularly the pensioners.
This is the Brussels institution which, in 1997, decided on labelling for beef.
Who can actually believe that in the three years since 1997 we have not managed to label meat by indicating the origin of the animal?
In time, I am confident that consumers not just in Britain but throughout the EU will recognise this fact and actively search out British beef.
The French beef ban, as everyone but the French Government agrees, is illegal and totally unjustified.
The French beef ban is also hypocritical and unworthy of a French Government that claims to be at the heart of Europe.
MEPs should not make EU laws in a country that breaks EU laws.
In contrast, I can only praise the restraint and respect for the law shown by farmers in the north-west and Britain as a whole throughout this crisis.
I also urge the Commission to institute fast-track proceedings against the French Government as soon as possible.
Helsinki European Council Mr President, the Members of the European Free Alliance have also approved the text concerning the Helsinki Summit.
The fact that the winner of the Sakharov prize, Leyla Zana, is still in prison herself, clearly indicates that the right to freedom of speech in Turkey and human rights are still being neglected.
My second observation concerns our disappointment regarding institutional reform.
Europe is not just a sum of Member States.
The Turkish Prime Minister has boasted of having been supported by Washington in his attempt to accede to the European Union, and it is true that this intervention was effective.
We consider this Council decision to be a fatal error because it will permanently encumber rather than foster relations with this important and reliable ally.
We voted against the motion for a common resolution on the Helsinki European Council because it rejected amendments - particularly those proposed by the UEN Group - which would have improved, it in the chapters "Enlargement" , "Intergovernmental Conference" and "External Relations" .
We agree specifically however with paragraph nos 19 to 27 (competitive economy and employment) and nos 29 to 34 (environment, public health and combating organised crime and drugs).
But then we need national fixed book prices which work.
First of all, I would like to point out that the Commission started to address the cross-border system of fixed book prices in force in Germany and Austria a long time before the protest made by the Austrian company Libro in 1996.
It is the Commission' s duty not to discuss, apart from with those involved, an individual case on competition law where proceedings are open, but it can talk about the general points raised in an oral question, which is something I am very happy to do in your presence in this House.
National systems of fixed book prices may be based on national regulations or an agreement between companies, and in the case in point, between publishers and booksellers.
Systems based on regulations must be considered on the basis of Article 28 of the Treaty, whereas agreements between companies must comply with Article 81 of the Treaty.
The Commission believes that national systems of fixed book prices, based on agreements between companies, are compatible with Community competition rules if they do not significantly affect trade between Member States.
Indeed, there are various Member States that have never had a system of fixed book prices and there are other Member States that had such a system and put an end to it, for example Belgium, Ireland and the United Kingdom which, as we know, have the same language as another Member State.
Mr President, Commissioner, the question of fixed book prices is primarily a question of cultural policy.
The fact, Mr President, Commissioner, that I am addressing you here and now in German demonstrates that fixed book prices are not just a national problem; they are a cross-border issue which also affects a series of linguistic enclaves outside Germany and Austria.
Even if current legislation within the framework of the European Union does not yet allow for cross-border regulations in this area, I hope that we shall arrive at this form of regulation in the future, especially since the German and Austrian Ministers for Culture defined and documented this issue as such for cross-border action in February last year.
I also believe that it is in the interests of the promotion of SMEs, the preservation of which is an important factor in the European Union, and which is practised in the case of the specialist book trade in a very positive and demonstrative manner.
In my opinion, the government should mainly play a stimulating role.
I think that fixed book prices are exactly the right instrument in this case.
Thirdly, I would like to express my concern regarding these detours because do you not think that because of these detours, it is easy to undermine the fixed book price from other Member States in the same linguistic region and that it is not a very effective means of safeguarding the special value of the book as a cultural object and the special significance of the book market for culture?
I believe that the consumer is not at all interested in lower prices.
For me personally, cross-border fixed book prices would represent a possible answer to the possible question: "What exactly is a European cultural policy?
The paragraphs have different weights, legal texts are interpreted and the side which has more weight also has more merit.
I therefore ask you, Commissioner, to consider our motion for a resolution jointly.
Mr President, in 1998 the European Commission started a procedure intended to conclude a cross-border book price agreement between Germany and Austria.
The steadfastness shown by the Council and Parliament led the Commission to acknowledge that competition rules could not be systematically applied in the book sector.
I am therefore delighted about this debate and the new position being taken by the European Parliament on this issue.
The abolition of fixed book pricing results in increased competition and lower prices.
Indeed, the real consumer also takes into account quality, diversity, accessibility and adequate distribution of the total supply of books.
You could, in defence, bring up the argument that it is not up to the government to tutor or stimulate its citizens into cultural education and it therefore has no responsibility in terms of the richness in the variety of books supplied.
In our society, the introduction of market forces seems to be the highest goal in virtually all areas of policy.
With such a policy, the government is making just as much of a value statement of what it believes is right or wrong.
It is especially important in the cultural sector that factors other than financial ones are part of the equation because things of great value also happen to be very vulnerable.
Mr President, in my own country, the United Kingdom, we had a long political debate over the value of resale price maintenance applied to books.
It is contrary to the principles of the single market and, in my view, is de facto a form of censorship, and artificially rationing the supply of books in favour of the better-off.
Commissioner, we have often discussed this matter in the past in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Mr President, Commissioner, we have discussed this issue on many occasions in the past and views have been exchanged.
Secondly, the book trade is more to us than simply a sales network for books.
For us it is, in this respect, the language and cultural area, hence the importance of cross-border fixed book prices.
Commissioner, you said that you had never seen the need for conflict between culture and the market.
Mr President, I am probably one of the few here in this House who personally knew Louise Weiss, after whom this wonderful building is named.
In the book trade, there is not only the reality of the internal market and the nation state; there is also the reality of language areas.
This uniform German language area cannot concentrate purely on the national market or the EU market and the reality lies somewhere between the two.
Competition' s main aim is to safeguard consumer interests from the point of view both of prices and quality, as well as to safeguard small and medium-sized businesses against the excesses of large businesses, in many cases.
May I repeat literally what I said in Italian: "The Commission believes that national systems of fixed book prices, based on agreements between companies, are compatible with Community competition rules if they do not significantly affect trade between Member States." I also said: "As for systems based on regulations" - that is, the other possibility, not agreements but regulations - "each Member State is free to adopt regulations as long as they are compatible with the principle, sanctioned by the Treaty, of the free movement of goods" .
Therefore, we should, as the international community, be seeking to support that democratic government in Indonesia.
We must consider that although there is a civilian defence minister in Indonesia, the defence ministry is still heavily militarised.
Clearly we would want to see greater democratisation of the defence ministry in Indonesia.
We want to see greater civilian and democratic control and we want to see greater respect for human rights in Indonesia.
That was in North Aceh.
Mr President, the key question is whether or not the arms embargo decided by the Council in September of this year as part of the restrictive measures against Indonesia should be extended beyond January next year.
I therefore advocate, after careful consideration, that we vote to maintain this embargo, because it is a signal to the army in Indonesia and we hope that it is also a signal to the democratic forces in Indonesia which, we may assume, will be encouraged by our stance.
What the Indonesian authorities are doing there has to be challenged.
The signal was already there.
Mr President, like the previous speakers, I would say that the signs of change in Indonesia are obvious.
The new government has been democratically elected.
Permit me to make a few further remarks on East Timor in this connection, and then I also want to say something about the arms embargo.
I believe that reconstruction in East Timor presents the international community with a very special challenge.
That is why we want to, and must, help achieve a comprehensive solution to the problems there, under the auspices of the United Nations.
Then there is also the question as to how this state is to be constructed and how human rights are to be secured there.
The Commission is also to participate in the Donor Conference due to take place in Tokyo tomorrow and which has already been mentioned here.
I believe that what we need to do in the very near future in East Timor is to implement the necessary humanitarian measures efficiently.
That is why the Commission believes that all donors should work closely with UNTAET.
The East Timorese should play a part in all aspects of the reconstruction and development process.
It is for this very reason that the European Parliament considers this debate to be a necessary one and this is completely in line with the Commission' s intentions and deliberations.
The vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, after eight years of infernal civil war, the situation in Sierra Leone is desperate.
Although a peace agreement was signed in Lomé in July, on 22 November, a UN investigation team sadly noted once again a significant deterioration.
The terror against the civilian population in certain parts continues, as do the killings, rape, incarceration and arming of children.
The situation in Sierra Leone continues to be extremely unstable.
Mr President, after eight years - as we have been reminded - of a bloody civil war, the peace agreement signed on 7 July of this year provided the opportunity to end this tragic period and resolve, in a peaceful and lasting way, a conflict which has caused immense suffering to the population.
For the government, the peace agreement is a pragmatic solution.
Finally, we need to continue to advocate a form of justice on behalf of the thousands of victims of this terror movement.
Mr President, as many previous speakers have said, Sierra Leone offers the absolutely worst example of what happens when a country uses child soldiers.
This means that Unicef should be allowed to work in the country in order to rehabilitate children who have suffered psychological damage.
I think it is very important that we make it clear that the horrific human rights violations such as those which we have seen and which we are seeing in Sierra Leone are a matter of concern to all Europeans because it is our understanding that human rights and human dignity are indivisible throughout the world and we will not tolerate a selective perception which results in our taking a closer interest in acts of violence in our own region than in the eruptions of violence which we have witnessed in Sierra Leone for several years now.
I agree with those who have said that there are few conflicts in the world which are as barbaric, as bloodthirsty and, unfortunately, as hopeless, as far a political solution is concerned, as this conflict in Sierra Leone.
The peace agreement concluded in July was welcomed at the time by the European Union.
Since 1997, the Commission has been financing reconstruction of the social and economic infrastructure destroyed by the war through its rehabilitation programme.
We are currently working on a bigger programme to the tune of some EUR 20 million to support reconstruction and reintegration.
It included aid for Sierra Leone - refugees in neighbouring Liberia and Guinea and, as referred to here, help for NRO, which gives psychological and social support in the refugee camps, has initiated aid programmes for demobilised child soldiers and is addressing the particularly gruelling problem of mutilated children in order to give them some prospects in life.
I should like to remind you that the scope of humanitarian aid in Sierra Leone does not depend on the funds available but on the security situation in the country itself.
The Commission is also prepared to examine funding for the Truth and Reconciliation Committee being set up under its budget line for human rights and democracy.
The vote will take place this afternoon at 5.30 p.m.
Capital punishment (Virginia, Yemen) Mr President, I am pleased that we in Europe can say that the death penalty has been abolished.
The abolition of the death penalty belongs, as it were, to our culture.
Mr President, it once again falls to the European Parliament to condemn the death penalty, the greatest violation of human rights which is still being committed in the world, often and to all our shame, under the protection of laws which have been created by men who represent the sovereignty of the people.
Today we are talking about the sentencing of two European citizens, a Spaniard and an Italian, who have been condemned to death, as has already been said, in Yemen and the United States respectively.
In the case of the Spanish citizen, Nabil Nanakli, furthermore, there is no sufficient information regarding the trial, arrest and current situation of the prisoner, which has mobilised the entire Muslim community.
The defence of human rights is at the very heart of our Union.
Therefore, I would like to draw attention to point 5 of our Resolution, which says that we repeat our request to the Council to incorporate into negotiations with third countries - with all of them - "the abolition of the death penalty as part of the human rights clause" .
Knowing these values, we are firmly reasserting our request for a moratorium on capital punishment for the two condemned citizens in Virginia and the Yemen.
That is why the European Parliament needs to send a strong message of support and solidarity to the women of Kuwait who are fighting for their fundamental rights.
As a parliamentarian, therefore, I call upon my fellow parliamentarians - here and in our national parliaments too - to urge Kuwaiti parliamentarians to give women that right to vote and stand.
The bill was not passed for two reasons.
This is why the MPs have voted against, often for fear of their own rank and file - there is no party structure but people are elected directly - and for fear of their own positions.
Mr President, every time we hear in this Parliament about the denial of basic human rights, like the right to vote or the right to stand for election, it should serve to strengthen our own resolve to promote and improve democracy in all parts of the world.
So, although the vote of the Kuwaiti National Assembly on 30 November to deny those very rights to women in Kuwait was a deep disappointment, it offers some hope for the future.
The closeness of the vote in November has strengthened the resolve of the women and men in Kuwait who are working for this change in the law.
They have set the 2003 general and municipal elections as their target for the first time that women will ever vote in Kuwait.
While we condemn the decision of the Kuwaiti National Assembly on 30 November it is also important for us to use our elected positions as parliamentarians to encourage and support those who want to bring about change.
In the United Kingdom, for example, the suffrage movement was set up in 1860.
It was not until 1918 that some women - not all - got the right to vote.
Situation of women in Afghanistan: Mr President, I would like to thank the other parliamentary groups for their support and for their contributions to this initiative in favour of Afghan women.
The resolution which we are debating today must be one more contribution to the ending of the situation of women in a country, Afghanistan, where the Taliban regime, through its authoritarianism, is causing terror throughout the population and international alarm.
The public execution of Zaarmeena, the obligation to wear the burka, the denial of the right to healthcare and education for women are but a few examples of the flagrant violations of human rights committed in that country.
This Parliament, the European Parliament, has the moral obligation to express its solidarity with the Afghan women, to request that the UN intervene more actively, to ask the Member States to continue to refuse to recognise the Taliban regime until it respects human rights and puts an end to its discrimination against women.
The approval of this resolution may be a step - however small - in that direction.
The case of the Afghan women illustrates the problem of the lack of respect for human rights which takes place every day in all corners of the planet and also in this Europe of ours.
While this morning a Member pointed out the fact that the three institutions of the European Union responsible for signing the budget were presided over by women and saw this as an illustration of what the third millennium may represent for the consolidation of equality of rights and opportunities for men and women, in Afghanistan we see how the Taliban regime not only denies women - millions of women - their most basic rights - such as rights to education, healthcare and a profession, not only does it commit violence against them for the mere fact of being women but, through the denial of these rights, it is also denying them the freedom to live their own lives, it is denying them their status as human beings.
The European Parliament, which is always sensitive to the cause of human rights, cannot remain inactive in the face of the greatest violation of these rights: the systematic discrimination and violence which women are today suffering in Afghanistan of which the public execution of Zaarmeena is just one tragic example.
We want to demand that the international community, in particular the United Nations, but also the European Union and its Member States, intervenes with all the means available to it, to put an end to the extreme discrimination suffered by Afghan women.
And, above all, we want to send evidence of our solidarity with the women of Afghanistan and communicate to them our commitment to continue working with them so that they may regain their full dignity as human beings.
Mr President, I echo the sentiments of the two previous speakers in wholeheartedly welcoming this motion unequivocally to condemn the appalling human rights record of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, and in particular the persecution of Afghan women in the name of religion and culture.
Women have borne the brunt of tragedy in Afghanistan through years of war.
The intimidation of women has been used as a means of dishonouring and dehumanising entire communities.
Since the Taliban regime took over in 1996, the plight of Afghan women has continued.
A barbaric social code has been imposed, based on intimidation, humiliation and coercion of a female population that has been stripped of all its fundamental human rights.
The first speaker put it very well in saying that this resolution can play a part in that process.
Mr President, an extraordinary 21 year-old Afghan girl, who miraculously escaped from Taliban inhumanity and is now a refugee, together with hundreds of other women, told me when I was in Islamabad: "Now you are at the European Parliament, talk about us!
Women in Afghanistan and their cause need our solidarity and commitment.
So we are asking Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the United Nations not to recognise the Taliban regime and to promote an action plan on behalf of the NGOs working in Afghanistan for the fundamental rights of Afghan women and their economic and social emancipation, and on behalf of the NGOs which help female Afghan refugees.
The direct consequences on all children are terrible for one child in five is dying before the age of five.
This treatment, which is impossible for a human being to even conceive, is not a religious issue or a question of cultural tradition, as some would have us believe.
The UN and the European Union have rightly made their aid conditional on respect for human rights.
Prison conditions of political prisoners in Djibouti: Mr President, Djibouti has a population of half a million comprising two Muslim tribes, the Issas and the Afars.
Djibouti's national assets are its port and its strategic position in the Horn of Africa.
The leader of Djibouti today is doing things that we absolutely abhor.
The Afars' leader is in jail, without trial, with his supporters in abominable conditions.
Yesterday, several associations in France strongly protested when France again prepared to grant aid to this country.
The army and police are carrying out military operations in the districts of Tadjoura and Obock and are subjecting the population in the north of the country to a suicidal food blockade.
I would remind you that Djibouti is a signatory to the Lomé Convention which stipulates in Article 5 that aid for development is subject to respect for human rights.
Finally, it is essential that our President forwards this motion for a resolution to the Council, the Commission and the ACP-EU Joint Assembly.
Mr President, the human rights situation in Djibouti is giving us great cause for concern.
The political prisoners are being held in terrible conditions for they are either packed into cramped cells or kept in isolation.
The political detainees have held hunger strikes to protest against the conditions of their detention and to demand access to medical care and their release in the absence of a fair trial.
Finally, we ask the Commission to use all the means in its power to ensure respect for human rights in Djibouti.
Mr Agustín Jarquín is an upstanding democrat and has carried out his work as President of the Court of Auditors in a highly efficient and impartial manner.
On 10 November this year, the former President of the Court of Auditors, Agustín Jarquín, was arrested on grounds which, in our view, do not, under any circumstances, constitute grounds for arrest.
The European Union and the European Parliament in particular cannot accept the systematic undermining of the Court of Auditors.
Mr President of Nicaragua, we would like to help your people.
The Nicaraguan people, having suffered so many natural disasters, need help urgently, but European Union cooperation with the Government of Nicaragua is only possible if basic standards in terms of human rights and democracy are respected and if the administration of funds is safeguarded in accordance with the law.
The fact that the possibility of a judicial trial is being used for political objectives deserves our concern and justifies particular attention in terms of the situation in Nicaragua.
On the other hand, our interference would not be justified by the way in which the system of politicians supporting their own interests and holding incompatible political posts is put into practice in Nicaragua.
It would make more sense to pass this kind of resolution on a Member State of the European Union than on a third country, but even in that case, it would constitute an attack on the functioning of that state' s institutions and on the ability of its citizens to resolve the problem internally.
In the case of discrimination against women in Kuwait and Afghanistan, it is the right to civil equality.
The carrying out of a death sentence is an inhumane act which has no place in a civilised society.
So we know how we must react when death sentences are imposed or executed in individual countries.
We must then examine what we can do in each individual case to prevent the death sentence from actually being imposed or executed.
In such cases, the European Union must intervene.
The European Union will do its best to help achieve a breakthrough on this issue in Kuwait.
As far as Afghanistan is concerned, the position has been clear for a long time.
The European Union set out its point of view on Afghanistan in a common position on 25 January 1999 in which it said quite unequivocally and clearly that we demanded respect for human rights in Afghanistan and that, in particular, we defended the rights of Afghan women.
This common position was shared by all the political groups in Afghanistan.
Not only is the entire female population denied access to education, but women are not allowed to take up independent work.
The Commission is following the human rights situation in Djibouti very closely and with great concern.
The Commission will do its utmost to ensure that the Djibouti authorities respect the fundamental rights of prisoners.
We have expressed our point of view with regard to respect for the fundamental freedoms of man in contacts with the authorities in Djibouti time and again.
Cooperation between the European Union and Djibouti cannot remain divorced from this.
We shall therefore support any initiatives designed to encourage the Djibouti government to take a stance in line with respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
My final point concerns Nicaragua.
In the Commission' s view, the European Parliament should not remain silent on this.
Following the new form of cooperation between the EU and central America decided at the San José Conference in Florence in 1996, and the strategy paper for cooperation between the EU and Nicaragua adopted in 1999, I must point out that the European Union in particular has been concentrating mainly in development cooperation with Nicaragua on strengthening the rule of law and supporting a fair social policy.
The Commission is confident that the Nicaraguan authorities will take account of the considerations voiced by the European Union and other members of the international community and that the measures taken against the Bureau of the Comptroller-General and the comptroller himself will be reversed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Paragraph 5 of the resolution is, furthermore, a very important paragraph indeed when it says that the developing countries must be given economic aid if it is to be possible for them to be involved in the process of establishing a criminal court.
Mr President, genocide, war crimes, crimes against humanity and acts of aggression involving actions against third countries are the four types of crime which could be tried in the international criminal court.
The four Geneva Conventions of 1949 for the protection of victims of armed conflicts already oblige States to pursue and try the perpetrators of such crimes.
I can therefore bear witness to the fact that, in that very complicated negotiation, many concessions had to be made in order to draw up a text which, although falling short of our initial aspirations, achieved the necessary consensus and was finally able to come into play as an acceptably effective instrument.
Therefore, by means of the resolution we are about to approve, the European Parliament is coherently maintaining the support which it always expressed for this initiative.
Member States and candidate countries of the European Union should, of course, lead the way.
Mr President, I hope that this Parliament and the groups which, based on their own convictions, can muster a better position, will take a clearer stance in this respect.
The Commission welcomes the fact that more and more contracting parties are signing the statute decided in Rome and that some at least have already ratified it.
The Member States of the EU have already offered the other States financial and technical assistance in ratifying the statute and they stand by that offer.
Thank you for that statement, Commissioner.
At a time when everyone, particularly Mrs Fontaine, is making rapprochement between the people of Europe and the European Union the key issue for this Parliament, I feel it is important for the EU to be able to act in a positive manner when our people are in difficulty.
Mr President, if we want the people of Europe to feel an attachment to the European Union, then the EU must show solidarity with its people when they are struck by misfortune, as in the south of France.
In the night of 12 to 13 November, this region experienced rain and floods which have caused deaths and devastated the daily life, economy and agriculture of the region.
As soon as these events occurred, I wanted this House to show its solidarity with the victims by tabling a motion for a resolution on urgent subjects on 15 November.
All sectors have been affected, with over 200 craftsmen having been caught in the disaster, 260 businesses having suffered serious damage and 1,518 employees having been affected.
Mr President, Mr Michel Barnier explained here on 16 November that the Commission is following the problems caused by the floods in four départements in southern France very closely, that it deeply regrets the loss of life and that it will do its utmost, as and where it has the authority and means to do so, to ensure that the damaged areas obtain suitable support.
The motions for resolutions call on the Commission to intervene in various forms in order to repair the tremendous material damage.
I do not think, given the protection of Parliament' s rights, that we can simply act as if this situation did not exist.
The motions to support farmers in the form of disaster aid can, however, be examined within the framework of Article 33 of Regulation (EC) No 1257/99 of 17 May 1999 on support for rural development from the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund.
On the other hand, the deployment of resources left over in the Structural Funds from the programme planning period 1994 to 1999 is hardly worth considering as the available funds have already been allocated to specific measures, in this case in close collaboration with the relevant French authorities.
The European Union has provided emergency aid.
Thank you, Mr Liese.
