Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 24 October 1997.
As some Members already know, the President of the European Parliament has undergone a minor operation for appendicitis.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes for the sitting of Friday 24 October have been distributed.
Ladies and gentlemen, could I ask all those who are getting ready to raise points of order on the same subject to be good enough to bear with me, because I shall be making a proposal in a few minutes entirely in line with your wishes.
Mr Wijsenbeek, I am going to list all the groups which made the request, so that everything is quite clear.
Madam President, I refer to something which was not in the Minutes of the Friday of the previous part-session because I was not able to put my point.
On Thursday I asked in writing for a correction to be made immediately after the vote on the chocolate directive to amend my vote on Amendment No 25.
In the Minutes of 23 October, annoying mistakes have crept in that I simply must correct, Madam President.
A delivery of 130 American aircraft is mentioned.
Having said that, I can tell you that your remarks will be included in today's Minutes, to rectify the situation in accordance with your wishes. (Parliament approved the Minutes) Madam President, this is an important point of order concerning the application of Rule 123(5) of our Rules of Procedure to Rule 102 concerning languages.
It concerns, in particular, the very significant variations which appear in the various language versions of the Fraga report.
Madam President, the report Mr Macartney has just referred to raises problems in several areas.
Secondly, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that last week in the ACP-EU Joint Assembly there was a vote by the ACP and the European Union that is completely at odds with a number of stipulations of this report.
Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot get into a debate on this issue.
She delivered a report which had 460 amendments to it.
She then withdrew her report and wrote a report on which the majority of the Fisheries Committee could agree.
She is a very fine example of how a rapporteur should behave in conducting Parliament's business and committee business.
I therefore have every confidence that this House will want to maintain the report on the floor of the House because in spite of one or two small linguistic problems which can be sorted out by the services, most groups would wish to maintain the agenda and see the work of this House move forward properly.
Madam President, this morning in my group I raised this issue because it had been raised with me several times by the Group of the European Radical Alliance which pointed out that there were significant technical and linguistic errors.
The vast majority of my group felt that there was nothing that was insurmountable in the report before us today.
When there were over 460 amendments and the compromise report with many amendments was presented, we did not have an opportunity in committee to vote on those amendments and we must have that opportunity now.
Mr Gallagher, you know the rules as well as I do.
While that is true, I think it would be better to settle this matter while Members are present.
Mr Novo, I can assure you that we will take such action and send a message of solidarity and sympathy to all those involved in this tragedy and that as you have proposed, in Strasbourg we will certainly take decisions on specific measures to remedy this catastrophe.
First of all, you assured us that the normal procedure was to wait until the item came up before putting referral back to the vote.
So we heard two speakers in favour of referral back and two against, so that the procedure was perfectly balanced.
Madam President, my point of order is on Rule 22 of the Rules - the duties of the Bureau.
Urgent political matters The next item is a Commission communication on urgent political matters of major importance.
In fact, three groups have asked me to include a Commission communication, followed by questions, on a very delicate matter: the blocking of the roads by the lorry drivers in France.
The three groups which have made this request are the Group of the Party of European Socialists, the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party.
Informal meeting of the Foreign Affairs Ministers of 25/26 October 1997 (enlargement) I am very pleased to be having an exchange of views today on the outcome of the informal Foreign Ministers' meeting which took place ten days ago in Mondorf.
It is worthwhile noting that our Member States in fact agree that when speaking about enlargement it is of the utmost importance to make clear to all candidates without exception that as far as their application is concerned, the application is accepted.
That means that as soon as the political and economic conditions for membership as set out on various occasions and notably at the Copenhagen Summit of 1993, are fulfilled then membership will materialize.
This is also to say - and here again I am echoing what all our Members States have agreed - that enlargement obviously includes various elements of negotiation and preparation.
In that sense, one firm conclusion was reached, namely that where differentiation is applied, it should never mean discrimination.
In the proposals made by the Commission in Agenda 2000, that issue is also taken up in the proposal that for all the candidates without exception, accession partnerships should represent the framework on which a continuous course towards membership should be pursued, with everything that implies.
Here a multilateral forum would be established in which all those countries which Agenda 2000 said had a European vocation, or that aspire to membership, could participate.
It would be the only multilateral forum where these people would sit together with the Member States given that negotiations for membership would take place within a bilateral framework.
Each candidate country negotiates with the European Union bilaterally and not in a multilateral forum.
They may be second pillar or third pillar or even first pillar - think of regional cooperation, think of trans-regional networks - as long as the multilateral discussion in no way interferes with the bilateral negotiations.
It is a country which, according to the definitions used by the Commission, can certainly be considered as a country with a European Union membership aspiration.
I can only remark that during my visit to Turkey last week we had intensive discussions with the authorities there, as it were in preparation of a visit planned by the President of the European Council, the Foreign Minister of Luxembourg, for 27 November and also in preparation of an Association Council with Turkey that will take place on 24 November.
The view of this picture at this very moment is not that clear.
Secondly, none of the Member States has disputed the accuracy or correctness of our evaluation of the political and economic state of preparation of the candidate countries.
Although not trying to draw final conclusions from a debate that has not ended, what evolves from the discussion is that the issues to be treated in that conference between the Member States and candidate countries would not be directly accession-related.
I am saying in a different way what I mentioned earlier, that the multilateral forum and its dealings should not infringe upon the bilateral negotiations to be conducted with the candidate countries.
To be more concrete, as far as horizontal issues of common interest are concerned, one can obviously think, as suggested in Agenda 2000, about common foreign and security policy issues where one really has a common interest such as in relations towards certain third countries.
I could easily understand that where the important issue of the environment is of great concern to candidate countries and the Member States alike and where such heavy demands are being made in the whole process of adjustment, that certain horizontal issues which all the candidate countries are being confronted with could form the subject of such a horizontal discussion without drawing conclusions for a specific country or having the debate develop into a negotiation which it is clearly not meant to be.
It would also provide an opportunity to engender a European family feeling regarding subjects of common concern but that certainly should not seek in any way to replicate work that typically belongs in other fora such as the Council of Europe or the OSCE.
Secondly, the problem in Slovenia, as you well know, is their lack of administrative capacity.
You have proposed in Agenda 2000 that 30 % of Phare funds be spent on improving administrative capacity, including exchanges between national officials.
Secondly, as far as the exchange between the national administrators and candidate countries is concerned to reinforce administrative capacity, it is part and parcel of the preparation and of the reorientation of the Phare programme to allocate approximately - do not take it too rigidly - 30 % of the funds to everything that has to do with institution-building.
Therefore, multiannual programmes for training and exchanges should be an important part of the whole preparation process.
Secondly, with regard to Slovakia: has the Commission obtained the impression from the Council that Slovakia, at least according to the Council, should be able to take part in negotiations of a bilateral or multilateral nature before significant steps are taken by Slovakia to meet the political criteria of Copenhagen?
The Amsterdam Summit did not result in any reforms, Mr Commissioner, you said so yourself.
I registered Mr Van den Broek's remarks about his will to integrate the countries of Europe into the European Union with great interest and a certain satisfaction.
Now it seems to me essential, for reasons of the most elementary good sense, that the three Baltic countries should enter our great Europe at the same time.
I shall start with the last question on the Baltic States.
Whether those differences or distances between the various candidate countries will remain the same in the coming years depends very much on them.
If those conditions are not met or are insufficiently met, that has certain consequences.
That is not only defensible but imperative.
The measures the countries are taking, for instance to stabilize their economies: on the one hand the macroeconomic measures and on the other the efforts they are making to restructure the economy; the whole process of privatization and modernization of their industries; what they are doing for instance to reform their pension systems which at the moment pose an intolerable burden on many of their national budgets, are all measures that have a connection with their aspiration for membership but that would be necessary anyhow in general terms for the economic development of the country and also for its social development.
At the same time, in many of these countries you can see that because of the economic measures that have been taken, the purchasing power and living standard is slowly but surely rising.
Late last Friday I received a reply from the two ministers setting out the various efforts they were making to try to avert a strike and also reporting that they were examining the most appropriate measures in the circumstances to prevent, through all possible means, inconveniences resulting for international hauliers from a strike.
The government also established an information system in keeping with the previous undertakings and they made sustained efforts to ensure that talks between employers and Unions continue.
My colleagues and I are prepared to consider whether there are practical possibilities of compiling enforceable proposals on such matters, whilst at the same time being conscious of the reality that support for such initiatives may not be readily given in practice in any Council of Member State ministers.
Commissioner, it is perhaps appropriate to recall that in November 1996, French farmers in the south of France repeated their attacks on Spanish and other lorry drivers transporting agricultural products.
As well as pointing out that compensation for past attacks should have been paid by now, this is the moment to call on the Commission, in view of this new conflict, to adopt immediately the necessary measures to guarantee the free movement of goods and examine the question of the payment of fair compensation to production sectors which have suffered losses.
In conclusion, Mr Commissioner, I should like to... (The President cut off the speaker) No, Mr Camisón Asensio, that is not possible, that is more of a statement than a question, and unfortunately you have already exceeded your speaking time by one minute.
I am sure the House will want to keep clear in its own mind the distinction between these two sets of circumstances.
I regret to have to say that thus far the number of compensation claims met is extremely tiny and there are well in excess of a thousand still needing treatment and effective compensation.
Thank you, Mr Wijsenbeek, but I did not see any Members talking - for once!
Mr Commissioner, one last question: do you think this conflict calls free movement of goods into question in the exact terms of the treaties, that is, a voluntary distortion of competition?
I will have to resist the temptation the honourable lady offers me to take a view about the policy of the French Government.
So far as harmonization of working conditions is concerned, maybe I can assist the House by simply quoting from the letter I sent yesterday to all the trade union leaders drawing their attention to a fact of which they are already aware that with my colleagues in the Commission I have been compiling and promoting possible improvements to Community legislation relating to road transport that would directly address several issues which cause discontent in many parts of the Union.
I draw attention to the work going on in the Council of Ministers of the Union which will result in the introduction of a new generation of electronic tachographs, to the development of proposals for tougher rules on access to the road haulage profession and to the White Paper on working time which proposed that the relevant principles of Community legislation be extended to all the sectors currently excluded, including road haulage.
I believe that a general application of decent working conditions can obviously make its contribution to good industrial relations.
The Treaty of Maastricht introduced for the first time the power for the Commission to impose penalties in the form of fines on a Member State which, as in this case, is clearly in breach of the free movement provisions.
These disruptions have been going on since 1984 and last year's disruption ran into millions of pounds.
In those circumstances, I am sure any lawyer or parliamentarian would acknowledge that there would be extreme difficulty in trying to demonstrate that a Member State government was not upholding its duty under the terms of the Treaty.
Mr Commissioner, our group has always supported a reduction in working hours, the reorganization of transport along socially and environmentally sound lines, and guaranteeing to all citizens the basic right to freedom of demonstration.
Today, therefore, we in the Greens wish to express our solidarity with the striking French lorry drivers.
Surely we are not still living in the days of Peterloo, Mr Commissioner, when the state took it upon itself to shoot at workers who went on strike.
I would share the hope of Members right across the House in just about every political section that we can make progress on this legislation and on the inclusion not only of road transport but of other transport sectors in the existing legislation of the Community.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, we should not be blinkered about this dossier.
The bottom line is that in this domain as in many others, Europe is not there.
Mr Commissioner, it is very important to take the essential European initiatives at company and fiscal level now.
In addition, the replacement of the current tachograph with an electronic device which will be a much stronger safeguard against abuse or fraud will, I am sure, prove to be a significant advance both in ensuring fair competition within the sector in the Union and ensuring that drivers' social conditions are properly and humanely protected in the way that some do not have effective protection now.
Previous speakers have referred to a number of issues relating to freedom of movement.
I think it is a good thing we have Commissioner Kinnock in this post at this time.
Commissioner Kinnock can take this opportunity to launch such an ambitious policy.
Madam President, free movement of goods cannot take place by crushing human rights.
The road hauliers bear the entire responsibility for the current conflict because they did not respect the agreements reached in 1996, because they slammed the door on the negotiations launched by the government.
I am delighted the Commission recognizes the efforts made by the French Government and its transport minister to reach an agreement acceptable to the wage-earners in the shortest possible time.
I want to say here that any sanctions procedure, any vindictive intervention by the Commission could only inflame the conflict and compromise the efforts of the French Government to end it.
My emphasis, as indeed the honourable Member's emphasis was, is on getting the speediest possible satisfactory conclusion to this dispute, both in the interests of international haulage throughout the Community and, indeed, in the interests of France and the French people.
On behalf of you all, I thank Commissioner Kinnock and all the speakers.
Child sex abuse The next item is the report (A4-0306/97) by Mr Schulz, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, on the communication from the Commission on combating child sex tourism (COM(96)0547 - C.0021/97) and the aide-mémoire on the European Union's contribution to reinforcing the prevention of the sexual abuse and exploitation of children (C.-0556/96).
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a report which is complex and whose contents I believe are of significance for this Parliament, for the Commission, the Council of Ministers, the European Union and its citizens.
In its communication on how to combat sex tourism and child abuse the Commission analyzed the problems involved and proposed various actions and steps which it can take itself or take in association with the authorities of Member States and - as far as sex tourism is concerned - in association with travel companies.
The Commission has - Commissioner Papoutsis, many thanks to you and your colleagues - in a difficult period under difficult conditions, taken a very serious and well-balanced approach.
In the many cases we have been seeing - and the number of cases is rising both in the domestic and criminal areas - we are dealing with two phenomena.
These despicable people cause damage which can be summed up in one sentence: you can destroy a person without killing them!
I have looked into many individual cases in working on this report.
In this connection I have also had to consider what responsibility must be taken by those acting in the public domain to protect society from such regrettable developments.
I came to the conclusion that we cannot keep silent if we know that certain persons or institutions of the European Union are not fulfilling their responsibilities.
I do not want to reopen the debate about the judge at the European Court of Justice, Melchior Wathelet, which was aired in public and also discussed by us in committee.
It is not my business to interfere in internal Belgian affairs, but I am firmly convinced that in pardonning Marc Dutroux, now suspected of multiple child murders, the judge presiding at the European Court, Melchior Wathelet, was not meeting his responsibilities as Justice Minister in Belgium when he set Dutroux free.
This view is clearly shared by my colleague Raphaël Chanterie, who in his amendment to my point 29 largely accepted the text and content of my views, for which I am grateful.
On the other hand, some aspects of the resolution are less persuasive from the point of view of the technical legal language used.
However, I have to say that my dissent as a lawyer mainly stems from paragraph 29, in other words the reference to the Wathelet case.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proliferation of abuse and violence against young adolescents, the international trade in children and the increase in paedophilia are a cause of great concern and worry.
It is essential to stem the flow of this type of sex tourism from the Member States with the cooperation of all the countries in the European Union by seeking to create a common barrier against those groups and companies who are interested in providing child sex tourism.
Although praiseworthy, the new budget heading proposed by Parliament - B3-4109 N, for ECU 3 million - to promote programmes to combat violence against children, adolescents and women does however have a peculiar structure which does not correspond exactly with the action plan agreed in Stockholm.
It is vital that as part of the fight against sex tourism the Commission should first and foremost take on the role of promoter in terms of pressing for and coordinating specific measures to dissuade and punish sex tourism of any kind, either in the tourists' countries of origin or in the countries which are tourist destinations, cooperating closely with the ONGs whose action in the field is indisputably effective.
European action with regard to the fight against child abuse must therefore be coordinated and painstaking but it should also be concentrated, otherwise this scourge will never end.
We must therefore apply the principle of extraterritoriality.
In conclusion, I call on Parliament to condemn the hypocrisy in our society, and especially in certain countries which denounce pornography, paedophilia, violence and sex tourism, but do virtually nothing to eradicate them.
Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Schulz most warmly on his excellent report, which I would like to support not only on behalf of the European Socialist Group, but also most particularly on behalf of the Flemish socialist delegation in all its aspects.
This report has already caused a great deal of controversy in various countries, and particularly in Belgium even before being voted on.
But the fact that the tragedy of An, Eefje, Julie and Melissa and the other missing children happened in Belgium, does not mean that child abuse does not occur elsewhere in Europe.
Anyone who maintains, as Mr Casini just did, that the European Parliament does not have the authority to judge the European judges, is perhaps right in the formal sense, but on the other hand, is refusing to acknowledge that the European Parliament must let its voice be heard when we are dealing with the authority of the European institutions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it took an unspeakable tragedy in our country for the grim phenomenon of child abuse, which many of us dared not discuss a few years ago, to become not only a recognized problem, a monster to be combated, but a priority for the European Union.
I congratulate Mr Schulz, because his report contains a number of proposals which I and my group consider fundamental, and which, if presented a few years ago in some political groups, would not have had the slightest chance of being accepted.
My last point concerns the issue of Mr Wathelet.
Breaking this principle and allowing a parliament to set itself up as a moral authority to judge the judges represents a danger to democracy.
Mr President, we are all agreed that Mr Schulz has produced an excellent and comprehensive report on the measures which need to be taken to combat child sex tourism and to reinforce the prevention of the sexual abuse and exploitation of children.
The assessment of the main problems and the measures proposed have been somewhat overshadowed by the substantial interest in paragraph 29 of the resolution.
I understand and respect the arguments of those who say that the European Parliament has no competence or right to make such a demand.
It is the least we can do for the parents and families of all the children who have been abducted, including Julie, Melissa and Lubna.
We must break down legal barriers to harmonize those concepts of criminal legislation in the Member States which reduce our capacity to protect our children.
We should try to harmonize the criminal offence of paedophile activities, the criminal offence of child sex tourism and child pornography and there should be comparable penalties for such crimes throughout the Member States.
The case of the young British au pair who was found guilty in the United States of fatally injuring a child in her care has raised other concerns.
There is a Council of Europe Convention on au pairs but very few countries have signed.
Therefore, I call on the Council now to ask the Commission to draw up a European Union regulation on the role and duties of au pairs but, more importantly, on the duties and responsibility of the families who invite them into their homes.
That obvious statement is indispensable to progress the study of this report.
Prevention, suppression, cooperation at all levels, and I would add, shouldering responsibility at all levels, form part of the range of methods for combating this scourge.
The turn taken by this debate, well before its presentation in this House, means that the discussion revolves around a single point, point 29 of our resolution, which is a great pity, because all the points merit close attention.
We should also remember that, in a report voted for by all the Members of the Belgian Parliament, the then Minister of Justice was held responsible.
The decision to be taken is no small matter.
Those who vote for the Schulz report are bound to be confronted with the duty to respect the principle of the separation of powers in all circumstances, and that is a weighty argument.
That argument also weighs heavy on this debate.
Nevertheless, both the argument on the separation of powers and that on the risk of creating a precedent which would mortgage the future action of the European Parliament, with all the consideration they merit, have just one weakness: taken in isolation, and even together, they do not facilitate the search for the attitude to adopt in the face of the crisis of confidence unleashed by the Diedres case.
The majority of members of my group, on whose behalf I am speaking, and who support point 29 of the Schulz report, are doing so after mature reflection.
They stress the fact that their position is rooted in the extremely serious and exceptional crisis of confidence unleashed in Belgium by the Diedres case.
No society today can maintain its dignity if it is unable to protect children from crimes such as child prostitution, sex tourism and child pornography.
I should like to refer to the conclusions of the Stockholm World Congress against Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children in 1996 and recall that the fight against this new form of slavery must embrace a number of fields: strengthened international cooperation, prevention, protection and the reintegration of the victims.
In this sense, the European Union must contribute to combating the sexual exploitation of children, not only by applying the instruments at its disposal within the Community framework, but also by carrying out joint actions under the third pillar.
The European Union must demonstrate its support for the enactment of national laws providing that citizens of the Member States who commit sexual crimes against children abroad must face the courts of their home country.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schulz's report on child sex tourism and on combating sexual abuse and the sexual exploitation of children is a very detailed report.
This is something that has happened in Belgium in the meantime and it is important that initiatives are also taken at European level.
Because prevention beforehand is obviously better than cure afterwards.
The battle against poverty is also very important here.
I think Mr Deprez is absolutely right when he refers to the budget deficit that this Parliament must take responsibility for with regard to paragraph 15.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully support the many excellent recommendations in this report.
Our group fully supports this report, but as a group we do not agree with everything.
Personally I support this request for his dismissal, that is to say, the rapporteur's view, although I do not believe the concept of moral responsibility to be relevant.
And in other cases, for example purchases of weapons and environmental fraud, the same person is mentioned.
The Belgian Parliament's committee of inquiry had the task of examining magistrate and stated in the Diedres case that the responsibility of the then Minister of Justice, Mr Wathelet, must be taken into account.
The Schulz report has the merit of dealing with this tragic issue realistically, as regards both criminal charges, notably for possession of paedophile pornographic material, and preventative measures.
The rapporteur congratulated the Commission on its action.
I hope that, as a result, the latter will adopt the strictest measures against those responsible for the deplorable facts which have come to light in a crèche under its authority.
Nevertheless Wathelet released this man on his own initiative and of his own free will and thereby signed not only an order for his release but also a death sentence for An and Eefje and for Julie and Melissa.
It is actually for that reason that he became impossible in Belgium as a Minister and was dispatched to a top job in Luxembourg.
However, the report also warns that certain taboos are being broken, and points out how the boom of sex tourism and child pornography in our society as something more or less tolerated, or at least widespread and more open than abuses in the private sphere, may have an effect on this.
We must cooperate with the countries in which this trade takes place, requiring them to act appropriately, but also assuming our own responsibilities and acknowledging that the majority of abusers - of "customers' , so to speak - are citizens of the developed countries.
This report seeks to step up the measures to ensure that children can live without fear and develop freely, with their rights and freedoms being respected.
Finally, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur.
A society incapable of protecting its children against such crimes cannot preserve its dignity.
So we must say yes to the definition as a crime, in all national criminal legislation, of the sexual exploitation of children, both in Europe and worldwide.
Protecting our children must become the first responsibility of national and European politicians.
The European Parliament has no power to remove a European judge.
Personally I find it quite incompatible for someone to reject this principle and sit on the bench of the Court of Justice.
Mr President, as my colleague Jaak Vandemeulebroucke has just said, our group shares the determination expressed by the rapporteur to strengthen the resources of the Union and those of the Member States to prevent violence and, if it should unfortunately occur, to punish the perpetrators of violence against children, in particular sexual violence.
The report, inspired by respect for children, contains important, firm and courageous proposals.
Nevertheless, our group is divided on one point.
Mr Casini and other speakers have also raised point 29.
As regards his political responsibility, it is difficult to see what the European Parliament bases itself on to implicate a Belgian minister.
Ladies and gentlemen, are we a moral authority which can call anyone to account on moral grounds?
The European Parliament, a political body par excellence, should beware of turning itself into an authority that judges a man as a function of a morality defined case by case.
On the other hand, the economic development of our own countries and of certain categories of citizens within our countries, gives them the right to exploit, in the shape of these children, the poverty and want of these regions.
This punishment in society will come about through revealing the acts of men who wish to be regarded as honourable in their own countries, in their families, and in their own surroundings.
I agree with the proposals for changes in the criminal legislation of our Member States, such as severely punishing the use of minors in public or private entertainment of a pornographic nature and such as the severe punishment of the production, sale and distribution of pornographic material.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, barely two weeks after the horrific events that took place in Belgium became known, I spoke here in the part-session as the spokeswoman of the Group of the European People's Party to urge for measures to combat child abuse to be given priority at European level as well.
First, the inclusion of the rights of the child in the Treaty has occurred indirectly by the mentioning in the Treaty of Amsterdam of the basic social rights and the provision in policy measures against discrimination on the basis of age, social exclusion, trading in people and offences against children.
Secondly, our proposal to include funds in the budget for the prevention and combating of child abuse has been accommodated by the European Parliament in the 1997 budget.
The third matter, that of curbing child pornography, child prostitution, child sex tourism and child sex advertising has been covered by a number of proposals in the Schulz report as well.
Fourthly, a request to the Member States to ratify the Europol Convention quickly is gaining support both from politicians and from NGOs.
I should also like to refer to the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party together with my colleague Mr Nassauer on the former Belgian Minister of Justice, Mr Wathelet.
But Melchior Wathelet is a judge at the Court and therefore cannot be removed, except by unanimous decision of the other judges of the Court.
Even the leader of the Flemish Socialist Party, Louis Tobback, stands by the nomination of Wathelet as judge at the Court of Justice.
Le Soir of Tuesday, 21 October has the headline: "Tobback to Wathelet's rescue' .
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately there are 33 other paragraphs that are worth taking the trouble to read and translate into policy measures and we support them.
This excellent report is warmly to be welcomed so we can see how we are going to combat this abuse and what we can do to protect our children from it.
I read in the Süddeutsche Zeitung this week that sexual violence among young people is widespread and that it is not only in the developing countries that young men go for drugs and alcohol or exert psychological and physical pressure to pursue their sexual interests.
Secondly, sexual violence among youth must not turn into a taboo.
It is more important to face the issue of the power balance between the sexes in our society today fairly and squarely.
We are all affected and we would urge everyone to address this problem for themselves and personally commit themselves to ensuring that children are no longer abused.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also wish to congratulate Mr Schulz on his report.
I therefore wish to highlight only a small number of issues, especially the need for the European Union to establish increased coordination of the Member States' measures to combat the sexual exploitation of children.
In this sense, the Member States must modify and revise their legislation in order to define more precisely crimes against sexual freedom, taking into account the age of the victims.
This modification is currently being debated in the Spanish Parliament and will probably enter into force in January of next year.
However, in the report I also read of attention to the value of children in themselves, in their rights, and it is in light of this value that I interpret paragraph 27, which as far as I am concerned deals with political responsibility, as being much better than paragraph 29.
There is a question of what should we do, and what we can do, at a European level.
We must move with all the forces of the law against this international trade in our weakest brethren.
We have already introduced it in our country, in Austria, and I would like to see it introduced as a possible solution throughout Europe.
All in all, this is a package of measures which I hope will find the support of the whole Parliament in the interests of the weakest members of society, in the interests of our children!
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has clearly underscored the magnitude of the scourge of child sex abuse and the sexual exploitation of children.
The European Parliament provision in the 1997 budget of line B3-4109 allowed for the elaboration of the Daphne initiative concerning measures for combating violence towards children, young people and women.
On the 16 October 1996 the Commission issued a communication on the illegal and harmful contents of the Internet.
As you know, in August 1997 a forum on the Internet was organized.
In the near future the Commission is going to introduce a plan of action concerning the Internet to the Telecommunications Council.
We are also introducing the Green Paper on the protection of minors and human dignity within the framework of audiovisual services and information services.
The Commission is also going to present to the Cultural Council a communication jointly with a draft recommendation on the sequel to the Green Paper.
As you are also aware, the Television without Frontiers Directive was amended this year to establish certain regulations governing the protection of minors and human dignity.
I also believe that we must make special mention of the joint action adopted by the Council of Ministers on the 27 November 1996 for combating the commercial and sexual exploitation of children.
The Member States have agreed to adopt legislation to enable the bringing to trial of those people responsible for sexual crimes against children committed in third countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to refer specifically to the communication of the Commission on the fight against child sex tourism.
As you are aware, we first mentioned this issue in our proposal for the long term programme on tourism, the Philoxenia Programme, in April 1996.
The numbers are shocking.
Tourists who take part in such tourism mainly come from the countries of western Europe, North America, Australia and Asia.
To achieve proper results the implementation of appropriate measures must be part of a more general overall framework, which will include discrete cooperation, the actions of international organizations, and also the initiatives of nongovernmental organizations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that community intervention to combat this deplorable situation is more necessary than anything else.
I am also in the fortunate position of being able to inform you that we in the European Commission have already given the go-ahead to a series of measures supported by Parliament.
I would like to assure you that we will continue our efforts in this respect.
At this point I must point out that only a small part of the tourist industry is involved in the promotion of this phenomenon.
The great majority of professionals in the tourism sector supports our efforts at combating this kind of tourism, the tourism of shame.
In your resolution you also laid great importance on Union foreign policy and on the policy of support for those third countries in which this phenomenon is expanding.
I would like to assure you that we on the European Commission have already set in motion procedures of coordination within the service.
Our aim is to take certain initiatives within just this context of our foreign relations and in the context of Union development policy programmes.
The initiative and support of the European Parliament is a determining factor for the success of our joint efforts, for the effective protection and welfare of children in Europe and throughout the world.
I would like to assure you that we will continue our efforts together.
Secondly, I forgot to add that my colleague Laura Esteban Martín has tabled an excellent Amendment, No 3, which I support, although the voting list states otherwise.
The place where Julie and Melissa came from is 40 kilometers from the place where my children live and the border between Germany and Belgium is open.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11a.m.
Madam President, of all the issues that will affect the fisheries sector in the very near future, the reform of the common fisheries policy after 2002 is undoubtedly the most important.
Amongst these I would mention: the consensus that the current CFP has serious fundamental defects which impede the sector's development; -the recognition that the Community fleet is oversized and that its capacity needs to be matched to resources, a large proportion of which, moreover, are under serious threat; -the need for the new CFP to be based on an integrated approach which considers the industry and its needs as a whole, with clear and consistent rules for the protection of resources and an overall view of the implications of the measures for the marine ecosystem as a whole.The compromise text also reflects the Committee on Fisheries particular concern for the social repercussions of the measures taken; the need to safeguard economies most dependent on coastal fishing, maintaining the 12-mile limit; the need to consult the sector and involve it in decisions affecting it; and the need to provide the CFP with a genuinely decentralized management system.
Some of these proposals may be more feasible than others, but they are all the product of serious and in-depth deliberations.
The future common fisheries policy must be the product of a debate between all the parties concerned - a debate which must take us into the year 2002, in order to ensure that the European fishing industry has a future, and whose results may be very different to the proposals put forward today.
Mr President, I think it is very important that Parliament is discussing this report initiated by the Committee on Fisheries in the part-session, a report that takes account of the debate now taking place at international level on the reform of the common fisheries policy.
This detailed and serious forecast by Parliament takes account of some important principles which were emphasized in the document: first, the principle of relative stability which was established when two important countries, Spain and Portugal, joined the Union; secondly, the principle of maintaining fish stocks at an environmentally compatible level, bearing in mind that in this regard it is not only up to the European Union, that is, the Community institutions - Parliament, Commission and Council - to intervene but it is also up to all the international organizations to order the structures and efforts of the fisheries sector.
They are being over-exposed: we have to make sure they are conserved but we also have to make sure that the European Union maintains its resources within countries and above all performs a key role in the field of international agreements as well.
In this connection, environmental compatibility is very important, just as the role of the European Union is important as a party to international agreements, agreements that provide for the development of an equal relationship with third countries which will permit the growth of manual activities and will not subject these countries to virtual acts of plunder by the European Union or other, more developed, countries.
Undoubtedly, therefore, the environment and international relations are important but there is also another aspect within the common fisheries policy which we consider relevant: the social aspect.
In the fishing industry the European social model must be fully upheld also because fishing is one of the sectors in which regional and local agreements have a historical, ancient tradition, have implications which are in some respects anthropological and therefore maintain a very direct relationship between the management of resources, their exploitation and the ability to find a place in the market.
Mr President, this is an own-initiative report of the Committee on Fisheries on the fisheries policy after the year 2000.
The so-called blue Europe was created in 1983 for a period of twenty years and it therefore expires in 2002.
The social aspects of this must of course be taken into consideration at the same time.
Secondly, in order to maintain stocks, it asks for a system that must be simple and efficient.
So we considered it enormously important that the report was clear on this and that minimum standards in Member States, an increase in control resources and the extension of existing controls on the production of third countries had to be demanded.
Fifthly, as regards the policy on external resources, the report draws attention to the principles already agreed by the European Parliament.
By 21 December 2003, the Commission has to present a report on the general situation in fisheries, with the Council able to decide on any necessary adjustment, notably on two points: restrictions on fishing in the zone known as the "Shetland box' , and renewal or otherwise of the derogations system for non-Community twelve-mile zones.
The Committee on Fisheries has studied the matter and two totally different points of view have emerged.
We support neither of these two points of view, because it seems to us essential to preserve the principle of relative stability, by which each country has a fixed percentage of total annual catches, and by which each country itself distributes the fishing rights to the fishermen.
We also think it is necessary to maintain the current system, which reserves the twelve-mile zone to small-scale local fishermen.
In any case the efforts and modifications which need to be introduced should bear, in our opinion, on the market sphere and the controls, as the shortcomings currently observed in these domains are certainly the main source of the difficulties in the common fisheries policies.
Mr President, I also think it is very sad that the Commissioner is not here today for what is probably the most important debate in the fishing sector over the next few years.
The result is that the policy itself is not respected by the industry; I think that is true throughout the European Union.
As we have seen on many other reports in the Fisheries Committee there has not been the political will among Member States to enforce it.
They are: a sustainable exploitation of fish stock; long term prosperity for the fishing industry and those communities that are dependent on it; supply to the consumer with good quality fish at acceptable prices - we often forget the consumer side of this industry - and the long term protection of the broader marine environment.
In adopting this report, we shall be defining the main policy guidelines that - in the view of Parliament, at least - the future common fisheries policy must follow.
The fishing industry is especially important in social and employment terms in a large number of European regions, although it has been increasingly neglected - notably in the Community budget - in comparison with other economic and financial interests, which are given preference, but which do not have the social relevance and importance that this sector has, and will continue to have, in our society.
The general policy guidelines set out in this report are positive and will help to modify certain profoundly negative aspects of the current common fisheries policy.
Furthermore, it calls for the improvement and harmonization of occupational safety standards, the reduction in the amount of time spent at sea, and the improvement of social security and protection for fishermen.
From now on, it is necessary for fishermen, their organizations and the industry in general to exert influence at national and Community level to ensure that these guidelines are approved by the Council and the Commission.
The issue of the common fisheries policy after 2002 is a highly significant subject for the European Union and therefore also very controversial.
We also think that the fisheries agreements with the ACP countries in particular should be revised so as to provide sufficient scientific and technical cooperation in the monitoring and control of resources to guarantee their conservation.
There are, however, other aspects of the report that merit detailed discussion.
A large part of the debate held in committee concerned the possibility of the common fisheries policy continuing to be an exception to the principle of free access to Community waters.
We believe that the problem of access is a major problem but one which should take second place to issues such as conservation, actual control over fishing, the adoption of suitable technical measures and a significant reduction in fleet size consistent with the maintenance of fish stocks.
It is, in fact, my group the radical group who are trying the conserve what we have of our common fisheries policy and her ideas are not only radical but to my view reckless and dangerous.
I can think of nothing more destabilizing for Europe than the prospect of fish wars right across the European waters, not just in the waters that are currently covered by this CFP but in the Baltic and the Mediterranean.
But the final result remains unsatisfactory as some of our amendments were not taken into account.
Thirdly, it is essential for the CFP to become a policy of encouragement and protection, to the benefit of a sector which plays, in all our coastal countries, a capital role in terms of land management.
Our group, Mr President, cannot but regret that the report on the future of the CFP has not been articulated with enough clarity around these three fundamental objectives, whose pursuit alone can justify the maintenance and acceptance of blue Europe in the future.
Mr President, the fishing industry of Northern Ireland must be defended and maintained after 2002.
Our fishing industry is in the process of being entirely eliminated.
Mr President, after long and difficult discussions on the key question of how to work out a common fisheries policy after the year 2000, the Committee on Fisheries has come up with a compromise which was accepted by the overwhelming majority of the Committee and has now been presented in plenary session.
I would therefore call on future rapporteurs to take account of the opinions of other committee members at an early stage in the reporting procedure, so that we do not have 420 amendments in committee as happened in this case.
I cannot therefore share the view of some of my colleagues who feel they see in the report an attack on community rights.
By accepting many amendments, and I am glad that she accepted many of my own, she has made her own position rather more uncomfortable because the report that she is delivering today is a very different report to her original draft.
The common fisheries policy is a bit of a mess at the moment.
I believe all that is delivered in this report and I give it my full support.
I have listened to the opinions of the fishermen's representatives, many of whom believe that this motion for a resolution has been compiled simply to demolish the concept of national quota fisheries and treat the industry as no more than any other business.
The report does not accurately reflect the considered views and the needs of all Community fisheries interests.
Some concessions have been made to the retention of the six to twelve-mile limit.
At the same time, the motion sets out to ensure that ultimately, following a period of study - and that is important - the allocation of tax should be rationalized by allocating fishing rights amongst fishermen, in other words, ITQs.
In conclusion, I can only say that this motion should be rejected in its present form.
Its adoption could exacerbate the very considerable risk that some national fleets could be reduced below a critical mass, rendering the provision of infrastructural and support facilities uneconomic to many of our Member States.
Mr President, the reform of the common fisheries policy after 2002 is aimed at strengthening and supporting this many-faceted, useful and valuable sector.
In MGP4, France will, for example, have to reduce its fishing capacity by 10 %, while in the previous MGP, in 1991, it had already destroyed nearly a thousand French ships out of a total fleet of eight thousand.
We know the solutions, oxygen sought through our 26 agreements with third countries, particularly Morocco or Mauritania.
In reality, Mrs Fraga Estévez, we certainly regulate intra-Community fishing, but there is also an extra-Community problem.
If Europe fails in terms of immigration, or insecurity in employment, that is because there are no frontiers, as in fishing.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I believe that, despite everything, international relations are not always a jungle.
It represents an initial contribution, and the European Parliament has done well to get down to work, to take a lead in this debate, and to endeavour to set out a position in the future discussion of the common fisheries policy after 2002.
First, the question of international fisheries agreements.
Indeed, returning responsibility for the funding of international fisheries agreements to the various Member States, making them dependent on national budgets - although, in the short term, it would provide a solution to the restrictions, problems and concerns raised by those who question these agreements - would, in my view, undermine the Commission's authority in a key area of the common fisheries policy.
Consequently, application of the subsidiarity principle must be restricted to the private domain, to dealings with producers' organizations, to the dialogue with vessel owners - possibly with the support of the regions, but without renationalizing the overall negotiation of international fisheries agreements.
The report which bears the name of the Chairman of the European Parliament's Committee on Fisheries is the first document drawn up by a Community institution which addresses, rigorously and as a whole, the reform of the common fisheries policy after 2002.
Mr President, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur.
This is a first attempt, as many people have said, at talking about the reform of the common fisheries policy in 2002.
The Commission said they were going to produce a document in 1997 about enforcement for the whole of the European Union waters.
Finally, I am very pleased about what the rapporteur says about international fishing agreements.
Mr President, the report by our colleague, Mrs Fraga Estévez, aims to establish a long term strategy for the development of the common fisheries policy.
My second point is that the European Union must ensure that its fisheries products processing industries enjoy the same conditions of supply of raw materials as their main competitors.
However, in order to ensure that the MGPs are effective and prevent what is currently happening, a legal basis for imposing penalties for non-compliance must be established.
Finally, I wish to underline the need for us to move quickly towards introducing a joint and relatively uniform system of monitoring and control - lest the foundations of the entire policy for the sector collapse - since this will be a decisive element in the quantitative and qualitative management of fisheries resources in the future.
The working documents drawn up by the rapporteur set out clearly both what the common fisheries policy is - or should be - as a result of the derogations that will be in force until the year 2002, and the challenges facing the European Union in the fisheries domain.
The report that we are discussing was adopted, after long debates, by a very large majority of the Committee on Fisheries.
We must thank the rapporteur for her good offices in providing a compromise solution that everyone could accept, even those of us who thought that her original report expressed the different aspects of the common fisheries policy more successfully.
Fishing is an economic activity that is mainly concentrated in peripheral regions of the European Union characterized by a high level of unemployment and per capita income below the Community average.
Mr President, I want to thank the rapporteur for her work on the report and for the fact that she has rewritten the report to take account of so many amendments that were submitted including amendments from myself.
If the fisher people of Spain, Portugal or Denmark were told they could only catch twenty per cent of the stocks in the waters adjacent to them, they would not accept the Common fisheries policy.
The report also calls for social responsibility.
The answers to this questionnaire will allow us to pin-point the main themes on which the study of the common fisheries policy after 2002 will concentrate, in order to give the debate a better focus and direction.
Thank you, Commissioner Papoutsis.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Sexual Discrimination The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0326/97), on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights, on the common position established by the Council (C.-0441/97-96/0196(SYN)) with a view to the adoption of a Council Directive on the burden of proof in cases of discrimination based on sex (Rapporteur: Mrs Ghilardotti).
Having said that, it should be noted that as a whole the common position adopted by the Council is unfortunately a long way from the European Parliament's position, and the Commission's position, as amended, after the vote on this directive at first reading in this House, mainly because there were many essential points where it did not even accept the Commission's original position.
We confine ourselves to retabling these amendments, leaving aside a whole series of other amendments which, although we consider them important, are not essential for the purposes of the decision on the directive.
It is for this reason that I should like to concentrate on a few points only and ask the Commissioner - whom I thank for being present in the Chamber - what the Commission intends to do with these amendments that we are retabling, with particular regard to article 2.
With her recommendation for a directive on shifting the burden of proof in cases of discrimination on grounds of sex, she sums up admirably the resolutions of the Committee on Women's Rights.
The amendments constitute an important element in achieving a social Europe.
Mr President, as I said at the first reading of this proposal for a directive, under discussion for over ten years now, I am for a reasonable and practicable arrangement on the burden of proof in cases of direct or indirect discrimination based on gender.
But as I predicted when I spoke against certain legal incongruities voted for by a majority of this Parliament at first reading, the Council has not accepted them in its common position which, fortunately, represents a considerable advance by comparison with its previous position of deadlock.
My greatest concern, Mr President, Mr Commissioner, as regards the common position of the Council, is to include in the area of application the directives on equal treatment in terms of social security.
I know it may be asked whether the directive on equal treatment in terms of legal social security systems can be included in the sphere of application, because the social security organizations do not take comparable initiatives to those of the employers, but simply apply the legislation.
As regards the other amendments, I would like to mention that, inasmuch as they constitute an interference in the internal legal arrangements of the Member States, there is no legal base in the treaty for them, because the internal legal arrangements of the Member States are part of the third pillar, whether we like it or not.
Finally, as regards the proposal to introduce a provision into article 4 specifying that the plaintiff should receive the benefit of any residual doubt, I have taken note of the Council's position that it is a concept in criminal law and that criminal proceedings are explicitly excluded from the scope of the directive.
My group will therefore vote against that amendment.
I would also like to say that this directive is going to involve demands for change there.
I think article 4 is technically better in this proposal than last time.
This right is indispensable if the directive is to have meaning.
I also hope that we will approve Amendment No 3.
If part 15 of the preamble were to remain, it would give the Member States a virtually free hand to do something or to do nothing.
It can therefore be accepted and approved, while the debate about Amendment No 3 also shows that the boundaries between the first and third pillars of the structure of our Union are very difficult to maintain.
It is discouraging that, after this long process, the Commission has accepted only 50 %, and the Council a mere 10 %, of Parliament's amendments.
Mr President, I would first like to ask Commissioner Flynn whether he can explain to us what the value of this directive still is if the Council is only prepared to adopt its own proposal.
We do badly need this directive, but of course it must be a good directive because we must realize that women are still very much discriminated against on the labour market and that applies to all directives that we deal with concerning equal treatment in Europe and not just to half of them or a few of them.
We must realize that women still earn 30 % less than men for work of equal value.
Indeed, this new law, which guarantees the right to equal treatment between men and women in the workplace, enshrines the concept, not of shifting, but of reversing the burden of proof.
We therefore hope, Commissioner Flynn, that the amendments tabled today at second reading - especially Amendment No 5 on indirect discrimination, Amendment No 8 on the benefit of the doubt, and Amendment No 12 - will be adopted by the necessary majority and forcefully upheld by the Commission, since these are essential to defending women's rights in the fields of employment and social security.
Mr President, the proposal that we are discussing today on the reversal of the burden of proof as it is called in normal human language, is of course not really a reversal of the burden of proof.
I have now understood and you have also just heard that in the Group of the European People's Party there are people who are afraid of this proposal and who think that we may possibly go too far on certain points.
I would also like to know the opinion of the European Commission on Amendment No 9.
I am in full agreement with that text.
Mr President, the common position represents a step forward in the elimination of discriminatory practices in so far as it recognizes the difficulty of proving the many subtle forms of indirect discrimination in judicial or extrajudicial terms.
It was odd from the start that the Council hastily adopted its common position on 27 July 1997, although the report from Parliament was not submitted until 15 September.
So it made its decision almost two months before time.
Then of the 11 amendments which the Commission approved, it only accepted two.
Fourthly, adoption of the Directive must be ensured.
This requires positive steps and a report to Parliament every three years, which the Council inexplicably deleted, and the withdrawal of the extenuating provisions of proposals 15 and 16.
Women - and not only women - await concrete changes and approximation of procedures in all Member States.
The European Parliament has shown the way in this respect.
For example, the principle of investigation has gone.
It would have led to investigations which are not compatible with the civil law of Member States.
The accused must prove that they have adhered to the principle of equality, an important corrective in all Member States, for common legal instruments will include both direct and indirect discrimination.
Mr President, I should briefly like to express my support for the rapporteur and her proposals in this to-and-fro process in which the common position adopted by the Council represents a step backward.
Such instances can only be dealt with at judicial level if there is provision for the reversal of the burden of proof - for which Portuguese legislation has provided an example - for the possibility of the action being brought by a trade union and the plaintiff benefitting from any residual doubt, as well as for a number of other factors present in the report in second reading amendments.
Mr President, let me first thank all for completing the examination of the common position so quickly.
It considers that the principle laid down by the Court as regards the shift in the burden of proof is a general one which should be applied in all directives aimed at upholding the principle of equal treatment between the sexes.
That is Amendments Nos 3, 4, 7, 9 and 10.
I have to say to you that the Commission's proposal aims at increasing the legal certainty and at ensuring that the principle of equal treatment as interpreted by the Court of Justice is complied with scrupulously in all the Member States.
The deletion of the provision in the common position does not really do any harm, as in fact it provided for something which already exists in one way or another in all of the Member States legal systems.
In conclusion, I would like to renew my thanks to all those concerned and I hope that we will be able to convince the Council to strengthen their common position as suggested by the House.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Flynn.
The debate is closed.
I am also pleased at the honesty which the Commission showed about the difficulties, but what really matters now is that we can improve matters so that the Phare programme will work better in future.
The question of decentralization is a core problem.
I would therefore urge the Commission to implement the concept of decentralization by letting at least one country take over responsibility for implementing its national Phare project entirely in accordance with the finance regulations and also to let at least one Commission delegation in a country assume responsibility correspondingly, and lastly to have the financial administration of specific sectors of the Phare programme passed over to national administrations.
As far as the amendments to the report are concerned, I must say that I am amazed at what interests some of my colleagues here want to consider.
We at the European Parliament have constantly complained about the grotesque situation in which less than half of the assets committed under the Phare programme are actually converted to actual payments.
Amendment No 2 runs contrary to the idea of decentralization, as the individual components are all covered, directly or indirectly, by the original text.
So I can only urge my colleagues in the Chamber to vote against these amendments.
Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues for their assistance and some good discussions about the Phare programme and its future.
If only the Commission will implement the measures proposed here, I am in no doubt that the Phare programme will work as intended, produce visible results in the recipient countries and help their entrance into the EU.
Mr President, I should first like to congratulate the rapporteur, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on her excellent report.
I believe that it sets out clearly the difficulties of the Phare programme, as well as laying down a number of guidelines for the future.
The third Special Report of the Court of Auditors, which is the subject of this report, highlights the programme's inadequacies for the umpteenth time.
The main problem is that commitments are not a good indicator of the percentage of implementation, since payments only amount to 44 % of commitments, and less than half the funds allocated to the Phare programme since its inception have reached their final recipient.
By the end of 1995, monitoring and assessment reports on only 30 % of programmes had been submitted.
However, this motion for a resolution and these amendments are only possible because, once again, the Court of Auditors has scrupulously fulfilled its duty by drawing up an objective critical analysis of the decentralized system for the implementation of the Phare programme.
Mr Commissioner, when the Commission talks about reallocating funds to more fruitful activities, or reallocating unused Phare funding, it means within the programme.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I think when we look at this excellent report by Mrs Kjer Hansen we really have here a damning indictment of the work of the Commission as regards the management of the Phare programme.
This is a demonstration of ineptitude in a central function of Agenda 2000.
That, I believe, is the message of this report.
The basis of today's debate is a special report of the Court of Auditors.
We all know that the candidate countries have a long way to go.
The background, or rather the nub, of the report, as has been said, is that the Commission has never really succeeded in producing an assessment system for Phare, which allows the political effects of the programme to be evaluated.
Decentralization must go hand in hand with proper supervision, closer financial involvement of recipient countries and better administrative preparation in these countries for their responsibilities, and I believe this was not properly appreciated.
But we also need a new method of assessing the results on the basis of clearly defined political goals.
My departments and I personally have found it a very positive experience to be able to exchange ideas with her during the preparation of this report.
The time of this debate has been well chosen, I feel, now that the European Council in Luxembourg must take a decision on Agenda 2000 and now that the preparations for the implementation of the new points of reference for Phare are in full swing.
As you will recall, these points of reference are described in detail in the new guidelines for Phare that were sent to your Parliament in March.
The rapporteur, moreover, confirms that the new Phare guidelines seriously try to overcome many of the problems that were highlighted in the report by the Court of Auditors and I feel that we have partially succeeded.
Not only is the Commission committed to further increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of Phare, but it will also use the programme as a development instrument to remedy the shortcomings of the candidate countries as identified in the accession opinions.
The new priorities emerging from the accession opinions will take shape for each candidate country in the accession partnership.
The work is progressing despite the very tight schedule and the Commission is aiming to round off these instruments by spring 1998 at the latest.
The financial memoranda in respect of the Phare programmes for 1998 will be planned on this basis.
Allow me to go into more detail about a number of more specific comments from the Kjer Hansen report.
Since March, more than 1000 older contracts have been discontinued.
Moreover, the fact that it has been possible to scrap 1000 contracts also underlines the finding by the Parliament that there is far too much fragmentation of the aid and that concentration on larger projects is urgently required.
In addition, we have transferred more than ECU 75 million from older programmes to measures connected with the floods in Poland and the Czech Republic.
That applies in particular to measures to improve the transparency of the tendering procedure and which are considered favourably as such in the report: these sometimes extend these procedures by two or three months.
Furthermore, agreements on technically complex projects do need to be set out in complicated contracts that also take the necessary time.
We try to shorten this period as much as possible.
As far as the reinforcement of supervision by the delegations of the implementation of the Phare programmes is concerned, the Commission is determined to carry this out in all the candidate countries.
There are undoubtedly many factors involved here, but as is well-known, the Commission is compelled for reasons of tight personnel policy to a large degree to take on external experts whose temporary contracts cannot be extended.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Companies adopting this strategy do so either because they wish to conquer new markets, or because the labour laws and environmental regulations are less strict in certain countries, or because the monetary conditions are more favourable, or, finally, because manufacturing costs as a whole are too high in Europe.
The advent of the euro will be a factor for monetary stability and will contribute to preventing competitive devaluations, thus to limiting certain relocations within the Union.
But the overvaluation of the euro will only strengthen the trend towards relocation already present in countries with overvalued currencies.
Consequently, the European political authorities have a considerable role to play, on the basis of article 109 of the treaty, when the euro/dollar parity is fixed.
Afterwards of course, the market will come into its own.
The Commission must therefore continue to detect obstacles of all kinds which prevent European companies adopting such a policy.
On the contrary, it is a question of working out how to avoid certain hostile relocations which are not aimed at conquering a market, but rather at introducing sub-contracting, which very often leads to greater exploitation of human labour and massive destruction of jobs in Europe.
Fairness towards European wage-earners, who have a right to better information, especially before any decision on relocation or site closure, hence the revision called for to Directive 94/45C.
Fairness between the major European distributors, the manufacturers and the sub-contractors through a confidence contract, establishing better exchange of information, and hence greater fidelity.
We propose the introduction of a code of good conduct based on respect for the ILO conventions on the fight against forced labour and the promotion of union freedom.
By launching a great European policy in these two areas, and here I am thinking of the employment summit, the Union will not only be able to avoid certain relocations but, better still, contribute to relocations, that is, a return to Europe.
This reasoning can form part of the reform of the structural funds, with the ERDF more geared toward innovation, that is, towards the establishment of technology parks linked to new objective 4 and the Adapt programme, in particular as regards helping employees adapt to changes.
As to the development of new technologies, both in the industrial domain and in that of information, a major programme should be defined, backed up by Acts and Brite Euram, in coordination, of course, with Eureka.
The elimination of tax loopholes would certainly be a solution to hostile relocations, but we know this debate will be long and difficult.
As to social harmonization, the social charter, like the social protocol incorporated into the treaty, constitutes a good basis for a new departure for social Europe.
But there is still a long way to go to achieve social harmonization in Europe.
Mr President, that, in a few words, is what I wanted to say about relocation.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it would be unjust, and indeed quite untrue, to say that globalization and international movements of companies do not have negative effects.
All the same, Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when one looks at the construction of Europe, relocation always seems to take first place amongst phenomena regarded as negative.
André Sainjon has done excellent work.
It is impossible to accept a single market where the rules of the game, and hence the costs, remain fundamentally different.
There are many well-known cases of this.
André Sainjon makes some interesting proposals, which I support, in particular that of a code of conduct for European multinationals, as well as the proposal to modify the OECD investment code.
Without going into detail either, we too affirm that we must fight against forced labour, against child slavery, against discrimination of all kinds, but also for the promotion of union freedom, for the generalization of collective negotiations, and as regards labour law, for a minimum code in all the countries.
The reason for unemployment must be sought elsewhere.
The rapporteur was not for one minute tempted to restate the benefits of the free market and had the courage to dismiss some false theories about unemployment and relocation.
The report is supposed to deal with relocation and foreign direct investment in third countries.
Well, a large part of the resolution relates to socio-economic policy within the European Union or concerns recommendations on the introduction of the euro.
The second reason why my group has problems with this report concerns its basic assumptions.
But other essential amendments that I submitted have not been included.
In fact, the Sainjon report is not a well-considered project.
Tomorrow, before the vote, my group will submit a request for the report to be referred back to the Committee on External Economic Relations so that a more balanced report can be achieved within that Committee.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating hundreds of thousands of jobs sacrificed or threatened in the European Union by relocations carried out by firms in the name of competitiveness and lower costs.
The firms which are relocating, from Hoover to Renault, are obeying the liberal creed of the European Commission which Jacques Delors expressed in his day by the formula that in the large market, everyone sets up where the conditions are best.
Now, where conditions are best is where profit is highest.
Relocation often takes place without warning or consultation of unions and local councillors, regardless of the interests of employees and their families, regardless of the economic future of the regions.
Mercedes should by all means manufacture in Brazil.
But a worker in a subsidiary there must have the same rights to trade union membership there as his colleague here.
In view of this we would also ask for support for our amendments.
We have had a very good hearing and a thorough discussion.
It is also not so much the result of differences in labour costs, but of newly discovered markets.
Unfortunately not enough attention is paid to that in the report.
It is not so widespread, it is not due to differences in wage costs, or hardly at all, and it has virtually no link with the growth in unemployment in our countries.
It will be necessary to take up this important subject again quickly, but in a different way, on a more realistic basis.
I am glad, therefore, that the report has addressed this issue head on and looked into ways in which European firms could improve their competitiveness and thereby make it possible for them to continue production in Europe.
The ideas put forward in the report on technological innovation are very welcome.
I believe that it is on the role that the Commission has to play in the process of creating codes of conduct as set out in paragraph 1 of the resolution that our thinking to some extent diverges and virtually only there.
I would see the best role for the Commission as one of supporting businesses in the elaboration of their own codes, where such report is requested, rather than in seeking to impose a code.
Nevertheless, the Commission continues to support the work of the IMO in this field and to look at means to improve standards, for example through the generalized system of preferences.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to present a technical report on monetary union today, but make it clear at the same time that monetary union will find its physical expression coin by coin.
The report is about the type of coins which, in the opinion of the European Parliament and now the Commission, European consumers will be using for their daily purchases from 2002.
In my opinion four points are important for this report and for the decisions of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
The number of denominations of European coins should be restricted to four - not the eight recommended by the Commission.
I would propose eliminating the 2 cent and 20 cent coins.
The second point is important.
This is what we would have if there were 8 national denominations of different design in each of 15 Member States.
So I was particularly concerned that the 1 euro and 2 euro coins were to use alloys containing nickel, as the Commission proposed.
Nickel can cause allergic reactions when it comes into contact with human skin.
This would not only reduce the nickel content of the coins, but more importantly release the nickel when coins were used.
Before I refer directly to the issues that are raised in the report, I think it is worth noting at this point that back in 1989 I wrote the Parliament's first report on stage one of EMU.
We want to try and rationalize the number of coins that we are using and indeed in many of our Member States we are reducing the number of coins in terms of their denominations.
We are launching this single currency on 1 January 1999, the coins and notes will be in circulation in 2002.
We, in this House, having debated economic and monetary union for many years now, should not underestimate the level of public feeling, not only in countries like the United Kingdom but in other countries around the European Union.
The possibility, if they so wish, to have national representation on those coins and notes is an extremely important step to achieve public acceptability in the early stages.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for thousands of years coins have been our conventional means of payment.
The Group of the European People's Party has submitted a number of proposals amending the SoltwedelSchäfer report.
We are also particularly concerned about forgery prevention, especially for the larger denomination coins, but also as regards recognition by coin-operated machines.
Mr President, for some inexplicable reason the proposal for a Council regulation on materials to be used in euro coins seems to be centered solely on the copper system, neglecting the use of stainless steel which can also be defined as the European silver symbolizing world leadership as represented by the member countries of the Union as a whole, in terms of both quality and quantity.
As well as reminding you of the role of this material, which more than any other is identified with our technological age and at the same time meets the expectations of the public in terms of hygiene, recyclability, permanence and availability at reasonable cost, I should like to stress that, in the specific sector of coin minting, stainless steel covers 20 per cent of world requirements as it is present in dozens of countries on the five continents and it has always been present in the European Union.
We have estimated that some 250 million euros would be saved in the supply of coin blanks due to the lower cost of stainless steel alloys compared with copper-based ones.
The number of coins seems well-balanced but, as far as the symbols of the Member States are concerned, I wonder what blind people will have to do to tell one state from the other.
Such continuous handling affects significant groups in various sectors, such as cashiers in the retail sector, in restaurants, in the postal service and in public transport.
Mr President, we are debating these national symbols as if this were a discussion on whether the nations' currencies should still be preserved.
Mr President, this report on the specification of euro coins has become extremely dubious because of action by the Socialist and Green Groups.
In the Commission's proposal, the coins have sufficient Community characteristics in order to be able to distinguish counterfeit ones from real ones.
Mr President, the feeling of European nations about their money is a part of their common culture.
I would welcome it if in future the European Parliament would express an opinion not only on coins, but banknotes too.
They will come, but I think there are still several problems.
We really do want a 100 Euro gold coin.
After the summer, everyone in the Netherlands will pay with coins with German reverse sides.
This report has unexpectedly become very important for the man in the street.
In the Netherlands we have done without a one cent coin for years and everyone is quite happy about it.
In my group it is a very sensitive subject and there is even the possibility that the whole group will vote against the report if the defence against nickel remains in it.
The third decision is the national face of the euro.
The coins can happily circulate in the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission presented its proposal for a regulation on 29 May.
Other aspects raised in the rapporteur's report such as the existence of a national face or the issuing of gold coins for collectors are not mentioned at all in the Commission's proposed regulation.
The vote taken at the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy welcomes the position expressed in the rapporteur's report which rejects the principle of having a national face on euro coins, reduces the number of coins from eight to six, attempts to alter the dimensions completely and finally calls for the elimination of nickel from the metal composition of the coins.
After an information campaign which has already been launched in various states, how do we explain to the public that the new coins will not arrive in their pockets in 2002 as they had been told but one or two years later?
From a formal point of view, the Council of Europe in Madrid in 1995 and the Ecofin Council have already taken the decisions, in due time and fully within the framework of their powers, which are disputed in the report: the principle of national faces, the colour, number and size of the coins and the composition and technical characteristics of the coins.
Not the powers that be, nor the business leaders, but young women. 20 % of young women suffer from nickel allergy.
If people are anxious about what is coming to them with the euro, it is because the part this euro is going to play in creating an economic, social and employment policy which is in their own interests has not been convincingly explained to them.
Mr President, my colleague Yves de Silguy has asked me to convey to the House his apologies for not being able to be present this evening.
He will probably want to remind her that the Commission has actually, with this very problem in mind, offered a financial contribution to the Netherlands Government of ECU 1.5 million to assist in the programme of encouraging understanding of the implications of the introduction of the euro.
On 29 May the Commission, acting in accordance with article 105(a) of the Treaty presented its proposal for a regulation on denominations and technical specifications of euro coins.
And I would like to give some brief attention to the substance of the proposal.
First, on the formulation of the proposal, that was the subject of thorough preparation by the Member States mint directors and this has guaranteed the project's industrial feasibility in accordance with the timetable laid down by the Madrid European Council in December 1995.
We now have a set of specifications that is acceptable to all users or at least to those authentic representative organizations that were assessing the matter on behalf of users.
That provision reflects the experience gained in all the Member States and it ensures consistency with the planned denominations for euro notes.
In some Member States the value of the smallest coin in circulation is roughly one cent.
The specifications also provide guarantees against counterfeiting, in particular in the case of the higher denomination coins.
Lastly, they accommodate the public health concerns that have been voiced here in this House and elsewhere and they provide the necessary guarantees in this respect.
I would like to refer now to the four main points of divergence between the Commission and the rapporteur.
The Commission would point out that the decision in principle to have a national symbol on euro coins was taken in April 1996 by the Finance Ministers and confirmed in June of that year by the Florence European Council.
It is essential to note that the European design competition which was launched in the spring of 1996 and ratified by the Amsterdam European Council relates to only one of the faces and three Member States have already unveiled their design for the national face: France, Germany and Belgium.
The system of eight coins was adopted in order to be consistent with the euro notes and in the light of national practices.
That is essential obviously in order to safeguard consumers against covert increases in prices.
Fourthly, the divergence about the elimination of nickel is obviously a matter of importance.
The volume of coins containing nickel will fall to 8 % compared with 75 % at the moment.
The Commission would also remind Parliament that the Scientific Committee for Toxicity and Ecotoxicity, which was consulted at Parliament's request, concluded that the risks associated with the use of nickel in existing coins are infinitesimally small.
The situation will improve further in future thanks to the Commission's proposal, in particular as contact with nickel will be significantly reduced.
Finally, the Commission is at pains to emphasize that no technological validation or examination of existing production capacities has been carried out in respect of the alloys proposed by the rapporteur.
I hope that the House will take serious note of the fact that if the amendments I have referred to were carried, it would mean that production of euro coins could not reliably start next year and would therefore jeopardize the deadline of 2002 and the introduction of notes and coins.
In conclusion, for the reasons I have indicated, the Commission is unable to accept the rapporteur's amendments concerning the technical characteristics of euro coins.
The Commission, however, shares Parliament's concerns about the need for a reliable and effective system and about the acceptability of the system to everyone in the Union.
These principles have certainly guided the work of the Commission at all times.
These are Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3 in part and the first paragraph of Amendment No 8.
It will defend its new position before the Council and will do its utmost to ensure that a definitive decision can be taken before the end of the year since it is the responsibility of the Community institutions to adhere to the timetable for the introduction of the euro that was laid down two years ago by the Heads of State and of Government.
I am most grateful for the attention of the House at this late hour.
I feared that there was some possibility of this debate being taken before 8 p.m., thus denying me this immense pleasure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Passenger ship safety The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-332/97), on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of a Council Directive on safety rules and standards for passenger ships (C4-0359/97-96/0041(SYN)) (Rapporteur: Mr Stenmarck).
Following a number of initiatives in Parliament, that accident, in which more than 900 people lost their lives, has led to several decisions to increase safety levels in various ways.
The fast ferries which are now becoming more common on our seaways are therefore also going to be fully covered by the directive.
A lot has been done in recent years, but there is probably a lot that remains to be done in the future too.
Mr President, safety at sea is a priority for us all in the European Parliament, in particular for the Socialist Group.
Moreover, in the context of the single market, we think it is important - bearing in mind in 1993 maritime domestic trade was liberalized - that this measure will further consolidate the single market.
Many of us on the committee are concerned that the good work of the Commissioner and of Parliament will come to very little unless Member States abide by the letter of the laws we agree in the European Union.
I would like to see a time when this Parliament could spend more time focusing on and reviewing the legislation that has already been agreed rather than commenting on and contemplating future legislation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Commissioner, first of all I would like to thank my colleague Per Stenmarck for his excellent report.
One small cause for complaint, Mr Commissioner, is that we still have no free marine cabotage; we are still using transitional regulations.
Free competition is still not with us, but it is important that we agree on common safety regulations in preparation for liberalization.
I am also pleased that Council, the Commission and Parliament have taken a common position on a number of aspects, for example, that states with superior regulations have a say on the use of ships from other countries.
How do we ensure that the regular inspection of ships by the flag nations, as laid down in article 10 of the directive, is actually carried out?
In that context, the EU has an important complementary role to play in ensuring that the international conventions, in this case the SOLAS Convention, are implemented.
Many of the amendments are intended to further improve the new provisions which the Council introduced in its common position in order to distinguish between high-speed passenger craft constructed after 1 January 1996 and those built before that date.
I therefore look forward to rapid progress with this legislation and I am also glad to accept Amendments Nos 6 and 7.
Amendment No 3 proposes a full equivalence between the requirements for high-speed passenger craft engaged in domestic voyages and those on international voyages.
Obviously it is entirely consistent with the main objective of this proposal and it will ensure that an equivalent level of safety will be achieved for all high-speed passenger craft operating in European Union waters, irrespective of whether they are engaged in domestic or international voyages.
I am pleased to advise the House that I am able to accept the proposal that protection of the environment should be included as one of the objectives of this measure as requested in Amendment No 1.
However, since the Council has now included new provisions on safeguard clauses which can be taken in case of danger to the maritime environment, protection of the environment has become a specific part of the objectives of this proposal.
It strengthens the main thrust of the common position by using the same terminology as in the new provisions introduced by the Council in article 7.5.
Summing up, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, in its common position the Council has made several changes to the Commission's proposal for a directive on the safety of fishing vessels of 24 metres in length and over.
The Commission has approved these changes for reasons of general consistency and clarity.
The same applies to the rapporteur and the Committee on Transport, who do not see anything in these modifications except changes of a technical and legal order without great consequence either for the actual content of the proposal for a directive or for its general philosophy.
The main points of the proposal for a directive which have been modified by the common position of the Council are the following.
Only new vessels will have to comply with article 14 of Directive 94/57/EC.
Existing vessels already meet the standards in force at the time of their construction.
The Commission has accepted these modifications, which strengthen, here too, provisions concerning the conformity of fishing vessels flying the flag of a third country to the prescriptions of the Torremolinos Protocol.
Finally, the type I advisory committee proposed by the Commission has been replaced by a type IIIA committee, which gives the national authorities more powers.
The Commission has accepted these modifications.
In the end, we can be satisfied with this common position of the Council, which respects the fundamental principles of the initial proposal and represents added value, because the clarifications and especially the supplementary provisions strengthen the harmonized level of safety.
This draft directive is the result of a long and difficult process geared to improving the safety of fishing vessels.
In conclusion, Mr President, as I have already said, and because this is only a first step, the directive must be adopted as soon as possible.
I would like to respond briefly to the two specific comments raised by the rapporteur in his recommendation.
The Commission will, of course, readily respond to the specific request that the House be informed well in advance of the agenda items for the committee meetings dealing with adaptations in accordance with the provisions of article 8 of the directive.
The Commission also shares the concern that different levels of penalties in the Member States could lead to the distortion of competition and hamper the proper functioning of the internal market.
It is precisely to avoid such a situation that article 11 of the common position requires that the penalties shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
Furthermore, in order to ensure full transparency, Member States must in accordance with article 13 notify their system of penalties for breaching the national provisions that are adopted on the basis of the directive.
I believe, Mr President, that the rapporteur was seeking to underline the need to ensure respect for these provisions in the interests of transparency and fair competition.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
For the first two budget years ECU 30 million have been allocated.
It is all the more inexplicable in view of the urgent necessity of reducing greenhouse gases, to which Member States have already committed themselves in Rio, Berlin and now Kyoto, coming up with the aim of a 15 % reduction.
It is all the more extraordinary since it is indisputable that this kind of energy production does not only support our aims of reducing greenhouse gases, but would also release enormous resources on the jobs front, quite apart from which it would relieve us to a great extent from our dependence on energy imports from other countries.
If it were consistently pursued - and not just with these showcase events - by 2010 the equivalent of 30 % of the demand for primary energy in the EU could be met from renewable energy sources.
The modest Altener II programme can do little against that.
The Community policies getting major support take the diametrically opposite direction: more traffic, more energy consumption, more waste, more emissions, more environmental problems.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the core of Altener II are the actions to promote private and public investment in renewable energy sources.
However, in the Commission proposal two thirds of the programme budget are allocated to the continuation of Altener I.
What is more, the 30 million proposed by the Commission for the first two years of Altener II are, by common consent and in the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, insufficient for a programme with such ambitious aims.
With this present report we are asking the Commission to introduce increased financing of the programme in general, and to reconsider the allocation of resources and to boost the sum of money for article 2e, which is the touchstone of the programme.
The Commission proposal gives greater weight to the study of the anticipated competitiveness of renewable energy sources.
The Community must direct the Member States to modernize their legislative and investment frameworks.
The cautious stance of financial organizations, inadequate information for investors and the public, and the lack of integrated action plans for renewable energy sources at a national level are chiefly due to the structural and institutional weaknesses of the Member States.
It would also be useful to ensure economic support for the actions of the programme by third financial organizations, such as the European Investment Bank.
I agree unreservedly with the statement in the Commission proposal that the current combination of energy supplies is not consistent with the long term requirements of sustained development.
For environmental and climatic considerations, in view of our increasing dependence on energy imports and because it is so important for employment and industrial reasons, we are bound politically to try and ensure the increased use of renewable energies.
Apart from standard economic measures which - at least we hope, Commissioner Papoutsis - you will be presenting shortly as part of the White Paper, in its response to the Green Paper the European Parliament has demanded a more ambitious and financially stronger Altener II programme.
The proposed financial appropriation of ECU 30 million for 1998 and 1999 certainly does not meet the demands which will be made on the Union.
My group approves without qualification the support of sustainable energy sources in these countries, but the Altener budget will not cover it.
However, it is the aspiration of one region alone, the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which accounts for less than a tenth of the population of Spain, to be generating up to 900 megawatts by the same period.
Mr President, in discussing renewable energy we talk about environmental protection, which is quite right.
But we virtually never talk about the problems involved in acquiring fossil fuels.
So we need renewable energy sources not only for environmental reasons, economic and social reasons, but even more in the interests of peace, because there will be no peace in the 21st Century unless we switch to renewable sources of energy.
Mr President, the European Parliament welcomes this five-year programme.
Altener II is one of the lamentably few measures which will stop our delegates going to conference in Kyoto completely naked.
Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will visit the exhibition outside this hemicycle on the Teres II programme.
ECU 250 million would be a realistic and adequate funding for Altener II.
The Commissioner has the support of the European Parliament in pushing forward Altener II.
The first Altener programme has demonstrated its importance in the promotion of renewable energy sources and the initial results of the programme are very promising indeed.
The new Altener II programme is not simply an extension of the old programme.
I believe that the Altener II programme, as it evolves in the future, will play a particularly important role.
Your recommendations and the generous support that you gave to the Green Paper allowed us to move forward to the elaboration of the White Paper on a community strategy and a new plan of action on renewable energy sources.
The Altener II programme has been given a new direction so that it now incorporates new actions within the framework of a more general Community strategy for renewable energy sources and also within a framework for a plan of action that we are going to put forward.
The second point I would like to make concerns the proposal for an outline programme for energy, which we discussed today in the European Commission.
The Altener II programme will be part of this future outline programme for energy and will be one of its most basic cornerstones.
The third point concerns the process of European Union enlargement.
Indeed, in the context of the actions aimed at facilitating the accession of countries of central and eastern Europe and Cyprus, the new programme provides for the possibility of their participation and also provides for the possibility of the participation of the countries of the European Economic Area.
Our basic concern is to concentrate all our attention on those actions which may improve on the results that we have so far obtained and which may make our efforts more productive.
The programme also provides for new actions with two specific aims.
Secondly, to provide the necessary means for the implementation and monitoring of the Community strategy and action plan for renewable energy sources by the year 2010.
It will also play a significant role in creating the necessary conditions for increasing the share of renewable sources in our energy balance and in the reduction of the dependence of the Union on imported energy.
In this way it makes a positive contribution to the promotion of the overall policy priorities of the Union in the sectors of economic and social cohesion, for local and regional development, for economic development more generally and, of course, for the creation of new jobs.
We believe, however, that certain of the amendments concern the White Paper on the Community strategy for renewable energy sources rather than the Altener programme itself.
Nevertheless the Commission is able to accept Amendments Nos 2, 6, 8, 9, 10, 19, 21, 23 and 25, as they have been tabled.
The Commission also accepts in principle certain of Parliament's amendments.
We could include these within the body of the text after making changes to the wording, or we consider them to be already covered by our proposal.
As regards Amendment No 12, we believe that we can incorporate into the proposal a general reference to the goal of doubling the share of participation of renewable energy sources by 2010 as a result of the debates on the White Paper.
We believe that the second part of Amendment No 12 can be incorporated into our proposal, with the exception however of the reference to the promotion of technology, simply because this has more to do with the actions that are evolving within the framework of the Thermie programme.
I believe that the content of Amendment No 13 is covered by article 1 of the programme proposal.
As regards Amendment No 16, I agree with you that ecological tourism is an integral part of planning at a local and regional level.
Amendment No 16 could therefore be incorporated into the proposal where mention is made of certain key sectors of the planning programme.
We can also reformulate and focus the actions for the giving out of information mentioned in article 2, paragraph 1c, so that they reflect Amendments Nos 17 and 18.
As regards Amendment No 20, the Commission feels that the wording of the first and third cases of article 2, paragraph 1f needs to be global and comprehensive.
We agree, however, with Amendment No 22 and we will incorporate it with the appropriate reformulation of article 2.
On the other hand, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 11, 14, 24, 26 and 27.
The same is true for Amendment No 3.
Amendment No 4 is an example of an initiative which would be more suitably included in the White Paper on our Community strategy.
The content of Amendment No 11, on the opening of the Altener programme in the countries of the Mediterranean, cannot possibly be accepted at this moment due to the lack of affiliation agreements with these countries.
As regards Amendment No 14, the Commission considers that the amount of funding must be decided by the official budgetary authority.
Nor can Amendment No 24 be accepted because the reports submitted by the Commission to the organizations are the object of article 6.
As regards Amendments Nos 26 and 27, the Commission cannot properly accept them and, on this occasion, follow the general procedure that is provided for on this issue.
Mr President, before I finish I wish to inform you that this morning the European Commission debated the outline programme on energy.
As you are aware, a large part of this programme refers to renewable energy sources and also to energy efficiency.
Unfortunately, the European Commission, while agreeing with the political objectives of the programme, did not succeed in taking the final decision on this programme due to the fact that there were differing approaches and differing opinions concerning the programme budget.
However, since we are still at the beginning of this process and since we are still at the beginning of the debate in Council and in Parliament, I believe that those of us who wish to continue supporting renewable energy sources, and those of us who believe that this must be an area for which substantial funds must be made available and for which significant sums of money from the community budget must be used, since it has a part to play in all the basic priorities for the protection of the environment, for new technologies, and for the creation of new jobs, we must intensify our efforts throughout the coming years so that renewable energy sources can become a political priority not only in words but in terms of funding and the Community budget.
For this reason therefore I would like to accept on the one hand your criticism regarding the amount of the budget that we are presenting for the Altener programme, but at the same time I must explain why we are in such a difficult position, which is the same difficult economic climate in which the whole of the European Union finds itself.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to assure you that the European Commission has made every effort to incorporate the largest part of the proposals of Parliament into the text of the proposal for the Altener II programme.
I have just one question: what about Amendments Nos 28 and 29?
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
In fact, this change was already applied before 31 July of this year, and consists of the fact that a maximum of three vessels belonging to the quota for the second year has been transferred to the quota for the first year, so that what was formerly a distribution of 25 and 40 vessels has become a distribution of 28 and 37 vessels for the first and second years respectively.
Naturally, the 3 % flexibility margin in the authorized tonnage provided for in the agreement has been maintained.
And the fourth change involves the imposition of a contribution of ECU 350 per month per vessel towards the cost of scientific observation on the owners of the 22 pelagic vessels.
Logically, therefore, Parliament should approve these four changes to the fisheries agreement with Mauritania, which benefits the Community fleet and will be in force until July 2001.
We therefore make explicit reference to this position in paragraph 2 of the draft legislative resolution on which we shall be voting.
I therefore urge the European Parliament to adopt the report on which we shall be voting tomorrow morning, in the form in which it was adopted by the Committee on Fisheries, including the positive mandatory opinions of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
I believe that the European Community is currently providing a good example in this regard.
This is because, as Mr Imaz San Miguel said, this agreement does not involve substantial changes which have important budgetary implications.
And that is because, until, as Parliament has been requesting, an interinstitutional agreement - or in the last instance, if we have no other alternative, the Court of Justice - defines the uncertain legal concept of "important budgetary implications' , this House must claim the right to interpret that concept, especially when, as in this case, the Council gives no reason for changing the legal basis proposed by the Commission, which was, as Parliament agrees, the second subparagraph of article 228(3).
Nevertheless, the discussions that we have had with Mauritanian - not Chinese, but Mauritanian - fishermen may help us to introduce the concept of responsible fishing to a certain extent: a concept that all Member States within the Community fleet are trying to abide by, with such great problems for fishermen.
Moreover, we are helping the Mauritanian authorities - with Member States' funds, but also with part of the funding under this agreement - to improve their control system.
Thank you, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
