Madam President, a photograph was taken in this House yesterday.
So recital F and paragraph 12 should be corrected to show that we are criticising 'models' and not 'the model' and as a consequence the reference to the United States should be removed.
Thank you, Mrs García Arias.
This is why I do not understand why our amendments have been rejected, when they are acting in the financial and moral interests of children in calling for a policy to prevent single parent families as much as possible, by educating people to be responsible.
It deals exclusively with tuna and it will involve 45 freezer vessels and 30 longliners.
The overall cost of the agreement to the Community will be ECU 2.28 over a three-year period.
The financial compensation will be ECU 912 000, which is 40 % of the overall cost.
As regards Mr Girão Pereira's report, I wanted to mention that the fisheries agreement with the Republic of Gabon is a new agreement that exclusively applies to tuna fishing over a five-year period and which will mean the funding of 9 000 negotiated tonnes.
This means that vessel owners will contribute ECU 20 to the cost of each tonne and the Commission will contribute ECU 80 per tonne.
Madam President, when the House discussed the last fisheries agreement with Madagascar more than two years ago, the European Parliament heavily criticised both the content and the procedure because we had not been given any chance to have our say.
The tropical tuna network in the ACP countries of landing has therefore come to play a central role in local economic development.
Finally, like the rapporteurs I too am extremely interested in the provisions of the new agreements with Madagascar and Gabon on monitoring, training and scientific studies, which account for 60 % of the total financial compensation and are increasing.
I wonder why we are paying less in this agreement than in the earlier one and why we have increased the number of ships by something like 30 longliners, in addition to the freezer ships that were part of the first agreement.
This agreement gives us approximately ECU 10 million worth of fish.
It is very hard to know what is happening when licences are granted to 70 or 80 vessels to catch such a small amount of fish.
The Commission accepts the substance of the amendments proposed by the Committee on Fisheries, but not the form in which they are put.
It would point out that Parliament is already regularly informed about take-up levels for fishery agreements through statements and reports to the committee.
The debate is closed.
An earlier and broader agreement was concluded in 1988 relating to tuna and demersal species but was never ratified on account of political developments in Gabon at that time.
It should be emphasised that, unlike some agreements, in this instance there is no particular clash with the local fishermen, since the activities of these vessels are conducted on the open sea, 12 miles off-shore, while the small-scale fishing fleet of Gabon comprises vessels with which we are all familiar, particularly the Portuguese.
Substantial funding (some 60 % of the financial compensation) is allocated to the management and conservation of resources and to scientific and technical training in the Gabonese fishing sector.
Another significant aspect of the agreement is the increase in the financial contributions of vessel owners, from ECU 20 to ECU 25, representing a rise of over 25 % per tonne, with a simultaneous reduction from ECU 80 to ECU 75 per tonne in payments from the Community budget.
Finally, I would also like to say that the new agreement is in line with the Council's conclusions of 30 October 1997, for which reason we support it.
This is not discrimination in the sense that we have spoken about, but quite the opposite, since whereas vessel owners in certain fleets - as in this case - are paying increasingly more, in other kinds of agreement they benefit from fishing possibilities at no cost to themselves whatsoever - and here I am referring to agreements with Nordic countries in which southern fleets are not involved.
Thank you very much Mr Olsson.
We do not know whether they catch 120 tonnes or double that figure.
Also there is a prohibition on access to the 12 nautical mile coastal zone and that will serve to protect the environment and Gabonese small-scale fishing.
The Commission accepts the substance of the three amendments proposed by the Committee on Fisheries but not in the form in which they were put.
I would like to point out that Parliament is already regularly informed about the take-up levels for fishery agreements through statements and reports to the committee.
The agreement cost is just slightly over 2 m to the European Union and that comes to about ECU 75 per tonne, taking 9 000 tonnes per annum as the total catch.
Thank you, Mr Flynn.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in spring 1997 the European Parliament gave its assent to the partnership and cooperation agreement with the Republic of Azerbaijan by a large majority.
Inflation is under control, with prices increasing by only 3 % a year.
European aid through ECHO and from the Member States, which accounts for more than 75 % of the world's total aid to Azerbaijan, must continue.
On 1 September the journalist Tai Hamid was dragged from his car and assaulted.
Azerbaijan is also important to us for other reasons.
Our bilateral trade last year rose by 59 %, albeit from a low base, with a significant surplus in the EC's favour.
Currently the country is facing a very difficult economic situation, with 70 % of the population on or below the poverty line.
About 20 % of the country is occupied by Nagorno-Karabakh Armenian forces.
However, the governments of both Armenia and Azerbaijan have recently made some conciliatory statements, in particular in the margins of the Baku Transport Conference, to which Armenia was specifically invited at the Commission's request.
Commissioner van den Broek made this very clear to President Aliyev when they met in Baku last June.
Thank you, Mr Flynn.
The debate is closed.
Thank you, Mr Ford.
Thank you Mr Rübig.
Thank you, Mr Van Dam.
