I am sorry that I have to keep bringing this up, but I just cannot understand why it is that the European Commission is so intent on imposing on Europe a proprietary metal made by a Finnish company, known as Outokumpu.
I must ask for a debate on this, because this is foolishness at our taxpayers' expense.
Madame President, I wish to speak on page 2 of the Minutes, and, in particular about Mr McMahon's remarks.
We have abstained on this paragraph as we believe that it is crucial that VAT remains at 0 % on newspapers and periodicals.
For this reason I have voted against paragraphs Z, 12 and 13 in the report.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the EU pays an export refund of about ECU 300 million a year for the transportation of live cattle.
There is still the problem of how the treatment of livestock can be monitored during transportation and during unloading in ports in third world countries.
The Commission has proposed the situation be corrected, so that one condition of the export subsidy would be that animal protection regulations be observed in the transportation of animals.
In my report I have tried to construct a comprehensive and workable scheme, whereby the observation of animal protection regulations can actually be monitored.
I suggest that the EU negotiate and agree with third world countries that the standards that pertain to the transportation of animals and the regulations on animal protection be observed beyond the EU region also, when it is the case that animals are arriving from within the EU.
There are a few things which need to be tightened up to improve animal welfare, in both the 1991 and the 1995 directive.
It is totally unacceptable that living animals should be carried around on the motor ways of Europe in poorly equipped trucks over long distances.
I believe that the Parliament should not merely pass legislation which retains the old system, but should also think slightly ahead, and so I think that Parliament should discuss this matter at the Agricultural Committee and in other committees in future.
In June 1995 the Council of Ministers adopted wide-ranging rules on the transport of animals.
In fact, we have the most rigorous animal welfare regulations enshrined in Irish law and we are fully enforcing them.
The Commission must strictly manage the animal welfare provisions and ensure that they are respected throughout the European Union for animals imported and exported.
Ireland is an island and we export over 90 % of our total production.
I agree with the proposal to introduce severe penalties where it is found that animals have been mistreated during production and during transport.
The transportation of cattle, and especially cattle for slaughter, has become a serious ethical problem, because cases have come to the attention of the public where animals have been treated in an inhumane and rough and ready fashion.
To improve matters, the Commission has now suggested an amendment to the decree on the export subsidy.
If you subsidize animals for slaughter in this way, then exactly what we see in these pictures will take place.
We must ensure that live animal breeders in North Africa are able to sell their animals, that they can do business with people there who want to eat meat in this way.
That is the problem.
The problem which we have discussed fully in the Committee on Agriculture concerns the supervision of animals until their arrival in the third country.
My group will vote in favour of this report.
Amendments Nos 1 and 6 are a useful specification that checks must be carried out by expert officials of the Commission or the Member States.
Amendments Nos 3 and 4, which we tabled in committee and which were adopted, specify that the restrictions and financial penalties which apply to the export of live animals from the European Union to third countries must also apply to the import of animals from these countries, if the conditions for the transport of live animals are not appropriate.
On this point I would like to recall that in 1996 the European Union imported about 500, 000 live animals from third countries.
In conclusion, Madam President, during the vote we shall oppose the amendments tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists which provide that no refunds may be paid on the export of live animals to third countries.
This proposal is totally absurd and totally contrary to our European interests, for as I have said earlier, if we no longer export live animals, other countries will do so in our place.
The transport of live animals from countries of the European Union will permit shorter journeys which will benefit animal welfare all the more.
The Commission's proposals do so by making the payment of export subsidies dependent on compliance with the rules on animal transportation.
I fully support the Commission's proposal before Parliament today but I urge the Commission to examine ways in which further improvements can be made.
And last but not least, Madam Commissioner, we require the European Commission so to set the export repayments for beef and cattle for slaughter, that there is no longer any economic incentive to export live animals to third countries.
Natural production conditions, environmental limitations, animal welfare criteria and animal health regulations in the EU mean, however, that our domestic beef product is less good value than that from the Argentine or the USA.
Between 1995 and 2001 they are due to be reduced from 1.1 million to 0.8 million tonnes.
The common organization of the market in beef is an important measure in the overall framework of the common agricultural policy and is of great importance to my country, Ireland, where beef production is one of the main farm enterprises.
The fact that we export over 90 % of our production makes the Irish sector relevant to other Member States and, indeed, it is often said that Ireland's beef production is Europe's surplus.
In conclusion, we must reappraise the proposals in Agenda 2000 for Europe's beef sector and, in the context of world trade talks, provide a greater degree of protection and opportunity for Europe's beef farmers.
When I was working on my report on the transport of livestock in Europe and elsewhere, I rapidly came to the conclusion that the European Union is in no position to exercise proper control over the welfare of animals during transport or even just to ensure that the European legislation is being complied with, and there are a few comments that should be made on that subject.
Really it is a very small part of the total cattle trade in Europe and it is completely ludicrous that we, this Parliament included, should continue paying export refunds.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, I would first like to thank Mrs Anttila for her excellent, carefully prepared report.
Beef consumption has sunk rapidly and we still bring in very many animals from third countries.
It is not exactly a suitable example, but this method is not used in most states, because it meets with ethical objections.
There are currently 48 % live cattle transports, consisting of breeding and slaughter animals.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it matters whether we are talking about beef or cattle, every one of us sitting in this hall has an interest, either as a producer, a seller, or a consumer.
That should be our aim in the long term.
In recent years there has been some move in this direction.
We have seen the proportion of live exports in the EU sink by 6 % in three years to reach about 10 % at present.
By way of contrast, the proportion of breeding cattle exports has risen from 16 % to 28 %, and I think that speaks for itself.
Madam President, a few weeks ago this Parliament called for an end to payments to live cattle.
What the Commission is proposing is simply that export refunds would not be paid if the rules on welfare during transport were broken.
Madam President, we have already had occasion to debate this very important and sensitive question of the transport of animals several times in this Parliament.
The Union has both the right and obligation, in this case, to bring in measures, as whenever Union taxpayers' money is being spent, it is right to make sure that anyone receiving a subsidy is implementing the wishes of the Union and its citizens.
Today we have heard that overproduction of beef in the EU area, as a result, for example, of BSE, is the commonly given reason for the transportation of live animals and the export refund.
Amendment No 2 is, therefore, superfluous.
Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5 concern the application of Community regulations in third countries.
The aim of this regulation is to make adherence to animal welfare standards a prerequisite for the payment of export subsidies.
The export of live animals forms an important part of the general market mechanism for beef.
For that reason the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 11 and 12, which are in contradiction to the aim of our proposal.
Finally, may I once more emphasize that the Commission places as much value as you do on the appropriate transport of cattle, so that they arrive att heir destinations in good condition.
These agreements will also contain regulations on animal welfare during transport, so that conditions for animals will be improved not just during transport within the EU, but increasingly so in third countries as well.
Quite the opposite: the ratio between subsidies for live animals and for beef between 1993 and 1997 has fallen from 65 % to 47 %.
The debate is closed.
Irish beef farmers export 90 % of their cattle and we are very dependent on our ability to export live cattle.
Irish farmers have always operated the highest standards of animal welfare.
In 1993 alone, ECU 776 million were spent in the fruit and vegetable sector on this, and at times - and this is a scandal - in some Member States almost 70 % of the harvest of a single type of fruit were destroyed.
The Commission assumes that as a result of the new grubbing-up programme withdrawals from the market will fall by 80 %, and that in four years time the annual costs of ECU 28 million will have been cancelled out.
The final objective of a thoroughly overhauled common agricultural policy must be, however, to reduce state or Community intervention to zero.
Europe only has a future when rural areas, which make up 80 % of the continent, also have a secure future.
I should also like to ask those representatives of the Group of the European People's Party - they do not seem to be here either, but perhaps they are, posthumously, I almost said - who abstained in the vote, to acknowledge that such abuses have occurred.
In fact, it will only affect up to 10, 000 hectares throughout the 15 Member States.
In 1994 and 1995, inspections by the Court of Auditors revealed that the destruction of fruit had, in certain regions of the Union, polluted the groundwater to such an extent that it had infected water supplies to householders in the vicinity of the destruction sites.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are examining the proposal for a Council regulation on the improvement of the Community production of apples, pears, peaches and nectarines.
With regard to Amendment No 8, we prefer the original wording of article 1(2)(2).
Madam President, we too support this report, because it breaks through the so-called open doors as well.
The minimum area of half a hectare seems to us to be adequate.
Our rapporteur affirms that, thanks to this new programme, we can reduce withdrawals by 80 %.
It is therefore useless to associate the payment of the premium to the age of the trees, whereas we fix a limit of 300 trees minimum per hectare.
We therefore reject Amendment No 6.
The Commission has based its proposal on objective and relevant criteria.
The Commission's proposal is already 8 months old.
The 80 % being discussed is only in relation to the average production of this 2 % of fields which we are now going to chop down.
This means that around ECU 100 million are once again being used to encourage the definitive abandonment of production.
The Commission still establishes the maximum global ceiling for the area to be abandoned, distributes the money among the Member States, fixes the minimum surface area unit to be abandoned at half a hectare provided that the trees are planted with a density of 300 or more per hectare.
It is of the opinion, however, that the trees to be grubbed up and the measures for preventing replanting should be defined as in the previous Council Regulation or its comprehensive implementation regulations, and it therefore rejects Amendment No 3.
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 concern merely the aim and purpose of some regulations in the proposal.
Amendment No 6, like all other previous measures of this kind, will be included in the detailed implementation regulations.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 8.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The organization of a programme of grubbing up must meet an objective of purging the market, which is currently characterized by specific surpluses for each of the Member States.
The farms have lost their value but they continue to be worked in order to avoid bankruptcies.
I know that some people are amused, but the matter is not funny.
