However, I think that we gained at least one thing from it all; we were able to carry our a very useful practical exercise in measuring the time and distance between our offices and the Chamber.
Madam President, might I request that the Quaestors provide a rule which specifies that a period of 15 minutes be allowed between the first bell and the time of the vote.
On page 15 of the Minutes, I see that the president of the sitting responded to the speakers who raised the arguments just mentioned, saying that 'two Members spoke and this left enough time for Members to get to the Chamber' .
The unfortunate thing was that time was not allowed for Members to get here.
It is Rules 126, 128, 129, 130, 131 and 132 which need to be looked at.
I am, of course, also sorry about the problems which other groups have had, but we tried to warn them in advance that we wanted to have a vote under Rule 131 because we believe that, after the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party had withdrawn their signature from the joint proposal, we needed more time to draw up a joint text on the right of asylum, which could also achieve broad support in this House.
Training of seafarers The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0411/97) by Mr Parodi, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of a Council Directive amending Directive 94/58/EEC on the minimum level of training of seafarers.
Let us not forget that 80 % of maritime accidents can be directly attributed to human errors or omissions.
The objective of the revision of the STCW Convention and the associated amendment to Directive 94/58/EEC is to remedy this situation and, if possible, to lessen the impact of the human factor on maritime accidents.
Madam President, on behalf of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to begin by expressing my wholehearted support for this proposal for a directive amending the original directive on the minimum level of training of seafarers.
Developing a European policy to bring young people into the profession is a vital means of providing both highquality seafarers and helping resolve the problems of unemployment in Europe, not least in our maritime communities.
I would like to take this opportunity to commend the rapporteur on the importance he placed on having a common working language to be able to work effectively and, in particular, handle crisis situations.
Madam President, on behalf of the European People's Party I must stress that we too support the common position, as amended by the Committee on Transport's three amendments, which we already approved in committee.
This new amending directive certainly represents great progress.
I must therefore say that while we all welcome this progress achieved by the new, supplementary directive, it should at the same time be noted that the Commission has not adopted initiatives in the area of positive measures on behalf of European shipping.
This is not the right time to point out the dangers in that, but from the floor of Parliament I once more call on the Commission to reflect on how it could deal with the problem we know as 'positive measures on behalf of shipping' .
The first reservation relates to the statement that 80 % of accidents are caused by human error.
We broadly support the whole thrust of this report.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a considerable number of accidents caused by human error in the domain of seafaring which have serious consequences for human life or for flora and fauna.
I sincerely believe that the human factor is one of the main causes of accidents, and - we are lucky in having the right Commissioner with us this morning - accidents at sea often result in dreadful pollution which put nature and the sea seriously at risk.
In addition, it represents a clarification and, in particular, greater consistency in relation to internationally recognized requirements found in the revised STCW Convention of 1995.
I hope Parliament can recognize that it does not really make sense to deviate from this principle.
However, the addition proposed in Amendment No 2 corresponds to the wording of the non-binding part B, while the common position is in full agreement with the binding part A.
I hope against this background that Parliament agrees that the rule on watchkeeping conditions in Amendment No 3 is not appropriate for this directive.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11.00 a.m.
But we have to go a step further and carry out transfers of water between the basins if we want to provide solutions to the structural problems which arise within the European Union, such as flooding, drought and desertification.
Madam Commissioner, I think there is a chance for us to work in this direction, and people are very hopeful that the Commission may be able to work to further this report, if it is approved by Parliament.
We only know about the draft study between the regions Languedoc-Roussillon, in southern France, and the Barcelona region in Spain.
He used a STOA inquiry which is exactly what we should do in this Parliament to test our views.
That STOA study made it absolutely clear that this is something the European Union should tackle.
In doing all these studies we must look at the impact they will have on the environment.
However, anything that comes out of this study must definitely be included in the water management policy which, as Mr Izquierdo Collado said, is in its infancy in the European Union.
It seems to me that this is the big difficulty which these hydrological networks will encounter.
But it is only natural that we should first make these connections and perform these transfers within our own countries.
Therefore, we will study these actions in the centre of our country very carefully and, if appropriate, and if the Union makes that decision, we would join in with a water policy based on hydrological networks.
I want to inform the rapporteur that the Group of the European People's Party will support his report, although some of our members have certain doubts, perhaps because they see this important question in a different light.
Madam President, this may appear to be a rather out-of-the-way issue for us in the European Parliament.
Mr President, this report by Mr Collado emphasizes that within the countries of the EU there are different conditions as far as access to water is concerned.
Above all it is water quality that can be an EU issue, and where we at EU level should try to achieve something.
I think UNESCO has also made a statement along these lines, saying that 12 million people currently die every year because of a lack of water, and warning that in 25 years' time more than 50 countries will be short of that vital liquid, and that potentially serious situations may even arise as a result.
The shortage of water in certain areas represents an additional natural problem, and in order to overcome it we should act together, and from this Parliament, to urge all the peoples of Europe to show solidarity and promote really sustainable development in all the European regions.
Mr President, the report by Mr Izquierdo Collado deals with a subject whose importance has not yet been fully recognized; in the next few decades, water is likely to become an ever more critical factor in geostrategic terms.
This is exactly the opposite of what intensive methods of production and national and regional development have done for 50 years.
Every tourist who travels to Spain or another southern country uses water.
Just think of all the bottles of mineral water, Perrier, Apolinaris, San Pellegrino or what you will, that are shipped all over the world.
Instead, wherever and for whatever reason there is a water shortage or water quality is inadequate, we envisage simply bringing in water by pipeline from places where it is still available, and imagine that we will have solved the problem in that way.
We do not doubt the quality of this report.
We also know what our rapporteur has referred to - point 18 in the report stipulates that there can be no transfer of water within the Union without the express permission of the Member States.
You will therefore understand that I place great emphasis on the questions of water management and the protection of water resources, and, as you know, in February and November 1997 the Commission approved a draft framework directive on water resources which will act as the central element of European water policy.
It was in fact Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection which, together with other institutions, took the initiative for a change in European water policy with the symposium on water in June 1995.
Where regions or Member States share hydrological networks, they will set their objectives jointly.
Last, but not least, the framework directive on water will increase transparency and ensure the involvement of all affected citizens and parties when management plans or hydrological networks are being drawn up.
However, there are some questions raised in the draft resolution which Parliament's Committee on the Environment regarded with a certain degree of reservation, so to speak.
At the moment, as several speakers also mentioned during the debate, the Member States and their regions show very different patterns of water-related problems and also very different strategies for solving them.
I am convinced that the proposed framework directive for water resources will form a good basis for cooperation on sustainable water management between the EU institutions, the Member States and their regions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11.00 a.m.
With the defeat of the secessionist forces in 1994, the country experienced an acceleration of the democratic process which has resulted in the organization of general free and democratic elections.
Today, Yemen has a parliament made up of 301 members in which the normal interaction between the majority and the opposition are bringing about a population with a maturing democratic awareness.
In this regard, the economic and trade Cooperation Agreement which I am asking you to approve can only be a starting point for bringing about closer ties between this country and the European Union which, in my opinion, will be advantageous for Yemen and also for Europe.
Universal suffrage in elections to the Yemeni Parliament is especially praiseworthy in the context of the all-male electorates in neighbouring states in the region.
There was also a problem in that we were unable to visit certain areas for security reasons.
I consider that Parliament must continue to press for ratification by the Yemen of important international human rights conventions and continue to take up individual cases of human rights abuses as they are presented to us.
The new agreement is an important adjustment of the agreement of 1984.
The unification of 1990 laid the foundation for harmonious development in the country.
The riot threat in 1994, thankfully, strengthened the country.
Yemen is an extremely poor country in which democracy is still showing considerable gaps.
Sadly, even since unification, Yemen has been the victim of the civil war of April to June 1994.
This could provide the means of raising living standards for all Yemeni citizens, but in particular those living in poverty, deprivation and squalor, provided that this is not just left primarily to free market forces.
Hopefully even those accused of participation in the 1994 civil war will be amnestied since this would be a vital step to national reconciliation.
Mr President, the new Cooperation Agreement concluded between the European Community and the Republic of Yemen has to be analysed within its historical context.
The unification of Yemen was supported by a majority of the population in both states, but the new government had to face the obstacles of national reconciliation and the considerable economic deficit created by the civil war.
As you know, Yemen has successfully tackled these challenges.
We consider that the process of democratization in Yemen is irreversible.
The new agreement was modelled on the Community's cooperation agreements with developing countries, and in February 1997 the Council approved the negotiation guidelines proposed by the Commission.
I believe this agreement can make a considerable contribution to the processes of modernization and economic development to which the Republic of Yemen has committed itself.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place in a few minutes.
Votes Mr President, yesterday during the debate on this subject, it became clear that a large majority of the groups are thinking along the same lines.
We can, therefore, support this report.
Pack report (A4-0012/98) In 1994-1995 we held long and difficult negotiations to establish the grant for the Socrates programme.
The European Parliament played an important role in fixing the financial package at the reasonable level of ECU 850 million and in adding a clause for the review of funds at the half-way stage.
Positive results recognized by everyone have been achieved by a large number of the 119 million people under 25 and the 4 million teachers.
I am therefore in favour of the Pack report and the increase in financing, to the tune of ECU 70 million, for 1998 and 1999, which he stipulates for the Socrates programme.
Like most of my colleagues, I only regret that the final compromise could not have been made on the basis of the additional 100 m proposed last June by the European Parliament.
The programme even represents a point of reference for individuals who often only know about the actions of the Community through things which affect their own world or that of their children.
The Council and Parliament have reached agreement on earmarking an additional sum of ECU 70 million for the Socrates training programme so it comes up to ECU 920 million.
The Commission proposed a 50 % increase, Parliament asked for 100 % and the Council decided on 25 %.
Read report (A4-0023/98) and the Camisón Asensio report (A4-0027/98) The Commission has drawn up a draft directive on telecommunications equipment which is to replace two Council Directives on telecommunications terminal equipment and ground station equipment in connection with satellites.
Recommendation for 2nd reading by Mr Lehne (A4-0005/98) I should like to comment briefly that this report, especially in view of the present financial crisis in Asia, which is essentially attributable to private debts, is broadly linked to the issue of banking supervision, the coordination and harmonization of which is a matter of urgency in the context of the internal market and the single currency.
Recommendation for second reading by Mr Parodi (A4-0411/97) The Commission has proposed to update Directive 94/58/EEC, based on the international STCW Convention on the training conditions of seafarers.
Of these amendments, we are delighted to note that 20 were approved by the Community executive.
Our work involved supplying proposals relating to the training of seafarers.
I categorically believe not, which is why I voted against the report.
We have chosen to abstain in the final vote on the report.
The trade in or exchange of endangered or vulnerable species is governed by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.
Zoos are allowed to import, export or exchange any animal in connection with work on the preservation of species.
EU rules in this area could help to check that the international agreements are upheld.
I am voting in favour of the White report on the keeping of wild animals in captivity, since it is time we put an end to the present free-for-all, with its suffering and lack of openness.
We are basically in favour of the proposals contained in the White report.
The intention of this report is very proper.
The text proposed to us hardly meets these requirements.
Thors report (A4-0008/98) The report highlights a number of deficiencies in relation to the observance of Community rules in individual Member States.
Izquierdo Collado Report (A4-0407/97) I voted against the Izquierdo Collado report on trans-European hydrographic systems because, as I see it, by recommending a water policy based on transfers, it runs contrary to the sense and scope of the current discussions on the framework directive on water, and the water regulations existing in international law, particularly those contained in the Helsinki and Espoo Conventions, for the protection of states which share rivers.
The European Parliament will soon have an opportunity to decide on the framework directive in the legislative process.
Therefore, to use that as an argument for voting against this report makes no sense.
The water problem is not just qualitative but also quantitative.
A country's national resources are and should remain a national concern.
The Heurta de Valencia, the Tribunal 'de los Aguas' , or the inspired mastery of water in the Sierra Nevada taking it to the jewel of 'Granada' Spain's history could be summed up as a battle for water.
It is a huge undertaking, with investments of over FF 7 billion.
But there is also the danger of a casus belli in waiting, the day when France too is touched by drought and turns off the tap to Spain.
The only alternative is to deprive our market gardeners, our tree-growers, our farmers and our people of Languedoc of the water which they need, but which has been given to others.
