Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 20 February 1998.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of Friday, 20 February 1998 have been distributed.
Mr President, I would like to go back to the discussion on crime in Brussels which we kept having in the course of the last part-session.
I would be very grateful if this House could receive more information from the Presidency as to what is actually happening in these cases and what we can do to really increase safety in Brussels.
I would like to point out to all the Members that there is an oral motion available for signature and would ask them to sign it so that something can be actively done to combat this criminal behaviour in Brussels.
Thank you very much, Mr Rübig.
I would like to thank Mr Capucho for his work throughout his vice-presidency.
The election will be held on Wednesday, at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, I rise to support this request, not just because the issue is important but because this Parliament is in danger of making a fool of itself by saying that Friday votes are not important.
Secondly my group has informed you that we would like to vote in the plenary on removing from the agenda the oral question on the Mediterranean programme which was scheduled for Friday.
The following day, on the 26, a DirectorGeneral spoke at a MED-MEDA conference and in front of twelve ambassadors from the Mediterranean zone he said that the European Parliament was responsible for the fact that the MEDA programmes were blocked.
In the evening of that same day, in Madrid, the Turkish Ambassador took me to task, as a Member of the European Parliament, because he thought we were responsible for having blocked the MED programmes.
We can deal with this issue in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Mr President, women in Afghanistan are not allowed to appear in the street unless their female shape is veiled.
The Taliban are using religion as a smoke screen to strip away all women's rights.
Afghanistan is obviously not the only country in the world in which women's rights are violated, but Afghanistan is the only country in which these rights are violated in the most horrific way imaginable.
I want to emphasize, and we have done this recently on many occasions, that women's rights form an integral and inextricable part of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and therefore of the rights of all human beings.
The Commission fully shares the analysis made and the statement that women's rights form an integral, inalienable and essential part of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Mr van Dijk will allow me to begin this brief speech by thanking the European Parliament for the idea, expressed in its resolution passed on 23 October, to dedicate 8 March to the women of Kabul, a symbol of the violations and discrimination that are still present in many parts of the world.
I would like to point out that this is a very special case, particularly because the women of Kabul have had great difficulties, at least in the urban areas, and certainly that of Kabul, which has been at war for 20 years and is therefore in a very difficult situation, particularly for the civilian population and for women and children, obtaining a series of rights, including freedom of the veil, as long ago as 1960, and university entrance, and played a more active part in society, as teachers, doctors, nurses, midwives, perhaps because the male population has been primarily engaged in war for 20 years.
One positive factor, I believe, is that, starting from an idea put forward by the European Parliament, supported by the Commission, and particularly by the Office for Humanitarian Aid, women of all religions, cultures and leanings have come out throughout Europe, but also in Sarajevo, in the African countries, in the USA and in Japan, to say "no' to this step backward we have just witnessed.
I think we should be pleased that, for once, they are in favour of an idea put forward by Europe and the European Parliament, contrary to the statements we usually here, when public opinion protests against the initiatives taken by a European political institution, whether it be the Commission, the Council or the Parliament.
With regard to your question, I think several points should be made: it should be stated very clearly that violation may take various forms, that exclusion from political participation, from education and from employment are violations of human rights, that physical violence and harmful and cruel practices are a violation of human rights because they are detrimental to the most fundamental human rights, and to reaffirm that respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is one of the main objectives of the Commission's policy, both in internal policies and in the policies applied to third countries, starting with Community cooperation in development.
A series of initiatives has been taken and has been supported by the Commission within the scope of the action platform stemming from the Beijing Conference and from the Council Resolution of 20 December 1995.
Mr President, Mrs Bonino, thank you for the campaign you initiated on behalf of the women of Kabul.
There had already been some initial success: women in Scandinavia had won the right to vote, although other countries had still to wait for this.
In our compromise resolution, we have summarized the most urgent demands for women, and I shall not grow tired of calling for women's rights to be seen as an indivisible, integral part of universal human rights, which means there are obligations in this respect for the EU and our Member States.
The platform for action negotiated in Beijing now needs to be implemented, and I should like to say on behalf of my group that we will insist that a woman's right of self-determination in relation to her body is at the top of the agenda.
We will need to have requested this ruling in the Council of Ministers and have implemented it by 30 June, or else the deadline will have passed.
The European Parliament has sided with the oppressed.
The women of Afghanistan must know that we are suffering with them, but also that we are fighting so that they can regain their right to live a life worth living.
Mr President, women's rights are human rights, and therefore universal rights, and all women derive rights from these, whether they live on European Union territory or not, and whether they are Member State nationals or not.
This means a ban on sexual mutilation in Europe and the enforcement of this ban, but it also means that they should receive the same treatment Member State women are entitled to, and that these rights should be asserted in all areas.
The women of Kabul are a metaphor for all countries in which human rights are violated.
Since I have barely a minute's speaking time, I especially wanted to say to you, to the Committee on Women's Rights and to all the Members of the European Parliament, both male and female, that we should work to make 1999 the year against violence against women.
Because if, by commemorating a single day, the European institutions have made society come to that realization and support us in our defence of women's rights, then I think there will also be a lot of public support if we manage to designate 1999 as the year against violence against women.
Mr President, first of all I would like to say how pleased I am that after all these years Women's Day has taken on a real importance; this is an important step forward from some time ago.
There too, the women expressed the need for enlightenment, hope and freedom, which are as universal as human rights which, as everyone knows also encompass women's rights.
Hence, 8 May is an incentive to implement the concept of main-streaming in all areas of society.
I therefore agree with Mrs Gröner and others who have said that we would convince both the women and the men in the EU that we must also carry out a campaign against violence against women in the European Union.
Madam President, I would also like to thank Mrs Bonino wholeheartedly for her work on behalf of the women in Kabul.
It degrades women, treating them like creatures without rights, wholly governed by their men and guardians and, for that matter, it contravenes international conventions which Algeria has signed, but does not implement.
There is a very broad movement of women's organizations in Algeria which is pursuing a non-violent battle for peace, democracy, human rights - and women's rights - and which is therefore opposing this family law, with exceptional courage.
The defence of women's rights is a struggle to be waged by all, men and women, and in all areas.
In many countries, either the national action plans intended to make the Beijing platform into a national reality have not even been presented or the action has not followed the presentation.
Today, however, on the eve of the 80th anniversary of 8 March, we should tell ourselves, the Commission and the Council, that we need to do more to affirm and establish the principle that women's rights are the rights of human beings and should be interpreted, recognized and, at all costs, established as such.
The plight of the women in Kabul has shocked us all, and I welcome the initiative which the Commission has taken on this.
This gives us a measure of the fight which is still ahead, far beyond the symbolic day of 8 March.
So, Madam President, remembering the case of Ana Orantes, the woman from Granada who was tragically burnt to death by her ex-husband, and in view of the scandalous statistics of male violence against women in my country, Spain, where there were 91 cases last year - far more than from ETA's violent acts of terrorism -, I wonder whether today's discrimination, today's hypocritical non-discrimination, is any better than yesterday's discrimination.
The debate is closed.
In 2002 we will have the euro in the majority of EU states.
In a resolution on the Green Paper, the European Parliament has called on the Commission to produce a draft directive for the minimum harmonization of the statutory guarantee and for a legal framework for the commercial guarantee.
This statutory guarantee should be for two years.
It means that we will be able to coordinate an important area in the European Union, which is also crucial for the smooth-functioning of the single market.
In the 1993 Green Paper on guarantees and after-sales services, this Parliament called on the Commission to present a proposal for a directive.
There are areas where this directive ought properly to apply to second-hand goods and areas where we can all see, despite all the complaints in this field, it would be inappropriate to apply the full rigour of the directive as though the goods were new.
My last point is that, on consumer information, the area where industry complained bitterly about offices being set up in each Member State, we think we have found an appropriate amendment which suggests exactly the right level of information which the consumer needs state by state.
Madam President, I would like to start by thanking Mrs Kuhn wholeheartedly for the excellent way in which we have been able to arrive at a satisfactory result for this directive.
This is necessary if we believe there should be an internal market which should ensure that the consumer is able to buy products throughout Europe, and that there should be a service attached to the products he buys.
Our group recognizes this, but when I say that the consumer should be a major player in the market, this does not mean that we should start laying the burden disproportionally on small and medium enterprises.
That is why we have tried to improve some aspects, in particular with the amendment to Article 3, Clause 4, where we are introducing a hierarchy in the way the consumer can claim or recover his losses when his agreement is broken.
But I can back this up, because it means that we have ensured that the ecological, energy-consuming, throw-away economy which we would end up with if people just took everything back, is removed from the draft in Amendment No 45.
I therefore believe that from an energy and environmental point of view, we have achieved something with this amendment, but that it is also good for small and medium enterprises.
I think that, when the amendment to this section, Amendment No 31, is supported by this entire House, we will have a solution to these problems.
We would like second hand goods to be included in the directive, but in a reasonable form.
I am referring to Amendments Nos 6, 8, 9 - I am using the Dutch text - 22, 25, 28, 29, 34 - I just mentioned these, 35, 36, 37, and the new amendment replacing Amendment No 41.
I am referring to our Amendment 25 which was approved by a large majority in the Committee on Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group wants to work towards a clear and balanced text, which not only benefits the consumer, but also employment, business and the environment.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the draft directive from the Commission in so far as it envisages at least a two-year guarantee.
But what we want is actually a breakthrough to sustainability in production, and that is why five years would be better in our view.
Madam President, most Member States already have some legislation on guarantee periods and consumer rights, but it varies considerably.
Sometimes the fault was already present at the time of purchase, or occurred shortly afterwards through no fault of the consumer.
It is clear that an arrangement must be made to indemnify the consumer.
But the first case is of course the most difficult.
The report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection clearly takes the side of the consumer when it comes to burden of proof.
I welcome a proposal for a directive to harmonize a number of things in this field.
It is also positive that this directive offers the consumer a high degree of protection.
I would mention only Amendments Nos 6 and 34 on the contact addresses in the other Member States.
This amendment should prevent the seller, often a small or medium enterprise, being squashed between the devil and the deep blue sea, between a non-reducible liability towards the consumer on the one hand, and liability shifted onto him because of the supplier on the other.
There are huge gulfs separating consumers and sellers in different countries, both in terms of geography and in terms of language.
We are really talking about a right to repair and replace for the seller without taking into consideration whether this is a great inconvenience to the consumer.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, following the Green Paper published in November 1993, on 18 June 1996 the Commission adopted the draft Directive on the sale and guarantees of consumer goods.
In November 1996, the Economic and Social Committee gave a favourable opinion of this proposal.
You are familiar with the final report on the study which the Commission has begun on the economic impact of this proposal, which has been forwarded to the Parliament in its provisional and final versions: you can all see that these costs are not so huge.
To be more precise, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 7, 8, 9, 11, 14, 15, 17, 19, 20, 21, 23 and, if Amendment No 46 is not accepted, No 29; it also accepts Amendments Nos 30, 32, 35, 36, 37, 38, 42 and 45 and Amendment No 46 as an alternative to Amendment No 29, as I said earlier.
Amendments Nos 12, 16 and 40 will be accepted provided there are amendments to the wording, while Amendment No 33, in the Commission's opinion, requires a fundamental change.
With regard to Amendments Nos 41 and 54, the Commission accepts their logic and accepts them provided there are a few amendments to the wording.
Finally, Amendments Nos 2, 13, 24, 26, 31 and 41 will be partially accepted.
I would now like to make a few comments on Amendment No 45, which seems to me to be the key factor in this debate, to emphasize the importance the Commission attributes to the possibility of giving the consumer a choice at two different levels in the hierarchical scale, enabling him to apply these rights: it seems essential to us that this choice should not be with the seller failing to observe the contractual obligation to provide goods as stipulated in the contract, but rather with the consumer.
The British Presidency intends to reach a political agreement at the end of the "Consumers' Council on 23 April.
The priority of health protection is something that has greatly shaped our debate on food law from this time on.
The principle is self-evident - for the European Parliament, for the other parliaments, in fact for every individual: each item of food legislation should guarantee that the permitted foodstuffs, including all additives and methods of production, are consistent with good health.
Not only your rapporteur, but the majority of Member States and very many of those who have commented on the Commission's Green Paper, are of the opinion that a framework directive on food law would be the very way to create concise legislation and a clear framework, and thereby adapt, if necessary, existing legislation, removing or coordinating overlapping or conflicting sections and to design the legislation in such a way that consumers and producers alike enjoy stability of the law and know how to proceed in which circumstances.
The area is very broad, and I do not have the time in my six minutes to refer to all its significance in detail, what sort of economic relevance it has and how important the question is in connection with the World Trade Organization and the Codex Alimentarius.
Finally, I would like to voice my conviction that legislation should contain a clear declaration of preventive consumer protection, that this would be the political dimension to strengthening consumer confidence in the single food market and that food safety is definitely necessary as a counter-balance to the economic dimension and internal dynamics of the single market in the food sector.
I welcome very much the acceptance by the Environment Committee of the recommendation from the Agriculture Committee that producer liability should only go back to the point in the food chain where responsibility for any defects actually lies.
In the wake of BSE, DG XXIV was given a significant role in the whole area of food policy.
But we still see the agriculture and industry directorate taking the predominant role.
We do not for a moment question that all these directorates have their own responsibilities, but we would ask Commissioner Bangemann and his colleagues to tell us that the consumer voice and the consumer interest should always be taken into account - formally so - when legislation concerning food and food safety is before the Commission and this Parliament.
In its first draft, the Economic and Social Committee still intended the food committee to be responsible for the labelling.
Parliament too declares itself in favour of the Commission's proposal in a draft opinion.
The issue centred on whether Article 43 of the EC Treaty (agricultural policy) or Article 100a (Single Market) applied as a legal base.
The report concluded from reference to numerous judgments of the European Court of Justice that Article 43 of the EC Treaty is the correct legal base.
In view of the BSE crisis in the United Kingdom and the outbreak of swine fever in my own country, the Netherlands, this is very much a relevant question.
Nevertheless, I think there are already some clear ideas, which are included in Mrs Graenitz' report.
So we can only welcome this initiative in the more general context of efforts undertaken to guarantee food safety.
This is not anything new, but in the area of food law the creation of confidence is vital for people.
As regards genetically modified organisms, I said months ago that, if we take this as far as certain sections of Parliament envisage, then practically 90 % of all foodstuffs will have to carry an appropriate label.
I recently heard - to my amazement as well as to my satisfaction -the same opinion expressed, if I am not mistaken, by a German member of the Green group, who said: well, if 90 % is labelled, what significance does that have for the consumer?
The debate is closed.
The work carried out by the agencies of the European Union which currently employ over 1 000 people is of great importance.
But what is also irresponsible is the commitment of one agency in Alicante to purchase an ECU 24 million building without properly informing either the budgetary authority or the Commission, which have responsibility for it, or without making any mention of that project in the budget estimates passed by the Commission and Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the financial control of the activities of the decentralized Community agencies was simple when there was only a few agencies and they managed activities which had limited impact and small budgets.
Basically, we want common standards applied to all Community agencies in terms of financial control, and to offer similar guarantees in terms of the legal and administrative management of credits.
This sort of progress should be encouraged for other agencies too, and the control of their financial activities should not stand in the way of their development.
So in this spirit, myself and my group welcome Mr Kellett-Bowman's proposals and we will vote for them.
I conclude that our rapporteur has shown us the way to go, but that we, as a parliament, need to rest vigilant in the way in which these agencies will be operating.
In fact, by chance, I am here today to answer your concerns over the report of Mr Kellett-Bowman.
We have no objections at all to the proposals which have been made with discharge and financial control in mind.
The debate is closed.
