Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 26 June 1997.
Statement by the President Ladies and gentlemen, all honest men and women in the Basque Country and throughout Spain were, barely 48 hours ago, devastated by the brutal assassination of Miguel Angel Blanco, an Ermua town councillor.
We would like to offer our most sincere condolences to the family of Miguel Angel Blanco and our support at this difficult time.
Mr President, could you please find out how it could possibly happen that the representative of the Dutch presidency-in-office of the Council in Zimbabwe, in reply to a question by the local NGO and government representatives, stated the European Parliament's position on CITES.
Just eight days earlier, the European Parliament had adopted a resolution in the topical and urgent debate which runs to about three pages in length.
The Council representative cannot say that Parliament has no opinion on something just a week after Parliament has adopted a three-page resolution in its topical and urgent debate.
On 26 June, I asked you at the Brussels part-session when I could expect a reply, and you said it would be before the next Strasbourg part-session.
Mr President, I wish to refer to a very serious incident which occurred over the week-end in my constituency in County Mayo.
Mr President, one week ago today a bus carrying pupils from St James's School, Bolton, which is part of my constituency, was involved in a serious accident in the French Alps.
Pursuant to Article 12 of the Act concerning the election of representatives to the European Parliament, by direct universal suffrage, Parliament establishes this vacancy and will inform the Member State concerned.
A final draft agenda has been distributed, pursuant to Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure, by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on Thursday 10 July 1997, and the following changes have been proposed or incorporated: Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday: (no change).
Mr President, I have a question that I should like to put to you concerning the agenda.
Mr President, I shall be grateful for whatever you may be able to do or say in this respect.
Mr Blot, you know that any request calling for courtesy will always receive a favourable response from the President of the European Parliament.
In my view, reducing or postponing question time merely detracts from the importance of this dialogue between Members and Council representatives.
Annual report of the European Ombudsman for 1996 The next item is the debate on the annual report from the European Ombudsman for 1996.
The practice that the Ombudsman presents his report in person signifies that the European Parliament follows the best parliamentary traditions of those Member States that have established an Ombudsman institution.
The annual report for 1996 is the first to cover a full year of activity by the European Ombudsman.
Of these, 842 were new complaints received in 1996; most of them were sent by private citizens, only 86 were from companies and associations; 29 complaints were transmitted by Members of the European Parliament; three own-initiatives were launched during the year.
In total 210 enquiries were begun in 1996.
The institutions concerned were the European Commission in 187 cases, the European Parliament in 19 cases and the Council of the European Union in 4 cases.
These numbers reflect the fact that the Commission is the institution which most frequently has direct administrative dealings with European citizens.
The inquiries were completed in 102 cases.
The inquiries resulted in 82 findings of no maladministration.
Two complainants withdrew their complaints and in 12 cases the matter was settled by the institution in a satisfactory way for the complainant.
So far there has not been an occasion to present a special report on a case of maladministration to the European Parliament.
In the discussion last year I commented on the fact that many complaints were outside the Ombudsman's mandate as laid down in the Treaty.
As the question or the definition of the term maladministration has now been raised, I undertake to provide a more precise definition in my annual report for 1997.
In the debate last year a more frequent use of own-initiatives than I had announced was urged.
In 1996 a third of the complaints that led to an inquiry concerned the way that the European Commission exercised its responsibilities as the guardian of the Treaties.
As explained on pages 67 and 68 of the annual report, it appeared, on the basis of these complaints that the Commission's procedures caused considerable dissatisfaction among European citizens.
As explained on page 82 of the annual report, these complaints were an important consideration in the decision to begin the own-initiative enquiry into rules for public access to documents.
The enquiry was addressed to 15 Community institutions and bodies.
Taking into account its importance this issue could constitute a proper case to be presented to the Parliament later this year as the first special report.
Many of these complaints have come from the Member States which joined the Union in 1995 and allege that the use of age limits represents unjustified discrimination.
The use of own-initiatives in carefully considered issues provides a good opportunity for both the institution or body concerned and the Ombudsman to deal with the problem in a comprehensive and satisfactory way.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the Community institutions and bodies for a year of cooperation in a constructive atmosphere.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Söderman, ladies and gentlemen, this evening I have the great honour to put before Parliament the report by the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions concerning the annual report on the activities of the European Ombudsman in 1996.
That does not in any circumstances mean that the European Parliament is trying to influence or discuss the autonomy and independence of the body known as the European Ombudsman.
Secondly, European integration is not being based on a process of induction, moving from fact to law, from the particular to the universal, but on an abstract and deductive process: moving from the law to the directive and individual reality and from the general to the particular.
I think that this report will assist us in gaining a clear idea of what good administration is; we have a right to longer, more reasonable time limits for dealing with issues, fuller explanations for decisions and greater equality which the Ombudsman himself also mentioned.
I also think that this one and a half year period has demonstrated that the Ombudsman is needed as the guardian of the guardians, as he said about Article 169.
He should also be congratulated on having responded - on his own initiative but with wide general support - to this concern about the transparency of our institutions.
Mr President, I too would like to compliment not only the rapporteur on his excellent report, but also - indeed especially - the Ombudsman on his excellent work and for this function - so essential to the European Union - which he has succeeded in vesting with a measure of importance.
We know, of course, that it will take more than an Ombudsman to resolve a far more fundamental problem, the problem of democracy in the European Union, a democracy so little respected that if the European Union were to seek accession on the basis of the same criteria as countries applying to join the European Union, it would certainly be turned down.
A few words on matters on which my Group would like the Ombudsman to work more energetically: although he has already expanded the use of the Internet, he needs to find ways to encourage it to be used still more widely, to enable the citizens of Europe to send in their complaints via the Internet, to find ways of making people more aware of the existence of the Ombudsman, in particular by using more traditional communication media, such as national and regional newspapers, for example.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ombudsman is completely independent in the performance of his duties.
Mr Ombudsman, you said in your report that some 65 % of the complaints submitted were outside your remit.
So in addition to the 32 cases covered in the annual report, we would also be very interested to know what happened to the rest and why they were rejected.
European institutions do not always get a good press and, frankly, they do not always deserve one - and that includes Parliament.
Is it 1 % of citizens who know that the Ombudsman exists or 100 %?
But I would congratulate the Ombudsman on his use of new technology.
Mr President, I should also like to congratulate the Ombudsman on his first annual report covering a whole year.
The fact that four members of the Liberal Group have asked to speak today demonstrates the importance we attach to the Ombudsman institution.
The Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions together constitute a very important, one might almost say - with all due respect for the European Parliament - the most important democratic instrument, in the entire Union.
I think that this first report shows that the Ombudsman institution is on the right track and that good results have been achieved in relation to the resources made available.
That is very important.
That last point is a very important one to me.
Mr President, it was as a result of strong Danish advocacy in conjunction with the Maastricht Treaty and an initiative of the European Parliament that the European Ombudsman institution became a reality.
As has been pointed out on several occasions, it is very important that the public in the EU become more aware of the European Ombudsman's functions and powers.
It is thus important that the Ombudsman act as a guarantor of the openness of EU institutions to the public.
I think it is splendid report, and I would like to congratulate the Ombudsman on the good results achieved in his first period of activity.
Mr President, may I begin by congratulating both the Ombudsman, Jacob Söderman, for his annual report and Mr Papakyriazis for his report.
Let me emphasise that we set great store by the work carried out by the Ombudsman.
Mr President, Mr Papakyriazis' report raises two issues, in the resolution and the motivation, which I would like to comment on: Point 4 in the resolution proposal and points 13-16 in the motivation section raise the issue of investigations into the discretionary powers of the institutes.
We had a thorough discussion about this in the Commission and reached a clear position on it.
Finally, Mr President, I also agree with the view in point 8 and 10 of the resolution, that people must be made aware of their right to submit petitions both to the European Parliament and to the European Ombudsman.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, it gives me great pleasure to be able to present a fisheries agreement that is imbued with a new spirit, in that it takes account of the interests not only of the European Union but also of the indigenous Senegalese fishermen and of fish stocks.
I would remind you that a debate was held here during the November 1996 plenary and that our Assembly passed a resolution taking note of the breakdown of these negotiations and setting out the terms for a resumption of the dialogue.
In December 1996, I myself went to Dakar on behalf of the European Parliament, not to resume negotiations, because we did not have the necessary authority for that, but to resume the political dialogue.
It is for a period of four years instead of two and extends from 1 May 1997 until 30 April 2001, and therefore offers increased stability to both parties.
It is a mixed-type protocol covering three types of fisheries: trawling, pelagic fishing and tuna fishing, which you will recall feeds the local fish processing industries.
Fishing zones have been changed to take account of the local concerns of non-industrial fishermen.
However, the fees paid to Senegal by the shipowners increased by 10 % per annum for four years.
Mesh sizes have been increased, especially for cephalopods, from 65 mm to 70 mm.
The cost of the agreement is 18 million ECU a year, 48 million for the agreement as a whole.
This commitment by the Senegalese authorities was set out in concrete form in a letter from the Minister for Fisheries to Commissioner Bonino confirming a decision by the Senegalese authorities to allocate 50 % of the total compensation to the Treasury and use the remaining 50 % in the fisheries sector on the basis of the aims of sustainable development referred to under the headings of the protocol.
I consider that such a request is not only acceptable but would also encourage both parties to observe the spirit of this new agreement.
The first protocol to this agreement was in force from 1990 to 1993 and the second protocol between 1993 and 30 November 1996.
Therefore a new protocol for the period December 1996 to November 1999 has been initialled and Parliament has been consulted on it.
It is a quite typical access to resources/financial compensation protocol.
That is an increase over the previous protocol, which was ECU 1, 455, 000, equalling ECU 485, 000 per annum.
In spring 1996, the Commission reported the following rates of utilization of the fishing opportunities obtained from Mauritius: tuna seiners: 85 %, and vessels fishing by line: 10 %.
The Committee on Fisheries drafted a set of guidelines to be applied to fisheries agreements and protocols.
In this context it is notable that Mauritius' GDP per head is in fact higher than that of Portugal and just slightly lower than that of Spain.
To that end, it should adopt a uniform procedure of the type outlined in the Committee of Fisheries' own-initiative report on the fisheries agreement 1997.
Senegalese fishermen are worried by EU fishing operations in their waters.
The fishing operations by EU vessels thus give grounds for concern.
Secondly, I should like to say that this agreement has a considerable dimension, enabling some 150 trawlers, pelagic fishing boats and tuna boats to fish, involving 48 million ECU of compensation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs pery, our Group has insisted on the need and the advantages for both sides in setting clear rules and principles to enable European Union fishing fleets continuous access to non-Community waters.
Mr President, I am sure everyone here is aware that the Greens have fundamental problems with the European Union's approach to fisheries agreements.
The Mauritius agreement is very similar to the one with Madagascar, Mauritius being a neighbouring island.
Senegal presents another problem.
One of the defects in the system is not only that we often get presented with a fait accompli but that we do not get a chance to go to the country concerned.
We still have problems about the timing of agreements in general, but again, I see some progress in the Senegal case as opposed to some of the others.
The big worry in all these countries is that their indigenous, traditional, in-shore fleet will never have the chance to develop or will find their catches have been scooped up by the big, powerful European fleets.
Overall, this has been the case with the agreement that is being proposed to us.
As regards Senegal, it is worth recalling that this country has 700 km of coastline and that 500 000 people are engaged either directly or indirectly in the fisheries sector, which alone accounts for 11 % of the country's primary GDP and 2.5 % of its total GDP.
Senegal was the first country to sign a fisheries agreement with the European Union.
Our Group notes with satisfaction that this agreement places greater emphasis on traditional fishing which, in line with commitments made by the Senegalese government, should benefit until 2001 from a significant share of the financial compensation paid by the European Union.
The substantial outlay proposed in the area of training, and more specifically in training for fishermen's wives, who handle the commercial management of fishing-related businesses, seems to us to be entirely appropriate.
With this in mind, our Group deplores the compartmentalization which separates structural fisheries policy from development policy.
This proposal seems to us fully to meet the needs of many ACP countries, including of course Senegal.
This is something we would be in favour of, as indeed we would be in favour of the demand for a mid-term review of the agreement, one of the merits of which is that it extends over a longer period than its forerunners.
It is not just the Bill of Rights of 1689 or the 10 amendments of 1787 to Jefferson's Constitution, but no less so the 1989 Declaration that has given them a universal dimension.
This agreement, then, is but one in a whole series of agreements: there has been the unfortunate agreement with Morocco, which in order to help Spanish fishermen from Andalusia and elsewhere and some Portuguese fishermen had us paying out very large sums just at a time - as my colleague Mr Souchet was telling us earlier - when our fishermen, European fishermen that is, were being forced into smashing up their own boats!
Coming back to the specific case of Mauritius, the agreement here constitutes a kind of toll allowing entry into an economic zone over which Mauritius has exercised exclusive rights since the Montego Bay Convention on the Law of the Sea, in which, incidentally, neither Mauritius nor Senegal figured very much, as it concerned principally the countries of Latin America and East Africa.
So, we have in effect a toll of the order of 20 ECU per tonne, which I believe can rise to 50 ECU if the quantities are exceeded, plus of course a financial compensation package of 1.7 million ECU.
That actually poses a problem as regards the cost/benefit analysis, the problem of a fair balance between the two contracting parties: given that the per-capita GNP in Mauritius is higher than that of the Portuguese and almost equal to that of the Spaniards, just how far should one go in continuing to give presents to people who are at least as rich as those giving the presents?
The most interesting aspect, however, is that of cooperation with developing countries, which Michel Rocard deals with in his report.
That being the case, we cannot but subscribe to this kind of agreement which, over 3 or 4 years, the period covered by the agreements with both Senegal and Mauritius, should open up interesting new prospects.
Mr President, this is the first fisheries debate since Amsterdam.
We must compensate for the lack of attention paid to us by the European Council by ensuring that our work in this House is even more tightly organized and strictly supervised, and by practising greater openness.
We have to look very carefully at the links between development and international fisheries agreements.
The text of the agreement with Senegal was sent to our committee the day after it had been signed, which enabled Parliament to give its opinion in this part-session before the first financial compensation payment was made.
These are two good agreements and we should congratulate ourselves on having obtained greater fishing opportunities for the Community fleet - I refer to the agreement with Mauritius - and for having been able to extend the agreement with Senegal from two to four years, which will allow greater stability.
Mr President, in my opinion the new agreements and renewed agreements with ACP countries require new attitudes.
Senegal provides us with an example of the dangers, of what can happen when we take a narrow view of fishing agreements.
I have nothing in principle against the whole question of these fisheries agreements.
It is fairly futile because unless we go in and manage their economies for them, we do not have the capacity to be absolutely sure that what we want them to do with that money is best for them, or indeed that they will actually do it.
Mr President, may I first of all congratulate Nicole Pery on her election.
A substantial Community fleet will therefore benefit from the agreement.
The financial compensation payment of ecu 1, 746, 000 - compared with the previous ecu 1, 455, 000 - is a logical additional increase, given the increase in fishing capacity established by this agreement.
I shall confine myself instead to making one or two observations of a more general nature on the various questions that have been raised.
Firstly, to remove any risk of ambiguity, unless I did not quite understand the translation, the agreement does in fact involve a total of 48 million ECU, or in other words 12 million ECU per annum.
First of all, Mr Gallagher, I am sorry, but this agreement has nothing whatever to do with the Spanish fleet.
Non-industrial fishing in Senegal is all about a fish called the djaboï and the agreement in question allows for catches totalling 25 000 tonnes.
It provides for 33 % of crews to be Senegalese.
The agreement also provides for a scientific observer to be on board.
But, Mrs Jöns, we are negotiating agreements with sovereign States.
So when you ask me to review the agreement in two years time in order, if necessary, to renegotiate it, my answer is no, precisely because the agreement has already been negotiated and because it is an important guarantee of stability for the two partners.
Let me repeat: our catch will be 25 000 tonnes of djaboï, while non-industrial fishing accounts for 400 000 tonnes.
There are always bound to be difficult moments in relations with other institutions, and even sometimes between different committees of Parliament, but I believe that the positive progress we have made together until now hopefully means that we can move on and look back on the positive, rather than the negative, side of what we have done.
Mr President, it is very important that the Commissioner should confirm to this House the implication that the information in my report, which I spent many weeks preparing, was not factual.
So I challenge the Commissioner to put the record straight here and now and not to besmirch my integrity in this House.
I asked the Commissioner a direct question.
I know very well that the Mauritius agreement is about tuna etc.
New Member States can come in.
The debate is closed.
You can therefore imagine my astonishment when a whole pile of amendments appeared last Thursday which to my mind completely undermine the internal market.
Article 59 of the Treaty says that restrictions on freedom to provide services within the Community are to be progressively abolished.
Article 59 aims to remove barriers so that controls by the country of origin become the norm.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start with an aspect that struck me from the outset, the first time I set eyes on this Commission Green Paper.
The citizen of the European Union must not have the feeling that, within the liberalized European Union, he has been delivered up helplessly into the hands of various lobbies and their interests, because otherwise he might eventually transfer that very feeling onto the European Union, which is something we do not want.
As soon as you combine the country of origin and the country of destination, the situation becomes unworkable, in that businesses have to seek authorization from all 15 Member States.
We shall therefore be voting against any amendments which undermine these principles.
In my Amendments Nos 19 and 26, I have given a far from exhaustive list of the limits which commercial communication service providers should observe.
Mrs Larive has raised the important role played by advertisements, marketing, sponsorship, sales support and public relations in the internal market in a manner which deserves our praise.
This is made clear in the Green Paper as well.
The Commission also welcomes Parliament's support and their proposals for the proposed committee on commercial communication, which will consist of a member from each Member Country with the Commission taking the presidency.
The debate is closed.
