Are there any comments?
I wish to put on record, as someone who has a long-standing interest in that policy question, that I ask whether I am entitled to receive a copy of the written and oral submissions which were made on behalf of the House on an issue which is of grave concern to many Members.
May I remind speakers that they must not speak for longer than one minute. (Parliament approved the Minutes) Fisheries Council of 19/20 December 1996 The next item is the statement by the Commission on the outcome of the meeting of the Council of Ministers for Fisheries of 19-20 December 1996.
First of all, some information, including some details, on the results and proceedings of the Fisheries Council that took place on 19 December last.
As far as the TACs and the quotas for 1997 are concerned, these were adopted by the Council by a qualified majority after what was a very long - it lasted all night - and difficult discussion in which an attempt was made to reach a compromise between the need for conservation and the needs of the fishing industry.
As compared with 1996, the variations in TACs take account of both changes in stock levels and the need to reduce levels of overfishing.
In the NAFO zone there has been a reduction, particularly in regard to white hake, for reasons of conservation, and the quotas available in third country waters have been offset with fishing opportunities offered to coastal states.
Unfortunately, and despite what the Commission had proposed, no decision was taken on tuna and swordfish TACs, and it was possible only to approve a number of national measures which may help secure compliance with the ICCAT resolutions.
As far as sardines are concerned, the Commission proposed to the Council a series of measures designed to conserve sardine stocks, but the Council was not able to take a decision.
Given the crucial importance of those stocks, particularly to Spain and Portugal, the Commission will not hesitate to propose conservation measures during 1997 if the national measures of which we have been apprised are not successful in halting the decline in sardine stocks: that decline is taking place and the Commission views it with concern.
Furthermore, the Council unanimously adopted all the proposals for regulations establishing for 1997 a series of conservation and resource management measures applicable to the vessels of some third countries - Norway, Greenland, Iceland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, French Guyana and the Faroe Islands - distributing catch quotas among the Member States for vessels operating in their waters.
Similar measures have been taken in relation to NAFO and NEAF.
The Commission suggestion that a technical group be set up to continue looking at the issue of the minimum sizes applicable in the Mediterranean was approved: this is an issue on which Parliament has expressed a view, calling for it to be withdrawn.
I also believe that progress has been made in terms of understanding the importance of controls, including just recently; we have only to remind ourselves, for example, that not so long ago the mere suggestion that satellite controls should be set up did not get a particularly warm reception from the Member States.
Satellite technology has to play a fundamental role here, not only on cost-benefit grounds - satellite technology is certainly cheaper that having an observer or inspector on board every single vessel - but also because it is far more transparent and objective in the sense that at least the position of vessels, the fact that they are at sea and the length of time they remain at sea are positively established through satellite tracing.
I therefore believe those to be two persuasive factors that encourage us to insist on this proposal which, as I said, was not given a particularly warm reception at the outset.
As a result, the satellite surveillance system will be introduced in two stages: as of 30 June 1998 in respect of certain types of activity only and then, as of 1 January 2000, for all fishing vessels more than 20 metres long, regardless of the area in which they are fishing.
We agreed - indeed we actually proposed - to exempt small-scale coastal fishing, because it seemed to us to involve excessive costs for the fishermen concerned, so that the regulation will not apply to vessels that fish for less than 24 hours and operate within the 12 nautical mile coastal strip.
The Commission accepted this compromise because we took the view that, although it did not amount to complete acceptance of the Commission proposals, it represents a step the right direction, even though the Commission, like all of you, would have preferred to see more rapid progress.
As far as the financial aspects of the regulation are concerned, the Commission perceives the need to provide specific financial support for implementation of the surveillance system and will therefore make full use of the financial instruments available to it; within the limits of current resources, priority will therefore be given to implementing satellite controls.
The second issue the House has discussed concerns technical measures.
The Council has not taken any decision on the proposal in question and has instructed COREPER to continue looking at the proposal itself so that a decision can at any rate be taken by 30 June 1997.
The report by Parliament's Committee on Fisheries skilfully defined the Commission proposal on the Fourth Guidance Programme.
The comprehensive and - very frequently - heated debate that has been going on for about a year on the Commission proposal for MAGP IV indicates, in my view, not only the importance of the issue, given that the restructuring of the Community fishing fleet is something we have urgently to attend to, but also the punctilious involvement of the sector and the institutions.
It therefore seems to me that we have a degree of consensus as far as the analysis is concerned.
There are, however, some who take issue with the view that the overfishing can be ascribed or attributed to the overcapacity of the Community fleet in relation to the stocks available.
As it is not possible to increase fishery resources or prevent fishermen from going out to sea at a time when they are already experiencing economic difficulties, we have to accept the idea of adjusting the size of the fleet in line with resources.
Clearly the objective can also be achieved, and this is envisaged in MAGP IV, by reducing fishing activity, but I would point out, not so much to the House which has taken this on board, but to the Council, which is having problems grasping it, that a reduction in activity is hard to monitor, is often not particularly transparent and has, plainly, to be based on a system of checks that has yet to be devised.
At any event, the Commission is prepared to accept that a reduction in capacity should be accompanied by a reduction in activity.
It is not, however, prepared to accept a reduction in fishing activity as the sole means of achieving the objective.
In short, the Council preferred to defer its decision to a later date, although it did agree to the 'fixed' deadline of 30 April 1997.
I would add that the Commission has indicated to the Member States that Community aid to fleets will be suspended until a decision has been taken by the Council, as resources for a structural programme plainly cannot be used in the absence of such a programme.
For that reason, the Member States have been informed, from 1 January, in a letter from the Commission, that they are no longer authorized to take administrative co-financing decisions in respect of any measures for the benefit of fishing fleets because without a structural programme, we cannot use structural funds.
I think the House will recognize the logic of that approach.
But, like other colleagues, I have to say I regret the fact that there was no debate at the last partsession on an issue as important as MAGP IV which could, in that way, have been analysed more closely.
In that connection, Commissioner, you mentioned the problem of satellite monitoring which is very important and less expensive in technological terms also.
I would also point out that we are providing a response to safety issues also in this way: satellite monitoring may offer important possibilities as regards safety and, of course, checks on vessels.
It is very regrettable, as you said, that at the Council meeting in December valuable time was lost arguing about the allocation of possible fish, which may not longer exist, rather than spending the time on dossiers on which Parliament had already expressed its view.
Mr President, at the outset I want to say that I welcome the opportunity of discussing aspects of the fishing industry here in Parliament this morning.
I recall the situation in December last year when we did not have the opportunity of discussing reports such as the Souchet and Kofoed reports and the aborted Escudero reports on technical conservation measures.
So it is essential that we have this opportunity of highlighting the importance of fishing and the problems confronting the fishing industry throughout Europe.
I do not want to take too much time on TACs and quotas but I should like to thank the Commission for making available to us the details after the meeting on 19 and 20 December.
I want to refer very quickly to the satellite system which all of us support in principle.
I am pleased that good sense prevailed both within the Commission and within the Council and that the presidency compromise was eventually accepted.
There will not be a burden on vessels fishing in inshore waters where they are at sea no longer than 24 hours.
I am also pleased that financial assistance will be available to those who will find it necessary to install such apparatus in their vessels.
All of us support the principle of technical conservation measures to reduce the catch of juvenile fish to ensure that the fishing industry will survive for this and future generations.
In European terms my country has a small fleet both in size and numbers.
As in all countries, our fishing takes place in coastal regions where there is no alternative source of employment.
Sometimes I wonder whether most of ministers' time is spent trying to design their press releases to say that they have all won for their own industries.
The most important aspect of investment for vessels in the future is not that the EU should provide money for reinvestment.
Therefore it is fundamental that the new proposals do not once again insist on unacceptable reductions which cannot be justified in the fishing fleet or the imposition of new reductions in the number of boats, together with measures for a permanent and thorough monitoring of species evolution, and include effective forms of controlling fishery fleets and their respective techniques, providing for additional financial means to compensate for income loss, defend and support non-industrial coastal fishing, and the social stability of fishing communities and the direct and indirect employment provided.
I am referring in particular to recent declarations made by the Moroccan Government which suggest that it intends to increase unilaterally from two to four months the biological moratorium included in the current Fisheries Agreement which, if carried out, would be exclusively applicable to Community boats, in other words Portuguese and Spanish boats, just like the declared intention not to renew an agreement which, if I remember right, was established little more than one year ago.
It is unacceptable that we tell the peoples of the Iberian countries that this Fisheries Agreement was not negotiated in close association with the Trading Association Agreement established with Morocco, also in 1995, and that many of the trading concessions made then in terms of fish preserves and farming products, which had very serious repercussions on certain European Union Member States, were not used as bargaining chips in order to create conditions in order to renew the Fisheries Agreement.
It is important for the Commissioner to give us her opinion on this question and tell us how, if at all, it is going to be dealt with as part of the new proposals to be studied and presented in 1997, since the Moroccan Government's positions - if put into practice - would naturally imply changes which the Portuguese and Spanish fishing fleets could never have imagined one month ago.
Mr President, Council meetings in the last few months have probably had the most important agendas for several years, dealing with three areas in fisheries management: first, the size of the EU fishing fleet under the MAGP; the new regulations for technical measures proposed by the Commission; and satellite transponders, an important aspect of the overall control programme.
Secondly, such a programme would be extraordinarily difficult to monitor or control.
Last year I was rapporteur for the report on the CFP monitoring system.
You will recall that fisheries control is the responsibility of the Member States, not the Commission.
No country had a programme which was sufficient in all areas.
Instances were found where vessels were larger in reality than was actually indicated in the national registry of vessels.
One agreement has been reached on how much capacity is to be reduced.
Considering the size of the other fleets in the world, there is not a great deal of room in other areas to which these vessels can go without causing problems.
This involves not only the juveniles of commercially important, targeted species but also other species that are not wanted by fishermen.
The Commission has proposed a number of progressive changes in the current technical measures including square mesh panel, increase in mesh size, grates or grids to filter out the shrimp catches and others.
The proposals of the Commission are a significant step along the path towards a more responsible approach to fishing activities.
The Council seems bent, unfortunately, on ignoring wider public opinion in Europe and around the world, which is in favour of a more careful and precautionary approach to fishing, and is choosing to bow to the pressure of the fishing industry.
I just wish that I had twenty minutes as well because there are many issues which are very important.
Firstly, the Northern Irish fishermen were compensated by the British Government during the negotiations.
This is a major problem first of all because of flags of convenience - a problem mishandled by the UK in the past - and also because of the failure on the part of the UK to decommission.
The Commission statement on sweeping cuts in the fishing industry right throughout Europe unnecessarily alarmed fishermen.
So I would certainly call for a different approach and a different and more constructive attitude by everyone concerned.
I also wish to say very clearly to Mr Macartney - in case he is worried - that there was no stitch-up between the British Government and the Ulster Unionists before the Council meeting!
Perhaps, if some of the people in Mr Macartney's party had the same skill in negotiations as the people in my party have in Westminster, then his fishermen might benefit as much as my fishermen in Northern Ireland did.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during their meeting in Brussels on 19 and 20 December last, the Fisheries Ministers reached an agreement on satellite monitoring, on TACs and quotas.
They postponed until April 1997 their decision on the plan to reduce the EU fishing fleet known as 'MAGP-IV' .
The introduction of a satellite monitoring system for European vessels inevitably calls to mind satellite monitoring of agricultural set-aside or the number of cows per hectare.
These measures, costing ECU 205 million over five years, would have more impact and more credibility with Community fishermen if they were applied to all vessels fishing in the territorial waters of the Community, since only ships equipped with the famous blue boxes can be located and hence monitored and possibly penalized.
The other point agreed by the Fisheries Ministers was an increase in TACs over those initially proposed by the Commission.
Out of 116 TACs, only 30 were changed from last year's levels.
But in the age of the WTO and the globalization of trade, the European Union is alone in respecting certain social, technical and environmental standards in fishing.
Community fishermen should not be paying the price of unilateral concessions negotiated by the European Commission in their name.
Last year's figures for my region showed that haddock withdrawals increased by 50 % and whiting withdrawals were up by 30 %.
I would urge the Commission to take on board the fact that we need a new approach to stock assessment and quota setting.
But unfortunately, although that Council was important a priori , we cannot really talk about results, because nothing was decided except the TACs and quotas.
It was a disappointing Council at which MAGP IV was postponed until April, the regulations for technical measures have an even vaguer timetable, and the satellite monitoring project - crippled in my view - also awaits final approval.
All this means we are about to lose a year in providing the sector with three instruments fundamental to its management and development.
This is plain weakness on the part of the Council, demonstrating its lack of harmony with the Commission and, while the latter may be guilty of putting forward certain projects that are unrealistic, confused and lacking the necessary advance compromise, the Council can be accused of indecisiveness and of being led more by the special interests of the Member States than by genuine determination to make progress with fisheries legislation that is coherent and has a future.
But it is on the issue of the MAGP that I need the greatest possible clarification because, although I have no doubt that the pressure from the Council must have been very strong, that is also where I think the Commission has done its worst work.
It is obvious, Madam Commissioner - and this House is tired of repeating it - that when the fleet is asked to make the kind of sacrifices contained in this project, it must either come equipped with serious and guaranteed socio-economic measures or it will be condemned to failure.
Furthermore, this Parliament is still not clear whether some MAGPs are generically based on a reduction in strength, whether they maintain minimum determination about the need to reduce capacity, or whether the project is tenuous and mixed, with initiative left to the States in principle, and the Commission making the decisions later.
Not one single serious measure has ever been taken to penalize the non-compliers, which could not receive funds for that very reason, and now a measure is introduced which is exclusively directed at punishing the countries that have taken Community measures seriously.
The situation is worthy of Kafka, Madam Commissioner and I want to ask you to consider the request to restore access to the structural funds, at least to the countries which have complied with the reductions in capacity imposed by the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to note two encouraging aspects of the decisions taken at the December Fisheries Council.
The second positive aspect is the improvement in the accuracy and fairness of monitoring thanks to the adoption of satellite observation, for large ships only of course.
I am delighted at the adoption by the Council of many amendments I submitted to the Committee on Fisheries which had been adopted by this Parliament.
On the other hand, the Commission's attitude, using a form of blackmail by suspending aid for the building and modernization of ships to try and force Member States to adopt a plan for a massive reduction in fleets, seems to me to be extremely dangerous.
The best protection for the resource is a fair price for the products of European fisheries which will also be, Mr President, the best guarantee for the future of a thriving fishing industry in our countries.
The Council meeting was quite a mixed bag.
There are some positive features which many Members have commented upon, in particular the introduction of satellite surveillance, along with the flexibility allowing the industry to roll on quotas into the next year and take them off quotas for the following year.
Some regions have been dumping salmon for ten years in the European Union and it is not a new issue.
I welcome the decision on satellite surveillance of fishing.
I saw a report at one time which said that we could increase the catch from European waters by 50 % if we would apply the conservation measures necessary.
At the end of the day what we need is a long-term programme - seven or ten years - with a bottom line that tells us what we can expect to achieve in the end and, in the meantime, the investment necessary.
I would like to start by saying that I support and value the agreement reached on TACs and quotas in the December Council.
In the first place, there are serious problems about the system in terms of conservation of resources.
We continue to have a rather absurd system which bans certain trawler fleets of Member States from catching a range of species brought up in the net and they have to be returned to the sea without any benefit to the stock.
In addition, equilibrium under the principle of relative stability is calculated on data and periods when some fleets saw their opportunities of fishing in Community waters reduced as a result, amongst other factors, of the extension of fishing limits to 200 miles in 1976, which also changed historical access to the fishing grounds.
Finally, a third factor casts doubt on the current validity of the principle of relative stability as a constant of the common fisheries policy: the fact that markets for fish have been completely liberalized, frontiers no longer exist in the Union for marketing fish, and yet extremely rigid national barriers are still in place in terms of access to Community resources for Community fleets.
These points also apply when considering the necessary reform of the common fisheries policy to ensure that the distribution of quotas is not based on anachronistic criteria, regardless of what the current system is and whether the TACs and quotas should be set on the basis of it.
The proposal for a regulation on technical measures starts, in my opinion, from the wrong hypothesis.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, may I say that I am very happy that this debate has been placed high on our agenda: this will dispel the dismal impression given in December and, I am pleased at the choice of this time-slot out of respect for you, Madam Commissioner.
Transparency remains - as we well know - a very important factor in making progress towards an accurate evaluation of overcapacity.
This can all be summarized in a few very simple words.
We must fish less - we know that - but we must also more than anything else fish better and to do this we must not only reduce capacity, but also and above all introduce some selectivity.
We cannot ignore these social and economic worries.
It has not been a time without serious problems, but in spite of all, relations between the Commission and Parliament could not have been better.
So thank you, Mrs Bonino.
Moving to the substance of this debate, I have to say that after the last Council of Fisheries Ministers and after listening to the Commissioner's statement, one can only feel intense frustration and uneasiness.
Frustration because MAGP IV and the technical measures were not approved by the Council.
Uneasiness, Madam Commissioner, because of the approval of some TACs and quotas which, in my opinion, depart from the line maintained until a few days ago by the Commission.
Frustration because, on the one hand, the satellite monitoring plan is pretty remote from the agreements adopted by this Parliament, without prejudice to its amendments to them, and, on the other hand, so many conditions have been introduced into the final wording that the possibility of effective control of the fleets has been seriously limited.
There is no encouragement to exemplary behaviour if pressure is not applied selectively, especially when the aid that is frozen is covered by Community support frameworks approved by the Commission, which in principle constitutes a sufficient legal basis for granting it.
In conclusion, Madam Commissioner, I think the outcome of the last Council is a serious setback to the process of reforming the common fisheries policy, but we trust in your well-known ability to relaunch that reform and contribute to adoption by the Council of the regulations awaiting approval as soon as possible, because that is what the state of the resources and the guarantee of a stable future for our fishermen requires, Madam Commissioner.
So the more time she has, the better for us.
Limiting activity is a very difficult issue in the context of the common fisheries policy.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, I just want to tackle two subjects: MAGP IV and Morocco.
But I would like to ask - and I really must insist quite clearly on this to the Commissioner - is whether there really is a will on the Commission's part to involve Member States in particular Spain and Portugal in the preparation already or after 1999, or otherwise all we are doing is postponing the problem?
Ladies and gentlemen, you must remember that the clause of agreement with Morocco included a provision that, apart from the two months of biological dormancy, and I refer here to cephalopods, any other conservation measure could be jointly agreed between the two parties.
Starting in November the Moroccan authorities and sector have informed us of their concerns about the resources plan.
After quite long negotiations, we have reached a joint decision to add March and April to the 'cephalopod' biological dormancy period for all ships of all flags in all areas, thus giving the species a period during which it can recover.
That leads me to say something about the future and the way I intend to deal with the debate on the common fisheries policy.
I now intend to set up a kind of task force within DG XIV, not linked to day-to-day management of the fisheries policy but starting from now, that is from 1997, committed without prejudice and taboos to a new general review taking us to 2002.
I also think it would be a good idea to begin consultations with the parliamentary sectors concerned, so as to give ourselves plenty of time, and to do this it would be a good thing to have a small task force devoting all its time to this work without having to deal with day-to-day management as well.
After all, the Commission along with Parliament and the Fisheries Committee chairman, Mr Arias Cañete, have organized many seminars and debates between the parliamentary sectors, in which many of you have taken part.
In suspending aid to the fishing fleet - not all the aid to the fisheries sector - there is no blackmail.
Mr Crampton, I am not convinced by your proposal to withdraw MAGP-IV altogether from the distant water fleets which fish in waters of third countries.
Perhaps you made this proposal to provoke us, to make us think about it, but may I say that stocks are at risk not only in our waters, but world-wide and even in the waters of third countries.
MAGP-III, which ended on 31 December, will be evaluated in April according to the rules, so as to be based on data from member countries.
So if you can help us in getting member countries to send their data quickly and in similar formats, it would enable us to clarify our ideas considerably.
Let me first say again that we must not forget that the most efficient producers of salmon record an increase in productivity of between 5 and 6 %.
It is clear that prices fall when more salmon is produced and when there is an increase in productivity of 5 to 6 %.
We shall see in the next few weeks what happens, but you also know that the minimum price has not been a very efficient measure.
Lastly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the real solution to the problem lies in the results of the Committee of Inquiry on measures to combat dumping.
I hope I have more or less grouped the replies to the questions put to me.
I think another of your colleagues will be taking over the presidency, but I am pleased with the way we have collaborated, and the way you have collaborated with the Commission.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I have great pleasure in presenting today my report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the European Union's forestry strategy.
Article 138b of the Treaty on European Union gives Parliament the right to initiate legislation.
Although this article has indeed been used before for specific measures, this is the first occasion on which it is being used to call for legislation across the entire sector, which is of considerable importance in all Member States and has implications which touch on the employment, economic prospects and future of millions of citizens of the Union.
Forestry is extremely important in the European Union although, of course, its importance varies in different Member States.
The resolution which the Committee on Agriculture voted for unanimously covers the following points: it stresses the importance of the forestry sector as a source of employment and wealth and points out that the commercial utilization of forests should be a priority.
However, one has to recognize the diversity of European forests; their multi-functional nature and the need for ecological, economic and social sustainability.
This means that forestry strategy must be based on the principle of subsidiarity.
We have to aim for a clear definition of national policies, setting objectives at national and international level and establishing a link between forest strategy and other policies such as environmental and rural policy.
The resolution concentrates on three different aspects: the protection of forests, their utilization and development, and their extension.
As far as protection is concerned, I would like to highlight one important point: the protection of forests against fire.
This is a massive waste of resources which should be tackled by a coordinated programme at Member State, regional and forest-owner level and by action by the European Union.
There is no reason why the use of timber should not be encouraged, particularly through a coherent quality policy, while at the same time, forests should become an even more valuable resource as a means of recreation for our citizens and because of their environmental value.
There is also specific action we should take to improve the European forestry inventory, encourage research in forest eco-systems, develop education and training and promote the development of economic and social interests of forests.
The committee is also making proposals to extend the role of the Permanent Forestry Committee so that it becomes the chief instrument in the coordination of forestry matters and, at international level, to coordinate forestry-related concepts more effectively so that they are taken into account in the Union's general trade policies.
The Commission should submit an effective action plan to combat ecological and social dumping in relation to imports of timber.
There is also the difficult question of how to agree an international certification system concerning the sustainable management of forests.
The committee voted for this report unanimously and I hope that it will receive a large measure of support in Parliament in order to ensure that our voice is heard loud and clear in the Commission.
When we use Parliament's legislative initiative, we should do so on very important and special occasions, and there is no doubt that the issue we are today dealing with is one of them.
We are asking the Commission to submit, on the basis of the articles of the Treaty and within two years, a legislative proposal on a forestry strategy for Europe, recognizing the environmental and ecological role of Europe's forests, in terms of biodiversity and the part they have to play in preventing erosion and desertification and as the most important source of renewable energy Europe has available to it.
And we similarly refer to the economic, silvicultural and commercial use of forests, taking account of the diversity and multi-functional nature of forests and the very different experiences which - particularly in the wake of the enlargement of the European Union - we are now seeing within the Union.
I firmly believe that all three of those elements can play a full part in the new policy for rural development which, following the Cork Conference organized by the Commission, has opened up a wide-ranging debate on the whole of the common agricultural policy.
There is no doubt that we could perhaps have gone further still here in the European Parliament: in the discussions of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, some argued that it was appropriate to talk in terms of a genuine common policy for forests.
I do not myself think it realistic, at present, to think in terms of a common policy for forests with all the trappings of, for example, more traditional common policies such as the CAP.
Forests and wooded areas cover 41.5 % of the surface area of the European Union, divided over more than 10 million owners, and 2.8 million people are either directly or indirectly dependent on the forestry sector.
Parliament took the initiative in this case.
Only planned and particularly sustainable management can guarantee the ecological balance of forests in the long term.
The question immediately arises of expanding forestry resources.
Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will vote in favour of this compromise for a common forestry strategy in the EU.
This was a difficult report because there are many aspects to this issue, just as the forests of Europe are many and varied in nature: they range from the birch forest of Finland to the eucalyptus forest of Portugal and the palms of the Canaries.
The forests of central and northern Europe cannot be used in the same way as the Alpine forests, nor as the Mediterranean maquis, with the presence of man resulting not only in the use of forests to obtain wood but in tourism and recreational activity, triggering different problems, beginning with hydrogeological protection of the land.
One principle that has to be established concerns the property rights of those who own forest, but also the right of local people to intervene in instances where, either because of a lack of resources or because of a failure to cultivate them properly, neglect results in damage to forests.
I think we can congratulate ourselves because, at least according to the agency news, the intervention of the European Union, through the appointed mediator, contributed to a successful outcome to these discussions.
I think I speak for all of you when I say that. (Applause) Votes Mr President, my group considers the time allocated to us on Monday for this important motion for a resolution is too short.
Thank you very much, Mr Hänsch.
Mr President, the Dublin summit has, we are told, won a major victory: agreement on the main elements of the stability pact which should bind participating countries to the single currency.
But when we look more closely at it, this great victory appears very dubious.
Moreover, it invites Finance Ministers to prepare for the Amsterdam Council, and therefore in June 1997, a draft resolution which, again I quote, ' will record the commitment of Member States, the Commission and the Council to apply the stability agreement rigorously' .
Is it to be a simple agreement for the proper functioning of the single currency between countries quite close to each other, or will it be aiming at forced convergence between very different countries not forming a truly optimum monetary zone?
We believe that each and every one of the EU Member States should have a free and independent vote in international cooperation.
but as a Frenchman I know what I am talking about.
Sir Leon is not exactly famous for his affection for trade union matters, but here the problem lies first and foremost with the Council.
It is shameful that the EU did not protest more strongly when the Director General of the ILO, Michel Hansenne, had his invitation to speak at the WTO Conference withdrawn, under pressure from some countries.
The WTO Conference also failed in matters of transparency and NGO participation.
Lindqvist (ELDR), Eriksson, Seppänen, Sjöstedt and Svensson (GUE/NGL), Gahrton, Holm, Lindholm and Schörling (V), Bonde, Lis Jensen, Krarup and Sandbaek (I-EDN), in writing. (SV) In contrast to the majority in Parliament, we think that the Irish presidency's draft framework for an amendment of the Treaty is a move in totally the wrong direction.
Although important institutional issues - including the scope of majority decisions, the rules of flexibility, changes in the weighting of votes in the Council, the role of the Commission and its composition - have still not been clarified in any detail, the aims of the Irish presidency are quite clear.
The aim is for more supranational decisions and a strengthening of the EU's federal operating bodies at the expense of the Member States.
It is after all quite something to get 128 countries backing one declaration.
The main result of Singapore is perhaps that it strengthened the position of the WTO.
A stable and effective multilateral trading system is of great importance for settling trade disputes and placing international trade within a framework of social and ecological rules.
The agreement to abolish the tariffs on trade in information technology products in the year 2000 is an important step.
But less ambitious results were achieved in the area of government procurement and trade in services and liberalization here will be more difficult.
Regrettably the idea of proposing an action plan for the least developed countries, which would also include this measure, is a very informal one.
It is regrettable that there was no discussion in Singapore of trade and environment and the final communiqué contains no clear agreement about the relationship between the two.
Since Maastricht, unemployment has soared throughout the EU.
Our fundamental view that the EU is a cooperation between free states stands in sharp contrast to this resolution making it impossible for us to vote in favour of it.
Oomen-Ruijten report (A4-0009/97) I am very glad that common sense has prevailed on this directive.
In particular, I welcome the fact that the directive's provisions on prior information and cancellation rights will not apply to the booking of taxis, hotels, theatre tickets etc.
Similarly, I am glad that the directive has been amended to enable flower delivery services such as by Interflora and other gift delivery services to continue to provide a same-day service.
Certainly there remains a lot to do to ensure that European consumers do have effective protection (other than their own common sense) in terms of financial services purchased at a distance, and I am glad that the Commission is now examining this matter.
Roth-Behrendt report (A4-0006/97) We Swedish Social Democrats wish to express our doubts on the compromise proposal under consideration.
Use of the system proposed in this compromise would not enable the consumer to make a conscious choice.
This new Regulation is needed to face up to the globalization of the economy: Member States must avail themselves of the same regulations on labelling so that no confusion can arise over products coming particularly from the USA where genetic engineering in the food industry is already well advanced.
It provides better safety as regards genetically modified foods.
Thus, it is claimed that 'the compromise on novel foods constitutes an obstacle to any stronger national legislation' .
Now, this objection completely ignores the fact that, within the European internal market, the principle of freedom of movement guarantees the free marketing of products.
No national legislation (even if it should exist in the fifteen Member States, which is unlikely), can be any better than an EU Regulation based on this compromise.
In general, Luxembourg socialists, who are sympathetic to the position taken by Greenpeace, sincerely believe that it is best to work towards a legal situation to protect consumers by voting for the compromise, when its rejection would create a legal vacuum both at European level and in some Member States, which would be harmful to the health and safety of consumers.
But it is better to start creating a Regulation, even if it means perfecting it later on, than to reject it and having to start all over again from scratch!
Thus, contrary to what Greenpeace claims, we are not going against the wishes of consumers in Luxembourg nor against the resolution passed in December against genetically modified soya.
On the contrary, we are fully aware of our responsibility to protect the health of consumers.
With the genetically modified soya seeds used this year in the USA for food production we have seen the first genetically modified plant raw goods arrive in Europe.
More and more encouraging results are to be expected in these fields.
All foodstuffs which are being marketed for the first time, even those which have not been genetically modified or produced by means of genetically modified organisms, now come under this regulation and must be authorised.
In addition under the new regulation there must be a label on all foodstuffs which in their composition, nutritious characteristics or application are not equivalent to usual or established products and where labelling is necessary for ethical or health reasons.
It is too naive to think that the absence of EU rules will lead to 15 excellent national regimes.
After 13 redrafts by the Commission and three readings in this House, the novel food regulation remains a deeply flawed piece of legislation.
Only where the food contains a living genetically modified organism will the regulation apply in full.
This category would cover raw fruit and vegetables, some dairy products like yoghurt and some beers but not very much else.
Consumers are entitled to clear and consistent information to enable them to make informed choices.
The most damning aspect of this regulation is that no-one can say in advance which products will carry a label.
A coherent system should be one which provides quite simply that all foods produced using gene technology will be labelled.
The procedure foreseen in the legislation means that the Commission will have exclusive powers to decide on a case-bycase basis whether consumers will be informed and what the label will say.
Nor is there any ban, regulation or control on genetically modified foodstuffs which may be exported from the EU to other countries.
Only where the food contains a living genetically modified organism will the regulation apply in full.
This category would cover raw fruit and vegetables, some dairy products like yoghurt and some beers but not very much else.
Consumers are entitled to clear and consistent information to enable them to make informed choices.
The most damning aspect of this regulation is that no-one can say in advance which products will carry a label.
A coherent system should be one which provides quite simply that all foods produced using gene technology will be labelled.
The procedure foreseen in the legislation means that the Commission will have exclusive powers to decide on a case-bycase basis whether consumers will be informed and what the label will say.
The compromise Regulation before us on novel foods and, more generally, on genetically modified organisms does not put an end to the problem.
Other plants have also been modified, ranging from soya or colza to tomatoes or potatoes.
The legitimate concern of the European agri-foodstuffs industry not to let a monopoly in biotechnology go to Ciba Geigy, Monsanto or Cargill is understandable.
We also consider that the time limit allowed for the transaction should not exceed 12 months.
The European single market is not yet a fact of life in this sphere.
The present proposal for a directive on cross-border transfers has very definite repercussions on citizens' everyday life in Europe.
From the first reading in May 1995 to today we represented Parliament's view in intensive discussions and negotiations and I believe we have made a considerable improvement on the original proposal in the citizen's interests.
Medina Ortega recommendation (A4-0415/96) On behalf of the French socialist group, I would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Medina Ortega, for the excellent work he has done.
We have had a few difficulties with the second reading amendments.
A solution to these problems could have been found in the context of the subsidiarity principle.
We support the amendments maintaining that harmonization of telecommunications does not lend itself to the principle of subsidiarity because of the essentially transnational character of telecommunications networks and services, and that, in any case, such harmonization will have to guarantee that no obstacles are put in the way of promotion and development of new telecommunications services and new networks between Member States.
We are also in favour of promoting cooperation between the Member States, the providers and users affected and the Community authorities for the establishment and development of technologies which are necessary to apply the guarantees laid down in the provisions of this directive.
In short, our group is in favour of the majority of the amendments adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on the common position of the Council, as this initially involved regulating the issue of protection of personal data and privacy in telecommunications without leaving it to arbitrary decisions of private companies.
More specifically we support the positive aspects of this proposal like the interpretation of the principle of subsidiarity in a way that limits Member States' margin of manoeuvre in the telecommunications sector because of its essentially transnational character and the defence of the principle of free protection of privacy.
Kerr report (A4-0367/96) The Danish social democrats support the rapporteur's rejection of the change in the definition of the concept of 'transfers' .
A global strategy for economic cooperation should be established along with more intensive political cooperation in order to promote peace, democracy and respect for human rights in Latin America.
Paragraph 25 of this report contains a further increase in the funds already available to Latin America.
We believe that the European Union is already one of the biggest contributors in this region.
Carnero González report (A4-0418/96) Paragraphs 16 and 18 of this report contain a further increase in the funds already available to Central America or a partial exemption from the foreign debts of Central America.
Mr President, the European Parliament's proposal for a future EU forestry strategy has changed fundamentally over the year and a half during which it was under consideration in committee.
Although a compromise can never be entirely satisfactory, I am pleased with the ultimate result as a Finn and therefore a representative of the European country most dependent on its forests, considering how enormously the proposal has been improved in comparison with the original draft.
The basic point of departure is a recognition of the differences between the Member States' forests, in terms both of conditions and of significance.
The forestry strategy stresses the significance of forests as a renewable natural resource.
Correctly used, the forests function as a reserve for sustainable economic development, which means work and prosperity for people.
An effective environmental labelling system and the provision of information about the sustainable forestry associated with it could promote the multifunctional use of wood, which is a considerably more environmentally benign material than unrenewable natural resources.
The use of wood and biofuels as energy sources, with the aid of advanced technology, could afford new opportunities for the creation of a greener Europe.
Mr President, the painful genesis of the Thomas report at least showed that the forestry issues which arise in the various regions of the Union are very different.
The report has something of the Trojan horse about it: on the one hand, it stresses the position of the Member States by referring to the subsidiarity principle, while on the other hand the Commission is asked in two years' time to produce a legislative programme based particularly on Article 235 of the Treaty.
As you know, this article is a kind of black hole by means of which the European Union draws power away from the Member States.
In this way the Commission could also help to ensure that this system is adapted to European conditions.
The definition takes into account not only the quantitative sustainability but also the ecological sustainability of forestry.
The ministerial conference of Helsinki which took place about three-and-a-half years ago took our requirements into consideration.
So I am really pleased that the motion for resolution, which we worked out in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, refers explicitly to the commitments of the European Union in Helsinki and also to our commitments in the Rio Declaration.
If you are, on the one hand, claiming that forest management should respect the multi-functional nature of forests, on the other hand - we refer to the Rio and Helsinki Declarations - it makes no sense to say that the commercial utilization of forests should be a priority for the EU strategy.
Consumers have the right to know whether wood products come from forests managed on the principle of ecological sustainability or from a destructive operation.
A serious certification system could not only be beneficial to the conservation of our forests but also to the forest owners who manage their forests wisely.
As Mr Thomas has said, the use, management and conservation of European forests cannot be controlled by common rules, given how different the forests are in different parts of the European Union.
Thus the common forestry strategy, the industrial use of wood and wood production should all be based on the principles of the market economy, not on subsidies or on rules which distort competition.
The EU's forestry strategy should also be based on the coordination of national policies on the basis of common principles.
A relatively large sum has been assigned to forestry in the Union budget: some ECU 400 million.
The forestry industry is extremely important in my country, Sweden.
Our net export of forestry products is approximately 70 billion Crowns which corresponds to 8 billion ECUs.
The forests of Europe also have an important role to play in terms of the greenhouse effect.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was essential that the European Union define a forestry strategy in order to improve the use and management of forestry resources.
All types of forest are represented in Europe, from taiga to the tropical forests of Guyana, and we must ensure their continued existence by preserving the biodiversity of these very fragile ecosystems.
Forests occupy a privileged position in today's society.
The fight to sustain plant health is still a priority among foresters.
The Commission should encourage the promotion of the timber industry.
Europe must develop a voluntary policy supported by regular investment for both the protection and production of wood; a guarantee of long-term rural development.
In conclusion, although our forests cover only a small area of the Earth, the forestry strategy of the European Union must become a world model for the management of resources and species.
Mr President, forestry policy ought first and foremost to be a national matter.
Each country must be given the opportunity to develop their own forestry policy.
Any joint strategy chosen for the forestry industry should be based on producing a commercial forestry sector, run under market conditions, without subsidies which distort competition.
Basically, there are very different conditions in the different regions and countries of the Union.
Of course there are some good ideas in this report, including those concerned with the environment and with certification, but the question is how much space will be allocated to these ideas in a joint forestry strategy.
The initial aim of this report, drawn up on Parliament's initiative, was a general reflection on the basic features of a common forestry policy and a request to the European Commission to propose appropriate legislative measures to attain these objectives on bases and guidelines laid down by ourselves as parliamentarians.
The absence of a legal basis in the European Union Treaty and the fact that timber, originating from living plant matter, is considered merely as an industrial product, are obstacles to the establishment of a European forestry strategy.
We should like these legal and technical points to be taken into consideration by the Intergovernmental Conference for inclusion in the future appropriately-amended Union Treaty.
Next, the recent arrival of three new well-forested Member States, Austria, Sweden and Finland, has increased the mean forest area in the Union from 21 % to 34 %.
There is quite strong opposition in these new States to any common forestry policy that might resemble a new CAP, particularly with regard to forest management and exploitation, and even more with regard to the timber and wood pulp markets.
To begin with, we emphasize the need for a reference to Article 130 of the Union Treaty which implies codecision and financial support from the Cohesion Fund.
Secondly, in the second amendment, we point out that the coordination of forestry strategy with the other policies on the environment and rural development must actually be mentioned.
Thirdly, it is stressed that the multi-functional role - socio-economic, environmental and recreational - must form the basis for long-term development of forests.
Finally, in the last amendment, we call on the Commission to propose measures to guarantee economic development of forests linked to farming.
I therefore ask you to support these amendments and urge you to give your closest attention to future legislative proposals from the Commission that we shall have to examine carefully in order to establish a genuine European forestry strategy capable of providing us with self-sufficiency in timber and other forestry products, as we have in food.
One is that, given the relative importance of forestry to what are very often fragile rural economies, I would like the Commission to take account of the part it can play in rural development and, in this respect, it is vital that we attempt to retain as much of the added value of forestry products in the local community as possible.
In general, I welcome the rapporteur's acknowledgement that forests provide much more than the simple exploitation of their economic potential and that much of the value of forests cannot be easily quantified in cold facts and figures.
Nevertheless, we should not underestimate the contribution that forests make to the benefit of society as a whole and we must continue to develop at international level cooperation and sustainable management.
Perhaps the best service which the Commission can render at European level is to ensure that information and expertise is available and shared within the European Union in order that we can build on the existing pool of knowledge and practice.
Mr President, fundamentally the Thomas report is a compromise between the different functions of what should be regarded as the European forest.
I would like to emphasize the most important aspects of what a European forestry policy should be, as I understand it.
It is important that we develop this socio-economic potential.
To give an example, the Atlantic forest, which comes into the area I represent, is highly productive and 80 % privately owned by over two million individual proprietors.
Sometimes we talk about subsidiarity in Europe as only extending to state level but there is no national forestry policy in Spain, for instance.
In almost every case, responsibility for forests lies with the regions, which have legal forestry plans, naturally legitimized by their parliaments as well, and these fully-empowered regions should also be given legitimate scope in relation to the European Union in this sector.
I would like to highlight the fact that the merit of the Thomas report is to examine a sector which not only has a commercial value, as stated in the report, but also has an impact on the environment and the countryside as a whole, with very different incidence across the European Union.
So I want to stress the variable importance of the forests as a function of their geographical zones.
Mr President, the Thomas report has taken a somewhat strange turn.
What we want instead is for the EU in a concentrated and limited fashion to secure a market immune to dumping from outside.
Mr President, the Swedish Social Democrats find it very difficult to support the Thomas report.
We have enough problems within the Union adapting our agricultural and regional policies for enlargement towards the East.
At a global level there is cooperation within the framework of the FAO.
In some of the opinions annexed to the report there are entirely different descriptions of the industry at European level than the one he gives.
I could not go as far as Graefe zu Baringdorf.
But if we have a common interest in the environment, a common interest in the economic welfare of the European Union, a common tourism policy and so on, it is realistic to think that we ought to have a common policy so far as forestry is concerned.
I come from a country where we have the fewest forests in the European Union.
The Finns harvest something in the order of 50 million cubic metres annually.
In Ireland we have about 2 million acres or 16 % of our agricultural land and our worse land at that.
Obviously forestry will become very important commercially in Ireland but there is resistance from a social standpoint to replacement of the small farms on the marginal land by tracts of woodland.
The European policy which seeks to assist us with the development of our afforestation is not all that popular in Ireland and yet I believe it is wise in the long run.
That can give Ireland a value added income of approximately £300m at today's prices and that is three times the amount our sheep farmers are able to earn from the entire production of sheep in Ireland at the moment.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, many farmers have the historic idea that very often they are farming land which used to be forest.
Therefore, with all of the difficulties raised by the common agricultural policy, with its maximum guaranteed areas, its maximum guaranteed quantities, and the whole castration which has been inflicted on European farming, one of the monitoring measures has been afforestation, but afforestation has never really been taken seriously and Europe will always be dependent on imports and, at this moment in time, in my country I have already seen companies which want to move to Brazil in order to have abundant supplies of timber.
It has already been stated earlier in the debate that Swedish forestry legislation has allowed us to create a sustainable and strong forestry industry which maintains a balance between the interests of the environment and of production.
The Thomas report merely proposes a common forestry strategy based on greater co-ordination of national policies and the strengthening of protection, training and information measures.
I think that bringing about at this stage a common forestry strategy will only make sense if it is carried out gradually in the future as part of a genuine common forestry policy with express aims, the relevant application instruments and appropriate financial means.
This is the only way in which we can solve problems such as the increase in forestry production and reducing the deficit, and of finding alternative occupation for land in terms of non-food and energy raw materials, the creation of employment in rural areas and protection from atmospheric pollution and forest fires, adding to the contribution which forests make to the environment and the economy alike, since if people are not given incentives in economic terms to invest in the forest, then they will do nothing to defend it.
The activities proposed by the rapporteur - which are already a great advance on what we have at present - would cost the European Union some 350 million ECU per annum, an equivalent to 0.8 % of the CAP budget.
In a country like Portugal, for example, where three million hectares are forested which represents onethird of the territory and 80 % of which are integrated into farms, it is nonsensical to set differences in the way in which agriculture and forestry are treated.
I am going to support this report but I hope that the Commission is going to be more daring in its proposals than the European Parliament Committee on Agriculture.
Madam President, I should like to thank Mr Thomas for his report on a subject which is very important to us in Finland.
Finland's national wealth has been generated with the aid of forest-based production over the past 150 years.
The annual growth of Finland's forests is now greater than ever before: more than 80 million cubic metres.
There is no doubt that in recent years increasing attention has been paid, including at an international level, to the question of forests: many honourable Members who have taken the floor have already mentioned both the United Nations Rio Conference on the Environment and Development and the Ministerial Conference for the Protection of Forests in Europe that took place in Helsinki in June 1993.
More particularly, it seems to me that the transfrontier aspect of forests has been highlighted in the references to issues such as atmospheric pollution and also in the discussions on climate change and safeguarding biodiversity, all of them elements that have been taken up again in today's debate in the House.
The situation has also changed within the Union, with the accession of forestry producer countries, such as Finland and Sweden and, to a lesser extent, Austria: given that the afforested area of the Union has now doubled, the economic and political importance of the forestry sector has increased substantially within the Union.
Indeed, speaking in this debate, some of you have pointed out that the accession of the new countries has brought a change of culture to our debate, placing greater emphasis on specific issues.
On the other hand, society in general is now using forests for an increasing variety of purposes and these require reasonable and sensible decisions.
And it seems to the Commission that only multi-functional management of forests will allow as many as possible of those activities to co-exist within the same space.
In that sense, Parliament's initiative certainly amounts to significant progress in terms of reviving the debate on the approach to be taken to forests at the level of the Union, and the Commission believes that the principles and objectives set forth in Parliament's report offer a genuine framework consistent with the principle of subsidiarity.
The Commission will be looking closely at the measures proposed in the document by organizing a dialogue with the Member States via the Standing Forestry Committee and intends submitting within two years a framework document setting forth the main features of the sector and putting forward the strategy decisions that have to be based on that analysis.
Despite all that, Parliament should also be aware that defining a new strategy for forests will run into many difficulties - and I think that honourable Members are already very much aware of this - and will have to overcome many obstacles.
Those disparities unquestionably tend to have the effect of accentuating the differences in the basic assessments made in the various Member States, and therefore situations that are so very different require not only understanding but also as much flexibility as possible on the part of the Member States at both a technical and a political level.
There is a second major obstacle, namely the financial situation of the Union.
It is also worth making the point in the House that the financial situation of the Union is a very special one, and it does not seem to me that it will be possible to make available in the immediate future substantial resources to fund investment in the forestry sector.
The quality of the proposals contained in the report Parliament has submitted will certainly help us overcome those difficulties, but I think it useful that the Commission should point out here in the House that we are largely at the beginning of a process of review and that mutual cooperation is crucial to the success of this policy and this initiative.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on 30 January in Brussels.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the two agreements to be debated today both concern specific types of contracts.
More precisely, the first one concerns public contracts as covered by the Government Procurement Agreement, the GPA, concluded in 1996 in the context of the Uruguay Round.
The second agreement concerns contracts for products and services supplied by telecommunication operators, in other words it concerns the market in telecommunications.
The two agreements together will ensure a good balance between both parties' interests.
We know, of course, our relations with Israel are always rather special and are often subject to a whole raft of considerations which are more political in nature.
One final comment on the lack of transparency in this procedure.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon's debate on the report from our colleague Mr De Clercq and on the conclusion of the EC/Israel public procurement and telecommunications agreements gives me a chance to make four points.
Firstly, as President of the Europe-Israel Delegation, I wish to pay tribute to the work of our colleague, Mr De Clercq, who has worked very hard throughout these last few months to improve and develop relations between Europe and Israel.
Thirdly, I wish to emphasize the great importance of these latter agreements, which will enable Europe to benefit from Israeli high technology and will enable Israel, which wishes to build new public infrastructures (a metro has been mentioned), to call on European expertise.
I stress the importance of these agreements in the context of regional economic integration between Israel and its neighbours, in what we hope is the near future.
Israel will then be a privileged intermediary for the European Union.
Europe has played a discreet but effective role, in particular with its special envoy whom we should also congratulate.
I am therefore pleased that we have been able to play a part here in these affairs during the last critical months.
The future will be just as difficult and we must therefore still try and keep a cool head, and retain our common sense and sound appreciation of situations.
The vote on the report of our colleague, Mr De Clercq, is therefore very important, both as a symbol of a constructive and effective process and above all in its practical and rapid effects on the economic and technological relations between Europe and Israel.
Madam President, the conclusion of these two agreements is a further step towards achieving the European Union's goal of opening up the markets for public contracts further.
In this case the committee bowed to the opinion of the Legal Affairs Committee.
It is a step along the road to reciprocal liberalization, but it is also a step along the way towards stability in the region.
Israel is strong in high-tech, and we need that in Europe.
In the case of the first agreement, Israel is enlarging upon and adding to the undertakings entered into through the agreement on public procurement; it includes the urban transport sector, an area in which the Union is particularly competitive, and removes a number of exemptions previously negotiated under the Government Procurement Agreement.
In the case of the second agreement on procurement in the telecommunications sector, Israel is immediately abolishing a 15 per cent price preference and gradually removing the provision on compensation that it was in fact accorded under the Government Procurement Agreement.
Thank you, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Five years ago the Commission presented proposals for a European cooperative society, a European mutual society and a European association, in other words not only for the European joint-stock company.
The reason why the Council of Ministers has failed to adopt various regulations on these kinds of company forms under European law is first and foremost because they could not agree on the essential directives on the position of employees.
It offers three options: the first is keeping the status quo, the second and third options are closely linked.
The second option also proposes, in addition to the EWC Directive, a community instrument to create minimum standards for informing and consulting employees at the national level.
Unlike the Commission communication it distinguishes between pure information and consultation rights, as under the EWC, and the opportunities for economic participation, like those enjoyed by employees in the supervisory boards in Germany or the Netherlands or like those enjoyed in the Nordic countries of Finland and Sweden under collective agreement rights when company decisions are taken.
Any Community initiative is based on the assumption that the existing rules on co-determination are familiar.
The communication reports on why the directive on the EWC was so successful.
A European directive must lay down flexibility, negotiations solutions and minimum standards in the event that the social partners cannot reach agreement within a specific time.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, first and foremost I should perhaps convey to you my best and heartfelt wishes for a successful social year in 1997 and a happy outcome to the IGC.
On behalf of the Group I compliment Mr Menrad most warmly on his report.
In the view of my Group that message is as follows.
That means, Commissioner, that if the Council and Commission want to press ahead on the matter of European companies - and I assume they will in 1997 - then for us that can only be possible if we also get definitive rules, not only on worker information and consultation, but also on worker participation.
Already during the debate on the 1995-1996 social action programme Parliament pressed in Mr Hughes' report for all directives concerning worker participation which were currently blocked to be unblocked.
The Union must ensure that social dialogue is and remains an essential element in our European social model.
Secondly, the issue of participation is not regulated either in the European works council or in the directive on collective redundancies or transfers of undertakings.
So, Commissioner, it is unacceptable to us that there should be a European company in a country which will not even agree to works councils.
But secondly, we also find it unacceptable to have a European company without far-reaching rules on participation.
I shall thus be happy to support the EPP Group's Amendment No 2 on behalf of my own Group.
It is crazy that we have a European market but as yet no European company.
Madam President, as we are all aware, the main objective of the report on the consultation of workers is to establish appropriate and up-to-date global rules governing the sector.
Let us put on one side for a moment the first of the three options put forward by the Commission because it in fact proposes that the status quo be retained without change.
It is actually unfair to subject undertakings which opt for the new legal form of European company to comply with rules on workers different from those whose observance is required under Directive 94/45 for other companies at a Community level.
Some speak of 70 billion guilders a year, about 30 billion ECU, and that is very bad for us and certainly very bad too if we want to go on competing with the United States and Japan.
To inform and to consult might become the antidote for real participation or an excuse for avoiding real participation at all.
Affirming the right to information and consultation cannot, in my opinion, be a kind of co-responsibilisation of workers at a given time, given that when things are going well information and consultation are not necessary for doing business.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate the rapporteur for the work he has done but also to ask him to forgive me if I tell him that I find some parts of his report a little obscure.
Of course, there were difficulties in translation.
The rapporteur assigns trade unions a leading role in the life of firms.
As you know, trade union history is in large measure that of a struggle between two ideas illuminated by different doctrines.
It is somewhat similar to the situation here in the European Parliament, where the system is really one of a single party with dual labelling and having two extremes with slightly divergent economic doctrines.
Thus, in France, a law on 'trade union representativeness' forbids the free candidature of workers in the first round of professional elections of staff representatives or delegates to works councils, and it is only when there is a shortfall at the first round that the worker can vote or stand for an organization of his choice not yet recognized.
Note that the French criteria for representativeness always include the patriotism shown during the years of occupation.
Not only that, but no mention is made of the fact that the communist leaders who controlled the French CGT with a rod of iron, according to the ninth and thirteenth directives of the 21 Moscow conditions, had supported the Hitler-Stalin pact and even, like the traitor Thorez, deserted from the French army straight away so as not to face the German army.
We all know that most workers in Europe are employed in these small and medium-sized companies and I think that they are the ones who need special protection.
But we do expect that the results will not only be made available to representatives of the social dialogue but also of course to the European Parliament.
I believe we should discuss our ideas on a future European directive and European company statute in detail and without pressure of time.
But what we must avoid is that economic opportunities of participation be replaced by simple information and consultation rights as in the EWC directive or by an as yet inexistent community instrument to regulate information and consultation at the national level.
There are also large discrepancies between Member States.
The second concern is the probable danger that instead of making it easier for countries with no great achievements to forge ahead, we may hold back and drag down achievements that already exist in other European Union countries.
Today's international economy shows ruthlessly how capital moves and is concentrated, how it vanishes, what it exploits and who becomes the pawn of this new flexibility.
It is precisely in that context that we must reiterate that the lack of a European company statute must be regarded as a deficiency because in my opinion such a statute could also provide the incentive for investments and so employment.
Mr President, I would like to thank you and your colleagues in the European Parliament for the excellent way you have addressed the Commission communication of 14 November on worker information and consultation.
I thank you in particular for the great efforts you are making once again with this excellent own-initiative report, trying to help out the European institutions in this important matter.
In the light of the consultations which have followed the Commission's communication, I shall be presenting to the Commission in the coming months a proposal to initiate the procedure for the consultation of the social partners at European level.
The second issue raised in the communication is very complex as illustrated by the fact that the Commission is seeking to break a deadlock which has existed for more than a quarter of a century.
This deadlock deprives European industry of a very valuable instrument - the European Company Statute - which would be extremely useful in helping industry to adapt to the new single market conditions and to become more competitive worldwide.
You have put forward many innovative ideas which will be of very great help to us in trying to find a way out of the present difficulties.
Ms Oddy put it very well when she said that Europe needs the European company.
Mr Pronk recognized very clearly that there are many different systems in existence throughout the Community and it will not be easy to bring them all together.
The European company has always been necessary for the internal market.
After all these years we are now arriving at the possibility of a solution which has evaded the Union for so many years.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
The committee has examined the Commission's two proposals: one, on the protection of forests against atmospheric pollution and the other on forest fires.
The Commission wanted to include the budgetary provisions in the proposals.
That is contrary to the Interinstitutional Agreement of 1995 and so, on examining the two proposals the Budget Committee made some amendments.
Mr President, we have here one of those proposals which we simply have to approve, among other things because it restates principles - already set out in 1986 and then retabled in 1992 - which we are now updating for a further five years.
The issue of protection against fire is a different and more complex one.
However, perhaps remembering the debate this evening, the substantial differences between the various countries in terms of a Community policy to support the forestry sector need to be made clear, and the Committee on the Environment tried to achieve that on several occasions.
Certainly there are difficulties, because there is diversity of forests, diversity in the way different countries deal with them, but if the European Union is to comply with the various conventions it has signed - Rio Conference, Helsinki Conference and also the Vth Environmental Action Programme - it is essential not only to implement these regulations, but also, after discussions between the various countries and the European Union, to achieve a common policy to protect our forests.
The regulation we are looking at here has been several years in the making and the results of the research are gradually becoming known.
And then we are talking about a specific region, the region around the Mediterranean.
Mr President, first of all I want to express the support of my group, the European People's Party, for this proposal from the Commission to extend the two forest protection programmes in their dual role of prevention of atmospheric contamination and protection against fire.
These programmes can be generally felt to have been effective and Community coordination and evaluation of these two general phenomena continue to be necessary.
But questions need to be put to the Commission, and some suggestions may also be in order.
The atmospheric contamination protection programme is often thought to have been positive in its dual aims of establishing a general forest observation network - already covering the whole of the territory of the European Union and according to Commission reports, now operational - and an intensive monitoring network.
The Commission has also presented us with data on over 200 pilot schemes developed, approved and financed.
But we are told virtually nothing about the final objective and the evaluation of these programmes which have been developed over 10 years, and one of the European Commission's responsibilities is precisely to make the final evaluation of all these research programmes, which are focused on establishing whether or not there is a causal relationship between atmospheric contamination and the damage being observed in the forests.
After 10 years of research throughout Europe, with the full collaboration of national research and international programmes, it is a little perplexing to find that there is still no data for evaluating and establishing cause and effect and, above all, procedures for looking after forests and forest floors.
The impetus for the fire protection programme and the evaluation carried out in all the European Union countries has been positive, especially in the most affected, like Spain, Portugal, Italy and France and, in part, Germany too.
But greater effort and cooperation between the Member States is still needed, because although there has been a reduction in the area burned, the number of forest fires has actually doubled since 1986, and there are days - this statistic ought to be on the front page of the newspapers - when two fires break out every minute in Europe.
The phenomenon clearly involves criminal acts and negligence by the authorities, because an additional statistic is that 50 % of the causes of these fires remain unknown.
Mr President, I am pleased that, in spite of everything - since there was some doubt whether there would be any at all - we are having a report and debate on these important matters.
The number of fires in Europe is tending to increase considerably.
Mr President, today Parliament has been giving very serious attention to the problems of our forests, which cover 41.5 % of the agricultural land of Member States, two thirds of which are happily private property.
I would be preaching here to the converted if I were to repeat what was also rightly stressed in the debate on the Thomas report concerning the multiple role played by European forests in the environmental, health and leisure fields but also in social and economic areas.
A good European Union forestry policy must not ignore the spirit of principle of subsidiarity: as little Community regulation as possible, limited to what is necessary.
Using European resources to protect forests against atmospheric pollution that ignores frontiers and protecting Community forests against fires are Community activities that are worth strengthening and continuing.
It is therefore important that we are given the resources for this policy, particularly as regards the protection of forests against fires.
Having been able to appreciate, both in my own country and in the Community generally, the role played by foresters and their professional organizations in the context of good forestry management and fire protection, I am particularly anxious that they should participate effectively in Community action for the protection of forests and I hope the Commission can reassure us on this point.
As vice-chairman of the Hunting, Fishing and Environmental Intergroup of this Parliament, I would also like to stress the outstanding part played by hunters and their organizations in protecting forests and wild life habitats, a part that is too often misunderstood in some sections of this Parliament.
Hunters' organizations must also be full partners in the implementation of Community measures designed to protect our forests.
They have all taken a very positive stance on the protection of the Union's forestry resources and the continuation of the Community measures in that sector.
It is very clear both from the Thomas report this morning and this afternoon that the protection and maintenance of forests is an extremely important topic.
It is widely debated throughout the world, particularly in view of the significant role of forests in combating desertification, climate changes and in the preservation of biodiversity.
The Sustainable Development Commission, with its governmental panel on forests, and the Helsinki Conference of Ministers on the protection of forests in Europe are the result of that undertaking.
With regard to the legal basis - Amendments Nos 9 and 1 - I can understand your concern that the two measures should have separate legal bases as was previously the case.
But nonetheless the Commission considers that Article 43 is both appropriate and sufficient and is not disposed to amend the legal base at this time.
You have also quite rightly noted that there is a new formula for estimating the amounts needed to be stated in the two new proposals for regulations, that is, Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 7, 10, 12, 13 and 16.
The wording of the two regulations has been revised accordingly in the light of the precise wording of the March 1995 Interinstitutional Agreement referred to by the rapporteur, between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
The amendments that you have requested in the committee procedure - Amendments Nos 5, 6, 14 and 15 - refer primarily to the publication of discussions within committees.
As you will know, this matter has since been settled by agreement between Parliament and the Commission and redrafting of the legal texts is not longer required.
I would make the point about the amendments concerning the mid-term assessment, Amendments Nos 8 and 17, that periodical evaluation reports on measures are published regularly, particularly with regard to forest health status and details on forest fires.
The atmospheric pollution matter was referred to in four amendments, that is, Amendments Nos 22, 25, 26 and 28.
For the protection of forests against fire, several amendments, Amendments Nos 18, 19 and 23, ask for the financing of prevention measures to be made conditional on immediate replanting after fires and also to provide for the financing of insurance for that replanting.
These are measures which are not directly linked to the action and they would, I suggest, be very cumbersome.
Lastly, the Commission would like to welcome the amendments concerning the vital role of the rural population in the prevention of forest fires.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
The conflict with the Council on the legal base to be applied has not been resolved.
In December 1994 the Council adopted not a common position but a political stance in which it invalidated the legal base of Article 100a proposed by the Commission and replaced it with Article 235 together with Article 43.
Secondly: is the legal base significant only in procedural terms or also in substantive terms?
On question 1, the Council argues that the customs information system contained in the proposal for a regulation constitutes an integral community entity which does not relate to the harmonisation of individual national legislation for the internal market provided for by Article 100a.
This is clearly confirmed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Civil Liberties in its excellent opinion.
A ruling from the European Court of Justice stipulates that a decision cannot be based on several legal bases which prescribe different procedures: Article 235 - consultation and unanimity in the Council, Article 43 - consultation of Parliament and qualified majority in the Council, Article 100a co-decision of Parliament and qualified majority in the Council.
Incidentally it is not only the legal service of the Commission but also that of the Council that confirms the correctness of Article 100a.
The Council has also made many amendments to the Commission's text.
I conclude that on the matter of substance the proposal for a regulation also calls for co-decision, especially after the textual amendments made by the Council.
Behind the legal cloak of an issue concerning Articles 235 and 100a, the real issue is of high political significance.
It is the clear indication of a lack of political will by the Council of Ministers to have the heart of a Community structure function properly.
The Council's reply is to invoke spurious legal arguments to maintain the semblance of national sovereignty rather than having a strong internal market structured to apply the system.
I hold the Council responsible for a lack of political will to have the system function properly.
There are many reasons why public opinion in Europe is not always favourable towards the Union.
Firstly, because an objective approach in a specific matter should involve the use of Article 100a, not Article 235.
Thirdly, because the people see Article 235 as a downward path on which the EU, by taking legislative action in new areas, is moving further and further away from openness and from the principle of being closer to its citizens.
Another factor is that we have a good committee which is agreed on these matters, and I really do hope that the Council listens and perhaps begins to show more interest in what is happening in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission, like Parliament, has divided feelings about the situation created by the change in legal basis envisaged by the Council.
The strengthened machinery for customs cooperation for which it provides, together with, at least, the legal possibility of creating a database for the customs information system respond to an urgent necessity.
Secondly, the change of legal basis, involving consultation with Parliament instead of codecision and unanimous adoption by Member States instead of qualified majority voting, poses a serious institutional problem for the Commission.
Of course, the Council acting unanimously really does have the right to modify proposals from the Commission.
However, the Commission shares Parliament's opinion that this amendment in particular has no legal basis and also that, by removing the proposal from the field of application of the codecision procedure, the Council is infringing the powers of Parliament.
Depending on the decision that will then be taken by the Council, the Commission will take a decision in regard to compliance with Community law.
The debate is closed.
