Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament, adjourned on Friday, 25 October 1996.
Membership of Parliament The Austrian and Finnish authorities have notified me of the list of Members elected to Parliament from their countries, following the elections in Austria on 13 October and in Finland on 20 October.
To enable you to begin that work without delay, I would point out that, pursuant to Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure, until such time as a Member's credentials have been verified or a ruling has been given on any dispute, the Member shall take his seat in Parliament and on its bodies and shall enjoy all the rights attaching thereto.
Without calling into question the motion for a resolution which we have already tabled and which we would like to see discussed and passed next Thursday, I hope that I am speaking for everyone in this Chamber by asking you, Mr President, on behalf of the European Parliament, to take the initiative of sending a message of support to the city authorities, in particular the Mayor of Lisbon who until recently was our colleague, to all of the City Elders and to the people of Lisbon.
Furthermore, I would point out that this matter is on our agenda for Wednesday.
My letter to the Secretary-General is not dependent on the debate; I simply wished to make the point that on Wednesday, the House will be discussing both the situation itself and the measures we are expecting from the European Union.
The crucial element in this participation is that we should establish the political priorities of the legislative programme via a resolution.
That will then enable the House to establish the final political priorities based on the proposals put forward by the Commission, on the basis of a text tabled by the Conference of Presidents.
I therefore consider that as a result of this amendment to our Rules of Procedure which already has the support of the Commission - a mark of genuine interinstitutional cooperation - the European Parliament will acquire a more visible role in the process of governing the Union.
Mr President, let me summarize how things stand at the moment: the Commission submitted its programme in October as usual.
I have already raised a few points during the debate on the work programme for this year.
If work programmes are drawn up in this way, we are not going to be able to have any meaningful influence on the Commission's activity or on our Parliament's political activity.
Our group, Mr President, is in agreement with this simplification which needs to be applied as widely as possible.
I, personally, very much favour the retention of Amendment No 3 by Mr Manzella.
Equally, I have tabled in my own name and that of my group, Amendment No 13, which envisages a six-monthly review, carried out by Parliament, of progress that has been made on the legislative programme.
Now, strictly, that is contrary to Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group feels that the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament should guarantee that approval of the Commission's legislative programme by our Assembly should take place on the basis of the principles of simplicity, transparency and efficiency.
This does result in a simple and transparent text, it is true, but it might not be effective in giving this Assembly true powers of control over the legislative programme, control which obviously is one of the bases of our political activity as a Parliament.
I also realize that we have encountered determined resistance on the part of the Commission when it comes to putting into practice what it actually agreed: in other words, it very often endorses the legislative programme and then, sometimes deliberately, takes no account of it.
Mr President, in ordinary circumstances the Commission plays no part in deliberations about Parliament's internal rules, but this particular matter concerns us directly.
We think that the proposal to include in Rule 49 the general reference that the three institutions - including the Council - will share in determining the legislative programme is right.
I would like this interpretation to be emphasized in the new Rule 49.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
But European aid must also help refugees to rebuild their health and livelihoods and to resettle back in their communities or into a new life; a life with a genuine hope of a secure future.
It is why respect for human rights and for reconciliation must underlie the programmes - respect for land rights too in countries like Guatemala where 70 % of the cultivable land is held by just 2 % of the population.
We welcome the fact that our first reading amendments on conflict prevention, on environmental considerations, on combating sexual violence and on help to host communities have been incorporated into the legislation.
Making the most of human resources and protecting the most vulnerable refugees and displaced persons are crucial measures if we are to prevent a situation in which their living conditions becoming unsustainable in the long term and the outstanding problems that prompted their flight become simply insoluble.
If the regulation we are discussing includes the amendments on which we are about to vote, it could make it possible better to define action by the European Union to help the uprooted peoples of Asia and Latin America, even though, it cannot, of course, take the place of more effective political action by the European Union.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Howitt, on behalf of my group as well as myself.
The Commission and the NGOs that are funded from this budget heading are supporting people in such situations, and their help is needed.
Mr President, Mr Howitt has presented an important report on the refugee situation.
Mr Howitt has just mentioned the figure of 53 million refugees.
The figure is somewhere between 200 million and 500 million, depending on who is counted as a refugee - whether, for example, environmental refugees are included.
And that brings me to a problem in the area of internal affairs.
Mr Howitt mentioned mines.
I hope that we can resolve this problem, that as a Parliament we can continue to exercise a control function, and that the people in the camps - 80 % of them women and children - can count on their rights and not be forced to endure sexual or other forms of coercion.
More than 20 million individuals, i.e. 10 000 persons a day are forced to flee their homes.
Three quarters of these unfortunate 10 000 are women and children.
The number of persons displaced within their national borders amounts to 24 million.
Let me remind you that we have been asked three time to intervene on behalf of the refugees in Zaire: at the time of the genocide in Rwanda; when the refugee camps had to be policed; and when President Nyerere, backed by the whole of the OAU asked us to intervene in Burundi.
Specifically, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3, which introduce into the legislative text the principles of non-discrimination and non-refoulement and the requirements for the establishment of democratic structures and the involvement of affected groups in the assessment of their needs.
On this point the Commission can only restate its position.
However, we believe that the limiting of the resources for the studies, audits and evaluation and monitoring missions to 3 % of the total cost of the operation is too restrictive.
Amendment No 6, which seeks to impose a requirement for the regular exchange of information between the Commission and other donor representatives and operational partners and for coordination and consultation with the competent committee of the European Parliament and NGOs, is also unacceptable because the implementation of those principles cannot be reconciled with the serious shortages of manpower and material resources with which the Commission has to grapple.
The Commission shares the view expressed by the rapporteur in the explanatory statement that these are wider issues subject to interinstitutional agreement.
Nevertheless, the Commission can do no other than support - and, indeed, with enthusiasm - the compromise proposed by the rapporteur of reverting to the original proposal for a financial threshold of ECU 5 million.
In any event, the Commission believes that if a committee of the Member States does have to participate in the decisionmaking procedure it will have to be the committee on the developing countries in Asia and Latin America set up under Regulation 443/92.
As regards the participation of the Member of Parliament, we must point out that the final composition of committees is a matter for the Council.
The debate is closed.
Environmental measures in the developing countries in the context of sustainable development The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0340/96) on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of a Council Regulation on environmental measures in developing countries in the context of sustainable development (C4-0373/96-95/0161(SYN) (rapporteur: Mrs Taubira Delannon).
I would remind you that this question arises in a very particular context.
Such is the objective set by Article 1 of this proposal, which is to provide a legal basis for budget line B7-6200 set up at Parliament's initiative in 1982.
By contrast, around 100 countries representing another quarter of the world's population have experienced decline and stagnation.
The wealth measured in dollars of the world's 358 multimillionaires exceeds the aggregate annual income of countries accounting for about half the world's population.
Since 1970 the water supply of the developing countries has fallen by two thirds.
Let me point out that the European Union is the world's leading trading partner as well as the primary provider of development aid, achieving a contribution level of 40 %; at the same time, however, it is also one of the main polluters.
By the year 2000, 15 towns will have more than 11 million inhabitants and 13 of these will be in the developing countries.
Furthermore, the Council has introduced new provisions concerning principally the life-span of the regulation and the reference budget figure.
The Council wished to give this regulation a life-span of three years whereas the Commission proposed that it should be of unlimited duration.
The Council proposes a reference figure of MECU 45 that is an allocation of MECU 15 per year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this programme - as the chairman of the Committee on Development and Cooperation has just said - was created by the European Parliament to respond to the Rio Conference and the problems raised there.
However, the Council of Ministers, demonstrating great hypocrisy, has rejected the European Parliament proposals put forward at first reading in the Taubira-Delannon report, aimed at broadening the base of action in this budgetary line and the programme, and at the same time is rejecting it on the grounds of lack of resources; in the 1997 budgetary process the Council of Ministers has tried to reduced the budget of this very programme.
In other words, on one hand, the Council says that the programme cannot be extended because there is not enough money, while at the same time, in the budgetary process, it has attempted to reduce the meagre 50 MECU which this budgetary line already contains.
All of this is taking place in front of our eyes and yet the European Parliament is unable to set up a credible programme, with appropriate budgetary resources in order to take measures in these parts of the world.
As the rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment, I can only echo what the chairman of the Committee on Development has said here.
Mr President, the commitments entered into by the international community at the 1992 Rio Summit, but also all of the more serious analyses of the state of our planet lead us to conclude that action to help the natural environment must be given increasing priority in the definition of development priorities.
The proposal for a regulation that we are debating at second reading will have also to incorporate the amendments tabled by the House if it is to be able better to cope with the major environmental issues.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her meticulous work on this report.
The number of amendments which have been tabled is a further sign that the Committee on Development and Cooperation takes this issue very seriously and has considered it in depth.
We are all aware that too little has been done in this area in the past, and the environmental aspect still receives too little attention.
I am prepared to bet that mechanization in this instance will not be accomplished using state-of-the-art technology, but rather with whatever technology the people in this emerging country can afford.
I believe that sustainability must be a criterion for all development measures wherever we implement them, whether in the health or education sectors or, as in this case, the environmental sector.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the initiative of the European Parliament, budget line B7-6200 was set up to encourage the inclusion of the environmental aspect in the development process of the developing countries and to help improve the living conditions of the local people.
The key word used is 'sustainable' and not 'lasting' development: this means making changes in current development, production, consumption and behavioural models in order gradually to steer human activity and development towards sustainable, that is acceptable, forms that will enable us to live in an environment that is in a healthy state and, at the same time, guarantee a proper level of social well-being and public health for all.
In May, as we all know, Parliament adopted 44 amendments designed to improve the integration of environmental measures into development cooperation, but only three of these have been adopted by the Council.
We simply have to provide more funding, which is why I think the amendment proposed by the Committee on Development and Cooperation to increase the budget by ECU 50 m in the year 2000 definitely deserves our support.
We need to set priorities, and I agree with the rapporteur that we should concentrate primarily on innovative projects such as solar energy and model projects.
However, what we have available under this budget heading is ECU 15 million over three years.
You are right, of course, automobile production in China does damage the environment - but who are the producers?
The capital which is diverted for that purpose will come back to us, because we are deregulating markets and promoting throughout the world a type of economic reform that will allow us to continue with precisely this kind of production.
We know that these emissions are going to double by the year 2020.
How are they expected to do that with ECU 5 million?
If we wish to pursue a development policy, therefore, it is in these areas that we must begin.
The concept of sustainable development is critical to the welfare of developing countries.
The European Parliament, Members will recall, initiated a special budget line in 1982 aimed at encouraging developing countries to take the environmental dimension into account in the development process and to help improve living conditions among local populations.
The European Union has an increasingly important role to play in helping to protect the environment, not only at Community level, but also in developing countries.
Better environmental management and protection is needed.
Mr President, we should not hold out too high hopes about the results of the Council Regulation on environmental action in developing countries in the context of sustainable development.
The Commission, in particular, should use all its influence in the various international fora where the other major actors on the international stage are represented, namely the United States, Japan, not to mention others, in order to promote and foster the ideas underpinning these reports.
Let us hope, Mr President, that the connotation 'sustainable' in the report is going to apply to development itself, and not only to the symbolic amount allocated under the budget, so that the policy we all support wholeheartedly may be brought to fruition.
Pursuant to Article 130u of the Treaty, our central objective in this field is to foster sustainable economic and social development in the developing countries, and more particularly the most disadvantaged among them.
The Union is pursuing that objective through its development programmes and projects and also through discussions at the global level.
The Commission is particularly appreciative of the fact that many amendments seek to emphasize the importance of information provision and of close cooperation with local partners and initiatives.
On the other hand, however, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3, 20, 25, 27 to 30, 37, 38 and 43.
As regards the salient parts, certain of the amendments, such as Amendments Nos 19, 20, 28 and 30, contain elements which would introduce a level of inflexibility which would not sit well with the objective of instituting model operations in the environmental field.
Other amendments, such as Nos 30, 41 and 42, would impose new procedural constraints, particularly as regards the demands for information provision between the institutions.
Lastly, many amendments, such as Amendment No 40, would either necessitate modification of the Commission's procedures or, in the case of Amendment No 38, for instance, impinge on the Commission's competence to organize the action in accordance with its own judgment.
The Commission believes that adoption of the regulation on environmental measures in the developing countries that we are discussing today will sharpen this environmental focus.
The debate is closed.
The epidemic has hit both the North and South but by far the worst affected are the developing countries, which account for 80 % of all those infected by the HIV virus.
In 1986, the WHO launched a world-wide programme to combat AIDS.
Two hundred and twenty projects in 85 countries have been financed so far, partly from the resources of the European Development Fund, which is practically the sole instrument for implementing a common development policy towards developing countries.
The lack of funds has a way of cropping up as a leitmotif in European development policy even though Europe is the principal provider of development aid.
ECU 320 million have already been channelled by the Union into combating AIDS in the developing countries but we should still not delude ourselves.
If a new drug were to be developed to fight against this disease, its exorbitant price would preclude the treatment of HIV-positive persons in the Third World.
The figures circulating are in the order of $15 000 per year per patient.
Street children are sometimes forced to prostitute themselves if they have no other means of survival.
The worst hit are children who are themselves contaminated or who have lost their parents as a result of the disease.
I would like to conclude by informing you that, thanks to a programme designed to combat sexually transmitted diseases, Tanzania has managed to reduce the incidence of infection by 42 %.
Finally, allow me to stress the need for Parliament to do everything in its power - and above all regard it as a question of honour - to adopt Amendment No 18 on carrying out a study which is to look into ways of setting up a solidarity mechanism in order to reduce blatant north-south inequalities of treatment.
Mr President, the recent conference in Vancouver was actually called 'One World, One Hope' , but it soon became very clear that there are two worlds when it comes to fighting this disease.
As the rapporteur has clearly said, the two worlds are distinguished because of the poverty which exists in the developing world.
Any medical breakthrough that is achieved comes with a very expensive price tag, a price tag that 90 % of the people affected by Aids simply cannot afford.
We must try to help everyone, but at present we can only regard prevention - the use of precautions - as the key element, and this is another aspect which should attract increased spending from the budget line.
That is why Amendment No 12 is also important, and the European Parliament should say unambiguously that condoms are a key to solving the problem.
But we do have to look after the rest of the population, and that is why Amendment No 12 should receive unequivocal support and has the backing of our group.
The number of cases is rising not only in Africa, but in Asia and Latin America as well.
Thank you very much, Mr Schmid.
It is little known, as has been pointed out on several occasions here, that the mortality rate is such both within the most active groups of the population, that is the young and those who work, as well as within the inactive groups that in some countries in Africa life expectancy is going to decline: by ten years in Zambia, eight years in Tanzania and several or more years in Rwanda.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank Parliament for the care that it has taken over the second reading of the draft regulation on HIV/AIDS-related operations in developing countries.
The Commission attaches great importance to the continuation of its actions to help developing countries cope as effectively as possible with the repercussions of the AIDS epidemic which is continuing to spread in a worrying way in most of the developing countries.
The Community programme launched in 1987 in close collaboration with the other aid donors, and in particular with the World Health Organization, has evolved gradually from being an emergency action programme into a structural and multi-sectoral approach.
We can thus accept Amendment No 1, which seeks to bring the other sexually-transmitted diseases within the scope of the regulation, Amendment No 2, which states that measures funded under the specific budget heading should be innovative in character, the first part of Amendment No 11 emphasizing the need for the promotion of more efficient diagnostic methods, Amendment No 18, on the initiation of a study of a solidarity instrument to improve the treatment of people affected by HIV, Amendments Nos 6 and 25, which seek to delete the financial reference amount, and Amendment No 26, on opening up invitations to tender and the award of contracts to other developing countries.
The Commission is also able to accept the first part of Amendment No 28, which includes the text of the Commission's proposal on the type of committee to be called on to deliver opinions on specific measures.
In addition, the Commission finds certain amendments unacceptable because they would either, as in the case of Amendments Nos 22 and 24, place too many constraints on the management of the programme or generate institutional problems in connection with the meetings in public of the committee, the second part of Amendment No 28 being the case in point in the latter regard.
Thank you very much, Mr Papoutsis.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
However, the only programme that the EU currently possesses for making even a start on what is required is SAVE II.
The Commission had planned to spend ECU 150 million over five years.
Then the Council says the figure is to be ECU 45 m - or preferably a little less.
Furthermore, there is a total absence of objectives or planning in the Council's common position.
If we really wished to make savings, we could save 30 to 40 % over the next five years simply on heating buildings, by using combined heat and power technology, for example.
I think it is particularly important that the regional aspects of SAVE II are emphasized.
Member States will have very considerable freedom in deciding how to bring in these plans, who will bring them in, how they will be evaluated etc.
It would cost us 20 % less in terms of capital investment to build energy generating and transmission capacity.
I have to say that large and powerful energy producers have been obstructive and have deliberately misrepresented this directive.
There have been some suggestions that a recommendation rather than a directive would be adequate.
If we really wish to reduce CO2 emissions to 1990 levels by the year 2000 - if that is our objective - then we need to make a substantial contribution to rationalizing energy use.
To do that, however, we need more money than the ECU 45 million which the Council has proposed as a reference amount for the programme budget.
I do not wish to go into the statistics in great detail, but it is clear that we could be saving 20 % of our fossil fuel imports - some £12 billion worth of energy every year - if we were to adopt the kind of proposals put forward here.
We have known for over 20 years now that we cannot go on like this.
The Commission proposal to introduce rational planning techniques in its arsenal of energy policy measures is a good proposal.
I believe we are all in agreement on that.
I would like to remind you that our Parliament, among others, has decided to go even further and, faced with the building up of the greenhouse effect, to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 20 % by the year 2005.
I believe that with such a lack of determination we are surely not going to succeed in implementing this directive and even less in getting the environmental protection results we want.
Moreover, I am surprised that some Members and some groups would rather see a simple recommendation than a directive.
I am not at all surprised that some groups have been thinking in terms of having the directive replaced by a recommendation although I myself am against it and would personally prefer to see a directive, as does the Socialist Group.
If we all agree about the need to control both supply and demand in the energy sector, it is also clear that we must once and for all take a firm line even if we steer a middle course.
We cannot both say that we want the most deregulated possible internal energy market and claim in the same breath, as the Commission does, that we need integrated or as we say now 'rational' planning of energy resources.
What was also evident in this affair was the need to decide at what level this problem of integrated planning should be dealt with.
The programme's genuinely ambitious objectives are inevitably enfeebled by the Council's desire to reduce the funding to ECU 45 million - which works out at only ECU 9 million annually - from the ECU 150 million originally sought by the Commission.
The proposal for a Council Decision on this multiannual programme is, as a whole, a good document, and in particular it sets clear objectives on efficiency and energy yields and improvements in the rational use of energy.
It includes various measures and activities, in a wide spectrum of interest to all Member States and their regions.
On the other hand, we should also plan for more actions possibly to be contemplated by SAVE II, in the fields of research, demonstration, information and training, or in that of technical and technological cooperation.
But in most Member States, nothing is being done to promote the efficient use of energy.
Finally, as I said earlier, the future energy situation will be determined not only by our environmental problems, but also by the growing energy consumption in the developing countries.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating both rapporteurs, but I wish to focus on the report by Mrs McNally.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when politicians are in charge of everything - and that is all very well in itself - they get things wrong.
The idea is that energy suppliers should invest not only in supply, but also in the efficient use of energy.
Mr President, an assessment report on the SAVE I programme has confirmed, as my colleagues were saying, that Community action in this field, which seeks primarily to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere and to promote energy efficiency, has been justified and useful.
Of course the SAVE I programme was allocated only ECU 35 million - also a modest sum one must admit.
But SAVE II is certainly not the only energy sector measure that the European Union will have to adopt in order to meet its commitments on the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions.
The SAVE II programme will continue to promote the energy consumption label and the standards for energyconsuming equipment.
SAVE II is a response by the European Union to environmental and energy challenges.
However, with a five-year budget of ECU 45 million it is obviously not going to solve problems by itself.
For that reason, I invite you to view the SAVE II programme as complementary to actions embarked on by the Member States, and I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to combine with us in a joint and essential effort to get the budget for the programme increased.
Turning now to the amendments, I would like once more to commend the rapporteur's contribution and to say that the Commission can unreservedly accept the three Amendments Nos 6, 7 and 11 relating to the financial reference amount, and also Amendment No 4.
We can also accept parts of Amendments Nos 1, 5, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 15, and, in fact, if they were reframed we could accept them in their entirety.
That being so, the sections of Amendments Nos 4, 8, 9 and 15 which refer to the strengthening of the Commission's legislative initiative are not necessary in this proposal.
Amendment No 9 in part and Amendment No 10 refer to new actions of a minor nature and to the funding of them.
Turning now, Mr President, to Mrs McNally's report on rational planning techniques, I wish first of all to thank her for her truly excellent report.
The draft directive on rational planning techniques in the electricity and gas distribution sectors is a particularly important proposal which is linked with the policy on energy efficiency and with the strategy to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in the European Union and, as such, will have a direct bearing on the achievement of our environmental objectives.
We can therefore accept the first part of Amendment No 5, Amendments Nos 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 in their entirety and the second part of Amendment No 12.
We cannot, however, accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4 and the latter part of Amendment No 5 because they seek to impose Article 100 as the legal basis.
Amendment No 11 is also unacceptable, because the reference to the cost not being charged to the consumer could generate dispute.
The management of demand is a service, and as such must be paid for by those who reap its benefits.
Sub-paragraph a) of Amendment No 13 is unacceptable because we believe that the Member States must be able to determine the competent authorities in accordance with their own regulatory practices.
Lastly, the fifth part of Amendment No 13, referring to the use of regulatory mechanisms, is unacceptable because in our view regulation at this point would render the measure too restrictive.
Thank you very much, Mr Papoutsis.
