As you know, Mr Rübig, we try to provide the best possible security in all our places of work.
Thank you, Mr Falconer.
In the item on the Spaak report, for example, apart from the Commissioner and the rapporteur, nobody else is mentioned at all.
Madam President, I should like to endorse the previous speaker's comments on the reporting in yesterday's 'Plenum aktuell '.
First, Parliament is voting initially on Amendment No 888, on the strategic reserve, the appropriations for which will need to be adjusted at the end of the vote.
Lastly, certain technical adjustments need to be made in the remarks on the amendments to lines B3-4304, B7-500 and B7-6602.
Madam President, since this will be forgotten afterwards in the hustle and bustle of voting, I wanted to take advantage of the time when we are all taking our seats to thank the parliamentary services for their exemplary cooperation in ensuring that the amendments and other documents in every language were delivered to us on time.
Draft Amendment No 714 Madam President, I propose adding EUR 400 000 in commitment appropriations, which means that the vote is on a total of 3 million in commitment appropriations for this line.
Draft Amendment No 738 Madam President, I request that the following comment be included: these appropriations are also aimed at financing the 1999 campaign on violence against women.
Draft Amendment No 741 Madam President, I request that an additional EUR 3 million be approved in commitment appropriations, that is, a total of EUR 5 million for this line.
Draft Amendment No 584 Madam President, I believe a mistake has been made.
Yes, that is what I intended to do, Mr Dell'Alba.
Draft Amendment No 808 Madam President, I request that an additional EUR 5 million be approved in commitment appropriations above the sum proposed in the amendment by the Committee on Budgets, that is, a total of EUR 45 million in commitment appropriations for this line.
Draft Amendment No 810 Madam President, I request that EUR 16.5 million be approved in commitment appropriations for this line in place of the amount proposed in the amendment by the Committee on Budgets.
We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendments to Section I.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group I should like to ask, on the basis of Rule 115(3), that we should first vote on the fifth paragraph of Amendment No 899 relating to the link with the Members' Statute.
The Court of Auditors' report indicates that this is no longer acceptable.
What we need to do instead - and this is what my group has decided - is to formulate a proposal based on the Rothley report that Parliament can then put before the European Council on 11 and 12 December in Vienna.
We are therefore prepared to approve the Rothley report as the basis for an interinstitutional agreement.
I think we would then be on the right road towards, firstly, dismantling an untenable system and, secondly, establishing the Statute for Members. (Applause) Mr President, yesterday in this House Chancellor Klima of Austria made it clear that if there is a proposal from Parliament in time for the Vienna Summit in December, then he will present it to the Vienna Summit.
Mr President, if I have understood correctly, this request has been presented to you pursuant to Rule 115 on the order of voting on amendments.
In the Committee on Budgets, this problem had already arisen.
There is no link between the first vote and the vote concerning the statute for Members.
The statute for Members is a different matter altogether.
I do not think it is necessary to continue this debate because the second paragraph of Rule 115(3) of the Rules of Procedure states, Mr Martens, that the President shall establish that it is not opposed by at least 29 Members.
And I would ask you whether or not you are standing by your position, because it seems clear to me that it will be opposed by at least 29 Members, but I have no problem in counting them.
If you tell me that you are standing by your position, I will ask the Members who are opposed to stand and we can count them in no time.
It is clear that there are more than 25 Members opposed to changing the vote.
Yes, Mr Martens.
After the votes on Draft Amendments Nos 899 and 537 Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to avoid the pervading confusion, I would like both you and us to draw our conclusions from the votes that have just taken place.
In other words - and I am completely in favour of this interpretation - the Bureau's decision of 19 October on a transitional system of allowances is to be enforced.
Exactly, Mr Pasty.
What has been decided is that no remarks will be added which modify the decision of the Bureau.
Draft Amendment No 899 Mr President, we have rejected several remarks regarding particular budget items.
We will not vote twice on the same texts simply because they are in two different places.
Mr President, now that we are about to vote on block 28, I would just say that Amendment No 697 by the Committee on Budgets, which is included in this block, relates in particular to the appropriations under Chapter 21, 'Data Processing and Telecommunications'.
I would therefore ask that these amendments too, Nos 900 and 901, should form part of block 28.
Mr President, before proceeding to the vote on the motion for a resolution, I would like to make three remarks concerning the vote on Section III that we have just completed.
Firstly, I would like to repeat what I said before the vote to the effect that Parliament voted first on Amendment No 888 relating to the strategic reserve, for which the proposed payment and commitment appropriations will now need to be adjusted in terms of the limits of the financial perspective, and leaving margins in each of Categories 3, 4 and 5.
The amounts I propose are: in Category 3, EUR 400 million; in Category 4, EUR 990 million; and in Category 5, EUR 150 million.
I would also like to thank Parliament's services and the staff of the secretariat of the Committee on Budgets for their excellent work, without which this budget vote would not have been so easy.
I would also like to say to the Council that I think we have adopted a budget for the citizens of Europe and to urge the Council once more to conform with Parliament's position.
Mr President, I should like to point out that we have an amendment structure here which was requested by all the groups, namely that by voting for the budget we have also adopted the amendments to lines 3307 and 3308.
On paragraph 21 Mr President, this block contains paragraph 21, which contradicts the position we took when voting on the budget.
On paragraph 30 Mr President, paragraph 30 would also appear to me to contradict the vote we held previously and should, in my view, be removed from the resolution.
To that extent, the text before us is not inconsistent with the decision which we took when we voted.
On Amendment No 4 Mr President, I do not see any contradiction here whatsoever and, therefore, I would prefer that you submitted it to the vote of the House.
On paragraph 39 Mr President, with regard to paragraph 39, on which we are about to vote, I would ask that, in the report which the Commission is to forward to the budgetary authority, it should also give the appropriate information on the situation of the other institutions in the context of interinstitutional cooperation.
I would therefore like to put my opinion on record although, of course, I leave the outcome to the wisdom of the House. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, as you said quite rightly a moment ago, Amendments Nos 1, 4 and 5, which are related to the vote expressed a short while ago on the budget, should now lapse, since they contradict the outcome of the budget vote.
It was nevertheless agreed to enter an oral amendment to the budget resolution, merely stating two points of fact, without adding anything.
The new text of paragraph 8 would read as follows: 'recalls that it has requested the Council to support unreservedly the principle of a statute for Members of the European Parliament, as provided for by the Treaty of Amsterdam; draws attention to its resolution on the outcome of the European Council meeting in Cardiff of 15/16 June 1998, in particular paragraph 20 thereof'.
Mr President, the argument given by our rapporteur is unquestionable in terms of Amendment No 1.
On the other hand, his theory is more questionable in relation to Amendments Nos 4 and 5, namely, our group's amendment and the amendment by the ELDR Group.
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 are not affected by the previous vote and I will put them to the vote after solving the matter raised by Amendment No 1.
Are there any objections to this oral amendment?
However, this whole issue is so controversial that it would be better if we did not actually vote on anything in this connection.
If we accept that Amendment No 1 by the Committee on Budgets was lost, as it was earlier, then we should just accept its loss and do nothing.
There are clearly more than 12 Members who are opposed to this oral amendment, so I cannot put it to the vote.
Yes, there is clearly opposition to this oral amendment.
I just wanted to make it clear to everyone that there was a mistake in the Finnish version.
This will all be looked at very carefully. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Different political groups in the European Parliament will always vary as to how best they feel the European Community budget should be spent at any given time.
There are many people within the European Union, some notably from Germany and the Netherlands, who feel that Ireland should not be given extra resources under the next round of EU structural funds, 2000-2006.
The Irish Government must include concrete proposals in the National Development Plan which is being sent to the European Commission to help combat this problem which is highly concentrated within the Dublin city and county region.
Notwithstanding the fact that Ireland as a country will not qualify for Objective 1 status for the seven-year period post 1999, Dublin city and county still merits the receipt of EU structural funds for particular projects.
The EU budget must reflect this at any given time.
The amendment calling for funds for a project to put an end to violence against women is, however, very much to be welcomed and we therefore voted in favour.
I explicitly voted for actual travel costs to be refunded, yet without linking this decision to the new statute for Members.
This statute is vital if there is to be greater clarity, but the two issues cannot be linked.
I regret that, as a result of this Parliament's vote, a decision by the Bureau is now in the process of being applied.
Anne Van Lancker, Philippe De Coene and I only ever claim the costs we have actually incurred. 2) It is true that there are considerable differences in the salaries paid to Members from the different Member States.
The system provided for in the decision of Parliament's Bureau is excessive, questionable under tax law and therefore unacceptable for the Belgian Socialist delegation. 3) In addition to reforming the travel expenses system, we also need a new Statute for the Members of the European Parliament.
Of course, three votes did receive our approval.
Firstly, we got rid of the reserve for humanitarian aid with Amendment No 784.
Parliament voted by 365 votes to 135 not merely to consign financial aid for Turkey to the reserve but to delete it from the reserve altogether.
More than half of the Community's budget is spent supporting agriculture in the Member States.
It ought surely to be in the EU'S interest to involve the parliaments of the Member States in work on the Union's budget.
We believe that competence for regional policy should be given back to the Member States.
Viola report (A4-0361/98) Madam President, we voted against the Viola report and I would like to stress the main reason for our position on this report, namely, what happened in relation to the reimbursement of travel expenses during the vote.
Amendment No 899 to the remarks by the Committee on Budgets was rejected.
It received only 224 votes.
The amendment by the Liberal Group, which said it was in favour of actual costs, received 214 votes.
Our group's Amendment No 4 to the resolution obtained 143 votes and the Liberal Group's amendment received 188 votes.
We hear talk of the problem of the statute for Members, and of inequality, but the Member States are responsible for the situation of their Members.
It is wrong to claim that the Bureau's decision is a good one.
The Bureau's decision institutionalizes a system that reimburses fictitious costs.
The outcome of the vote is that the decision of 19 October by the Bureau of the European Parliament, as unjust as it is hypocritical, will enter into force and will benefit even further those Members who already receive too much in terms of travel expenses.
Through this decision, Members will receive a distance allowance that is, in truth, an additional salary and Members who already receive the highest parliamentary travel allowances provided by their national parliaments will be entitled to this allowance.
Subsequently, I voted for Amendment No 4 to the motion for a resolution on the budget of the European Parliament, an amendment that could have repaired the damage done if it had been adopted.
In connection with this year's budget round, the issue of Members' travel allowances has once again been raised.
We very much regret that not even Amendment No 3 on 'greening' the administration of the EU institutions was adopted.
The EP's total expenditure on premises in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg amounts to ECU 149 610 706.
Meeting of heads of state and government Madam President, I voted against this resolution because it goes completely in the wrong direction and totally ignores the citizens of the Member States and their rights and the rights of national parliaments which are much closer to the people than the European Parliament or the European institutions.
It is extremely important that Member States allow their citizens to have as great as possible a role in decision-making and that national parliaments should have the right to scrutinise all the EU institutions.
As regards the role of the common foreign and security policy, it is clear that Parliament and the EU institutions are obsessed with the development of a common defence policy, yet the question of whom we are defending ourselves against has never been clearly answered.
Last but not least, the resolution puts economic and social cohesion and the European social model on a par with democracy, human rights and the market economy as the fundamental elements of the new constitutional pact being worked out in the European Union.
Whatever committees we work in, the political future of Europe concerns all of us as Members of the European Parliament.
In 1999, national currencies will begin to fade out and the euro will take over.
At the same time, the European Union is protecting peace in Europe.
European policy on these matters has been inadequate.
The introduction of the single currency will only increase this need further in social and fiscal matters.
The Europe of Citizens only has meaning if it refers to a project that allows Europe to respond to the everyday concerns of its citizens.
Raymonde Dury, my predecessor in this European mandate, was fond of saying that if the European Union as an entity asked to join the Union, it would be refused on the grounds that it was not sufficiently democratic.
We are a unique showcase in history as the whole, the European Union, is less democratic than each of its parts, the Member States.
This is why the main aim of the institutional reforms must be to build true democracy and to achieve even greater efficiency.
This democracy and this efficiency will only be achieved in Europe by means of a federal model.
In this model, the Commission would become a true government.
The European Parliament would become a first chamber representing the people.
The Council would become a second Chamber representing the Member States and their bodies.
The entire structure would be founded upon a true European constitution.
Democratization must therefore go hand in hand with a streamlining process, based on fundamental changes within the three major European institutions.
The main aim of reforming European policies is to increase efficiency.
In a European Union with 500 million inhabitants spread over the whole continent, all European initiatives must be reviewed.
The role of the European Union needs to be reduced in certain cases and increased in others.
As a result, the European Union is still too weak in its fight against the negative social and cultural repercussions of globalisation.
On the other hand, some of its forms of intervention, and occasionally some powers, have lost much of their meaning.
Certain forms of intervention must be reviewed, such as those relating to the fight against social exclusion, to social, environmental and fiscal matters and to agricultural policy.
The alternative resolution from the EDN Group is much better, since it calls for a strengthening of democracy and the application of the subsidiarity principle, as formulated in Cardiff.
Our premise is that the EU should function on the basis of cooperation between independent states.
The EPLP voted against Amendment No 40 to the fourth indent of paragraph 18, extending the responsibility of the Court of Justice to all areas of EU competence.
The EPLP supported Amendment No 19 to paragraph 22, which called for a more effective focus on crisis management and conflict resolution, and greater coordination of EU Member States' defence policies in pursuit of the effective realisation of the Petersburg Tasks.
The EPLP voted against paragraph 23, which calls for the next revision of the Treaty to be prepared using the Community method.
The implications in financial terms and in employment terms affect several hundred European businesses in the wood sector.
Therefore, we must know how to act in this respect and take measures that will preserve human life but that will not condemn a sector that employs a large labour force.
If we act hurriedly and without proper judgement then thousands of jobs will be a stake.
It is also important in this field to ensure that precautionary measures are harmonised for all countries in the European Union and for all businesses, no matter what size they may be.
I voted in favour of the Correia report.
We have therefore voted for all species of hard and soft wood to be covered by the directive.
The limit is lower in many Member States, and the Commission has not given any scientific justification for its choice of 5 mg/m3 .
We have voted for the maximum value to be reduced to 1 mg/m3 and for the Commission to be required to review the question of maximum values two years after the directive has been implemented.
Paasilinna report (A4-0328/98) As a consumer I am glad that new technologies are opening up new possibilities such as the opportunity to use the Internet for telephone calls.
The possibilities for this kind of 'convergence' between different sectors of the communications industry are exciting.
Amendments Nos 1 to 15 are nothing other than a necessary cancellation of the conservative-liberal 'carvery party' organised by the majority within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in the Paasilinna report.
Amendments Nos 18, 19, 20, 21 and 23, tabled by the Confederal Group of the European Left - Nordic Green Left - are already covered by the text of the report and/or the aforementioned amendments.
The proposal will in fact ensure that the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) holds a considerable currency reserve in the transitional phase between introduction of the euro and its final implementation.
The introduction of the euro on 1 January 1999 will mean that part of the current reserves of the national central banks (NCBs) will cease to count as foreign currency reserves and will become de facto internal assets.
Nonetheless, the fact remains that the NCBs will still have considerable foreign currency reserves, particularly in dollars and in gold, but also in IMF reserve positions and in SDRs.
Given that the NCBs are transferring the equivalent of 50 billion euros to the ECB, a considerable amount of currency will be left in the NCBs' accounts.
If these interventions exceed a certain amount, each NCB will have to obtain the approval of the ECB.
In the resolution our colleague Mr Giansily is submitting for consideration, the question is being raised of how the introduction of the euro on 1 January 1999 will affect foreign currency reserves currently held by Member States participating in the euro.
Article 30 of the protocol annexed to the EC Treaty on the Statute of the European Central Bank states that, in proportion to their share in the capital of the ECB - their share of Community GDP and of population - the national central banks shall transfer foreign currency reserves to the ECB to a total sum of approximately ECU 50 billion.
So, given that European economic integration and the introduction of the euro will reduce extra-Community transactions and exchanges, one amount, estimated at ECU 80 billion, appears to be rather excessive!
The bank funds of USD 200 billion which are available in the medium term are certainly not chicken-feed!
I believe that this resolution is couched in very carefully considered terms in which we confine ourselves to welcoming the arrest of General Pinochet in London and urge the Spanish Government to hasten the extradition procedure, once the judicial authorities have submitted a formal request, in order to ensure that General Augusto Pinochet appears before the Spanish courts.
There is a reason for this which is that dozens of Spaniards were among the many people murdered during the Pinochet regime; it is estimated that over 3 000 people were murdered during that black period in the history of the delightful country of Chile.
We now find ourselves in a European judicial area.
We have gone beyond the borders of the Union as both the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and the new Amsterdam Treaty of 1997 lay down principles of judicial cooperation and, above all, the new Article 31 of the Amsterdam Treaty provides for cooperation in the field of extradition.
That person was Carmelo Soria, an international official of the United Nations.
The endeavours made in this House to see the authors of this crime brought to trial in Chile have been to no avail, despite a number of promises, and now we have the opportunity, through collaboration between the authorities of different countries of the Union, to bring the main culprit of this and over 30 000 more murders before a Community judge, before a Spanish judge.
I think that the least we can do in this Parliament is to ask that General Pinochet be made appear before a Spanish court to answer for these crimes.
Mr Medina, you know that our group has been most adamant in condemning the regime of the dictator Pinochet, but the motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist Group urges the Spanish Government to take steps to ultimately request extradition and that is simply not necessary because the Spanish Government - as you well know - has already expressed, through its President, its respect for the decisions of justice and of the relevant courts.
I hope and expect that all these positions in particular, together with others contained in the amendments tabled by my group, will receive the support of the majority in this House.
However, if anybody is using this initiative to conceal the hidden, unacknowledged intention of causing problems for the Spanish Government, I would like them to know that it is very sad, and also very revealing, while also being completely useless.
It is as if following the Second World War, Belgium had made Léon Degrelle a life senator in order to shield him from legal proceedings by that very act.
Our joint resolution calls on the British authorities to seek a favourable outcome to a possible demand for General Pinochet's extradition.
Twenty-five years ago, Pinochet violently destroyed the Chilean democratic system, causing the death of President Salvador Allende and thousands of Chilean and foreign citizens, including dozens of Spaniards.
Let us look at a number of symbolic cases: the singer Víctor Jara, the United Nations official Carmelo Soria, General Carlos Prat in Argentina, and the diplomat Orlando Letelier in the United States.
It was made possible by the fact that, for some time, individuals and organisations have not lost hope and have worked tenaciously towards this end.
Human rights associations, the Salvador Allende Foundation under its President, Joan Garcés, and the Spanish United Left have all been involved, from the outset, in lawsuits concerning the disappearance of Spanish citizens in Chile and Argentina.
The request to arrest and extradite Pinochet is based on a separate proceeding by the Court of First Instance No 5 of the Spanish National Criminal Court, at the official request of the United Left, on the basis of the documents on the so-called Operation Condor in the Southern Cone of Latin America.
It is to be hoped that this signal will help the Chilean people to complete their process of democratization.
Mr President, we Greens welcome the arrest of Chile's former dictator Augusto Pinochet in London.
Mr President, the case of Augusto Pinochet is a model case in every respect.
The charges hanging over him do not all carry the same weight, in particular the genocide charge, which could well prove to be questionable.
In spite of all his efforts, Pinochet did not become Adolf Hitler.
This arrest, as well as encouraging those who long for peaceful justice, has also sent out an interesting warning to those who have ordered, supported and encouraged other crimes against humanity on this continent.
The Spanish legal system will do its best with this case, but we cannot fail to acknowledge that legal and political powers will unfortunately weave a tangled web around it.
Never has the need for a permanent international criminal court been so glaringly obvious, a court protected from all forms of pressure and one that will allow this type of situation to be handled in the best possible manner in future.
I am sure they will do that thoroughly.
Mr President, it is appropriate that we have a debate here on those events; they are very significant events concerning an issue which we have been concerned about in this Parliament for over 20 years: human rights.
EU citizens were affected by what happened in Chile, citizens from almost every Member State.
The events are straightforward: following an initiative from a Spanish judge, General Pinochet was arrested in the United Kingdom under an international extradition warrant; he has no diplomatic immunity in that country; the Spanish Government has 40 days in which to respond.
The European Parliament is not a court of law.
There will be no verdict during our debate on anything that General Pinochet may or may not have done.
The law should take its course to deal with the terrible crime that Pinochet perpetrated in his own country against thousands of his own citizens.
Mr President, the fact that the dictator Pinochet has been arrested and that a warrant for his arrest was issued by Spanish judges is important and excellent news, because it is high time that a dictator who was behind so many crimes - in this case, in Chile - ceases to be able to travel with impunity in his own country and throughout the world.
And in this respect, I believe that this has been an extremely important decision.
During this debate in the European Parliament, I, for my part, would like to express my support for the action that has been taken and to urge that any extradition request submitted should be granted, in accordance with judicial decisions.
I would like to remind you of the names of Joan Alsina, a Catalan priest who was killed by machine gun fire in Santiago de Chile under General Pinochet's dictatorship, and Joan Olidon, from Valencia, who disappeared during the early days of Pinochet's dictatorship.
The memory of these names will, I believe, prompt all of us to condemn what took place during those years in Chile.
Mr President, the arrest in London of the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet, on a warrant issued by the judge Baltasar Garzón, has fulfilled the two aims pursued by the immense majority of European public opinion of bringing to trial a person guilty of crimes against humanity and of beginning to break the previously armour-plated glass of impunity.
I would hope that General Pinochet, from the luxury of the London clinic, is reflecting on his failure to apply the rule of law to the citizens of Chile in 1973 when he was installed in a coup by the American CIA, with, I have to say, British collaboration.
The question is what we do with him now?
Perhaps we should try to find some more creative radical solutions.
The CIA which installed him originally in the 1970s like to look after their own and there is a suspicion that the Americans are leaning on the British Government to let him slip quietly back to Chile in the night.
Whatever his current detention in London leads to, at least history will remember the victory of memory over amnesia and will vindicate, albeit symbolically perhaps, the just and innocent victims of Pinochet's ideological ignominy - after all, these people have been hoping for even just a modicum of justice for the last 25 years.
It is the justice system that must take the relevant decision and we all hope that that decision will indeed be just.
And I would also like to say, in connection with a remark that we just heard that is clearly related to domestic politics in Spain, that President Aznar has already stated in the clearest possible terms that he will abide by the decision of the justice system.
We hope there will be effective cooperation not just between those two countries, but between all the Member States.
Judicial cooperation in the defence of the values that are inherent in the construction of Europe is a foretaste of what will happen when the International Criminal Court becomes operational and justice will not have to wait until the dictator of the day takes a trip to Europe.
This case offers us the opportunity to show unambiguously to the people which side each of us is on: on the side of human rights or on the side of judicial subterfuges in the interests of those who violate human rights.
As socialists, we are on the side of justice and in this respect we are going to vote in favour of the joint resolution by the Group of the Party of European Socialists and other political groups in this Parliament.
General Pinochet has ultimate responsibility for a dictatorial regime that killed, tortured and led to the disappearance of thousands of people.
Impunity cannot and must not exist in cases of such flagrant violation of human rights.
Unfortunately, international law has long protected situations of this nature, but collaboration is increasing every day and we are building a world in which the free movement of persons goes hand in hand with increased police and judicial collaboration that could reduce crime.
In this respect, the action of the Spanish justice system is commendable - and I certainly welcome it -, as is the effective collaboration with the British justice system.
The poet Neruda might have been able to alter one of his poems in the light of this situation to say that he could write the most joyful verses tonight.
I hope that justice and international collaboration will bear this out.
What matters here is not the reputation of one man or one government, but our future chances of a proper institutional structure for this planet.
Mr President, the European Parliament is a political body.
It is pathetic to say that actions such as those carried out by the European Parliament against impunity stand in the way of the advent of new democracies, just as it is false to say that this resolution constitutes interference in or pressure on the judicial machinery of a given European country.
To engage in politics is to assume a position, to take sides, to make a choice, and the European Parliament takes the side of democratic reason against obscure reasons of State.
Why is it, Mr President, that when reasons of State run counter to the defence of human rights, we defend a given State, as opposed to the concept of a state's rule of law?
Mr President, as we close this debate, ignoring certain requirements that are as dissonant as they are senseless, what is the leitmotif of this resolution?
It is that the defence of human rights, Mr President, is the basis of our ideology and the foundation of the judicial order both of the Union and of the various Member States.
It is that Parliament must certainly shun any opportunistic voluntarism that detracts from the impact of a statement that, when all is said and done, involves almost 300 million European citizens.
Parliament must restate its defence of the principle of universal justice and its commitment to the International Criminal Court and we must also restate our unequivocal support for the society and democratic authorities of Chile in their process of consolidating democracy.
Madam President, the aims of this report are to review the current situation in the nuclear energy industry with regard to decommissioning, to bring a wider awareness of the strategies, techniques and costs of this part of the nuclear cycle and to make suggestions for further action at a European level.
The fact is that not only does the industry know how to dismantle a nuclear power station but dismantling has been done safely and successfully to 'green field' status.
The experience gained in the many decommissioning projects already undertaken shows us that the cost is known and calculable at around 15 % of construction costs.
The report calls for action in a number of areas which come under the general heading of public awareness.
The report also reminds us where the responsibility for decommissioning and its financing rests, namely with the operators within the Member States.
Yet the fact is that once a reactor has been defuelled, by far the greater part of radioactive material has been removed and 90 % of what is left of the structure of the power plant is not radioactive and can be recycled safely.
There is a debate about which strategy should be adopted, namely whether to proceed in phases over a longer period of time to allow residual activity to decline and make dismantling even less of a risk or to carry out direct or accelerated decommissioning to reach that 'green field' status as soon as possible.
The report calls on the Commission to study the various options to see how they might best be applied to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe where most help should be concentrated.
The fact is that whatever your views may be on nuclear energy, this part of the cycle cannot be abandoned or shirked.
If we are to stand a chance of meeting those Kyoto CO2 emission targets, then we must continue to generate nuclear electricity, safe in the knowledge that we know how to decommission the power plants.
Secondly, the whole question of how one disposes of nuclear waste.
Had all those things been discussed, the optimism would have been much less.
The links between the nuclear power industry and the nuclear weapons industry for many years led to an ethos of tremendous secrecy and a refusal to admit anything could ever possibly be wrong.
That should not be in his report.
We know how you cut apart pieces of metal and how you transport them; but we do not have a publicly-acceptable solution to what happens to the radioactive part of nuclear power stations.
I do not see either that it is appropriate in this report to talk about 50 to 60 years' extension of nuclear power plants.
Mr Chichester may hold those views, but they were not for this report.
I think that the main issue in connection with the closing down and decommissioning of power stations relates to the closing of the cycle.
Some countries say that they are going to decommission power stations, but I seriously doubt that they will do so for another 30 or 40 years.
The United States is extending the life of its nuclear power stations up to 40 or 60 years.
It would be most important to internalise the cost of decommissioning power stations in electricity generation as a whole.
Oil platforms, for instance, are to be decommissioned: a number of such procedures have already been approved for companies in the North Sea and there are several Commission communications on the subject.
I know this because Spain is decommissioning the large, 460 Mw Vandellós 1 power station, because its technology is obsolete - French technology using natural uranium that was not considered very useful - and not because of any nuclear problems as such.
Madam President, nuclear power is an outmoded energy technology.
Madam President, in 1997 there were 128 nuclear power plants operating in the European Union and 39 were in the process of decommissioning.
The Chichester report, drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, highlights the fact that the efforts made at Community level, particularly as regards research on decommissioning nuclear power plants, have allowed us to reach a high level of expertise.
Yet even more effort can still be made, as the report shows, in order to reduce health risks and to promote the recycling of material obtained from decommissioning.
Nuclear power, which generates up to an average of 35 % of the electricity used in Europe - and more than 75 % of the electricity used in France - is an advantage that should not be dismissed but rather developed.
Environmental constraints, especially the importance of decreasing greenhouse gas emissions, have given nuclear energy a new lease of life as it is the least polluting form of energy.
Finally, in the face of threats that have become more real due to the liberalisation of the energy sector - set in motion by the directives on gas and electricity -, I believe it is very important that Member States are able to maintain their sovereign right to opt for the energy form of their choice.
Yet we have before us a report drawing attention to a common need to ensure that power stations are decommissioned safely, because people's health is at stake.
International rules must continue to be applied and short- or long-term storage monitored until the risk is completely eliminated.
Madam President, during a previous debate on nuclear power, I expressed a certain number of concerns about this form of energy.
If we make the same mistake with nuclear power stations, we would inevitably have similar results.
Transparency in terms of the cost of nuclear power is also a fundamental issue, because we cannot carry out a fair comparison with other forms of energy until the cost of nuclear power has been accurately calculated.
I am pleased that this need is being increasingly recognised.
In the European Union we have about 130 nuclear power stations, 19 of which are in Germany.
We must stop focusing our attention on the development of new safety technology designed to ensure that the nuclear plants will still be operational in 100 years' time.
For example, the continuing operation of the Koslodui nuclear station in Bulgaria is a permanent nightmare for my own country, but also a direct threat to the whole of Europe because of the huge risks related to its operational safety.
Since 1991 the European Union has granted more than ECU 50 million from PHARE for improving the station's nuclear safety, and more than ECU 70 million for the adoption of short-term urgent measures in the traditional energy sector.
There is therefore a clear need to shut the station down immediately and to decommission the more dangerous reactors 1 to 4.
In any case, the Bulgarian government committed itself to that in the agreement on subsidies from the European Investment Bank for the upgrading of units 5 and 6.
Madam President, today nothing is more important for Europe's citizens than avoiding another Chernobyl, which is what could happen if the dangerous reactors at Koslodui continue in operation, not to mention other Soviet-design nuclear reactors still operating in Europe today, with all the dreadful consequences we already know so well.
We must therefore act very promptly before it is too late.
I think we must applaud the governments in the Union, or at least those which say they are coming round to this view, as happened recently in Germany.
Madam President, I welcome this report by my colleague Mr Chichester.
However, I would like to point out that this applies as much to the Member States of the European Union as it does to countries that share our borders.
As well as the concerns that have already been expressed, I should like to draw the Commission's attention to paragraph 15 of my colleague's report which calls on the Council and Commission to encourage the closure of unsafe nuclear power stations in Europe.
The Commission is well aware of the industrial and ecological challenges that have to be faced in our Member States in connection with the decommissioning of nuclear power stations or other nuclear facilities.
At the present time, some 110 nuclear installations in the European Union are being decommissioned, although the preparations for decommissioning are at widely differing stages.
The planned enlargement of the European Union will further exacerbate the problems, because there will then be a need to decommission nuclear plants that do not necessarily meet the generally recognised safety standards.
In view of the large quantities involved and in an effort to develop more and better cooperation among the Member States and harmonisation within the Union, the Commission advocates the establishment of some general guidelines for the decommissioning of nuclear facilities.
In paragraph 6, the rapporteur stresses how important long-term technical aid is to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
The fourth Commission report outlining the present situation and assessing future prospects with regard to the disposal of radioactive waste in the European Union should be published by the end of the year.
Like you, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission takes the view that the question of funding as well as the possibilities of reducing quantities of waste and cutting the cost of decommissioning are among the main related issues to which paragraph 8 refers.
The Commission will take these facts into account in the preparation of its communication on decommissioning.
At the present moment, however, the Commission is not in a position to make any forecasts about extending the useful life of nuclear power stations, the issue that is raised in paragraph 14.
Thank you, Mr Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Madam President, I think we have achieved a good compromise on this report.
But, in these circumstances, it was difficult for me as rapporteur to draw any final conclusions as regards the environmental effects of this programme.
I think it should be borne in mind that a good evaluation requires explicit evaluation criteria, and I also think that in the future the objectives should be stated more clearly than has been done hitherto.
I will also say that the Commission's report contains a number of very, very positive effects in a large number of areas.
The Member States have indicated that it may be attributable to factors such as start-up difficulties, incomplete information on the programmes, lack of national cofinancing, and it may be due to a lack of willingness on the part of farmers to commit themselves for such long periods ahead as are necessary to take part in these schemes; there have also been complaints that the remuneration arrangements did not cover expenditure during the conversion of production.
We are thus in the situation that nothing is really happening in those areas where these schemes are really needed.
The problem with the present scheme is that it clearly cannot pay farmers applying intensive farming methods to avail themselves of these programmes.
On a somewhat more critical note, I must say that, on the basis of the information I have received from the Commission, which has been very open on these matters, I get the feeling that a number of the things that have been carried out as a result of these schemes, for example conservation measures, would have been carried out anyway.
This means that some people have received money for doing something they would have done in any case.
It may be difficult to tell exactly whether that is the case with these schemes, so I will say once again that we look forward to getting a proper evaluation.
Community co-financing in the Objective 1 area is 75 %, and 50 % elsewhere.
The report states that agricultural land has been reduced in three countries by around 0.95 % to 1.35 %, and in other countries the amount is noticeably less.
In the absence of such information the European Parliament is unable to give a clear evaluation of the effectiveness of the measures taken, which have cost the Community approximately ECU 0.8 billion over the period 1993-1997, and which, if we include the contribution made by the Member States, totalled around ECU 1.8 billion in all.
My colleague, Mr Iversen, has produced an excellent report on the latter.
Member States are obliged to observe the regulation within the framework of the principle of subsidiarity, but they apply it according to their own priorities.
In practice the regulation has had a significant effect in four Member States: Spain, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Portugal, which account for 81 % of the total EU hectarage quoted, or approximately 500 000 hectares.
During the implementation period, the total area covered by the whole of the EU forest improvement programme was around 185 000 hectares, and 7 312 kilometres of lumber truck track were constructed.
It would seem that Member States have applied the regulation according to their own forestry and environmental policies, without paying attention to the original purpose of the regulation or its policy on agriculture.
We must return to this issue again when discussions are held on the legislative proposals for Agenda 2000.
Madam President, I wish to say first of all that this own-initiative report on a new strategy for mountain regions in Europe goes back quite a long way and picks up on previous work which clearly needed updating.
I would recall that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development held a hearing on mountain regions, and in particular on hill farming, on 27 January 1997.
This study - and indeed this initiative - starts from the premise that mountain regions account for 30 % of the territory of the EU and 20 % of its usable agricultural area, a sizeable proportion where life is extremely difficult, moreover.
As I indicated earlier, the European Union has already adopted a strategy for lessfavoured areas, which include not only mountain regions but also Arctic areas and coastal areas threatened by desertification.
The regulations on the CAP accompanying measures date back to 1992; now, in 1998 and six years on, this is our first across-the-board assessment of these measures.
The new regulation on rural development does include the actions contained in Regulations 2078 and 2080, and yet we have three areas of doubt.
Secondly, Regulation 2080 is still overshadowed by the ambiguity concerning Community actions relating to forestry per se - it is true that the Community has no direct competence here, but we said in the Thomas report that a whole series of measures could be introduced at Community level - and compensatory allowances for non-food production, for example that of timber.
Thirdly, the new Agenda 2000 proposals provide for cross-compliance which is left rather too much to the Member States' discretion.
The track record of Regulations 2078 and 2080 should be assessed, maintaining some common rules which leave scope for independent initiative by the Member States.
Madam President, Commissioner Fischler, the agricultural environment programmes of the European Union have met with widely varying responses from one Member State to another.
In your home country, Commissioner, 86 % of farmers welcome such programmes.
Three years after the entry into force of this environmental regulation, the Commission has now presented the European Parliament and the Council with an assessment of the way in which the regulation has been applied.
That is why I believe it makes sense for us to deal jointly with these reports on forest and mountain regions in terms of these factors too.
For these important reasons, I too am committed to ensuring that agricultural activity is maintained in naturally disadvantaged regions as well as in good farming areas.
In that respect, Regulation No 2078/92 makes a very important contribution to the stabilisation of rural areas.
Agreements under measures contained in the CAP reform have been signed with only 17 % of all EU farms, and environmental aid is only going to five countries.
We all know that this is not enough to solve the forestry problem in Europe but it can, at least in countries like mine, withdraw certain marginal areas from production.
As far as my friend Mr Santini's report is concerned I have to say that Mr Santini is more Tyrolean than Italian.
That is why, out of my friendship for him and my great respect for his work in the European Parliament, I proposed that he should also look at mountains in arid and semi-arid areas.
I succeeded in tabling some amendments and he kindly took them on board.
But I think that they should be paid more attention because, as a rule, science pays attention to the rich areas because it is paid to do so.
That is why I would call on the Commission to think about much more comprehensive studies of the real situation in Europe.
Madam President, Commissioner, I believe that the three reports that have been presented to us are particularly important when considering the Union's policies.
In fact, they question which agricultural and forestry policies would be more ecological and would ensure the best use of land, as well as the maintenance and development of human activities.
The decline in agricultural activity has often transformed agricultural areas into fallow land and wild forests, which are not valued and are extremely prone to fires, particularly in southern Europe.
Alternative policies do exist.
In the largest cultivated forest in the Union, in the south-west of France, as in Mediterranean forests, implementing new resin production techniques could bring people back to the now deserted areas.
These are only three specific projects that reflect the spirit of a policy that would allow the financial resources committed by the Union to be used to meet the needs of our society.
Madam President, thank you for the ten minutes.
First point: We must remind ourselves clearly of the aim of these accompanying measures under Regulations 2078 and 2080.
The intention was to compensate for this, which is why Regulation 2080 gives farmers the opportunity to afforest land that has been taken out of production.
That was the aim behind these environmental measures.
The fact that it has now developed into an innovation programme - and this is my second point, Mr Fischler - has nothing to do with its aims, but rather with the way it has been used by interested parties.
Existing regulations on agri-environmental and afforestation measures should be made top-level priority in this area.
In so far as it is true that in 1992 these regulations represented real attempts to better incorporate less production-orientated attitudes, it is also worrying to see today that they have had mixed, even negative, results.
With Agenda 2000, a fundamental reform is necessary to improve food safety, particularly in meats.
With animal nutrition lacking 70 % protein, the European Union is still running the risk of possible international embargoes.
The CAP must incorporate both economic and social considerations as well as aspects relating to the environment and rural land-use planning in the Union.
Yes, Mr Iversen, you are indeed right to regret the fact that the Commission has decided to merely provide a summary, and not move on to a true assessment.
A simple European forestry strategy would be sufficient to encourage us to produce wood in Europe in a sustainable manner and to reject imports from tropical or boreal forests that often come from felled areas.
We must, of course, fight for a substantial increase in financial resources, but we need the European Union to demonstrate a true political will in order to ensure the success and widespread adoption of these measures.
It takes extra money to develop into new areas of production because of the cost of new buildings.
Madam President, I would like to make a reference to the Rules of Procedure pursuant to Rule 102, as the amendments relating to this resolution are not available in French.
I am quite happy to say that I would willingly vote in favour of this resolution but I believe it is absolutely impossible to express an opinion when the amendments are not available in all languages.
I cannot find any of these amendments in our documentation, and now I hear that the administration has declared them inadmissible, as it were.
Let me ask you this: since when has the administration had the power to decide which dictators and ex-dictators we may and may not pursue?
The administration does not decide whether or not an amendment is admissible, but the President himself.
Madam President, I never questioned the existence of a French version of the amendments.
I simply said that this version was not available.
But, besides all this, I question the reasons why we are deciding, and I wonder on what authority we are deciding, that the amendments relating to certain dictators are admissible, whereas amendments relating to other dictators are not. (Applause) You may table as many motions for resolutions as you wish, but this time we are dealing only with a single person, and nothing else.
Before the vote on Amendment No 8 Madam President, when we make mention here of our commitment to the principle of universal justice and, consequently, call on the competent authorities to interpret it in accordance with the principles of the Treaty on European Union, I would like to add after 'competent authorities' the words 'in particular those of Spain and the United Kingdom', which are the authorities involved in this matter.
I am sure that the Socialist Group will understand, since it is entirely logical, that both the Spanish judicial and government authorities - the latter having the authority to convey the judges' request - and the British authorities - which have the authority to grant extradition - are those involved in this case and, consequently, will accept this obvious reference to them. (Parliament adopted the resolution) That was recital G.
The decommissioning of nuclear power stations is going to become an increasingly important industry in the future.
Here perhaps is a nuclear issue - how to retire nuclear plants safely as they reach the end of their useful life - which can unite us all!
I back the principle of this report that such work is best left to national authorities and the industry's expertise rather than the EU.
Madam President, in the context of agriculture and the environmental impact in different terrain, I have to say that all the arguments put by Mr Santini apply equally to less-favoured areas.
Young people - parents - are leaving the rural areas for the towns and their place is being taken by retired people or those who use rural areas as dormitories while their economic activity takes place in the town.
We have to ensure affordable public services in all these rural areas.
One way we can help is to find better methods of compensating rural inhabitants for the provision of environmental services.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I speak from experience when I talk about this programme, because we have been working with this Regulation 2078 scheme on my farm since 1993.
In my own federal state of Baden-Württemberg, this programme has gained wide acceptance, but the level of regional cofinancing is very high at 50 %.
Madam President, Commissioner, it is absolutely vital to discuss the Commission's report on forestry measures promoted as an alternative use of agricultural land, before taking a decision on the proposal for a significant increase in afforestation aid as part of rural development policy under Agenda 2000.
Tens of thousands of hectares are destroyed every year throughout the European Union, especially in southern areas and more disastrously still in Greece.
The Commission report unfortunately does not analyse the beneficial effects of the agri-environmental measures on the environment and the countryside.
I would therefore urge the Commission to produce a detailed evaluation report as soon as possible, and certainly before any final decision is taken on a new programme.
Madam President, it is probably appropriate today that we have a group of visitors in the gallery from the lovely country of Scotland, which is our key forestry area in the United Kingdom.
In fact some people responsible for saw mills say that it is the worst situation they have experienced in 45 years in the industry.
The market for British wood - and only a tiny part of the British market is actually supplied from within the UK - has actually contracted by some 25 %.
There is real concern for the future of our wood industry.
The environmental scheme serves the purpose - as I believe it should - of providing supplementary income in regions where incomes are so low people would move out in greater numbers if that scheme did not exist.
As regards afforestation, some aspects of afforestation are popular with rural dwellers.
In Ireland we lamented the loss of our forests 200 years ago, and today farmers resist afforestation as some sort of evil.
Nevertheless the forestry scheme that has been introduced by the Commission has encouraged forestry in the farming sector and has improved - and will continue to improve - the environment, as well as helping to reduce surpluses in all parts of the Community.
Madam President, the package of three agri-environmental reports under discussion is an extremely interesting one.
The word 'forest' carries with it different images in different parts of the European Union.
In central Europe the forests are mainly recreation areas and parks, where people can interact with the countryside.
In that sense, I think that its success was limited from the start so far as forests and their development in the European Union are concerned.
My second point is that it is a pity the European Union does not have a forestry policy and unfortunately, in the absence of an EU policy, there are countries such as Greece whose forests are being devastated and which also have no forestry policy.
In that sense, I cannot agree with Mr Otila's report, and in particular paragraph 8 in which he seems to assume that there will not be a forestry policy in the European Union.
Madam President, I have a few points about the accompanying measures designed to promote environmental protection and conservation.
We could well imagine that, if the support we are discussing today is maintained, the idea of sharing political and financial responsibility between the EU and the Member States could also apply to some of the income support provided for under the 1992 price support reductions and subsequently under Agenda 2000.
In that case, the environmental criteria would not need to focus so much on extensive farming, but would cover all farms applying what we now call good agricultural practices.
Actually, even Regulation 2078 seems to have been inspired not just by environmental criteria, but by social necessity too.
Mr President, Commissioner, what is sadly lacking in European policy is the ability to confront the problems faced by citizens living in a rural environment, and mountain regions are part of this environment.
The more poor people there are in the towns and their suburbs - often called shanty towns - the more insecurity there is and the more police officers or security guards are employed, and this also comes at a high price.
The decline of agriculture in mountainous regions has also led to an increase in the number of avalanches, particularly in northern areas.
We should pay shepherds for services to the environment, we should pay them in order to save a considerable amount of money.
Commissioner, I am also counting on you and on your collective intelligence to achieve this and so allow the rural world in general, and less-favoured areas in particular, to be transformed from the dead weights they were to a catalyst for the harmonious development of all our peoples, throughout Europe.
That is unfortunate because it is difficult to promote them as measures before we have some sort of evaluation.
There are also some serious questions relating to planning because some of the afforestation is also unsightly.
The main focus of the report is certainly on the question of evaluation.
That is also the principal concern of the Commission itself.
Before I deal with these matters in detail, I should like to draw your attention to some basic facts of agri-environmental policy which are also recognised and confirmed in the Iversen report.
First of all, the main principle underlying our policy is that we should pay the farmers for their environmental contributions, not in the form of so-called income-support grants but as remuneration for the work they do, as reimbursement of their increased expenditure and as compensation for loss of income.
Fourthly, the various rural development measures and the market measures contained in the common agricultural policy must be more effectively integrated and coordinated in general terms, just as we have envisaged in our Agenda 2000 proposals.
In my view, the minimum standard must be good farming practice.
In a world that is increasingly ruled by competition, farmers must necessarily minimise their costs.
Let me now deal with the question of evaluation to which I referred.
I welcome Parliament's interest in this matter, because that really does help us to impress our positions more forcefully on national and regional authorities.
The Commission has already taken important measures with regard to the evaluation of agri-environmental schemes.
And in addition, we have included in the implementing regulation a provision which unequivocally lays down the Member States' obligations in the field of evaluation.
Most of the programmes they are implementing were not launched until 1995 or 1996, and it is only logical that a certain time has to elapse before measurable results actually start to emerge.
We therefore expect another large batch of reports in the coming year.
As far as the findings of these reports are concerned, I can well understand why Parliament is becoming impatient as it awaits the results of these important measures.
I must point out to you, Mr Funk, that responsibility for drawing up these programmes already lies with the Member States and regions.
This report contains numerous relevant points, some of which have already been incorporated into the Commission proposals for Agenda 2000.
However, the Commission cannot endorse all the conclusions of the parliamentary report.
As we argued in our report, afforestation of farmland is a lengthy process.
With regard to the forestry strategy of the Community in general, and in particular the question whether forestry activities should be governed by Community legislation, the Commission will also shortly reach a decision on such a forestry strategy, which will likewise be communicated to Parliament.
The difficult conditions in which farmers work in mountain regions also warrant special consideration in the common agricultural policy.
However, we must not overlook the fact that there are other regions which have to struggle with specific problems, such as Nordic regions, dry areas and places with various other types of natural disadvantage.
This is clearly reflected in the wish expressed by individual Members that this report should be extended to arid and semi-arid or Arctic zones.
Allow me, in response to this report, to outline to you the way in which we intend to approach the problems of mountain areas in Agenda 2000 and the solutions we are offering.
The place of mountain areas in the new provisions on rural development is therefore secure.
Madam President, Mr Fischler has said nothing about the question of funding.
It seems to me that the political assessment of these measures we are discussing here is often dependent on this figure of 50 %, and we should agree here on a lower national and regional cofinancing rate, so that the programmes will actually be accepted.
Madam President, may I begin by reminding the House in quite general terms that environmental policy and environmental measures in the agricultural sector cannot be a matter for the Community alone, but must also be a concern of the Member States and regions.
With regard to cofinancing, then, let me point out that we already have 75 % Community funding in Objective 1 areas and 50 % in the other areas.
Since we are seeking to extend these measures, and since I also have the impression that the Member States are availing themselves of these schemes more and more frequently, we have laid down in the Agenda 2000 proposals, under which these environmental measures would be integrated into the overall rural development programme, that the cofinancing of environmental measures should at all events remain at 50 %, because in other situations, for example development aid for the less-favoured areas or mountain regions of many countries, the Community cofinancing rates fall considerably short of the 50 % mark.
In that respect, environmental measures outside the Objective 1 areas will certainly attract a higher cofinancing rate in future than other rural development measures.
Thank you, Mr Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
If this were to occur in the average small municipality, in the treasury of a county town or in any other town hall or city chambers, the mayor or members of the administration would face suspension from office in countries where the law so provides.
In this context it would be advisable, if only for educational reasons, to prescribe cofinancing in future in the realm of the EAGGF.
The present legal position - and this is the crux of the problem with this whole business - is that these funds have to be returned to the Member States.
But the agricultural budget is not a cash box; it is the principal means of preserving the rural areas of Europe for those who inhabit them and for everyone else.
For that reason, I have proposed in the report that an annual reserve of ECU 1 billion should be created from the agricultural budget.
If there is a surplus at the end of the year, this reserve should be used to improve the rural infrastructure in general and above all to fight unemployment, which naturally exists in rural areas too.
We also need - and this, of course, is something we have been discussing today - a new integrated policy for the less-favoured areas.
By that I mean not only employment in agriculture or related sectors, but also high-tech jobs.
Advanced technology does no harm to rural areas.
We have actually talked enough about all these principles.
These areas account for 80 % of our European territory.
Let us create a future for our rural areas, and then we shall preserve Europe.
The Commission's report on agricultural expenditure for the financial year 1996 is in many respects an excellent report.
We need to create a system that can also function.
No doubt there are many explanations, but I really think the Commission owes us an answer as to what it considers the explanation to be.
Nonetheless, the share of agricultural spending in the general budget dropped by 1.2 %, from 51.7 % to 50.5 %.
For example, I would like to ask the Commissioner how it is that Austria, in only three years, has virtually caught up with Germany in terms of Regulation No 2078, that it is drawing dangerously close to Germany in Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development-environmental accompanying measures and is well ahead of France and the other countries.
However, this and much else besides has already been stated by the rapporteur, but I regret that I cannot agree with him on paragraphs 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of his report, which will not be supported by myself nor my group.
You cannot just say that all sectors must receive an equal percentage of the agriculture budget.
However, I would really like to know why certain environmental measures are successful in some countries but not others.
Most farmers are prepared to fill in as many forms as necessary to get whatever support or aid they require but there is an argument that the forms could be easier to complete.
I am sure the Commissioner is aware of forms which are highly complicated and technical.
I know these forms assist in controlling fraud but there should be a greater degree of flexibility at local level.
Mr Mulder raised the interesting point of why some national governments are more successful than others in bringing in the environmental measures.
Yes, it is about 40 % of the Community budget at the moment but that reflects more on the size of the Community budget than on spending on agriculture.
If the policy did not exist, if we left it entirely to market forces, there is no question but that the flight from the land would have been very much accelerated.
It is disappointing, of course, that we have not succeeded in stabilising the number of people living in rural areas.
Similarly, today we are spending about the same amount of money on the policy as we spent 15 years ago, but only half the number of farmers are involved.
We did have a rise in the agricultural guideline, precisely because the reform of the CAP, with the aforementioned new criteria, resulted in the aid available to the Member States being fully utilised for the first time, and because the European Union increased in size from 12 to 15 Member States on 1 January 1995.
However, if we measure this rise against the increase in the general budget, we find that agricultural expenditure has declined by 1.2 %.
We shall no doubt have ample opportunity here in Parliament to discuss the future shape of the EAGGF in the framework of Agenda 2000, and I therefore take the view that points 11 and 12 do not belong in this report on the financial year 1996.
But when I am asked why the environmental measures and the accompanying measures have been so successful in the country with which I am undoubtedly most familiar, my reply is that there seem to be are two decisive reasons for this.
When I was appointed Minister of Agriculture in 1989, I inherited a budget of two million Austrian schillings for the promotion of organic farming, and when I left the Ministry a few years later some 270 million schillings had been earmarked for that purpose.
The second significant reason is simply the fact that there is a social consensus in the country on the need to take an appropriate degree of national responsibility for conserving the countryside and safeguarding sustainable forms of agriculture.
Raising the requisite funds to cofinance these measures has never really been a problem in Austria.
This is equivalent to the Community's financial obligations in the agricultural sector for about two days in the year.
We want to eliminate these problems and have adopted a number of measures to that end.
Then we are supporting the Member States as they try to solve their verification problems; this support is provided through measures covered by budget chapter B1-3600.
On the question of imbalances in our financial support, a point raised by several speakers, I should like to emphasise that we have addressed this problem in our reform proposals.
The market situation is good and well balanced for many products I can think of, particularly wine, fruit, vegetables and other - mainly specialised - types of produce, and producers can secure an appropriate level of income by selling in these markets.
As for the more technical issues concerning the budget guideline and the expenditure forecast, I am interested in the proposal for the establishment of a general budgetary reserve covering the estimated funding requirement but within the guideline framework.
To that extent, the repayment rule contained in the regulations is justified, and it would no doubt be very difficult to have this rule amended.
Thank you, Mr Fischler.
The debate is closed.
