Mr President, the strategy adopted hitherto by Parliament as regards the effectiveness of Union policy in the areas included in the third pillar has been to request immediate application of the transitional clause set out in Article K.9 and, at the same time, renegotiation of the third pillar.
In Declaration No 31 on asylum annexed to the Final Act of the Treaty on European Union the Council is asked to consider questions concerning the asylum policies of the Member States with the aim of adopting, by the end of 1993, common action to harmonize them.
If Parliament were now to insist on immediate application of Article K.9, it is very probable - as the Commission itself says - that we would create complications with regard to the communautarisation of certain matters and give the impression that we consider the existing procedure satisfactory, whereas, in fact, everyone is aware of disadvantages that the application of Article K.9 would present.
The Intergovernmental Conference should consider resolving the problems of internal security and making the appropriate amendments to K.9 as one of its most important tasks.
Mr President, Commissioner, my dear colleagues, prior to the summit in Dublin of 13 and 14 December 1996, President Jacques Chirac and Chancellor Helmut Kohl jointly signed a letter to the Irish president.
In this letter they pointed out that current dispositions and procedures provided for by the Treaty on the European Union and governing cooperation in justice and home affairs are insufficient.
It is in this spirit that the Council of Dublin set up, in a concrete way, a working group on judicial cooperation, in order to establish a practical point of view, an ad hoc list of dispositions for combatting cross-border crime, drugtrafficking, etc.
This is the condition sine qua non for a Union in closer touch with its citizens, and therefore a more popular Union.
Mr President, I will begin by giving our support to the Lambraki report.
The procedure provided for by the Maastricht Treaty, and in particular in its Article K9, does raise problems which must cry out to us greatly as parliamentarians.
This report highlights in particular the way in which national parliaments should be able to engage in the parliamentary follow-up of European dispositions, particularly in the discussion of conventions concluded within the framework of the third pillar.
The difficulty lies in the fact that once the dispositions are ratified, European parliaments make an act of faith in the creation of a new European law while depriving themselves of parliamentary control.
And I think that is one of the points which deserves discussion within this Parliament.
Needless to say, Mr President, we are all against the creation of a pillar 1A, the effect of which would be to deprive the European Parliament of its rights and its prerogatives in terms of control.
If the Intergovernmental Conference had to respond to our wish, expressed by a very large majority of our Parliament, we would be able to say to the citizens of Europe that we had succeeded in curbing this dual deficit of democracy and parliamentary control, for this control should be the norm in our parliamentary system.
But we must also resolutely attack the philosophy of this debate.
We always say that Europe means more freedom for its citizens.
Instead, we must argue about the third pillar when it becomes a pillar 1a, as it is really communitized, so that we have European controls exerted by the Parliament and the European Court of Justice.
What is more, the application of Article K9 would have fallen far short of the resolution of all the problems encountered in this domain, particularly with respect to the powers of the European Parliament.
This declaration of principles coincides with points of view expressed many times over in our Assembly, but sadly, this objective meets strong resistance from certain Member States and national parliaments, and I am thinking in particular of the French Parliament.
There is, therefore a democratic deficit at national level, which must be compensated for by progress in democratic control at European level.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cohn-Bendit has described this debate as resembling a comic opera.
Article K9 died of its own inadequacy.
K9 has demonstrated its total inadequacy and is now the subject of discussions in the negotiations of the Intergovernmental Conference.
But even if nothing really new arises at the Intergovernmental Conference regarding the transfer of responsibilities from the third pillar to the first, even then we cannot invoke Article K9, because it has proved unwieldy.
If the Treaty is essentially maintained in this form after the Intergovernmental Conference, there will be no way of avoiding either a severe conflict with the Council or an interinstitutional agreement which clearly regulates when Parliament is to be informed on matters relating to the third pillar and, above all, when we are to be consulted.
With great care and sensitivity, of course, in regard to the matters that previous speakers have raised, and provided that we do everything that is necessary to ensure that in giving the European Parliament and the other institutions the potential for effective intervention and monitoring we do not create a new democratic deficit.
Firstly, as we have heard, the Council must act unanimously in order to transfer the powers listed in K1(1) to K1(6) and having agreed the transfer, the Council must then refer the matter to all fifteen national Parliaments so they may ratify the decision.
Theoretically we could have other voting systems but in practice we then have unanimity for any matter transferred from the third pillar to the Community pillar.
K9 is clearly not a panacea for the problems encountered in implementing the third pillar.
We would be so horrified that month-in month-out we would be passing urgencies in this Parliament condemning the situation.
The Commission and the Council of Ministers have studied the possibility of applying Article K.9 on two occasions.
The second time was in November 1995, when the Commission presented a report to the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament which recommended that Article K.9 should not be applied.
It is our opinion that the European Parliament should have its say on all matters covered in the Third Pillar, including budget matters in which Parliament itself must play a full part.
The debate is closed.
Yesterday in the House of Commons John Hume our colleague tabled a motion supported by many Members from different parties asking for a new international tribunal to investigate that event.
Considering that we are voting on the Reding report on terrorism today, it would be appropriate for this House to commemorate and pay tribute to the victims of state terrorism, as well as all forms of paramilitary terrorism in our fight to ensure that people's lives and the right to life is secured for ever.
It is worded as follows: ' - having regard to its resolution of 25 October 1996 on the communication from the Commission on the implementation of technical measures in the common fisheries policy' .
Therefore I am going to put amendment 3 of the Group Union for Europe to the vote in the wording we know.
That makes it absolutely clear that what I have just said is covered by this report.
Then I can take back No 1 and we could then vote jointly on No 11.
I am therefore asking the Assembly, in slight anticipation, whether it has any objection to there being an oral amendment to amendment 11. (The Assembly did not oppose the proposal) Mr Schulz, you may therefore withdraw your amendment.
Madam President, regarding the oral amendment proposed by Mr Schulz.
Well, it would be interesting to see our colleagues from the Christian Democrat and Union for Europe groups, who abstained or voted for the report, explaining to those who elected them that they voted for the right to vote for nonEuropean foreigners in local elections in this way.
We note in it that the European Parliament wishes to 'point out the positive contribution which immigrants are making to European society' (amendment 8), that it 'calls on the Member States to develop their immigration policy in close connection with an adequate integration policy' (amendment 2), an integration policy which is itself made explicit by amendment 5: the European Parliament 'calls for non-Community immigrants to enjoy equal treatment with regard to economic and social rights, and the recognition of civic, cultural and political rights, including the right to vote in local elections for those who have been resident in a Member State for more than five years...' .
This year, this rejection will take on a particular meaning and profile, with the official announcement, on 31 January, of: 1997, European Year Against Racism, in The Hague.
It is important that the European Union should have proclaimed 1997 'European Year against Racism' .
Fisheries Council In respect of the vote which we have just held on the Fisheries Council, my Group welcomes approval of Amendment No 5 tabled by the GUE/NGL Group, but I am personally upset that Amendment No 7 tabled by the same Group was not approved.
There is also considerable international cooperation on Forestry Policy within the FAO and ECE for example and well developed international cooperation concerned with mapping forest damage in Europe.
A joint forestry policy would be of doubtful value because there are such different problems in the countries of the Union.
If all the proposals are passed, the Union's expenditure will increase by 350 million ECUs.
Reding report (A4-0368/96) My reason for abstaining in the final vote on this report is two-fold.
Europol must not become an 'EU-FBI' .
With this in mind, I have voted against the report.
Valverde López report (A4-0396/96) There are two important reasons for voting against this report.
In this area the Commission ought to adopt a pragmatic approach.
On this point the Commission should give us some alternative proposals.
The debate must begin on the problems of the real cost of transport within the European Union.
The Schmidbauer report can contribute to it, and that is a further reason for supporting it.
The Danish social democrats welcome the Commission's Green Paper and Barbara Schmidbauer's report in the debate on the area of transport.
Common viewpoints arrived at through interstate agreement are a better way of resolving the issues taken up in Article K1 in the long term, than decisions adopted by a qualified majority.
