Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, despite the Maastricht Treaty, social policy has been something of a poor relation in European policy.
In response to the Commission communication, we have today tabled a second report, following the first report on the future of social protection in Europe which was adopted by a substantial majority in February.
We now have before us a report which looks at the problems more specifically, under the title 'Modernizing and Improving Social Protection in the European Union' .
As in the first report, I have once again insisted on the urgent need to shift the tax burden from labour to other resources.
Furthermore, both committees are expressing general public opinion in Europe when they argue in favour of a shift of the tax burden from work to, for example, environmentally unfriendly use of energy.
The code of conduct to combat illegal tax competition is a step in the right direction.
Therefore, we call upon the European Commission to revise Regulation 19/71 on the coordination of regulations in the field of social security for people moving to another Member State within the Union.
The internal market may have been largely achieved in terms of goods and capital, but it is far from a reality for people who earn their living outside their native land.
In conclusion, I am glad to say that we are very pleased with the points that have been included by the Committee on Economic Affairs in the report, apart from the point on capitalization systems in connection with pensions.
That is employment.
By having so many people unemployed in Europe, the income for our welfare system is also lower than it would have been if we had been able to reduce unemployment and increase employment.
I think the future of social security is one of the most important subjects for the European Union in the next few years.
There needs to be better coordination between the different systems in view of the free movement of persons and workers in Europe.
Now that social security reforms are in progress in many Member States, a common convergence strategy should be worked out in more detail.
I ask the Commission to waste no time in taking a view on bridging these main differences in European social security systems.
Sometimes completely, sometimes partially but others cannot be insured at all or only at much too high a price.
The second problem arising from subsidiarity is paying for social security.
The Group of the European People's Party will support Mrs Weiler's resolution and requests the Commission to come up with a proposal to bridge the differences between the European social security systems.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our social security systems were designed just after the Second World War.
Finally, it is even more difficult to face up to the social challenge because it involves rebuilding social cohesion in our societies.
I actually think this is indispensable to prevent social dumping within the Union and make the single currency a success.
But our social security systems must also be natural solidarity systems.
I think natural solidarity, and in particular a strong family policy, should be actively supported alongside structured social security, to promote a more human, more flexible and less expensive approach.
Families with children in our Union should be assisted because of the contribution they make to renewing society, investing in the future and keeping our economies dynamic.
But we will vote for this text, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, remembering our duty to our children and in the hope of leaving them a Europe with more to offer.
Mr President, the best way of protecting social security systems is to create jobs in Europe.
The second point I want to make is on pensions.
The Committee on Women's Rights raised the issue of day nurseries.
People have a right to a minimum subsistence income.
In Denmark we have a relatively large public sector, and most welfare benefits are still a national responsibility.
We need a social protection system that recognizes that many people, especially women, face poverty after retirement because they have not had the opportunity to build up occupational pensions and a social protection system that values the children of Europe and is concerned that too many of them, for example one in three in the United Kingdom, are still growing up in households which are below the poverty line.
This report points up crucial areas for action and I hope this Parliament, by supporting the report, will make a major contribution to the modernization of social protection systems that demonstrate our solidarity as Europeans.
Mr President, our communication on modernizing and improving social protection in the European Union builds on the framework for a European debate on the future of social protection that was launched in October 1995.
And finally, while in accordance with subsidiarity, Member States must decide what to spend and how to spend it.
First, the need to adapt social protection to new ways of working and to refine our systems so that they are more effective in helping people get into and stay in the labour market.
The Ecofin Council met yesterday and it was a good discussion.
We are looking forward to the meeting of the Social Affairs and Labour Council today and there will be the jumbo meeting of Ecofin Ministers and Ministers of Labour on 17 November, leading on to the Social Partners Summit and thereon to the summit.
The third challenge is to promote equal opportunities by adapting social protection systems to reflect and promote the increasing participation of women in the labour market, whether through enhanced care provision or a move towards individualization of rights.
In conclusion, this communication sets out an ambitious and progressive agenda.
The results are already visible in the employment guidelines and I hope the Commission can rely on the continuing support of Parliament in driving this process forward.
I thank the rapporteur and her colleagues for their support in this regard.
Thank you, Commissioner Flynn.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. 1996 report on competition policy The next item is the report (A4-0316/97) by Mr Areitio Toledo, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the XXVI report by the Commission on competition policy -1996 (SEC(97)0628 - C4-0209/97).
Mr President, as my group leader has just explained, an unfortunate accident has obliged my good friend and colleague, Mr Areitio Toledo, to return to Spain.
And last, but not least, compliance with the market share threshold of 40 % for licensees, especially when collaborating with small and medium-sized enterprises.
Lastly - and I hope the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs will also draw attention to this - it calls for an adequate balance to be struck between the different interests of the parties involved in the processes of notification and granting access to files on companies: there is the general interest of knowing what Commission decisions are based on, and the interests of the company concerned, especially as regards its industrial secrets.
And this lack of information, this omission, is all the more serious because the amount of state aid is growing and its impact on competition is increasing.
In this connection I would like to highlight an important point: although the report underlines the usefulness of aid in the common interest, in important fields like regional assistance, research and development, small and mediumsized enterprises, training, energy, energy saving and the environment, it deplores the fact that this type of horizontal aid in the general interest is decreasing while aid to individual companies is increasing.
And it does so, Mr Commissioner, because the latter type of aid has a distorting effect on competition within the internal market and vis-à-vis international markets.
Another important point, Mr Commissioner, is that a balance must be struck between restricting the type of aid which may prejudice the internal market, and ensuring that European industry is not penalized in relation to nonCommunity companies.
Madam President, first of all I would like to point out that it is extremely important for the Commission to use every means at its disposal to ensure that there is real competition in the EU.
We strongly question whether there is a legal basis for the Commission's communication of 10 July 1996, that is, for the part concerned with reductions or exemption from fines in certain cases.
Therefore it is also important that these parties have rights.
As this is one of the mechanisms that enables us to control the Commission - and, specifically, the Commissioner, or the services responsible for competition policy - I should like to emphasize the good judgement of the Commission and the Commissioner in appearing before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in relation to this report.
In the short time available to me, Madam President, I should like to make just three points.
Secondly, at a time when public sectors or parts of public sectors are being privatized, I want to stress the need to analyze the other concentrations of interests to which the outflow of public capital from these sectors can give rise.
This is an extremely important question, because we are making progress with the single market, and we are making efforts to improve public finances through convergence programmes, yet we may find ourselves with a mechanism which distorts the internal market and could mean industrial development is not viable in a large number of areas, especially the European Union's most neglected areas, because of Member States' unequal ability to finance aid to enterprises from national budgets.
On the other hand, increased competition should generate economic activity and create jobs.
Lastly, a paragraph which is particularly important to the Socialist Group, and which is included in the report, concerns the need for increased and more effective coordination of the different policies involved: economic, competition, industrial, internal market and trade.
It would be illogical for the European Union to endeavour to implement transparent competition policies if distortions were still being produced in other countries and other economic sectors.
We would be doing our industry - and therefore employment and the social development of the Member States - a disservice.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to contribute a few fundamental comments to this debate on competition, on behalf of the European People's Party.
Reducing subsidies in Europe would lead to more rapid structural change, thus creating more jobs than any employment summit.
The principle of an open market economy with free competition embodied in the EU Treaty is a permanent remit and needs to be worked towards every day both in this House and in the Member States.
Madam President, at the outset I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report which had the unanimous approval of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
The search for better economic and social cohesion in the Community, the reduction of differences between the regions, in particular promoting and ensuring the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, paying more attention to the needs and prospects of research and better protection of the environment are just some of the important objectives the European Union needs to keep constantly in mind.
These objectives are just as important for my county and my constituency in the north-west of Ireland as they are for any other part of the Union.
The search for equal opportunities for small businesses and the development of a better competitive market are essential for the proper functioning of the single market and the creation and maintenance of employment in the Community at international level.
For our part, because of globalization and changes taking place in production, it is necessary that a new approach in the Union's competition policy be defined which takes into account an increasing role for the World Trade Organization but which does not jeopardize certain fundamental policies.
As regards the internal market and the applications of article 85 and 86 it is important that the principle of subsidiarity be borne in mind in relation to antitrust rules with a view to seeing which cases are covered by Community competence and which are better handled by the Member States.
A European market in which our businesses can operate freely without obstructions and unfair competition, guarantees growth and new jobs.
Closer cooperation between international bodies such as the WTO is required, and the national competition authorities in Member States should play a greater role as a decentralized part of the administration of the EU's competition policy.
In the face of globalization, it is also essential that the new countries of Eastern and Central Europe fully enact, implement and abide by the EU's competition rules.
Madam President, in its policy on competition the EU must pay greater attention than it does now to the important basic aims of the European union, which are contained in articles 2 and 3.
In this connection my group are asking for better balance in Union competition policy.
Madam President, the competition policy of the European Union will in the near future experience the consequences of so-called globalization more emphatically.
The Member States of the European Union still give too much state aid to companies.
The bankruptcy of one firm helps the other players in the sector.
And how can anyone fail to see that the oligopolies will not be beneficial either for the economy or for the consumers?
But I want to stress right away the importance of strengthening our research programmes, both national or European.
This is something fundamental for the future of our economy and our industry.
They are particularly significant and always topical.
To conclude, I would say that, if state control has demonstrated its limitations - and it has virtually disappeared from four-fifths of the planet anyway - total liberalism, on the march in Europe for twenty years, is demonstrating its own limitations too, with 18 million unemployed, exacerbated insecurity and encroaching poverty.
So we must find an intermediate model - I am not the only one saying this - a European model where employment is an end, competition a means, and universal public service an important factor in the necessary solidarity.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, in your introduction to the report you quite rightly pointed out again that competition policy and free competition are not an end in themselves, and I am grateful to the rapporteur for emphasizing that.
In this way competition policy can indeed be a factor leading to higher employment in the European Union.
I would like to see the employment summit in Luxembourg on 20 and 21 November focussing not just on labour market policy measures, but also on improving macro-economic guidelines.
I would also like to touch on two other points in this context.
For example, I regard the World Trade Organization not just as another organization, not just as another partner organization alongside the OECD, but as a partner for us and our interests.
Madam President, it is unfortunate that the Commission is not in a position to present an overview of state aid, although it accounts for 1.7 % of total gross domestic product.
The very fact that 51 % of EU citizens receive some kind of aid is contrary to the spirit of the internal market.
Madam President, first of all may I warmly congratulate Mr Areitio Toledo.
Certainly there is divergence of views on this or that point, pertinent questions have been raised, but we recognize that, overall, there is quite a large consensus on competition policy between us all the same.
Answers, Madam President, very quickly.
In fact, we have always said it was necessary, in the funding of public agencies, to compensate them for the public service obligations they have, but without going further than that, because competition must remain fair.
It is quite possible that the public authority could give certain public banks, sometimes even private banks, certain obligations to be fulfilled.
We know them, but we give less to objectives of this kind, although they are good objectives, than to enterprises in difficulty, to which we give much too much, for too long, to keep them alive, considerably distorting competition in relation to other enterprises.
The rapporteur gave impressive figures.
Now this rate is close to 36 %, while aid granted for really laudable purposes like environment, research and development, or small and medium-sized enterprises is falling.
In the secondary sector, they only receive 8 % of the aid.
The bulk of state aid goes to countries like France, Germany and Italy.
In a few weeks time I will present a document to my fellow Commissioners which not only sets out the problems that exist in several countries, but tries to bring forward a coherent approach for all the cases in the fiscal sector.
Madam President, many other wholly pertinent questions have been raised, but I would like to state my disagreement with the amendment tabled by the Liberal Group.
We have in fact drafted a communication on what is called "leniency' .
Madam President, I will stop there, because I can see that I have gone well over my time.
The debate is closed.
So I would like to make it clear that we can vote the same way.
The wording is more consistent and radical as far as the role of the European Court of Justice is concerned.
I would therefore recommend that Mr Chanterie accepts my oral amendment, adding the words 'and therefore demands his resignation' after the word 'responsibility' .
I would then withdraw my original text and accept Mr Chanterie's amendment.
So I request that we put Mr Chanterie's amendment to the vote in the original text, and then, because it will not get a majority, vote on my original text for paragraph 29. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, in a spirit of compromise my group wishes to withdraw Amendment No 50 and support Amendment No 4 tabled by the ELDR Group.
This will help the House and should be taken first before Amendment No 8.
Mr President, my group also wishes to support Amendment No 4 and we feel that it is better to deal with it before Amendment No 8.
Mr President, I wish to support Amendment No 4 which stresses the importance of continuing to recognize the unique nature of the fisheries sector which as a result demands special treatment within the Community legal framework.
Mr President, as rapporteur for this report, I have to say the following: everyone present knows that drafting this report was a very complicated affair, and that the compromise eventually reached is extremely delicate.
And, as rapporteur for this report, I have to say that I find it very odd that new compromise proposals should now be put forward at the moment of voting.
Secondly, Mr President, I wish to say that Amendment No 8 by the Socialist Group, which is the one that your rapporteur supports, refines and improves paragraph 2 of the compromise text, whereas Amendment No 4 is diametrically opposed to it.
Does it make sense for Parliament to have 10 more roll-call votes in order to confirm and reconfirm the same results?
Point 12 says that we must refer the decision to the Commission and Court of Auditors.
I would simply like to specify that, for several months, the Committee on External Economic Relations has been doing serious, realistic, pragmatic work on a highly important subject, and in speaking of foreign investment or relocation we cannot forget the consequences which this may have, notably on the economy of the European Union, at the social level, at the monetary level, etcetera.
But I must insist - with due respect to Mrs Weiler: there has not been a vote on paragraph 15 in the original as a whole.
Mr Mann, once we accepted Amendment No 22, it replaced that paragraph.
We cannot put a paragraph that was replaced to the vote again.
On Amendment No 21 Mr President, yesterday evening I agreed with the spokesman of the Group of the European People's Party that in the third line, after 'social security rights' , the words 'for example' should be inserted, as examples are given.
As a result, amendment 21 has been withdrawn and we will insert "for example' in paragraph 21.
I shall put paragraph 21 to the vote with the rapporteur's amendment.
In any case, I would like the second part to be put to the vote, so that discrimination in social security systems against people of the same sex who cohabit can be voted on.
That meant paragraph 15 was not put to the vote as a whole.
We would like to thank the rapporteur for the report.
The definition of the technical specifications of the future euro coins has led the Sub-Committee on Monetary Affairs of the European Parliament to ask an interesting question: is there really any point in working on defining and manufacturing the hundreds of billions of coins which would be needed in a traditional monetary system, for the deadline of 1 January 2002, when this system will be made obsolete between now and then by the development of electronic money?
The European Parliament has just accepted this, grudgingly.
The way in which this whole issue has been handled by the Commission should give rise to concern about its competence and integrity.
Because Sweden is not going to participate in the introduction of the euro in 1999 (if EMU happens at all), I am abstaining from the final vote on the report.
I would apply this point of view to the position of the Council on this directive on the burden of proof in cases of discrimination based on gender.
For several reasons.
The opposition of one Member State prevented this happening on a strong legal basis, notably articles 100 and 235 of the EC Treaty, which required unanimity.
Today concessions are being made because the same Member State has decided to adhere to the social provisions of the new treaty and accept the directives already adopted.
The Council explains that it was necessary to find a solution which takes account of the position of this Member State.
As a result almost all the amendments from the Committee on Women's Rights have been rejected, even those which the Commission had accepted at first reading.
By reducing the scope of the directive, in disregard of Court of Justice precedent, by not respecting the criteria established by the Court in the definition of indirect discrimination (capital in this directive), by totally overlooking positive action measures accepted by the Commission, etcetera, the Council is asking us to endorse an empty shell.
For these reasons we cannot vote in favour of the Ghilardotti report.
The technical balance of biodiesel is not very convincing, but I would like to think the gain lies elsewhere, in environmental balance, for example.
At the same time, the amendments put forward help tighten up the Commission's proposals considerably.
At present, renewable sources of energy account for just 6 % of total energy consumption in the Union, which is totally unacceptable.
When debating the Commission's Green Paper on renewable sources of energy, the European Parliament recommended introducing a requirement that at least 15 % of European energy consumption should be covered by renewable sources of energy by the year 2010.
An even better alternative energy supply could be established without problems.
As the rapporteur has also said, there are serious grounds for criticizing the funding of Alterner II.
The total budget for the first two years is just ECU 30 million.
Imaz San Miguel report (A4-0303/97) We would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
Amongst other things, the former corapporteur of the fisheries monitoring group (in respect of the developing countries) said in early November that five very large Dutch boats could catch 250 tons a day.
Mr President, as a logical extension of our vote in favour of the Schulz report and the many debates we have had since the terrible Dutroux affair, I would like to make the following suggestion: removing from article 6 of the new treaty on non-discrimination the very ambiguous concept of sexual orientation, because it can justify anything, and keeping to what already appears in this article, that is, non-discrimination based on gender.
In this most fundamental area of human relations, as in other human relations and all social relations, what protects everyone, children in particular, is the law and what allows abuses and exploitation is lack of legislation.
I did not vote for that part of the report and I would not like my final vote to be taken as signifying approval of this confusion of domestic political demagoguery with one of the most important issues in Europe.
Mr President, I would also like to explain my vote on paragraph 29 of the Schulz report on the resignation of Judge Wathelet.
I do not think the European Parliament has done any good by accepting this paragraph.
Next year there will be another judge who does something that Parliament does not like and then we will again decide by a majority to make this other judge resign.
From the formal point of view, the European Parliament has no authority in this area.
But there is no fundamental difference between Amendment No 2 and paragraph 29, only a difference in gradation.
I voted in favour of the report by Mr Schulz on combatting sexual abuse involving children.
But I want to express my deep regret at seeing the European Parliament demand, on the occasion of this report, the resignation of a judge at the European Court of Justice because of a decision, which is in no way contested on grounds of legality and regularity, taken by this person in the exercise of his duties as Minister of Justice of the Kingdom of Belgium.
This report, presented by our colleague, Martin Schulz, deals with a particularly serious and distressing subject.
Cooperation in this field with the third countries involved must be established in order to prevent the sexual exploitation of children.
The dual society is gaining ground, producing excluded people and monsters.
The European Parliament can and must make its contribution.
The report by Martin Schulz gives us the opportunity.
Mr President, I very much welcome the production of this report by Mr Schulz.
If the European Union wants to be closer to its citizens, then it should take action in this area as it is an issue of great concern to many parents throughout Europe.
The Schulz report is excellent from the point of view of the measures proposed against sexual abuse of children.
Child sex tourism and sexual abuse of children are an abominable phenomenon.
It is vitally important that Member States give top priority to the fight against sexual abuse of children.
The European Parliament's report raises a number of good ideas on how this can be done.
Fraga Estévez report (A4-0298/97) Mr President, I would like to make a quick comment first of all.
One point of general interest is not mentioned in this report, namely that the problems with fishing policy totally contradict what we were told 15 years ago.
Ireland has 20 % of the European Union's coastal waters, yet we are only allowed 4 % of the total allowable catch.
In many of our coastal areas fishing is the dominant economic activity and consequently a source of local jobs and investment in the local economy.
I regret that the proposal to extend the exclusive zone from 12 to 30 miles was rejected as such a step would have redressed some of the current imbalance from which Irish fishermen suffer.
It is disappointing that the rapporteur chose to put the interests of a minority of Europe's fishermen before any consideration of how fisheries policy could be improved for all our fishermen.
The fishermen whom I represent in Northern Ireland as well as fishermen throughout the UK and the rest of Europe have a right to expect a less prejudiced approach from a committee of this Parliament.
It is quite clear that fisheries is unlike any other economic practice which takes place under the single market and yet the report takes a simplistic line on how fisheries policy can fit in with single market arrangements.
The report is also wrong in giving the impression that the restriction on Spanish vessels fishing in the grounds of other European Union nations will end in 2002.
The Committee on Fisheries has taken the very commendable initiative of developing a view of EU fisheries after 2002.
We cannot accept treating fisheries, as point 2 proposes, "as simply another sector of economic activity, encouraging the capacity of private enterprise to rationalize the industry' .
Similarly, we cannot accept point 17 which proposes "allocating fishing rights amongst fishermen' on an individual basis, and their "transferability' .
The fisheries section of objective 5a has not been renewed.
Kjer Hansen report (A4-0286/97) In the tradition of Agenda 2000, it now appears clear that the Commission, the Court of Auditors and the European Parliament want to make the Phare programme a fullyfledged instrument of the pre-accession strategy.
Weiler report (A4-0291/97) We have heard it affirmed once again during this debate that the euro is the right response to competitive devaluations within the Union.
Social policy is a national matter.
Finally, I want to welcome the idea of incorporating a parameter limiting state aid in the context of the analysis of budgetary convergence programmes.
This report seeks to open up to private enterprise key sectors of the economy with a public service component.
