The Commission's proposal calls into question the Community Customs Code as defined in the original Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92.
The new provisions therefore seem to favour negative changes with a reduction in customs control by Member States, the elimination of jobs for customs agents and therefore an increase in the opportunities for fraud and a reduction in the Community preference.
The Paasilinna report makes at least one necessary change to the Commission proposal on the Community Customs Code.
Añoveros Trias de Bes report (A4-0096/99) We voted against the report, because we are opposed to the legislative model which has been used.
The Commission can also show that considerable progress has been made in these areas.
The second proposal concerns the manning of vessels in regular passenger and ferry traffic.
The rapporteur therefore proposes that we should not make any change in this part before the Commission has examined what effects the liberalisation of passenger and ferry traffic will have.
Amendment No 4 proposes that the economic and social consequences of the liberalisation of cabotage should be reviewed and a report submitted to the Council and Parliament at the latest by 1 January 2001.
Mr President, the Commission rightly points out that there is a problem in the Community maritime sector as regards the decline of the seafaring profession and unemployment in the sector.
I agree with the rapporteur that maritime transport is indeed going through hard times, not just because it faces fierce competition, but also because it is a sector that has really dug its own grave by persisting in its old ways for far too long.
The problem is a serious social one.
As regards the proposal for a directive on manning conditions, it is clear that all seafarers have a right to equal treatment, regardless of their nationality.
The second proposal on manning conditions for ferry services between Member States extends the scope of these conditions to shipping companies established outside the European Union.
Amendment No 2 cannot be accepted as employment contracts are by definition individual contracts and cannot therefore be included in the article in question, where they would be placed alongside universally applicable instruments.
Amendment No 3 cannot be accepted as the right to allow seafarers to reside permanently on board ships, or to prohibit them from so doing, is not a matter which is internationally regulated.
As regards the proposal for a Council regulation, I note with regret that the rapporteur has departed from the Commission's proposal and has opted instead for an alternative text requiring the Commission to submit a proposal for a definitive system of manning rules by 1 January 2003.
Such a proposal would have to be based on the report on the economic and social impact of the liberalisation of island cabotage, which is to be submitted to the Council and Parliament by 1 January 2001.
On 17 June 1997, the Commission adopted a report which among other matters dealt with the economic and social impact of the liberalisation of island cabotage.
The European Parliament asks for the regulation not to be amended before the assessment of the impact of island cabotage is complete.
The debate is closed.
These were the words of Nehru to the Constituent Assembly of the Indian Union on 14 August 1947, a few hours before the proclamation of India's independence.
Life expectancy at birth was 32 years whereas now this has nearly doubled to 62 years.
Illiteracy affected 84 % of the population whereas now over half of the population can read.
However, the figures reveal a population of 970 million, compared with 350 million in 1947, and the World Bank estimates the number of Indians will reach 1.3 billion by 2025, thus exceeding the population of China.
Politically, India can be proud that it is the largest parliamentary democracy in the world.
A new government led by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) emerged from the last elections in March 1998.
We also consider it essential to restart the dialogue between India and Pakistan in order to come to a peaceful solution on the question of Kashmir.
My report also concentrates on development aid which represents 95 % of the European aid granted to India.
We must of course endeavour to help India in every possible way to take the right road, not because we want to control the country, but because we do not want it to make the same mistakes as many countries in Europe have done.
One of the comments I wish to make concerns regional cooperation in India and with countries around India.
The Kashmir question is also important.
I feel it is particularly important for the EU, both in its overall partnership policy and in its relations with India, to be significantly involved in the fight against the exploitation of children.
The contradictions between legislation in this field and the way it is implemented in India are far too great.
The report that we have before us today is a very good example of what precisely has happened.
Mr President, we are seeing on a daily basis that India, the largest democracy in the world, is making considerable progress in strengthening its political, economic and social structures.
As documented in our new external strategy from 1995, we in Europe have a vital interest in fostering close relations based on shared values, fair partnership, economic cooperation with direct effects on jobs, and support for human rights.
The message to both India and Pakistan was firm and simple, namely, that for the European Union, the principle of nuclear non-proliferation is non-negotiable.
In order to put our political relationship with India on a footing that reflects not only the importance of our economic relations but also the status of both the EU and India as global players, it is imperative that we work on increasing our visibility in India.
I, therefore, welcome your support towards setting up a press and information unit in the Commission's delegation in New Delhi, as is already the case in other major capitals.
We must take into account these sensitivities when adopting declarations, especially when exhorting India on the issue of minority rights and human rights in general.
The Commission does not, and never has, side-stepped its responsibilities in this field.
The debate is closed.
Mr Wibe, in accordance with the same Rule that you mentioned, Rule 112 - of which you only mentioned part - in order to request the President to establish if a quorum is present, you must have the support of at least 29 Members.
Mr President, I should just like to make one comment.
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, you have shaken my good faith in you, since I had already told you that there would be no discussion on this matter.
Parliament adopted the resolution Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to join you in congratulating Mrs André-Léonard and in thanking her for her work.
This political dialogue showed us that we can take it as read that we and the Members of Parliament of Bosnia-Herzegovina are determined to work together and that they place a great deal of trust in us as representatives of the European Parliament and the European Union as a whole.
The macro-financial assistance for Bosnia-Herzegovina which we are discussing today is an important element in the European Union's efforts to do its bit for the reconstruction of Bosnia-Herzegovina and to help the country to help itself.
Back in March 1998 the IMF and the World Bank outlined a macro-economic programme for Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Out of this, EUR 30 million is to be given in loans and EUR 30 million in the form of grants.
With this proposed financial assistance the European Union hopes to support the implementation of an economic reform programme comprising a series of both macro-economic and institutional commitments, concerning both the common institutions of Bosnia-Herzegovina and the institutions of the two entities.
It sums up very comprehensively the extremely delicate situation which still prevails in Bosnia and Herzegovina and ways in which the European Union can assist in maintaining what is still a very fragile peace and help to move forward towards the creation of democracy and peaceful cooperation between its different ethnic groups, which we all want to see.
The PES welcomes the full involvement of the European Parliament in this process.
Thank you very much, Mrs Hardstaff.
We shall have to call upon our Union to pursue a clear and unambivalent policy not just towards Republika Srpska within Bosnia, but also in Serbia itself.
Mr President, I will first pay tribute to the rapporteur for what is a good report.
It is a question of creating living conditions for the people who live in these areas, and who must both cope with their own everyday lives and deal with displaced persons and returning refugees.
There is crime and corruption everywhere, even in our own countries, but of course it is far worse in a country whose future is something not many people believe in and who therefore feel that they need to feather their own nests quickly before everything falls apart.
As far as Brcko is concerned, neutrality is certainly better than annexing it to Serbia against the will of the people, but this neutrality can only be a transitional solution.
The Commission is proposing macro-financial assistance for Bosnia-Herzegovina amounting to a total of EUR 60 million, consisting of a loan of up to EUR 30 m and a non-repayable component of up to EUR 30 m.
On 1 January 1999, a single customs code, consistent with European Union rules, came into force, and progress has been made in harmonising the trade regimes of both entities.
Overall unemployment is estimated at between 35 and 40 %.
The Commission supports Amendments Nos 1, 4 and 5.
I would also point out, whilst on this subject, that the macro-financial assistance provided in the form of a non-repayable grant and a loan will be paid into an account at the Central Bank, in order to increase its currency reserves and boost the balance of payments.
The Commission notes Parliament's desire to be informed of the conditions laid down for granting this assistance in good time, and it will therefore forward a report on this as soon as possible, as is provided for in any case in the proposal.
Mr President, Commissioner, I take it from what you have said that you will accept and incorporate all the proposals made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which are now the European Parliament's proposals.
I just have one question regarding Amendment No 11 to Article 5(1)(new): does this also refer to informing the European Parliament before the second tranche of financial assistance is released?
Mr President, as I have already said, the Commission supports Amendments Nos 1, 4 and 5, and I have also stressed that the Commission shares the concerns voiced in many of the amendments which it has rejected but the spirit of which it will bear in mind.
The debate is closed.
