The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media asks that the sum provided for the duration of this programme be increased from ECU 15 to 20 million, a modest increase over the year being in mind the importance we attach to this programme.
We consider, therefore, that of the grand total of ECU 20 million, 5 million will be subject to the revision of the financial perspective.
Thus, I would ask you to change the first phrase of Amendment No 33 as follows: ' the reference amount for the total duration of the programme shall be ECU 20 million, of which ECU 5 million will be subject to the revision of the financial perspective' .
The reference amount for the total duration of the programme shall be ecu 20 million, of which ecu 5 million will be subject to the revision of the financial perspective.
The first part is exactly the same, following on as it does from Amendment No 33.
In any case, the Mouskouri report is another step along the road towards a European Union that respects its cultural diversity and the signs of peoples' identities which comprise it and therefore I hope that the Commission will adopt it.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that the Lomé Convention guarantees the presence in the Union market of traditional banana suppliers from the ACP countries.
You also know that the creation of a common market organization for this product in 1993 affected the position of the traditional ACP banana suppliers in the Union market.
The Commission is proposing that we should extend the period of validity of that regulation until 31 December 1996, for two reasons.
The ACP - European Union Joint Assembly, meeting in Namibia during March, echoed these concerns and, by a resolution of 22 March, indicated its support for a mechanism which guarantees and perpetuates the special tie of solidarity that links the European Union to these ACP countries.
Defence of Regulation 404/93 which is quite relevant as, ever since its approval, the banana COM in Europe has come under constant attack by means of legitimate measures, undoubtedly, in many cases, in most cases, but sometimes using measures that do not seem to be entirely justifiable.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, this explanation of vote will be very brief.
Over a year ago Parliament delivered its opinion on the common organization of the market in wine.
The Commission proposal deals with the amendment of four regulations on wine and sparkling wine.
The European Parliament was consulted on only two of these four regulations.
The Committee on Agriculture considered that in the case of quality sparkling wines the name of the producer must be indicated on the label.
The term 'brut nature' is traditionally used in Spain for sparkling wines.
Those are the main points of my report.
So I hope that Amendment No 10 will play some part in ensuring that this regrettable development stops.
Madam President, this is a proposal for a Council regulation amending four previous regulations concerning provisions on quality wines produced in given regions and on sparkling wines produced in the Community.
We also back the idea on brut nature - which we shall not develop because everyone here knows what it is about - and the solution found for the problem of crémant which created discriminations between different producing regions in the European Union.
Madam President, here then we have four regulations to bring a little order into the confused bundle of legislation in the most delicate of the agricultural sectors: wine and, in particular, sparkling wines.
Of importance in this regulation is the extension granted to 31 August 1998 for the process of adjusting superior wines using products that did not originate in the area of production, albeit subject to drastic limits.
The risk of fraud is always just around the corner and even the smallest concession may encourage it, that is why I have asked that we vote separately on the different parts of Amendment No 10 - the first paragraph is acceptable but thereafter it contains too many dangerous exemptions in regard to other products.
In my constituency in Fowey in the Camel Valley we have excellent wines which are still not able to have those designations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sparkling wines are always associated with festivities and conviviality.
I would remind all honourable Members that it was in 1531 - in the XVIth century - that people in the Limoux region began to produce what was to become the world's oldest dry sparkling wine, even before Champagne, represented by our colleague Bernard Stasi, got to work.
The cooperative cellar at Arques, for example, produces 6 million bottles and serves more than 500 producers.
So it should be clearly understood that a fermentation period of 90 days is a minimum.
Mr President, let me hasten to reassure Mr Martinez.
It is obvious that if we are reserving the designation 'crémant' for quality sparkling wines produced in specific regions which accept very strict production conditions, the corollary is that, for this designation as for the other quality sparkling wines, we must enforce the use of a label bearing the producer's name or company name, which is not to say that the vendor's name may not appear there as well.
As regards the amendments relating to the definition of crémant, about which we have just heard so much, I shall of course be in favour of Amendment No 9, the result of a compromise reached by the Committee on Agriculture, because crémant must remain a quality product and so correspond to specific standards in terms of traditional vine varieties, pressing rates, maximum sulphur dioxide content and maximum sugar content.
With regard to Amendment No 11 tabled by the rapporteur, this states that it is necessary to add 'the name of the local administrative area, or part of the local administrative area, and Member State in which the abovementioned person has his head office' .
However, in other regions, some wine is sold in barrel.
Mr President, as this is my maiden speech I should like to begin by thanking the presidency for their kind words of welcome on 20 May and thank all of my colleagues that I have met here in this excellent Assembly.
This might be the thin end of the wedge and mean that even more than 15 % of other-region grapes could find its way to our cellars, raising problems with DOC.
In any case it is laudable that both the Commission and the Committee on Agriculture are taking an interest in overseeing our wine production and the two million producers in the Union.
It also welcomes the fact that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has approved many of the Commission's proposals without change.
The Commission cannot, however, accept Amendment No 2 on indicating only two vine varieties on wine labels because the indication of more than two vine varieties is now common practice and improves consumer information.
Amendments Nos 5, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18 concern the obligation to indicate the name of the producer or vendor on the label.
The Commission cannot, however, accept Amendment No 5 on a new definition of sparkling wine producers because this definition is confined to sparkling wine produced in specified regions and according to traditional methods of fermentation in the bottle, which precludes from the outset sparkling wine produced in specified regions according to the pressure-vessel method.
The Commission can accept Amendment No 8 concerning the indication of the sugar content of sparkling wines because it clarifies the conditions for the use of the proposed new designation.
Regarding Amendment No 9 introducing additional criteria for the use of the term 'crémant' , the Commission agrees with some of the additional criteria proposed by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, for instance that the Member States must decide whether this term should be used in a specified region.
The debate is closed.
Some time ago, we were defending the Champagne designation - and rightly so - prohibiting even the use of the term 'Champagne-type' .
Today, the problem is crémant, whether it comes from the Loire, the Jura, Alsace, Languedoc or Luxembourg.
That is why we helped to draft, and supported, the amendments setting a maximum content of sulphur dioxide (150 mg/l), a sugar content of below 50 g/l, a pressing rate limited to 100 litres of settled must for every 150 kg of grapes, and wines produced from traditional grape varieties.
The use of the term 'crémant' must always be associated with a name identifying a production region.
The motion for a resolution on flowers and ornamental plants is in a way linked to those two issues.
According to the organizations in the sector, ECU 60 million are required; we know that the Commission is inclined to cut off the intervention at ECU 10 million.
As you know, the Commission has submitted a proposal on measures to promote the marketing of live horticultural plants and goods.
The purpose of this proposal is to support national programmes to promote the use of live horticultural plants and goods produced in the Community, not just in the Union but in third countries too.
The Community budget will bear 60 % of the total costs of the programme, which should amount to a maximum of ECU 10 million a year.
The ECU 10 million proposed by the Commission is, however, comparable to the amounts available for advertising measures in other important agricultural production sectors, such as the dairy sector.
The Commission is assuming that these programmes will have a positive effect on the incomes of the farmers concerned since general advertising measures of this kind have proved successful in the past and have markedly improved turnover and consumer interest in ornamental plants.
Mr President, obviously ornamental horticulture is a sector of high ambitions in many countries which have concluded or would like to conclude a free trade agreement with the European Union.
It has gone unnoticed that the European Union has already granted considerable trade concessions in this ornamental horticulture sector to countries which are actual or potential exporters of these products.
And the European Union has an interest in having free access to third country markets.
Every effort must thus be made to improve the market position of ornamental horticulturalists in the European Union.
The defence of ornamental plant and flower production is extremely important in the European Union and in the country I represent, especially the autonomous region of Madeira.
Mr President, the Commissioner can count herself fortunate this morning.
This sector is currently in some danger, as a result of the conclusion of all manner of free trade agreements which are largely disadvantageous to this sector.
Mr President, ornamental horticulture is having a difficult time at present.
But the 10 million ECU budgeted for it are totally inadequate.
Thanks to the lowering of tariffs on imports from third countries the Commission will lose some 60 million ECU.
The 10 million ECU which the Commission is earmarking for the European promotional fund is in stark contrast to this.
Together with the 40 million ECU which the private organizations themselves spend on marketing and promotion, that makes an available total of 100 million ECU which is still well below the 2 % of the value of the trade which the Commission recommended for this objective in an earlier study.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, I just wanted to say that in my country, in Catalunya and the País Valencià, the production of ornamental plants is an important crop that has replaced other crops for many years now.
The Barcelona Conference was quite explicit on this score.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in my country too ornamental horticulture is going through a difficult period for the reasons already stated but primarily too as a result of the great difference in the VAT rate between ourselves and our neighbours.
The Belgian Government is inconsistent too, because it is not in favour of raising the reduced rate on firewood and wool, principally products from French-speaking Belgium, but is in favour of reducing the normal rate on cut flowers which are principally grown in Flanders.
In order to remedy this situation, a rule was introduced in the EU organization of the market on adherence to minimum prices for products imported from Mediterranean countries together with a protective clause that will be applicable from 1 January 1997 under the new generalized system of preferences.
The debate is closed.
Motion for a resolution B4-0732/96 We cannot support a proposal which seeks to provide support of ECU 60 million per year for horticulture.
Mr President, when the Commission and Parliament decided at the turn of 1994/1995 to grant the Slovak Republic a loan of ECU 130 million it did so with the intention of supporting a positive course of economic reform, in particular by ensuring that it would not be threatened with balance of payments problems.
Slovakia neither proved willing to repeal the protectionist measure of a 10 % import levy nor - which I at least consider even more serious - did it indicate that it was prepared to repeal the change of course in its privatization policy at the time.
But it is without doubt our duty and our right to call, without any arrogance but emphatically, for the establishment of the common economic values characteristic of our Community.
But I can also understand the concern he expressed in paragraphs 9 and 10 of his explanatory statement, both as regards privatization and the accompanying concentration of power in what are possibly the wrong hands, and as regards the political framework conditions.
Mr President, it is of course good news that a country previously promised macrofinancial assistance does not need it and, as Mr Posselt says, the money thus comes back.
It may well be that Slovakia does not need this loan, but it may primarily be a signal from the Meciar Government that it does not need the Union.
The problem is of course that the Meciar Government has so far always ignored the pressure put on it by the Union.
Commissioner van den Broek has repeatedly raised these matters with the Slovak Government.
Moreover, the Slovak Government is not prepared to suspend the 10 % import levy on foreign goods.
In 1995 the Commission held talks with the Slovak Government on the economic-policy conditions to which the loan was to be tied.
No agreement could in fact be reached during these talks because the Slovak Government could not decide to take various measures that the Commission considered essential and in particular, as all the speakers have pointed out, rapidly to abolish the 10 % supplementary import levy which Slovakia has imposed since 1994.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, in March the Council consulted the European Parliament on the proposal for a regulation opening and providing for the administration of Community tariff quotas for certain fishery products originating in Ceuta.
Once the report was assigned to the REX Committee we contacted the people of Ceuta in order to discover the social and economic reality there so that this report would be as objective as possible.
This situation changed after the signing of the Mediterranean Agreement between the European Union and the kingdom of Morocco, setting up a free trade area over 12 years, breaking the previous trade specialisation model and raising problems of the future viability and economic survival of the city.
Although the European Union has co-funded in Ceuta aquaculture activities and has started up a fish farm with genuine success, we think that it should also use - as a tool for boosting the economy and creating jobs- since there is a market - the possibility of adopting customs measures since Ceuta, although a part of a European Union Member State has a separate customs system; especially bearing in mind that extending the quota proposed in this report, together with the REX Committee's own amendments, would not distort the Community sea bream and sea bass market, as these are the products concerned and which enjoy full and growing demand.
The knock-on effect on the g market would be very limited - not to say practically nil - other than in southern Spain.
Therefore the REX Committee is proposing to the Commission and the Council to extend the Community quota for sea bass and sea bream.
That is why we are asking the Commission to draft a technical report in order to assess the effects of the planned trade liberalisation and relations between the European Union and Morocco, that so much affect the city of Ceuta.
This petition would also be extendible to the situation in Melilla.
The Commission's proposal for a new tariff quota for certain fish species merits support, but more desirable still, in all honesty, is a doubling of the quota for sea bass and sea bream, as the rapporteur proposes.
Mr President, first of all I should like to thank Mr Valdivielso de Cué for his excellent report on quotas for certain fishery products originating in Ceuta.
As you know, Ceuta is in an extremely complex situation.
Ceuta's economy depends heavily on the tertiary sector and this has used up much of its potential while it continues to need to expand its economy in order to deal with its social needs.
Despite all these problems, the conditions in Ceuta are such that the development of economic sectors outside the tertiary sector is prevented.
Here is a paradox: the European Union has funded a project whose products face serious marketing problems stemming from the customs regime of Ceuta.
Marketing aquaculture products from Ceuta can only be carried out in the European Union and, unless the customs regime for these products is changed, Community aid and investment will be money down the drain.
This is all the more so when an activity is being started up.
Protocol No 2 to the Act on the Accession of Spain and Portugal applies to trade between Ceuta and the Community.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I just wanted to say the following on Mr Valdivielso's report.
Here the Valdivielso report raised a very important subject, namely aquaculture.
