Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 6 June 1996.
The European Parliament expresses its sympathy for those injured by the bomb in Manchester last Saturday, and our hopes for their speedy and full recovery.
We were particularly concerned about the plight of the Naples 88 who had been sacked due to a breach of Community law.
I am very pleased to inform you that on Friday all 88 at Naples got their jobs back and their back-pay.
Mr President, if you permit, I shall speak on behalf of my honourable friend Rolf Linkohr, who is unable to attend this sitting for medical reasons, for which I pass on his apologies.
Today we are discussing a proposal for the refinancing of the fourth framework programme, a proposal made by the Commission on the basis of a decision, or more precisely a joint decision, taken on 26 April 1994, when the guidelines and financial resources for the fourth framework programme were adopted.
And the latter, sadly, will be the main topic of our debate this evening and, most probably, tomorrow in our contacts and inevitable conciliation efforts with the Council.
That decision of 26 April 1994 effectively set the overall amount for the fourth framework programme at ECU 12 300.
This was a compromise achieved by the Council and the Commission and was the fruit of prodigious efforts; part of the compromise was an understanding that, at the halfway point, the Commission would table a proposal for supplementary financing of up to ECU 700 million.
Today we are in the implementation phase of one of the main areas to which codecision procedure applies, and we should like to thank the Commission at this point for having proposed from the outset an amount of ECU 700 million, which is exactly the proposal Parliament would have made if the right of initiative had been ours.
And indeed there were many of us at that time who bemoaned the fact that the fourth framework programme was following the old beaten tracks, as it were, which had been established by the previous framework programmes and that we were inheriting a number of specific programmes which would tie up part of our resources.
In the second legislative proposal, relating to the refinancing of the fourth framework programme for Euratom, there were also a number of elements of special relevance to development and in particular - I emphasize this intentionally - to the development of close cooperation with the countries of central and eastern Europe in the domain of nuclear safety.
As for the other areas, we shall probably be called upon, at the understandable insistence of our friends in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, to formulate a joint PSE-PPE compromise proposal on intermodality, and I believe that in so doing we shall be reflecting the wishes of a large majority of the House.
We wish to tell the Council very clearly that we are not disposed to give way on the amount of 700 million but that we are prepared to discuss methodology.
This is very topical and, if nothing else, it shows the importance of having a bit more flexibility in our programmes.
In conclusion, I believe that by approving the Linkohr report tomorrow, we shall be giving the Council a strong signal that the House wants to move in that direction Europe's research strategy for the future.
In his report, Mr Linkohr responds to the Commission proposal for additional funding of ECU 700 million for the fourth framework research programme and the setting-up of task forces with a counter-proposal which is far more positive and significant.
Another case in point is that, according to the proposal from the Commission, ECU 150 m was to be made available for the SAVE II programme.
The Council then had the impudence to reduce this funding to ECU 45 m: in other words, it has slashed a five-year programme, the only programme we still have which could go some way to meeting the commitments we made in Rio and Berlin.
In principle, this means that the life-span of the plant and technology of a conventional nuclear power station is likely to be extended by a further 40 years.
Therefore, because this legally questionable option of continued operation must be averted, I would urge the House to support Amendments Nos 53, 54 and 62, as does a large majority of my group.
The result is a balanced and constructive motion for a resolution, which should enhance the quality of the debate between the institutions and make this decision easier to take.
As we await the fifth framework programme, which will not come on stream before 1999, the option of this supplementary financing gives us a unique opportunity to improve the ways in which Community research responds to the needs of society.
Let me point out in passing that it was a Community research programme which enabled a team in Edinburgh to identify a probable link between the CreutzfeldtJakob syndrome and mad cow disease.
The amendments to which this applies are Amendment No 9 (last part) on the need for an indicative breakdown of the ECU 700 million, Amendments Nos 15, 16 and 39 on various aspects of multimedia activities, as well as Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 6, 11 and 12, subject to some rewording, on the ways in which the task forces are to operate and the manner in which the supplementary financing is presented.
With regard to Amendment No 2 in particular, the Commission is prepared to refer to its proposed revision of the financial perspective but without establishing a link between the decision on supplementary financing and the final adoption of the revised financial perspective.
By the same token, the Commission is able to accept Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 5 to the Euratom proposal, which add useful details to the text as it now stands, as well as the third part of Amendment No 6, on condition that the concept of radiation protection is introduced into the second specific programme on international cooperation under the fourth framework programme.
Amendment No 9 proposes the creation of a René Descartes Prize to be awarded each year to reward and honour outstanding European research work.
On the other hand, the Commission would prefer not to accept at this stage the amendments that affect the substance of its proposal, in other words those which propose changes to the maximum overall amount, such as the first part of Amendment No 9, those which adjust the balance between priorities, such as Amendments Nos 4 and 7 and Amendments Nos 17 to 21, 23, 24, 29 and 36, those which propose new themes alongside those already adopted, such as Amendments Nos 8, 10, 40 and 41, 22, 25 to 28 and 31 to 38, or which suggest new research subjects within adopted priority areas, such as Amendments Nos 13 and 14.
Amendment No 5 and the part of Amendment No 9 in which the integration of ECSC research into the framework programme is proposed cannot be accepted either, since the activities carried out in the realm of the ECSC have in fact been absorbed into the programme.
The same also applies, for similar reasons, to Amendments Nos 3, 4, 6 and 7 to the Euratom proposal.
I should also like to stress an important point in this context.
While standing very firm on the principle of 700 million in supplementary financing, the Commission basically has an open ear for the ideas underlying several of the proposed amendments.
An informal trialogue is due to take place on 25 June, the day before the meeting of the Council of Research Ministers.
In their joint decision to adopt the fourth framework programme, Parliament and the Council undertook to formulate their positions on supplementary financing by the end of June 1996.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Just to remind Members, the first set of norms proposed by the Commission was for a 10 % improvement in energy efficiency, whereas we are convinced that a 20 % target is required.
The committee also believed that a stricter timetable for implementation was appropriate two years after adoption of the directive, and that a second set of norms going beyond the first set should be implemented five years after the adoption of the directive.
The first point is that the Council agreed on a 15 % energy efficiency target, which was similar to the Commission's revised proposal.
It decided that the implementation time for the first norms would be three years after adoption, whereas the Commission and Parliament had proposed two years.
The most important thing in the proposal is that the Commission commits itself to bringing forward a proposal for a second set of norms to match what modern technology can do.
With the first set of norms, we are merely getting rid of the heaviest energy users.
There is not very much good news regarding CO2 , since it now appears that the EU will be unable to achieve its aim of stabilizing CO2 emissions at the 1990 levels in the year 2000.
For example, the Council recently cut back the SAVE programme from ECU 150 million to ECU 45 m.
To demonstrate that energy-saving and energy efficiency are not the same thing, suffice it to say that a Mercedes may be more efficient in terms of energy than a scooter but a scooter clearly uses less energy than a Mercedes.
A 15 % reduction in energy consumption could mean as much as a 1 % drop in electricity consumption and lower CO2 emissions throughout the Union.
As regards the amendments, Amendment No 1 is very important because it has to do with the adoption of the second phase.
I therefore welcome Parliament's acceptance of them, and I can say that the Commission can accept this amendment.
Amendment No 4, on the new version of the EN 153 standard of July 1995 can also be accepted by the Commission.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The Committee on Transport has worked on a good many maritime questions in recent years, particularly involving safety.
Mr President, on behalf of the PSE group I would like to join the rapporteur in thanking the Commission for this important contribution to the debate on the maritime sector and its future and in particular, the role of short sea shipping.
As many of us are already aware, it already plays a key role in the transportation of goods throughout the European Union; indeed 30 % or 40 % of our trade is already by short sea shipping.
I, although I represent the historic port-town of Dover and am very aware of the need to remember our history, recognise that the maritime sector and in particular, short sea shipping could play a key role in the development of transport policies in the future to fulfil both our economic and our environmental objectives.
We must not overlook the fact that the short sea shipping sector could play a key role in fulfilling our environmental objectives.
Probably like many Members in the UK, Mr President, you were shocked to find that the EU's commitments made at the Rio Earth Summit to stabilize CO2 emissions at the 1990 levels by the year 2000 not only are not being fulfilled but are well on course to exceed those particular commitments by a substantial margin.
Overland traffic in Central Europe is increasing at a rate of 5 % a year, which leads to an increase in congestion.
We are always worried about job creation and here is an area where we could really stimulate enormous job potential.
It is vital for that purpose that we move from land transport to other forms of transport, such as short sea shipping and river transport.
Mr President, sea shipping relieves and lightens overland traffic in many ways.
Despite a long tradition of co-operation in shipping in the Baltic area, going back as far as the Hanseatic League, and despite the fact that sea shippings on the Baltic Sea generally are known to be ecologically beneficial and efficient forms of transport, transport in this area is slower and more difficult than transport across the continent.
Short sea shipping continues to occupy an important position in on-going activities of the Commission such as the fourth framework programme on research and development, the integration of ports into the trans-European transport network and the support for pilot actions.
This process has already begun, and the seventh plenary of the forum in Marseilles on 4 and 5 July will make a first formal assessment of the progress that has been made so far.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The second conference will be held in Geneva from 8 to 18 July.
The key issues as regards this mandate are as follows: firstly, to bring about agreement among the industrialized countries on setting targets for a reduction in greenhouse gases for the years 2005, 2010 and, if possible, 2020; and, secondly, to secure their agreement on common measures which will enable them to achieve these targets.
For the industrialized countries, this mandate therefore goes much further than the commitment under the convention itself, which principally sets the target of stabilizing the emissions of greenhouse gases at 1990 levels in the year 2000.
For the first time in the international negotiations on climate change, the industrialized countries will be focusing their efforts on specific targets for reductions in the coming decades, and on specific political measures to achieve them.
It is extremely important that the European Union should maintain its leading role in these negotiations.
I have therefore decided to seek a mandate from the Council, following the second conference of the parties, to negotiate on the basis of Article 228 of the Treaty.
The measures we take must be framed in such a way that they show our wish to achieve results and increase our credibility.
The Commission fully recognizes this, and therefore regrets the recent development in the ECOFIN Council regarding the proposed CO2 energy tax, just as we regret the reduction in the Commission's proposed budget for SAVE II by the Energy Council.
Mr President, it is now four years since the Commission published its original proposal for the introduction of a Community-wide CO2 energy tax.
In spite of increased unemployment, the fact is that taxation on labour has more than doubled in the last thirty years but taxation on resource-use has remained steady at only 10 %.
It is time we embraced the economic model advanced in Chapter 10 of the Delors White Paper and altered that balance.
I should like to endorse what the last two speakers have said and also thank the Commissioner for the commitment she has shown on this issue; the matter is best summed up by saying that we have the knowledge, but need political action, and this is not in fact a situation where there are grounds for criticizing the Commission.
The realism, unfortunately, consists today in recognizing that we are in something of a blind alley, especially as far as energy taxation is concerned.
I should like to know what the Commissioner thinks of the German proposal that has been tabled, namely that we should set ourselves a new target of a 10 % reduction in greenhouse-gas concentrations by 2005 and a 15 % reduction by 2010.
We believe it is totally realistic to set a 20 % reduction in the 1990 figure as a target for 2005, a 30 % reduction for 2010 and 50 % for 2030.
My second question is this: it would seem that a discussion paper has been circulating in the Commission in which it is proposed that a maximum permissible concentration of greenhouse gases, or rather of CO2 , be introduced and that this ceiling be set at 550 parts per million.
I am thinking especially of Jacques Delors' Directive on CO2 -based energy, which was buried with great haste by the Council in Essen in 1994.
We have to tell the Commission that its ambitions are noble but that it ought to go further, especially with regard to the fifth action programme, in which it set itself the aim of incorporating an environmental aspect into all its policies.
My question to the Commission is this: these islands are very well aware that they are in the front line.
With regard to the intensive debate we have had on nuclear energy, it is also interesting that this report takes roughly the same line as Commissioner Cresson did very recently, namely that safety measures must be increased in this field so that nuclear energy can be used in the positive battle to achieve lower carbon dioxide emissions.
There is every reason to promote this in other countries in the Union.
Mr President, I am grateful for the many helpful comments on a problem which I recognize is one that we agree should be taken seriously.
Several Members referred to the SAVE II programme.
We are currently working on several different objectives put forward by countries in the Union, and we are glad to support many of the proposals which have been made, because we need ambitious targets in order to make any progress at all, and we do wish to make progress in the negotiations.
I would say to Mr Virgin that one of the purposes of the conference in Rome on economic means was precisely to look at what the Member States have done - including Sweden, but other Member States as well - when they have tried to use economic means; how these have worked, what weaknesses there have been, and how we can possibly make further progress with this approach.
My question is: what progress has Europe really made in reducing CO2 ?
Mr President, the Commissioner answered one of my two questions but not the other.
The second question referred to whether or not a proposal was about to be put forward by the Commission limiting the acceptable future concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere to a ceiling of 550 parts per million.
