The request has been recorded, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, and the letter will be written, but we cannot go any faster than we are already going.
There has been some difficulty over the Israeli delegation which was meant to be going to Israel from the 1 to 5 June.
The proposal is to replace the item on China with an item on Western Sahara and to add a sub-item on human rights, which is in fact the item on China.
Now, this is what we have just done on some other items.
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, we are not going to get into a debate on this.
Item No 5 which is listed under the heading China is in fact a call for political solidarity by European Member States with those states threatened by Chinese retaliation in trade or other terms as a result of the UN Human Rights Conference in Geneva.
It is a political question about European solidarity with Member States such as Denmark and Holland and not in fact, strictly speaking, about human rights in China at all.
Decision on urgency Madam President, this is a very important Commission proposal.
Our earliest possible deadline is the first part-session in June, so we shall complete our work then.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it was decided at the Maastricht summit that the European Community was now to be called the European Union and was to have a common foreign and security policy.
It is extremely important for Parliament to have a position on such sensitive but vital issues as security and defence.
It would therefore be very cowardly of us if we could not, or dared not, accept any responsibility on the international stage, or if we had only a security or defence policy without a common foreign policy.
This is the main thrust of the report that we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Subcommittee on Defence and Disarmament have been busy preparing for some considerable time now.
Thank you, Mr Tindemans.
I think your speech was much appreciated, but in future I would like the groups to inform the Members properly of the speaking time allocated to them.
My group feels it is important to stress that for us, security is more than just the efficient organization of the military aspects of our security policy.
The Tindemans report leaves it open to the European Union to carry out Petersberg-type measures without a mandate from the UN or the OSCE.
His report is a comprehensive one, which makes an important contribution to the debate on the evolving EU security policy as defined by the Maastricht Treaty and accepted at the time by all Member State governments.
In the limited time at my disposal, I want to concentrate on his proposal in paragraph 6 for the carrying out of a feasibility study into the establishment of a military and police unit responsible for keeping and restoring the peace.
The role of the United Nations in conflict situations around the globe provides us with many examples from which we can learn and build upon to define the EU peacekeeping role.
For example a United Nations peacekeeping force in the 1960s in the Belgian Congo (now Zaire) oversaw what may have been an uneasy peace but, nonetheless, a vital one.
This experience raises a fundamental dilemma for the EU: would its military and police operations be exclusively peacekeeping or should it have a peace-enforcing capability?
Furthermore, what would or should be the role of the EU if a vital interest such as our energy supplies or our telecommunications links were threatened?
However, it must not get bogged down debating institutional points concerning relationships, for example between NATO/WEU, and the national idiosyncrasies of some Member States relating to their security obligations.
Mr Tindemans, whose skill and wisdom are unequalled in this field, has primarily tried to develop our overall thinking on new perspectives for the CFSP.
His remarkable report leads us to the recognition that the common security policy is still in its infancy.
Every international crisis demonstrates our inadequacy.
That is a new approach which should allow Europeans and their governments to better appreciate the value of jointly agreed measures to fight drugs, terrorism, organized crime and traffic of all kinds more effectively as far as internal security is concerned.
Security in our immediate environment will allow us to understand better that the inviolability of the frontiers of the Union is a problem common to all and one we can only deal with together, never alone.
Mr Tindemans' report and his proposals offer us a dynamic conception of security.
The first version of the report was decisive and straightforward, with constructive proposals and vision.
But after its passage through the committee what is left is a toned-down and rather timid text, certainly a fine reflection of the temptation to succumb to the lowest common denominator approach which our Parliament now seems to share with other institutions of the Union.
By proceeding in this way our Parliament has abandoned its role of providing political impetus, which still remains after all, and will for a long time, its chief mission in the context of the CFSP.
It is certainly desirable to confer on these missions the status of common action and thus extend the panoply of our means of intervention, but given our patent lack of resolution, it is a good bet that what could be an important breakthrough will only be window-dressing in the end, and consequently a pointer to our indecision.
Madam President, we debate the Tindemans report in circumstances especially significant for the security of our Union.
For one thing we have an Intergovernmental Conference advancing at a snail's pace on this chapter, but, most important of all, we are rapidly approaching a NATO summit which is going to widen that organization geographically and strengthen its functions.
I believe this goes against majority public opinion in our countries, and it is against our own interests of course.
We cannot entrust the post-Cold War security of our continent to an organization like NATO born of the Cold War, dominated by a power external to the region, the United States, and continuing to base all its activities on the outdated concept of nuclear deterrence.
The European Union ought to be promoting a new model of pan-European security, developing the OSCE by reforming its decision-making processes and increasing its capacities and resources, and coordinating the armed forces of Member States to perform 'Petersburg' missions - but always at the request of the United Nations or the OSCE.
Your first draft of this report, Mr Tindemans, in which you called for the creation of a defence identity for the European Union, was met by massive criticism in committee.
A comprehensive joint model of security for the twentyfirst century will not entail a division between internal and external security, but an indivisible security order, a security order that tackles the causes of instability where they really lie, namely in the economic, social and development fields.
Madam President, I too wish to associate myself with those who have spoken before me in congratulating the rapporteur.
I hope our socialist friends will understand that without institutional means and majority decision-making capacity, we will continue to find ourselves in the same situation as we are in today, with Europe incapable of doing anything at all.
Of course, you will always find French leaders who, to advance their careers or out of vanity, will try to engage France and its industries on a route which, deep down, they know is contrary to the long term interests of the French nation, but the French people are not fools and they feel threatened by this federal Europe, which some want to establish come what may.
In 1958, when General De Gaulle returned to power, the American arms industry was incomparably stronger than the French.
Madam President, I am not sure that we should be happy to accept the decision to confine this report to common security aspects alone, without also considering the question of defence policy, especially since recent experience in Bosnia - and, indeed, the present Albanian problem - show the need for a common foreign policy and suggest that no more time should be wasted in agreeing a common defence policy.
We must, though, be aware of the fact that a common security policy cannot in itself safeguard the European Union against all threats.
The question of defence will therefore have to be dealt with as soon as possible, by convening a conference similar to that held in Messina in 1955 with a view to defining the gradual merging of the Western European Union into the European Union in the context of a common defence policy.
The European Union must therefore confront these dangers and work to ensure that, within the context of political union, we preserve those forms of autonomy and subsidiarity which recognize certain differences but, at the same time, that we guarantee the protection of internal security as an inalienable benefit for the development of the Union and its people, and for the integrity of States.
Sweden has made its position on the Common Foreign and Security Policy clear through its proposal, in conjunction with Finland, to the current Intergovernmental Conference.
As a non-aligned State which aims to remain neutral during a war, Sweden cannot accept the development of a common European defence position within the framework of the EU or via organisational integration of the EU and the WEU.
The proposal for a conference to discuss a common defence policy and a common defence position cannot be accepted.
Petersberg missions should only be carried out with a direct mandate from the UN or OSCE.
I too am sorry that the Council is absent from this debate.
The first is the concept of territorial integrity, a concept which is very important and certainly, in my view, the core of any common security policy.
Another point is the proposal and introduction of measures to build trust as an established factor, which has already been tried in previous difficult times, but which can clearly contribute to creating the conditions required for the problems to be addressed.
The Balkans: a failure of the European Union.
The Mediterranean and the Middle East: a second failure.
The Intergovernmental Conference is not producing the results for which we hoped, and the provisions of the Maastricht Treaty are not really being appropriately taken into account in the context of a common security policy.
There is a price to be paid for this policy, and anyone who has the courage to invest in operations like Petersberg or the other operations, like those of NATO which, whatever anyone may say, now represents the one great bastion of security for Europe, as it does elsewhere, anyone who has the courage to invest in the security policy and so in the capacity to intervene and to export peace, democracy and freedom, is working for the only possible future for a Europe which is an area of democracy and freedom.
I believe, then, that the WEU must be harnessed to the service of the CFSP, and that there must be not just cooperation between the WEU and the European Union but real, genuine integration with, maybe, the possibility of creating an opt-out - giving those countries which are unwilling to participate in military peace-keeping initiatives the right to withdraw.
What we are going to propose to the Intergovernmental Conference on the subject of the CFSP is little more than a plaintive murmur, before which not so much as a leaf will tremble.
This body, extraneous both to the Union and to NATO, revived like Lazarus after 40 years of slumber, is today incapable of taking control of the mission to Albania, totally consistent though it is with the Petersberg undertakings.
No, we have no need for any surveillance or analytical capacity if we then lack the will and the political and military machinery to react.
Theodore Roosevelt told the United States that his foreign policy would be 'talk soft and carry a big stick' .
Unfortunately, the foreign policy of the European Union seems to be: ' talk a lot provided you don't carry a big stick' .
Ladies and gentlemen, I know it is very difficult to keep to one's speaking time, but I would like to draw this problem to the attention of the groups.
I think there must be more vigilance in future.
The deepest gulf in standards of living on the EU's borders is on the border between Finland and Russia.
Russia is no longer the evil empire, but 90 % of its population is experiencing social insecurity.
The cost of living has risen six-thousandfold, life expectancy for men has dropped to 57 years and 60 % of the population earns less than ECU 500 a month.
This gap in living standards is a very serious threat and in Finland we have wished to meet that threat by peaceful cooperation and neutrality.
To us, military tension in the north would mean an increase in insecurity and for this reason we have wished to maintain our neutrality.
These reports would turn a civilian union into a military union.
We have to protect our people from this danger, from those on the outside who wish to destroy our societies and our young people.
Contemporary history demonstrates every day that European and American interests are usually different.
As my French grandmother, who was also Dutch-speaking, used to say, ' Wie geen put graaft oor een ander valt er zelf in' - which translates as 'if you do not dig a hole for the other fellow, you are liable to fall into one yourself' .
However, I deplore the excessively important role NATO is still expected to play in the security of our peoples.
I think we should remember that our citizens' main concerns are employment and security - domestic security, of course, but external security too.
And our first responsibility is to stabilize the continent of Europe.
Several months ago President Clinton met President Yeltsin in Helsinki to discuss European security policy.
If we look at the current situation there are further opportunities for these countries to contribute to security policy through active and perhaps even imaginative co-operation within the framework of the Petersberg agreement.
If the Union really wants to preserve, sustain and strengthen stability and peace, we must take urgent and unambiguous action to define our common foreign and security policy - a policy which is really able to function, and one which addresses the question of defence, especially as regards disarmament, conflict prevention and the creation of trust.
The Union must contribute not only to the stability of the European continent and the neighbouring regions but also to that of the Baltic Sea region, the Mediterranean basin, the Middle East and the Black Sea region, with a view to guaranteeing the continuance of peace, basing its actions on the principles of the CFSP and also on the principles of the United Nations Charter.
We would do well to create security structures in the Mediterranean basin which supplement the existing Euro-Mediterranean agreements, improving the economic and social conditions and, in particular, controlling the immigration flows and the trade in armaments.
My fervent hope is that the Intergovernmental Conference will lead us to conclude an agreement designed specifically to endow the European Community with the necessary machinery for the implementation of a genuinely common foreign and security policy, an agreement concluded jointly between all the Member States and thus a credible and practicable one.
It is important, in any case, that our actions should be co-ordinated and complementary and consistent with other Community policies, since a single foreign policy measure or a single development co-operation policy measure or a single humanitarian aid measure may produce results quite different from what we would like and what we have agreed.
The benefits of neutrality, which is important to us and which has a long tradition, pale into insignificance behind the great hope and the broad security dimension which the CFSP can provide.
I am in favour of cooperation between ourselves and NATO, but I also believe that security cooperation with Russia must take priority over expanding NATO.
Security in Europe is not possible in opposition to Russia, but only in collaboration with it.
Thirdly, along with the whole of my Group, I too would like to say that overall, I oppose this report and will not vote for it because in my opinion, despite its initial intentions, it ultimately downgrades the principle of political security, but rather, favours easy recourse to military security.
Other colleagues have raised the question whether we could deal with Yugoslavia or Zaire without military measures.
My answer is yes .
It would be yes if there were any appropriate, correct and level-headed political intervention by the European Union and the Member States, if it were not for the superficial and very rapid recognition of the former Yugoslavian republics or the support by Member States of the European Union for the degraded Mobutu regime in Zaire, when perhaps the political security we ought to support would have given us much better results.
In Austria, the current security debate among the government parties somewhat resembles the confusion of tongues in Babel.
The reference to qualified majority voting to joint actions under the CFSP goes beyond the position of the Socialist Group and the new British Labour Government.
Nor is it appropriate, in my view, to refer to the EU undertaking peace-restoring missions as distinct from peacekeeping and peacemaking operations.
Madam President, the Tindemans report comes at an opportune time, six weeks before the end of the Intergovernmental Conference.
The Tindemans report considers in a balanced way the need for arms control and nuclear non-proliferation, as well as the Union's capacity to act.
I therefore very much hope that the Tindemans report not only gains support in the European Parliament, but also helps to foster the debate in Austria itself on our country's security policy position as a future full member of the WEU and a member of a newly reformed NATO, so that it can play its proper role in Europe's security order.
On the other hand, our security may be endangered by the uncertainties arising from the development of Eastern Europe and particularly Russia.
Finally, I hope that all members will support my amendments aimed at ensuring that the Barents Sea area is given the place in the report which it deserves.
Madam President, Europe's peoples have no need of an international police force, but what they need is policies to address the very acute economic and social problems of our times in accordance with the interests of the peoples, and collective security institutions for the peaceful solution of differences without the threat or exercise of violence.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tindemans' report attracts our severe disapproval.
One of them, my friend Stéphane Durbette, the youngest regional councillor in France, was beaten up, left for dead and sent to hospital, because a Socialist/Communist commando regarded him as genetically defective.
Many of the 3, 000 orphans or destitute children I was concerned with during fifteen years of civil war in the Lebanon, tell me of their fears.
Shortly before the fall of Constantinople, Mehmed II addressed these words to Constantine XI: ' both shores of the Bosphorus belong to me, the Asian shore populated by our Ottomans, the European shore because you are incapable of defending it' .
Madam President, the European Union was changed when three non-aligned countries acceded in 1995.
At the same time those three countries, by accepting the Maastricht Treaty, declared their political alignment to the principles of the Union.
Security for all of us is dependent not only upon developments in Russia but also in the Ukraine and Belarus.
This said, proposals in the report for enhanced efficiency in peacekeeping and peacemaking missions are welcome and in line with the initiatives taken by the Swedish and Finnish Ministers of Foreign Affairs.
The Tindemans report, despite its many qualities, is a poor compromise.
Peacemaking, for instance, is translated as rauhanhieronta which in English means peace massage.
I hope we do not need to go to a massage parlour in order to live in peace and security.
Madam Chairman, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his thorough work and calm approach to the development aspects of a common security policy at EU level.
The threats which citizens feel to their security are now primarily non-military in nature and relate, among other things, to environmental threats and nuclear safety.
The Treaty on European Union sets out the objective of a common foreign and security policy which may in future lead to a common defence.
The theoretical difficulty in shaping the future of security policy is of course obvious, because those involved differ widely in their objectives and resources.
A good example of this difficulty is the varying status of the EU countries in their relations with the Western European Union.
Finland and Sweden have proposed in the context of the IGC that the WEU's role in developing the common foreign and security policy should concentrate on crisis management tasks.
Madam President, Mr Tindeman's report is totally unrealistic!
It increases the risk of aggressive and expansionist policies, for what we are talking about are expansionist policies and a new colonialism if the EU were to adopt the right to intervene independently with military force in countries outside their own territory.
The United Nations, alone, is the people's true forum in the work for peace and security.
Mr President, I shall be voting in favour of Mr Tindemans's report, because I believe that it is only right that we should send a message to the Intergovernmental Conference and that message can only come from a Parliament which is pressing forward towards a common security policy.
We are trying to talk about security and defence, but we lack the essential basis of the existence, or otherwise, of a European Union foreign policy.
I would like to call upon all Honourable Members - and every persuasion is represented here, from one extreme to the other - to consider that we shall only achieve real maturity when we stop debating whether or not we should have a foreign policy, a security policy or a defence policy, and get down to the serious business of debating what that Union foreign policy should be.
I would say to all the Member States, large and small, and to every group and every Member of this House that believing that a foreign security or defence policy is beneficial to some and not to others is mistaken.
The Western European Union and NATO should not be set up as two parallel, rival institutions.
Secondly, it must be quite clear that the civil components of the CFSP take precedence over the military components.
The civil components must be at the forefront.
The military aspects also affect the operation of our external economic and socio-economic policy and can therefore help to promote stability.
Everything the European Union has done in recent years in its external relations in the form of association agreements, partnership agreements and modernizing its cooperation agreements with the Mediterranean countries, everything it has done to strengthen relations in its immediate strategic environment, such as with Central and Eastern Europe, the Mediterranean, the Middle East, the Russian Federation and Ukraine - all this directly concerns its security policy.
The real question is whether the Union wishes to give itself scope in its common foreign and security policy to accept responsibility and take the initiative at international level when its own strategic environment is being destabilized.
I think that today's debate on this issue has been a very useful start, and I sincerely hope that there will be a followup, based perhaps on what I hope will be very positive results in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The vote will be taken at noon.
The health of other industries often depends on it, for example, 70 % of military equipment sales comes from the aerospace and electronics industries.
If we become dependent on imported equipment, we risk not only compromising our security, but also undermining our ability to fulfil our international obligations under global security arrangements such as NATO, a point underlined last year by Admiral Norman Ray, the Assistant Secretary-General of NATO.
For all these reasons it is vital that EU governments recognize that the European defence, industrial and technological base is a vital strategic asset and that its maintenance is essential for the future of European security and defence.
Hence my report deals only with the existing security architecture and does not advocate new EU powers.
The contribution Europe can make here is to identify a Europe-wide problem and to recommend Europe-wide solutions.
For these things to happen, Member States have to agree not to invoke Article 223 for internal EU activity, but to use it only to ensure reciprocal trading arrangements with third countries.
Nothing better illustrates the problems facing us than the contrast between the speed of American restructuring and the long agonizing of the French Government over the future of the Thomson Company.
Amsterdam clearly has to identify and clarify the objectives and functioning of the CFSP, as well as the nature of the European defence identity in the light of the Petersburg and Berlin declarations.
Finally, the different national regulations governing arms exports are a major obstacle to industrial cooperation.
The EU has already agreed eight criteria on arms exports.
Mr President, I would first like to congratulate the Commission on this initiative, because we believe it has really cooperated as an institution to identify and put on the table a highly important and sensitive issue for the economy, and not just the Union economy.
I also want to thank Mr Titley for his magnificent report and for having reflected the feelings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, incorporating virtually 90 % of the suggestions and conclusions of our committee.
The diagnosis of the situation in the armaments industry made by the Commission and the rapporteur is quite right.
It is a very important sector - 3 % of industrial GDP - providing significant employment; there is major dependence on the United States and a distinct absence of intra-Community trade; dispersion and lack of concentration weaken the industry's position.
The reasons we are in this situation are partly attributable to the absence of a common defence policy, but not entirely so.
Of course, differences in procurement policies in the largest Member States and the absence of a common foreign policy or arms export policy are due to the lack of a common defence policy.
But there are other causes, like mergers requiring government authorization, differences between the States as regards ownership and the way this relates to the arms industries, and the absence of the transnational legal structures to permit such mergers, where there are still opportunities for action by the European Union.
Amongst the areas of action, many of which Mr Titley has already mentioned, I would like to stress two very specific points: the first is the use of the structural funds in the process of restructuring the defence industry under the Community industrial restructuring policy, and the second relates to research and development, where the European Union has a wide remit and which accounts for a large part of its budget, and coordinating all the programmes involving the defence industry or associated civil industry.
Mr President, the reduction of defence expenditure in the Union's Member States, and consequently, the corresponding reduction of expenditure on defence research and technology, combined with the fragmented nature of the Western European defence market, have left the European defence industry in a situation of stagnation.
The framework for security is created by the demographic pressure that favours small systems of military organization based on professionals and volunteers, the need for the Union to compete in research and development with the USA and the Far East, and international competition to secure energy resources.
In the technological context, where political technology is more advanced than military technology, defence capabilities depend on the reorganization of the technological dependence of the defence sector.
And this, because they imply the restoration of the importance of an armament economy, even though the peak technologies are becoming more and more non-military, and at the same time overlook the limited resources of the framework programme which make it inappropriate to seek new research links between the military and non-military sectors.
Mr President, I should firstly like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Titley.
For the European Union and those Member States which have an arms industry, a European arms industry appears to be the only possible way of withstanding American competition in this sector in the long term.
However, this report is also an opportunity for the European Parliament, which is the only effective, democratic body able to discuss this issue in European terms and put forward European recommendations.
It must call for conditions to be defined and measures to be taken that will enable the Member States to ensure the rationalization, organization and preservation of a competitive industrial and technological defence basis in Europe in relation to defence products.
I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Institutional Affairs and I shall refer exclusively to institutional issues, but before I do I would like to make one comment: can the concepts of common armaments policy and European defence identity be separated from each other?
I believe it is a political decision, not a dogma, but we can hardly talk about a European defence identity without including a common armaments policy, because common armaments policy is an integral part of that European identity.
Article 223 of the Treaty of Rome allows Member States to take such measures as they consider necessary for the protection of the essential interests of their security, including producing and trading in weapons, munitions and war materiel.
The way Member States have interpreted that article of the treaty consists of looking for some general principle whereby all areas relating to national security fall outwith the scope of the treaties.
So article 223 has been the great outstanding question of the treaty.
I think Parliament must act firmly and call for the deletion of article 223, but I do not think this issue is currently on the table for the Intergovernmental Conference.
Hence our amendments, Mr President: first we ask for common armaments policy and a common European defence identity to be treated as one issue.
And at some stage in the future, and this is one of the amendments tabled to the Titley report, article 223 will need to be revised in order to achieve integrated production, trading and monitoring of armaments.
And thirdly, Mr President, we also ask for the WEU to be incorporated by stages into the European Union, another fundamental factor for achieving what we all want, a Europe of tomorrow speaking with one strong voice and guaranteeing the freedom of all Europeans through its security policy.
Efforts are being made in this area, but in view of the conflicts in a great many regions of the world, in view of the large number of dictatorships which unfortunately still exist and which sometimes use armaments against their own people, Europe, which has already laid down a number of appropriate criteria, must ensure that these criteria are strictly interpreted, binding and, of course, applied not only to Europe but to the entire world.
The legal and illegal export of armaments to crisis areas costs countless human lives, and often results in Europe subsequently being forced to combat its own weapons.
It must be made clear that the European Community is committed not to rearmament, but to disarmament, as I have already said.
In this sense, we are unequivocally in favour of sensible arms control and sensible arms cooperation on European territory.
It is a response to a Commission document, and having heard what Commissioner van den Broek had to say, I should like to thank him for his excellent speech.
I think that his words and everything that has been said in this debate, and in the Titley report, show that we are gradually moving towards agreement on a common security and defence policy to support our common foreign policy.
Progress is slow, but I think we will succeed in the end thanks to this excellent document.
I do not wish to go into this in detail, but these considerations could be very useful in future when we come to discuss defence policy.
So we in my group think that the Titley report in response to the Commission communication is an extremely important document.
I also have no doubt - a point which is made in the reports - that we need to achieve and accept a technological interdependence between European States in matters of defence, which is a political project as well as a technical argument.
I believe in - and support - the idea of a European Armaments Agency with technical co-ordination functions, similar to the European Space Agency, which would arrange multi-speed - if I may use that term - optional development programmes from which all concerned can derive some benefit, in some cases as reference shareholders and in others as minor but fully involved participants.
After all, the two sectors often involve the same participants, and it seems to me that a logical process of European consolidation - squaring the circle in this sector, if you like - will be easier to achieve if all the players are at the same table and all their cards are on it.
If Europe is not to be totally dependent on imports our countries must co-ordinate their research, development and production of defence material.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's 1996 communication ignores the close link between defence/weapons and national sovereignty and seeks to apply the principle of free competition to weapons for the sake of competitiveness.
The report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and security goes further, with a common arms policy and the revision of the treaty article on the essential security interests of each Member State.
Active militants for peace and disarmament, the French Members of Parliament in the Confederal Group of the United European Left - Nordic Green Left defend a military doctrine guaranteeing freedom and security against external threats.
We oppose restructuring and privatization measures and demand the maintenance of national capacity, which meets only 5 % of military orders, and its diversification into civilian industry, notably in the aeronautics, space and electronics industries.
At Community level we oppose any European defence policy which is bound to make us vassals of the United States.
We favour development of cooperation between the arms industries and research, and we call for the establishment of genuine Community preference.
You bear a heavy responsibility replacing our colleague Mr Piquet, who was much appreciated by everyone here.
The European Union, hitherto a civil organization with its enormous single market, is now organizing itself into a hegemonic power.
We do not have the money in the social sector.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the fall of the Berlin Wall, we have gradually been making progress towards international agreements on reducing nuclear weapons and a total ban on chemical weapons.
Mr President, the report by our colleague Mr Titley has the double merit of emphasizing the radically new character of the international context surrounding arms policy today and rehabilitating the notion of Community preference in this very sensitive domain.
The new context is the fierce competition from American producers of defence equipment faced by European business.
This aggressive competition threatens to lead, in the future, to the disappearance of industries vital to our security and the independence of our national defence policies, if Europe allows the high-tech weapons sector to become the monopoly of a single power.
As well as producing together when it is necessary and possible, we should also purchase in common, buy European, practice European preference, in order to prevent certain Member States - as was again the case recently - purchasing American military equipment rather than European equipment of at least equivalent technological level and lower in cost.
I also believe that there is a great risk that arms cooperation of this kind will clear the way for an expansive export policy, and that competition between the European Union and the United States will jeopardize the adoption of a restrictive arms export policy in the EU.
The weapons industry has a special role to play in the security policy of individual countries and of the Union as a whole.
Attempts to support the defence industry using State aid costs money and makes it harder to maintain the right quantitative level on defence.
The boundaries between civil and military research are becoming much less clear.
It has become even more difficult for Sweden, as well as for other European countries, to maintain such a broad weapons industry.
Because in the Commission's communication on European defence industry there is only a single idea : to remove the distinction between warlike military production and non-military production, and on the basis of that general idea, to give the green light to the Community budget, the research programme, the structural funds, export policy, and the review of the Treaty itself.
Mr President, the two reports which have been discussed here this morning should set alarm bells ringing for most European citizens.
If this is our only answer to the EU's unemployment problem, we have a long way to go before launching any kind of humane policy.
There are two things in the last ten years that have put immense pressure on defence-related industries.
With regard to the CFSP, if we want a Common Foreign and Security Policy in Europe and we want that genuine choice, then we have to maintain a European defence infrastructure.
Secondly, it is important that we maintain this industry as well because it is an important technology driver which feeds into the civil markets and produces many valuable products, enabling us to enjoy a high standard of living in our Western European Union countries at the moment.
What we need is a genuine single market in defence.
We have to improve intra-Community trade in this area so that we do not become more and more dependent on the United States.
Mr President, the excellent report that is before us reminds us that European arms policy is based on two principles: one good and one bad.
Finally, because this is a sector, as we have said, experiencing profound crisis.
There will be no protection for national industries unless there is more cooperation at the European level.
The first is market place trivialization which would eliminate the political dimension of the business and would subordinate us to our great ally, the United States.
Mr President, a lot was said just now about the technological problems linked to the defence industry.
I would like to speak very quickly on this point for the minute I am allowed.
It represents very little in the research and development effort of the Community as a whole, so the intergovernmental programmes must take up the slack.
I would also like to remind the rapporteur and the Commission that it will not suffice to open up the arms industry to competition, because competition is the short term.
And where arms and disarmament are concerned, investment necessarily represents the long term.
Firstly, I agree with the rapporteur that Europe has been lagging behind developments in a number of areas, with the effect that it can no longer keep up with its competitors in this hightech sector.
The gap between European and US defence technology has been steadily widening, and even Europe's leading defence companies are scarcely half or a third of the size of their American counterparts.
Secondly, with regard to NATO enlargement towards the east, it would appear that in several cases, Europe has already missed the boat.
Let us just consider the conflict regions and crisis areas in the developing world, or in the former Yugoslavia, where illegally acquired anti-personnel mines made in Italy have been found, for example.
Fourthly, the European Union accepts its role in conflict settlement and crisis prevention, but this also means ensuring the personal protection of the troops in question with coordinated and high-quality weaponry, so that they can carry out their tasks effectively.
But the economic dimension, as I have already said, makes the provisions of the EC Treaty relevant here too.
The Commission communication describes the measures which the European Union can take in the short term.
The rapporteur quite rightly stresses the complexity and importance of the arms exports issue.
The Member States have widely diverging interests and sensitivities in this field, and the national governments guard their sovereignty very jealously.
Community criteria have been laid down for arms exports, but responsibility for their implementation remains exclusively with the Member States.
Thank you very much, Mrs van Putten.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.00 noon.
This error occurs in at least three different proposals. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Before we continue with the voting, Mrs Izquierdo Rojo wishes to speak.
They represent two causes strongly espoused by the European Parliament: participation by women and democracy in Algeria. (Prolonged applause) Mr President, I should like to ask that when this text is translated into all the official languages, particular care should be taken to make it clear in each language that the term 'practitioner' covers a range of people who are entitled to act in this capacity, and not just doctors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, I should just like to say a few words before we vote on Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4.
So we adopt No 3, but not Nos 2 and 4 by the same author.
I am quite sure that the new guidelines will provide a sound basis for the subsequent negotiations in this sector.
On 7 June 1995, on the basis of Article 129d of the Treaty, the Commission submitted the basic proposal for a series of guidelines for trans-European telecommunications networks.
On 1 February 1996 the European Parliament adopted its opinion containing 35 amendments stressing the use of applications by the general public, social consequences of, for example, teleworking and the procedure to identify projects of common interest.
Neither the Commission nor the Council were ready to adopt the European Parliament's view.
The same happened in the second reading and the conciliation procedure was opened with the result laid down in the above-mentioned report.
The agreement reached concerns by example: 18 EP amendments accepted by the Council (wide use of applications, taking into account social consequences of new (tele)working conditions, language needs of regions); identification of projects of 'common interests' , which is now dealt with by Annex 1 to the guidelines (and no more exclusively by the committee which is to be installed to advise the Commission and is recruited by Member State representatives); certain projects of particular importance (distance training, telematics for transport, environment and health).
As Greens we had proposed to incorporate strong provisions regarding the conditionality for employment-creating and social-targeted projects.
As Parliament's rapporteur on beekeeping in the Member States, I am grateful to her for concentrating everything relating to organic beekeeping into a single amendment.
That is why I voted against the first two paragraphs of this point, that is, against a text which I regard as unenforceable.
I also do not see how the Ministry of Agriculture in a small country like mine could designate regions or areas where organic beekeeping is practicable, because the fields are so split up that it is difficult to define the areas or regions where pollen is not collected or only collected from crops not being chemically treated.
Mr President, if we keep our feet on the ground we will avoid introducing unenforceable provisions which only complicate the lives of those who are still willing to practice organic beekeeping or farming and whose numbers are unfortunately shrinking in many Member States, at least as regards beekeepers.
I abstained on the report as a whole, because we have also voted for a whole series of amendments which the poor farmers are not going to be able to live with if they really want to practice organic farming.
We are dealing with the report by our colleague Mrs Barthet-Mayer on a proposal for a Council Regulation supplementing Regulation No 2092/91.
So I support the rapporteur on the many positive points she has added to the Commission proposal.
So a number of imperative rules must be established, in terms of both controls and methods of production.
It should be given support and a framework for development at European Union level.
In Finland, organic farming has been enabled, thanks to EU environmental support, to grow rapidly to the point where it now represents 5 % of arable area.
The Greens tried to make it more flexible in many respects, but the enthusiasm for hair-splitting detail won.
The most important achievement in Parliament's debate on the organic farming regulation was undoubtedly Commissioner Fischler's statement that he is prepared to approve Parliament's demand for the banning of the use of genetically altered organisms in organic production.
Member States, including Finland, as well as the organic farmers' organizations, have been very worried about the Commission's unclear position on this point until now.
The work by the European Parliament's rapporteur and the committee responsible is, therefore, worthy of merit and I support it.
But we must also be aware that the situation in the EU Member States in this respect varies enormously.
It is inadequate but it is an important step in the right direction.
Finally, I hope that the majority in the European Parliament will approve the amendment proposal which involves a ban on the use of genetic modified organisms in organic farming.
The development of organic farming can contribute to that, provided the rigorous efforts made for many years by certain countries like France are not undermined by the adoption of lax standards at European level.
This text extends the provisions of the 1991 regulation to animal products.
Organic farming can play a positive role in land management: it offers farmers, especially young farmers, an alternative which can maintain agricultural employment given the outlets demand for organic products could generate.
Amadeo Report (A4-0146/97) Given the major advances in the scientific and technical fields which have led to the appearance of new methods of diagnosis and treatment, and given that we know the benefits and dangers of the use of ionizing radiation, it has become imperative that the European Community, within the scope of the powers attributed to it by the Treaty on European Union, namely Article 129, should legislate in order to update Directive 84/466/Euratom.
Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to seek the support of the European Parliament for European funding to carry out radon surveys and in particular to seek financial assistance for national authorities to carry out radon tests.
It is vital that the European Parliament and the Commission recognize that radon exposure is a European-wide problem that merits the provision of EU funding.
A recent national radon survey by the Radiological Protection Centre of Ireland revealed that parts of the country, including large areas of Wicklow and the Cooley Peninsula in Louth, have a greater than 10 % change of being exposed to an unacceptable level of radon gas.
It is my hope that the Commission, perhaps through some of its research programmes, can make funding available to make this objective a reality.
Additionally, there is as yet no monitoring of radon levels in workplaces in the worst affected areas.
The Irish Government too has a crucial role to play and should carefully examine the localised grant scheme that exists in Britain to help people measure their households for radon.
Collins Report (A4-0109/97) Although we are voting in favour of this report we do not share the views put forward in points 12 and 13 of the proposal for the report.
The issue Mr Collins deals with in his report is of the first importance, because without verifiable monitoring of correct transposition and application of environmental legislation, and compliance with it, part of this Parliament's work would be sterile given the flood of complaints received every year about unsatisfactory application of, or non-compliance with, environmental law.
This means our citizens participate actively in monitoring and shaping it.
So in drafting such legislation it is essential for the Commission to open a wide range of consultations to guarantee that it is fulfilled, and such legislation should always be the subject of co-decision procedure as called for in this important report.
I end by congratulating Mr Collins and trusting that the Intergovernmental Conference will shoulder its responsibilities in this area.
It is encouraging that the cause of the environment is gaining ground in all the EU institutions, but we must take care not to misuse this good cause by introducing unnecessary or bureaucratic rules without appreciating the possible consequences.
The European Environment Agency in Denmark already cooperates extensively with the national authorities in the Member States.
I see no evidence of the need for us to set up 15 new national environmental inspectorates alongside this, subject to monitoring and oversight by the Commission.
It is crucial for the environment that environmental legislation works, and that the environment is given priority.
When they started in 1984 six thousand students participated in ERASMUS and in 1996 this had increased to a massive one hundred and seventy thousand young people.
I welcome this healthy trend and hope the numbers participating continue to increase.
The comparison also shows that the USA and some EU countries have resolved the administrative problems involved through straightforward inter state cooperation which is why we think that these problems can be also resolved between EU countries through inter state co-operation alone and not by moving the issue up to the level of some supranational administration office in Brussels.
This report and the Green Paper are another example of freedom of movement being used as a pretext for harmonization in the social sector.
I am therefore voting against the report, and nor can I support the Green Paper from the Commission.
The Commission should be commended on an excellent piece of work in drawing up this Green Paper.
Employment market mobility depends on many things, but I am quite sure that the new lines of action which the Commission is proposing will be a positive move in the right direction.
For example, the number of students able to supplement their studies in another EU country through ERASMUS has increased many times over.
Tindemans Report (A4-0162/97) Sweden has made its position clear on the issue of a Common EU Foreign and Security Policy in the proposal which has been presented to the current Intergovernmental Conference in conjunction with Finland.
This means that we are advocating: 1.that the EU does not develop the common defence position mentioned in Articles J 4 in the Treaty on the European Union, and2.that the organisational distinction between the Western European Union and the European Union is maintained but that the Union's role in the context of the Petersberg missions is strengthened.
All missions carried out under this heading must however be based on a mandate from the UN or OSCE.This position means that we cannot, for example, support statements such as that written in point 9, ' initially for Petersberg missions' , nor point 37 which calls for a conference to be convened to discuss the content of a common defence policy (point a) or the implications of future integration between the WEU and the EU (point b).
The report also includes several general statements which we cannot support.
Above all this concerns Point 6 (the establishment of a European corps consisting of both military and civil units), Point 8 (economic security) and Point 10 a (territorial integrity).
The Treaty on European Union has made some advances in common foreign and security policy possible, but they have tended to be theoretical and insufficiently practical.
The European Union should get past the stage of incantations and clearly define its foreign policy and its ideas on security and thus implement a real policy of prevention, or indeed intervention.
The obligatory counterpart of this external security policy is the strengthening of the third pillar, justice and home affairs, and it would be wrong to confuse the threats of various kinds with the interests of the Union in acting in all these fields.
This ambition is hard to achieve, but the Intergovernmental Conference must seize the opportunity it has available to provide the Union with a real common foreign and security policy.
It is the only way the Union can present the world with an image of more than a single market without any other cement.
Eriksson, Seppänen, Sjöstedt and Svensson (GUE/NGL), Holm, Lindholm and Schörling (V), Lindqvist (ELDR), Bonde, Lis Jensen and Sandbæk (I-EDN), in writing. (SV) The undersigned have voted against the report for the following principal reasons: 1.The report represents a narrow 'Eurocentrist' point of view and lacks a view of current global reality.
The word value is not even defined.5.The report demonstrates a serious lack of respect for the role and interests of the non aligned Member States.
These are obscure, metaphysical terms.The countries of Europe should work to strengthen the UN and to promote a global perspective on security and stability.
Now there is also a desire to add to this structure a common policy on the arms industry.
A common policy on the arms industry would be liable to increase pressures to export arms even to countries which use them against their own people.
The Danish social democrats in the European Parliament have voted against Parliament's report on security and defence policy in the European Union.
I think it was a good solution to divide the Tindeman report into two sections.
The section that I voted in favour of today was concerned only with foreign and security policy.
Unfortunately many bad habits have taken root under the American nuclear umbrella and they are often persistent, such as leaving concern for defence to others, in return choosing American military equipment for their armed forces instead of European equipment which performs just as well and is no more expensive.
The problem of European defence is not a question of setting up institutions, it is a question of will.
First of all at NATO level, where the idea of a European defence identity now needs to given substance.
WEU, a European body specialized in defence, should have its margin of manoeuvre increased and its powers taken more seriously, instead of trailing behind NATO, as it so often has.
We cannot call for European defence and give others lessons on the subject if at the same time we reduce national military expenditure all round.
The part on which we are voting today thus relates solely to foreign and security policy.
Those treaties were the first examples of regional cooperation in Europe, and they led on to the creation of the European Union as we know it today.
Only when the states and forces which were parties to the conflict are prepared to regard Bosnia as a state and to promote its statehood can regional cooperation begin the process of rapprochement among them.
I believe that there is still a great deal to be done in this context, and the Dayton peace agreement is not enough.
Attempting to apply them is ultimately futile, and in 1996 only ECU 3 million, out of a total of ECU 35 m available for investment in Bosnia, was paid out.
At the same time, this type of regional cooperation must not be regarded as reconstruction of the former Yugoslavia.
In other words, the process of regional cooperation clearly includes not only the countries of the former Yugoslavia, but also Greece, Bulgaria, Hungary and Turkey.
Our task as elected representatives is not to act as ambassadors for Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia or Bosnia.
The European Union can also ensure that any future economic and financial agreements with countries in the region have certain conditions attached with regard to freedom of the press, ethnic tolerance and regional cooperation, in order to steer the social developments in the right direction.
The European Union needs to accept its responsibilities in these areas, now and in the future.
We cannot hope to solve all the problems in the Balkans overnight.
The European Union, which - unfortunately, but it must be said - has been a most notable absentee from the events that have convulsed the former Yugoslavia, must now adopt an active policy directed towards the reconstruction of that region, to encourage the return of stability, peace and development to a region so close to our own.
Quite apart from our ideals, our self-interest demands it.
The European Union seems all too likely to continue to be the major absentee from the former Yugoslavia: because all these proposals we are talking about are doomed to lack the funds to translate them into reality.
This happens when we have a clear idea in mind, and I maintain that at the heart of this report there is the idea, the very clear idea, that we need to look at SouthEastern Europe with a strategy slightly different from that we have pursued hitherto.
When I say 'slightly' I am, of course, indulging in a little irony, in that the one thing that emerges from this report is the need for a European Union policy as such rather than the sum of the policies of the individual Member States.
I think the invitation is indirectly addressed to the Commission, or at any rate that it should be understood as being so, so that the conference on peace, democracy and sustainable development in two years' time will become a convincing objective if work goes ahead in the meantime on this ambitious long-term programme of reconstruction, which needs to have this regional slant as a political concept.
One reason why this is urgently necessary is that, as we all know, the Union's humanitarian presence is enormous - indeed, we are the major contributor - but at the same time there is a confused presence of international bodies in Bosnia, as in other countries as well, and this is certainly no help to us.
The idea is a good one, as indeed are the other two ideas contained in paragraphs 25 and 26, which we will be supporting.
In conclusion, Mr President, let me say that we will also be supporting Amendment No 4, because it seems to me consistent with the whole approach of this report to delete this word, as Mr Cohn-Bendit proposes in his amendment.
Slovenia, which is also a successor state of the former Yugoslavia, has enjoyed and continues to enjoy all kinds of preference and assistance, without being subject to the conditions set out in the report.
It is obvious that some form of regional economic cooperation will then emerge.
Nor, by the same token, is it possible to compare what now needs to be done in this area with what we were able to do in Europe long after the Second World War.
Peace and stability in Bosnia will come not from piecemeal interventions in the form of aid, which will merely result in corruption, but from creating conditions that favour the independent development of that region.
Of the ECU 125 million in the essential aid programme, the proportion committed in 1996 was 66 %, and this gives no indication of what was actually paid out.
In effect, the Commission report for 1996 exposes the bureaucratic and inefficient approach which has been adopted here.
I am actually rather surprised that the Commission should focus on such a limited area when it talks about regional cooperation in the former Yugoslavia.
There should be more consultation between officials from the countries around Yugoslavia and yourself, Commissioner, and perhaps also members of the Council.
Mr President, Parliament's attention needs to be drawn to a particularly positive aspect of the Cohn-Bendit report: the regional approach and the quality of the bilateral relations between the countries which made up former Yugoslavia.
Mr President, reading the title here - which of course everybody has read, but I am simply repeating it - I see that the European Parliament is considering a single resolution on two Commission reports, one on 'Prospects for the development of regional cooperation for the countries of the former Yugoslavia' , and the other on 'Joint principles for future contractual relations with certain countries in south-east Europe' .
I say this because the report, as drawn up at present, does not make it possible to draw useful conclusions and can be no help either for the Commission, or for the Council.
Both concepts will enable us to make full use of the special relations which the European Union has with the countries of South-Eastern Europe, including in particular those with which we do not yet have association agreements.
On 29 April, the General Affairs Council also formulated conclusions on this subject which we believe mark an important step towards a coherent and transparent policy for the Union in its future bilateral relations with these non-associated countries in the areas of economic and financial aid and contractual relations.
So let there be no misunderstanding: the regional approach is by no means a new concept for the European Union, and demanding good-neighbourliness and promoting regional cross-border cooperation using political and financial means are in fact part of the European Union's standard approach.
We cannot demand regional cooperation if the people in these countries are still incapable of living together.
Nonetheless, we do have a duty and a responsibility to help them establish coexistence at national level: the next step will then follow by itself.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at noon.
Mr President, I particularly want to express my satisfaction that this report has been able to reach the House barely a year and three-quarters after it was written.
If you look carefully at the date you will see that this recommendation was made on 20 September 1995 in application of article J.11 of the treaty and rule 46.3 of our Rules of Procedure.
The principle of budgetary clarity is a basic principle of parliamentary and democratic responsibility.
Thirdly, we need to consider how to implement joint actions effectively and rapidly, and here I would recall a proposal made by Parliament five years ago for a code of conduct and an interinstitutional framework agreement allowing us to develop and control our relations with the Commission and the Council correctly.
Mr President, I should like to express our opinion on a number of points.
The current difficulty in getting this point across at the Intergovernmental Conference demonstrates how far-sighted we were when we drafted our opinion in January.
An example of such misuse occurred when the Committee on Budgets received notice of a transfer of appropriations of ECU 5.5 million for participation in election preparations in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
The truth is that our joint actions are unimpressive.
We have seen in recent weeks that there is little mutual solidarity amongst the foreign ministers of the European Union and almost no principle that cannot be traded for commercial advantage at any particular moment.
It seems to me that success in the joint actions of the CFSP, as in the other aspects of the CFSP, depends first and foremost on an extended intellectual effort to understand those 'important interests in common' that are referred to in the Treaty.
It is against this background that the Commission, even at this early stage of the Intergovernmental Conference, has made its contribution to that conference, making points that are very much in line with the recommendations of this report and of other resolutions adopted by the European Parliament: the preparation of our common action through this joint planning analysis capacity; the question of the representation of the Union in foreign policy by the new model of troika, which is still under discussion; the question of how we can change the decision-making procedures and whether some qualified majority could be introduced into the foreign policies, which is also still under discussion in the IGC; the question of the defence component we discussed this morning in relation to the Tindemans report on the Common Security Policy; last, but not least, a matter which is attracting some attention today, and rightfully so, the whole question of how we finance of the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
They certainly will not be the last contribution that we make in the continuing debate about giving more substance to our Common Foreign and Security Policy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at noon.
Common organization of the market in bananas The next item is the debate on the statements by the Council and Commission on the position of the WTO panel concerning the COM in bananas.
The panel recommended that the WTO body responsible for the settlement of disputes should request the European Community to bring its import regulations for bananas into line with its obligations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, and in particular the agreement on administrative procedures during import and export.
That is my official statement, Mr President.
The panel is calling for the banana regime to be brought into line with obligations under the WTO licensing agreement and GATT.
In the present case, the WTO panel maintains that regardless of whether they come from EU countries, ACP countries, framework agreement countries or other third countries, bananas are products of the same description under GATT and must therefore be treated in the same way.
However, this breach should be covered by the derogation allowing the EU to grant special treatment to ACP countries until the year 2000.
This means that the EU is also entitled in principle to grant a preferential tariff for non-traditional ACP bananas.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a number of comments concerning the banana panel report which we have been discussing.
Firstly, the final report of the WTO special working group was forwarded to the parties involved on 29 April this year.
It was an extremely long report, and we immediately set about analysing it in detail, not only in terms of its impact on the banana regime and the banana trade in the European Union, but especially with regard to the various aspects of the report which have implications above and beyond the specific issue of bananas, requiring a study of possible consequences for trade within the European Union in general.
Thirdly, as I have already indicated, quite apart from its impact on the banana regime, the report has wider implications for the interpretation of a number of important WTO provisions.
It is important that this House supports the principle that each case should be discussed and judged on its merits alone.
Mr President, as this Parliament's rapporteur on the reform of the common organization of the market in bananas, I must first express my total dissatisfaction with the way in which the Council has presented this serious problem before Parliament - simply informing us that the panel does not agree with our common organization of the market and that the terms of the GATT have been violated.
To be frank, I was hoping for some kind of explanation, some kind of justification, perhaps even some kind of argument that would help us to find the right way round this impasse.
In point of fact, the battle is always the same: a clash between Community production and the big global business organizations.
The three American giants that control 75-80 % of the world banana market, and 70 % even in Europe, despite Community production, are trying to get their hands on the rest.
Mr President, as has already been said, the WTO panel's ruling is still provisional, and my group too feels that the European Union would be perfectly entitled to appeal against it.
Mr President, on a complaint from the United States, acting on behalf of their banana multinationals which dominate the world market, the World Trade Organization panel has just concluded that the common organization of the banana market does not conform to the rules of international trade.
In addition, it would begin to undermine economic and social plans with serious consequences for Member States of the European Union.
A few days after this conclusion by the panel on bananas there was another decision, equally unfavourable to Community interests and the interests of consumers: in a preliminary report the World Trade Organization condemns the embargo imposed by the Fifteen since 1 January 1997 on imports of meat treated with growth hormones from the United States.
The WTO is turning into an instrument in the exclusive service of the United States and the spearhead of multinationals solely concerned with profit.
That is why I call on the European Union to appeal the decision of the WTO panel immediately and confirm the Community banana regulation, in order to protect the vital interests of Community and ACP producers, in accordance with the commitments made under the Lomé convention.
It is our duty under the Lomé Convention to do so, and that is why it is right - as previous speakers have pointed out - that we should reach an agreement which gives these small islands access to appeal.
Mr President, the WTO panel's conclusions on the COM for bananas certainly present formidable trading problems for European producers and traditional ACP producers.
With the banana market already in very serious disequilibrium through the extravagant quota favours granted to the multinationals in the 'dollar' area, the system for marketing the various quotas would be modified to the detriment of those who market barely a quarter of the bananas consumed in Europe.
But this new episode in an already lengthy trade war also bears witness to the existence of a conflict between two development concepts, one in the WTO and one in the European Union.
Mr President, this afternoon I think Commissioner Fischler has caught Parliament's frequently expressed spirit in defence of the common organization of the market for bananas.
We are talking about reasonable organization, giving imports from the large banana producers a 70 % share of the Community market, and keeping a small amount, 30 %, for Community producers and traditional ACP producers.
I think the Commissioner is right: the European Community must appeal this World Trade Organization decision and, of course, we hope the Council will uphold the guidelines the Commission and the majority of the political groups of this Parliament are currently establishing.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that this banana panel throws doubt on the possibility of maintaining an international economic order because, if this international economic order is going to consist in a whole sector as important as bananas being virtually in the hands of just one multinational - which is what will happen if things go on like this - we will find ourselves unable to control our own consumer market.
What we are trying to create, after all, Mr Commissioner and Mr President of the Council, is an international economic order, not an international economic disorder.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from time to time European countries and regions as well as banana-producing ACP countries experience particular difficulties in marketing this farm product as a result of interference from third countries defending interests differing from the European Union's.
Despite the fact that the European Community's Court of Justice recognized, recently even, the legal validity of the Community banana scheme, the Arbitration Committee of the World Trade Organisation, taking an extremely discretionary and, in our view, intolerable position declared, at the end of April, that this regime was contrary to the rules of international trade.
Given that we are fighting and investing so that economic and social cohesion in the European Union can be fully applied, this declaration by the World Trade Organisation - if it is maintained - could easily destroy once and for all the main farming production in economic terms of certain European Union regions, in particular its islands and ultra-peripheral regions, which are already highly penalized by their very status.
Nor can we forget that the aims of the Lomé Convention, in particular an explicit undertaking in Protocol 5, on bananas, aimed to guarantee ACP producers access to the European market and improve both the production and marketing conditions of bananas in ACP countries.
The Community banana import regime defined by Regulation 404/93 stipulates that the European Union must respect its undertakings to banana-producing ACP states.
The recent decisions taken by the WTO panel are unacceptable since they concentrate exclusively on free trade rules and ignore or dismiss the vital considerations of social, cultural, health and environmental orders.
Therefore, not only should we consider but in our opinion we absolutely must, Commissioner, ensure that the Commission appeals against these unfair conclusions of the Arbitration Committee of the World Trade Organisation.
We fail to understand the position of certain Member States which apparently have already declared their opposition to such an attitude by the Commission which would fundamentally try to restore justice and keep alive the due solidarity between the European Member States and various regions of those States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the banana market was in deep crisis even before the panel decision.
We also expressed concern about the new distribution of licences proposed to us a little while ago by the Commission, because in our view, if it were to be applied, it would contribute to an imbalance in trade in bananas, leading to massive unemployment, a fall in export receipts and the collapse of certain economies with unprecedented social and political consequences in European regions and ACP banana producing countries.
Ladies and gentlemen, our words on this dossier should be precise, and our speeches should express the ambition we set ourselves in constructing European Union and also its political weight internationally.
That is unacceptable, both in form and in content.
The banana affair has overflowed its economic context and become a political issue, and the European authorities must now demonstrate their capacity to trade with the rest of the world while protecting their own interests and refusing to be dictated to about their relations with allies, relations prompted by a rich common history which cannot be denied.
Mr President, the situation created by the WTO's ruling against the Community banana regime must be appealed, as Commissioner Fischler has recognized.
Finally, I want to point out that competition policy is not an end in itself, nor can it be seen only in commercial terms.
The government of Ecuador was quite justified in complaining that the system of issuing licences cost banana growers in Ecuador millions of dollars, because entitlements to import licences were being transferred to privileged multinational corporations.
This verdict from the panel is only the first in a series of WTO rulings that threaten environmental and consumer protection in the EU.
The US corporate lobby drafted the complaint to the WTO in detail and followed its progress through the panel negotiations in Geneva.
The WTO must amend its rules so as to give a hearing to weaker parties, developing countries and the environmental lobby.
Not only did the panel fail to take into account the interests of the European Union but more particularly - and much more importantly - it completely failed to listen to the producers, especially the small producers, representing the ACP states.
Well, it really would be a serious matter if the World Trade Organization, in this matter and in other matters, too, were to continue to work and act not in the interests of a more balanced and freer world market, as laid down in the Marrakesh agreements, but exclusively for the benefit of certain powerful interests, whether those interests be national or representative of multinational enterprises.
The common organization of the market in bananas was difficult to achieve but, overall, the result was a balanced one, including the banana protocol to the Lomé convention, a fundamental contractual agreement which is, moreover, recognized by the Marrakesh agreements and covering eleven traditional banana-supplying States which, if this decision were to be confirmed - would either be further impoverished or forced to abandon an opportunity for trade in favour of further forms of assistance.
There was a slogan a few years ago, ' trade not aid' , but here we have a case where trade is being denied to those outside the sphere of the big multinationals.
In fact, the two great questions that arise today are these: whether the agricultural and commercial policies of the European Union can have a future within the new world organization; and whether the actions of the European Union in dealings with its partners in the developing countries can bring a new structure and a new framework to the machinery of international regulation, rather than being swept aside by the interests of a few big international undertakings.
Mr President, after so much bad news for Community and ACP banana producers, there is a ray of hope with the initiative from the European Council and Commission that has given rise to this debate and the resolution we will probably vote on tomorrow.
The common organization of the banana market has not had a moment's peace in its short life: it has been subject to all kinds of attacks, both in the legal arena and in the battle for public opinion.
No productive sector can thrive in such a climate.
Mr President, Commissioner, strange though it may seem - and knowing my mythology - I never thought that, in the European Parliament, the apple of discord would be replaced by a banana of discord.
I do not contest the existence of courts but I should at least like to see impartial judges sitting on them.
If the allegations in the American press are to be believed, then one multimillionaire can call in the chips to get the Clinton administration to put the boot into small countries in the name of free trade.
An appeal is essential, but this can only be a first step.
The WTO ruling gives neither, and that is why we have to confront it, and we definitely have to appeal.
But as Terry Wynn said, when we were in the Windward Islands last week, we actually faced the stark realities that people in those islands are facing themselves, as they try to meet the challenge from dollar bananas.
The payoff for those favours, it seems, was a WTO ruling which effectively threatens the entire social fabric of a region.
I hope the European Union will help Bill Clinton to understand that fact.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the findings of the preliminary report of the Banana Panel of the World Trade Organisation are contrary to the interests of the European Community and in particular to those of Portugal and the autonomous region of Madeira, which is a part of my country, and even more to the traditional banana exporters of the ACP countries.
The Community has the right and obligation to defend Community banana producers according to the principle of Community preference and ensure that agreements which we have signed with ACP countries in the framework of the Lomé Convention are respected.
Mr President, Commissioner, if the European Union is forced to accept the findings of the WTO Banana Panel report, that would call into question the defence of the principle of Community preference and this would mean speeding up liberalization of the banana COM, calling into question also the already precarious economic and social stability of banana-producing countries, as well as the ecological and environmental balance as a consequence of abandonment of these crops.
Commissioner, I should like here and now to remind you of the final part of your letter, in reply to mine, dated 20 May 1997, which said that you were aware of the importance of banana growing on the island of Madeira from an economic, social and ecological point of view.
That being so, I call on you and the Commission to present a clear strategy on the banana market, bearing in mind the legitimate interests of Community and ACP banana country producers.
We shall take account of the interests of these producers in our search for a solution, and we shall have to examine in detail how best we can protect them in the short and longer term.
Finally, the Council will be examining the ruling in greater detail in close consultation with Commissioner Fischler and his services, and will draw its conclusions once it has considered all the various aspects.
I would almost go so far as to say that it is counterproductive to engage in a debate now on how we should react to one final ruling or another.
Nonetheless, one thing is clear: banana producers in the European Union have the same rights as any other farmers in the European Union - they are entitled to look to the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty with regard to Community preference and general solidarity with our agricultural producers.
Bearing all this in mind, the Commission will, as I said earlier, set about analysing the WTO ruling in detail and then decide on the right way in which to proceed.
The debate is closed.
The refugees and displaced persons in eastern Zaire are in an agonizing situation, and repatriation is still not taking place without difficulties.
On 4 May, a meeting organized by the special representative of the United Nations and the South African Government took place between President Mobutu and Laurent Kabila on board a South African naval vessel which bears a rather difficult name.
Shortly after this meeting, Mr Kabila announced that the capital, Kinshasa, would be taken by force if President Mobutu did not resign within a week.
The Council emphatically supports the recent mediation efforts by the President of South Africa, Mr Mandela, and his Vice-President.
The Council hopes that these talks will involve genuine negotiations which will prevent further acts of violence and represent a first move towards a peaceful transition process in Zaire.
The Council has already given detailed attention to the situation in Zaire on several occasions, and has made its position clear.
The starting-point here has always been that the European Union primarily has a supporting role in the process of political dialogue and humanitarian assistance which is taking place under the auspices of the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity.
In this context, on 30 April this year, the Council once again expressed its concern at the situation in Zaire, called on the parties to avoid further bloodshed, and instructed its special envoy to take all possible measures.
The Council is deeply disturbed at the present lamentable situation of the refugees and displaced persons in eastern Zaire.
Until recently, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees only had access to part of the area between Kisangani and Obundu where most of the refugees are hiding out in groups in woodland.
Recent reports suggest that the UNHCR has been able to extend somewhat the area in which it is active, but thousands of refugees are being found in a seriously weakened condition there.
The Council also rejects any time-limit as regards the repatriation of refugees.
On 12 May, the UN mission returned empty-handed from Kigali.
The parties directly involved in the conflict are primarily to blame in this respect.
The European Union can only play a supporting role here in the process taking place under the auspices of the UN and the OAU.
To this end, the Union has repeatedly expressed its support for the peace plan drawn up by Mr Sahnoun, which has also been endorsed by the United Nations Security Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment the progress of the negotiations and military action which will decide where power lies in Zaire in the future is partially obscuring the human drama which continues to be played out virtually all over the country.
It is now clear that Zaire is moving towards a new stage in its history.
I have no regrets about the stage which is coming to an end, but the power incarnate in this change causes me grave anxiety because up to now it has flouted every international humanitarian convention, as well as many human rights conventions.
You will have seen the television pictures when the crews accompany the humanitarian workers where they are allowed to go.
As you know, for once the entire humanitarian community has spoken with one voice and sent a report to the Security Council on 6 May 1997, through the United Nations Department of Humanitarian Affairs.
I also want to comment on some of the background, and remind you that almost half of the 400, 000 Rwandan refugees in Zaire who did not return to their own country were located and helped a few weeks ago at Tingi Tingi.
It is also important to remember that in December, when the multinational force was disbanded even before it arrived on the premise that all the refugees had returned to Rwanda and that there were therefore no more refugees in Zaire, few dared claim that about 400, 000 people were missing from the roll call.
In the last few weeks, as the Council has just said, the European Union, the United States and the UN have been putting on intense pressure through their special envoys to persuade the FDL to put an end to the systematic violations of human rights and allow humanitarian agents and in particular the HCR free access to the refugees.
So far 22, 000 refugees have been helped.
In fact this is the first time that a deadline has been imposed for ensuring the repatriation of the refugees, because if any logistic operation is forbidden after a certain deadline, then everything gets more complicated.
We are profoundly convinced that if this humanitarian situation is not dealt with at the highest political level without delay and if the consultations taking place with all the countries intervening either directly or indirectly in the region do not achieve their goal, the humanitarian disaster which is already taking shape could turn into total catastrophe.
There is an immediate need for two measures to be adopted and implemented without delay.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I myself have already been criticized in the context of this crisis for - I quote - taking a heterodox position, for Mobutophilia, and lately, for being a psychopath.
As has already been said, the situation has probably reached a critical turning point, now that Kabila's troops are preparing to enter Kinshasa.
We are in fact approaching the end of a particularly troubled and dramatic period in Zaire.
Europe has been unable to find a practical solution and to put an end to this conflict.
Perhaps you have forgotten, ladies and gentlemen, but we declared that 1997 was to be the year of combating racism.
As you know, the expression 'having dirty hands' is often used in politics.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, even as we hold this debate, another meeting is taking place in the Congolese port of Point Noir between President Mobutu and Laurent Kabila, the leader of the rebels of the alliance of democratic forces for the liberation of Congo-Zaire, under the aegis of South Africa, to try to reach a peaceful settlement.
It would have been helpful if Parliament and the Union could have agreed a position in time to redouble their efforts to achieve a lasting solution to the conflict - a very difficult matter - to be based on a peace process geared to preparing for free and democratic elections for the Zairean people.
The slaughter of refugees and displaced persons is continuing in Zaire; the rebel forces are obstructing the distribution of aid and, despite the statements made for the benefit of the international community regarding a cessation of hostilities, the head of the rebel forces is still favouring the military opposition in the country.
The United Nations Security Council needs to adopt swift and energetic measures to put an end to these massacres and appalling violations of human rights, and especially to the inhuman treatment being meted out to the refugees from Rwanda and Burundi and people displaced from other areas.
The Zairean saga of recent weeks and the end of Mobutu's regime are an object lesson in what not to do in terms of a European foreign policy.
The facts of recent months show that the standing-down of the UN intervention force has resulted in a humanitarian and political disaster.
When I read in the newspaper today that Mr Kabila is saying that the dictator Mobutu has to go, I say 'excellent' , but when he then adds that all the power is now going to the people from the alliance, my heart sinks when I see what this alliance has already allowed to happen in areas where it has assumed power.
And you are right, the situation in Zaire certainly warrants our interest.
Laurent-Désiré Kabila's troops have the capital within their grasp, and he is making demands in line with his military achievements; the major United Nations agencies are denied access to a vast territory because of massacres of civilians; a corrupt dictator was set up and supported by successive governments of Union States, bringing discredit on our whole Union and its action; the United States has built up influence in the region, the political situation on the ground is extremely complex, power is effectively in the hands of a warlord not particularly inclined to make concessions.
This really is one of the reasons for discouragement, a reason which both leaves us perplexed and urges us to accept greater responsibility with a view to trying to find solutions for the future.
The issue is a humanitarian one, but not only humanitarian: it is also about the acceptance of responsibility, because if we have had four or five or six or even seven debates on Zaire, and on other situations too, in the last two or three or four months, and we read the denunciations printed in all the national and international newspapers, and yet we cannot find a solution, it is clear that something is going wrong.
It was a dictatorship lasting over 30 years and it will remain an example of how terror can ruin an immensely rich country, subject its population to misery, encourage the brain drain, create a corrupt political class and destroy a society.
And looking to a peaceful future, the new system needs to be capable of cementing the democratic forces around a consensus about the terms and timetable of transition until free elections can be held with their transparency guaranteed by the international community.
And here I believe the United Nations and above all the European Union need to play a fundamental role, taking responsibility for the political and social reconstruction of Zaire.
All too frequently our European Parliament regards its function of democratic control of the European Union's relations as fulfilled with the despatch of observers to some initial legislative elections.
I think the powers article 218 of the treaty confers on the European Parliament, as well as the provisions of legal instruments where we have control over application - I am thinking, Madam Commissioner, of article 5 of the Lomé Convention - should be used to their full extent.
I therefore propose the creation in this Parliament of a permanent service to monitor political conditions in states with which the EU intends to sign treaties requiring the consent of Parliament.
Reconstructing Zaire and bringing peace to the whole region also requires the solution of the problem of the refugees and displaced persons whom we cannot forget, as the Commissioner has quite rightly said.
I want to tell her that her action has been correct, although it has not been followed up as it should have been by the whole international Community.
The new government must guarantee humanitarian organizations free access to the victims of the conflict and, in turn, the European Union must grant aid through ECHO - and we hope this will be the last time, but it is needed now if this population is to be helped.
Mr President, there is ultimately no point in us discussing Zaire here today unless the European Union can finally bring itself to do what a number of speakers have called for and adopt a clear position on the subject.
He has not spelled out how, as the leader of an alliance of democratic forces, he envisages the transition to democracy, nor how he intends to set about holding the first democratic elections in a country beset by geographical and ethnic problems on such a scale.
I want to end by saying this: Che Guevara spent six months in the Congo when Laurent-Désiré Kabila first opened a front in 1960.
And Mr Patijn, we hope you will be able to shake up the European countries.
I have to say to you that I personally - as a politician, a Dutchman and a European - regret that the international community and the European Union, at a certain point, were in fact obliged to watch the tragedy that was unfolding, once the military option had become unfeasible in political, military and logistical terms.
As the conflict developed, the international community, the United Nations and the permanent members of the Security Council judged that military intervention in this humanitarian tragedy was not the appropriate course of action, because these questions were asked.
Naturally, at the next Council meeting, we must try to gear our objectives to the following priorities in order to bring this human tragedy to an end.
I believe that the Council intends firstly - and it will certainly use its special representative and its diplomacy to this effect - to aim for a cessation of hostilities and the opening of negotiations and, when these are under way, to help them succeed in bringing about a peaceful transfer of power in Zaire.
Secondly, this must be linked to the right of international organizations to do their work in the areas and for the people that are in need of it.
When there is a cease-fire, and when a political agreement exists in principle on a transition which is clearly imminent in Zaire, every effort must then be directed towards establishing a minimum of stability in this vast country, where so many people are having a hard time of it at present.
Addressing the Council because the question does in fact arise, I can say that neither I nor the Commission have any colonial, military or other ambitions in the region, but there is a real problem.
We felt aid through military intervention was probably not the most effective option and it presented political risks - I shall come back to this point because I agree with your analysis - and that it was better to intervene with humanitarian aid.
The problem we faced was that humanitarian aid was blocked from a certain point, in that we were not allowed access to those who needed help.
Thank you very much, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 noon.
I suggest we move on without delay to Question Time to the Council.
Question No 1 by Juan Izquierdo Collado (H-0293/97) Subject: Cohesion Fund What is the Council's view of the continuity of the Cohesion Fund post-1999?
My flight is due to leave at 9 p.m., and before then I also have an important discussion planned with a delegation from the European Parliament in connection with the Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr Patijn, you put me in a difficult position, because as I said just now this has been a day when the timetable has been changed - to meet everyone's needs.
Moreover, Article 16 of the regulation establishing the Fund stipulates that the Council must review that regulation, on a proposal from the Commission, before the end of 1999.
Since the Commission has not yet submitted a proposal on the subject, the Council takes the view that, for the time being, it is unable to adopt a position on the future of the Cohesion Fund.
I can tell honourable Members that the Commission organized a conference at the end of April on the economic and social cohesion of the European Union, called the forum on cohesion.
Lastly, I would also remind the House that the European Council in Madrid requested the Commission to carry out a thorough analysis as soon as possible of the European Union's system of financing, with a view to presenting - immediately after the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference - a communication on the future financial framework of the European Union after 31 December 1999, taking account of the prospect of enlargement.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my question was not about whether the Council had taken any decision, but about your own opinion on a most important issues, the cohesion fund.
In view of the importance of this Fund for certain regions and countries of the Union, and without waiting for proposals from the Commission, does the Council think it should include the continuity of the cohesion fund in the financial perspectives as from 1999?
That involves the question of how the European Union copes with enlargement in the coming years, particularly in the next century, taking account of the fact that the candidates for future membership of the European Union are well below the EU average in terms of both their general level of prosperity and the development of their physical and technological infrastructure.
In this broader context, we also have to answer questions such as: what is the future of the common agricultural policy and what will be the costs of further restructuring, if we are to absorb the agricultural sector of Eastern Europe?
If we succeed in doing this at the European Council meeting in Amsterdam in June, I would expect that the Commission will produce this analysis of the future financial framework very quickly, from which we shall then see the possibilities as regards the future of the Cohesion Fund.
It is important to establish from the outset here that the authority to impose any restrictions on goods traffic on Sundays within a Member State lies in principle with the Member State in question, provided such restrictions are in accordance with the general principles of Community law, especially those of proportionality and non-discrimination.
I would point out that, under the terms of Article 155 of the EC Treaty, it is the task of the Commission to ensure that the provisions of the Treaty and the measures taken pursuant thereto are applied and respected.
In this case, the Commission is monitoring the development of the situation on the ground on a daily basis, and it is responsible for identifying and correcting any possible distortions in this sector.
There are similar restrictions in Austria, Germany, Italy and Portugal.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am glad you broadly share our concern about this.
I believe that the honourable Member is right to ask for attention to be given to this kind of phenomenon, but I repeat - and this is an established part of the whole political and legal system of the Community - that Member States have the freedom - and I would add on behalf of the Council that they must have it - to adopt measures in certain sectors, including goods traffic, which they regard as being in the interest of public order and the safety of their citizens.
For instance, there must be a clear proportionality between the effect of the measures in terms of public order and any adverse consequences they may have for freedom of movement or the economy as a whole.
Above all, it is important that these measures do not turn out to be a form of discrimination against the nationals or interests of other Member States.
It is extremely important to safeguard the principles of the free movement of goods and persons, and also the freedom of transport within the Community, not least in terms of political acceptance.
Question No 3 by Mr Wibe (H-0305/97) Subject: Secret consultants' report on the Volvo works at Umeå The Swedish press has reported that the Commission intends to prohibit the Swedish transport subsidy to the Volvo works at Umeå.
However, the Council wishes to draw Mr Wibe's attention to the fact that the competition rules in general and state aid in particular are among the specific areas for which the Treaty has granted competence to the Commission.
In the present situation - let us be quite clear - the Council is totally unable to adopt a position on this matter, and still less so to oblige the Commission to disclose the report in question, even if only to the Swedish Government.
If the Council cannot force the Commission to publish this report, I would like to rephrase the second part of my question as follows: will you be urging the Commission, in the name of openness and transparency, to make this report available to the Swedish Government?
I think that in the case of confidential business information - and I gather that what is involved here is a report produced by a consultancy for Volvo, in other words entirely within the private sector - it is unwise to insist on publication of a report which the Commission has in its charge because of its responsibilities for competition law.
In my view, this would in fact cause problems in terms of managing and implementing competition law.
The company is urging the EU to pass on the report.
This is why for many years there has been a system of transport aid in order to even out competition within the country, which is a point worth emphasising.
Now that the EU wants to change this system, reference is made to a report marked secret.
I am prepared to state quite clearly that this cloak of secrecy, where not even the Government in the country concerned has immediate access to a report, shows up one of the truly worst aspects of the EU.
The Council, at least this presidency of the Council, is a committed supporter of maximum openness.
At the Intergovernmental Conference, the whole question of providing a better basis for the principles of transparency and openness is a high priority for many Member States, and that has very much been promoted by the presidency.
But I would repeat once more that even with the maximum degree of openness, industries which make confidential business information available to European Union institutions, either voluntarily or because they are obliged to do so, enjoy a certain amount of protection in terms of whether or not such confidential information is published.
This is restated in the conclusions of the second Euromediterranean Conference which took place in Malta on 15 and 16 April.
In adopting the guidelines for the MEDA indicative programmes on 6 December 1996, the Council also agreed that assistance for the Union's Mediterranean partners should be particularly focused on developing human resources through improved supervision, targeting and quality of vocational and management training.
At multilateral level, an exchange of views was held at a tripartite conference in Catania on 24 and 25 May 1996 on a whole range of interrelated subjects in the social sector, including vocational training.
Also, financial assistance from MEDA resources is being used to support measures at both subregional and bilateral level to improve the quality of vocational training.
If the honourable Member wishes to have more detailed information on specific activities, I suggest that she approaches the Commission, which is responsible for the implementation of this programme.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Council has answered this question like a bureaucrat, with meaningless words.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a young Czech, Rumanian or Hungarian can get skills training and benefit from the programmes.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have not answered my question.
This is a serious responsibility.
Mrs Izquierdo, you are only entitled to ask one supplementary question, and you have already done that.
I should like to give a combined answer to the questions by Mr Newens, Mr Bontempi, Mr Morris and Mr Medina Ortega, because they all concern the Helms-Burton Act and Cuba.
Following intensive bilateral discussions between the Commission and the American authorities, an agreement on the Helms-Burton Act was reached on 11 April 1997, and consequently also to some extent on the D'Amato Act.
The Council points out that the European Union, like the United States, sets itself the goal of promoting democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms where these are under threat and, like the United States, has committed itself to combating terrorism.
In this context, the Council draws particular attention to the deep concern which it expressed in its conclusions of 15 July 1996 regarding the extra-territorial consequences of the Helms-Burton and D'Amato Acts, and nothing in the agreement with the United States should be interpreted as in any way prejudicing its continuing stance on this issue, as set out in those conclusions.
The Council believes that the negotiations in the context of the multilateral agreement on investment, the MAI, should continue in accordance with the procedures agreed for these talks and on the basis of the relevant mandate.
This mandate can be amended by the Council in accordance with its rules of procedure.
However, no figures are available on the overall impact on the European Union's trade with Cuba.
The Council has nevertheless repeatedly emphasized that, in its view, this legislation is in breach of international law, has been damaging to the rights and interests of the European Union in the areas of trade and investment, and has had a discouraging effect on trade between the Union and Cuba.
I am glad that he recognizes that some European countries which trade in the United States have been intimidated by the very possibility of legal action being taken against them and that there are other American laws which have been used against law-abiding Europeans citizens.
I can assure Mr Newens that the Council will do everything possible to counter third-country legislation with extra-territorial effect which is damaging to the interests of firms and individuals in the European Union.
However, the US administration is undertaking to try to limit the adverse effects of the Helms-Burton and D'Amato Acts in terms of their impact on the interests of European Union nationals, and to eliminate them through changes in the law or waivers.
And most of all, doesn't it seem to you, as it does to me, that there is a risk that this agreement might, in part, produce precisely the same effects as the law did?
I recognize the difference, but we have heard about disincentives to companies and even to non-governmental organizations already working in co-operation with Cuba as a result of the application and interpretation of this agreement.
The aim of this agreement with the Commission, which has now been endorsed by the Council, although subject to the strict conditions which I have just described to you, is to lead the American administration to enter into discussions with its independent legislature, namely the Congress, with a view to interpreting and, where necessary, amending the law in such a way as to remove precisely those extra-territorial effects which are damaging to European economic interests, not least established economic interests.
If it should appear that, either in law or in practice, the American administration is being obliged to continue to take extra-territorial action against European interests with regard to economic contacts with Cuba, then the Commission and the Council will not hesitate to draw the conclusions I have just mentioned, in other words to restart the WTO panel.
At this very moment a Community citizen, Mr Ferreiro, is in prison in the United States for running a business supplying food and other basic necessities to Cuba.
What I really regret is in fact that both the United States and the European Union, whose views are clearly shared on the desirability of new political and economic developments in Cuba, have still not begun to reach agreement after so many years on the question of how this is to happen, and disagree fundamentally on the matter.
The question by Mr Papayannakis relates in particular to this second aspect, namely international cooperation in terms of criminal law to combat the drugs trade and drug crime.
The question refers more specifically to the extent of the progress made during the Dutch presidency on implementing the joint action for the approximation of the legislation and procedures of the Member States of the European Union in combating drug addiction and to prevent and combat illegal trafficking in drugs.
Precisely because of this, it is extremely important that information which is available in Member States - for instance on new substances which in principle fall under drugs legislation - is analysed and exchanged as quickly as possible, so that these new substances can also be outlawed in the legislation of the various Member States and the judicial and police authorities then have a legal basis for responding to them quickly.
In this respect, the collection and exchange of information is the first and absolutely crucial step in being able to take vigorous action.
As the author is not present, Question No 10 falls.
Experts from the EU Member States have indeed been holding discussions for a number of years with other countries, such as the United States, on the requirements which need to be placed on the industry to ensure that in the design of telecommunications equipment, specific provision is made for interception via this equipment by law enforcement authorities.
These have led to a set of international user requirements, the importance of which was highlighted by the Council in its resolution of 17 January 1995, to which the questioner has referred.
Other countries from outside the European Union such as the United States, Canada, Australia and Norway have also endorsed these requirements.
The way in which the technical facilities can subsequently be used for interception is determined by national law, which in the case of the European countries must be in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights.
I would like to thank the Council President for the answer I received.
In this context, I would say that the European Union has powers under the third pillar to facilitate harmonization.
I think it is very important for individual Member States - and certainly those which sign the international conventions on the protection of privacy and human rights - to continue to ensure through national legislation and national supervisory procedures that intelligence and security services adhere strictly to certain rules of conduct laid down in national law.
On the question of what the Council is doing to combat internationally organized crime, more particularly in terms of intelligence operations by police or intelligence services, I would point out that the European Council in Dublin set up a group of senior representatives from the Member States to carry out a specific study of the phenomenon of organized crime, and to produce recommendations for taking firm action to combat this by means of cooperation.
As the time available for Question Time to the Council has run out, Questions Nos 11 to 29 will be answered in writing.
I would like an assurance that we shall not have a repetition of this in the future.
Mr President, on the Souchet report: I want to have an assurance that the legal base amendments which I have tabled and which have been referred to the Legal Affairs Committee will be given ample time to be examined.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights will verify that before the vote tomorrow at noon.
In view of their importance I want to highlight the following points from his report: the international fisheries agreements and fishing in international waters account for 25 % of total Community production.
So these agreements are essential for the Community fleet, the market and Community consumers, for our industry and, consequently, for employment, which, as the report also shows, is concentrated in peripheral Objective 1 regions which are very dependent on fisheries, without other clear employment alternatives, but with a world-class competitive fishing sector, which needs to be supported against third fishing powers seeking access to the same fishing grounds, and not always applying such strict technical conservation measures as the European Union.
Finally, it needs to be highlighted that this policy, so beneficial to the European Union's interests, takes under 30 % of total Community resources allocated to fishing, a mere 0.31 % of the total Union budget.
Further, and exclusively for the straddling stocks and highly migratory stocks at least for the moment, if the present New York Convention succeeds in coming into force, it should be applied in the future, but it needs to be stressed that this does not provide grounds or refuge for national extraterritorial laws, like the disgraceful Canadian Fisheries Law of 25 May 1994, or the new draft law C-62 - and we take this opportunity to denounce it once again.
The agreement affects powers that are shared between the Member States and the Commission.
The European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs points out - and I shall end here, Mr President - in its conclusions 5 and 6 that the arrangements in article 3.2 are likely to pose problems, and that there is still no welldefined Community case law in the area of international agreements of a mixed nature.
For these reasons, while the Committee on Fisheries is in favour of ratification of the agreement, it is nevertheless unanimously opposed to point 3.2 of the proposal.
It is in a rather unusual position in that the fishing possibilities for the Sao Tomé and Principe fishermen themselves are very limited because of the peculiarities of the waters around the islands.
There have been many occasions when I have been critical of fisheries policy but I think most of this particular report is commendable.
It proposes a reasonably generous settlement with the government of Sao Tomé and Principe.
We come back time and time again, in this Parliament, to two criticisms.
Time and time again, in the Committee on Development and Cooperation and in the Committee on Fisheries, we have said that this is not the best way to achieve results, which are supposed to be based not just on the commercial interests of the European Union and its Member States, but on those of the people concerned.
This issue of development tools will not go away until we have changed the basic approach and have a hybrid between the two considerations: the commercial fishing interests of the EU and the development aspect.
This Parliament loves to be consulted, but we would much rather be consulted before something has taken effect than afterwards.
It is high time that we changed the regime so that Parliament could give its opinion before an agreement comes into force, rather than the other way around.
Having said that, the Commission proposals have my support and that of the Committee on Fisheries.
Mr President, my report concerns the NAFO area.
However, important though NAFO is, the international fisheries agreements are far more important.
What is happening is that the European Union, with its international fisheries agreements, is contributing to this global problem, namely the over-subsidization of the fishing fleet worldwide.
In fact, the FAO has estimated that there is a very large and unacceptable total subsidy to fishing fleets worldwide.
The Liberal Group is suggesting that we take a very radical approach to conservation and in general to the future of fishing worldwide.
If those negotiations are unsuccessful then we should take the process to the World Trade Organization and have that body police this area and treat the subsidy of international fishing agreements as unfair methods of competition.
Yet the cost to the Community in this area is approximately ECU 280m per annum and Peter Crampton's report suggests that only 1, 300 vessels benefit from this policy.
Surely we can spend that money more effectively elsewhere in the European Union, for example in the peripheral regions, and I would suggest my own constituency.
We must stop this kind of subsidy.
Mr President, I am speaking for the first five minutes as rapporteur for the Fisheries Committee which passed my report a little while ago.
The European Union has 26 fisheries agreements with third countries, 15 with countries in Africa and the Indian Ocean and 10 in the North Atlantic countries with 1 in Latin America.
They fall into five main categories: reciprocal agreements, access to surplus stocks, access to stocks in exchange for financial compensation, access in exchange for compensation and market access and second generation agreements involving the constitution of joint enterprises.
The Commissioner, and I quote her, recently said 'we arrive, fish, pay almost nothing and leave with zero control' .
The European Union obviously has to balance its own immediate interests and the future survival of its fleet while at the same time acknowledging that the sustainability of global fishstocks is in everybody's long-term interest.
The Fisheries Committee welcomes the Commission communication 'Fisheries Agreements - current situation and agreements' as an initial first step.
The difficulties of signing a new agreement with Senegal and the indications from Morocco that it will not sign a further agreement when this one comes to an end in 1999 are significant.
It also stresses the coherence that is necessary between fishing policy as represented by these agreements and development policy.
Then we mention in the report the role of the European Parliament.
The Party of European Socialists' amendments seek to remedy some of these defects.
The Commission has already stated that these agreements are not a long-term solution.
We have to tackle our problem in our waters ourselves.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, under the consultation procedure, Parliament has been asked for its opinion on a Commission proposal for a partial amendment of Regulation No 3760/92 of December 1992 establishing a Community system for fisheries and aquaculture.
The first is to authorize powers to be conferred on the Commission for incorporating, without consultation, in the Community legal order provisions concerning technical measures on fishing gear and its method of use adopted by international fisheries organizations to which the Community is a contracting party.
The second amendment is aimed at determining the fishing opportunities which the Council may allocate to third countries, within the limit of the annual total allowable catches, and technical conditions under which such catches may be made within Community waters.
Given that the sole aim of these two proposals is to create a specific legal basis to enable the objectives I have just mentioned to be achieved, our committee has made no objection to these partial amendments to the regulation.
On the other hand, our committee had strong reservations about the possibility of delegating powers to the Commission to transpose directly into the Community legal system binding acts adopted by international organizations under the terms set out in the Commission proposal.
Article 4, paragraph 1 of Regulation 3760/92, provides that the Council acting, except where otherwise provided, in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 43 of the treaty, shall establish Community measures laying down the conditions of access to waters and resources and the pursuit of exploitation activities.
The reference to the procedure under article 43 of the treaty means that, in order for decisions to be adopted in this field, the European Parliament must be consulted.
Under the current decision-making procedure on fisheries within the European Union, authorizing powers to be conferred on the Commission to incorporate binding legal acts adopted by international organizations to which the Community belongs, as proposed here, means Parliament, and moreover the Council, would be cut off from the decision-making process in respect of acts relating to a significant part of the common fisheries policy.
The consultation procedure under article 43 of the treaty is practically the only means whereby the European Parliament can be given adequate knowledge of the decisions adopted in organizations such as the International Baltic Sea Fisheries Commission, the North-West Atlantic Fisheries Organization, the North-East Atlantic Fisheries Commission, the Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources, which are all organizations with a major role in the fisheries sector.
Moreover, the implementation of the provisions arising from the recent United Nations agreement on straddling stocks and stocks of highly migratory species, adopted on 4 August 1995, makes it more than ever important that Parliament should be consulted on decisions adopted in international commissions and organizations, which are tending to become the main protagonists in the drafting of the law of the sea.
In view of these various considerations, Mr President, our committee proposes that the conferring of powers on the Commission for the adoption of technical measures, as provided for in the proposal before us, should be rejected, but that the other two proposals for amendment relating to the exploitation of resources should be accepted.
I would end by making it clear that the draft legislative resolution before you was unanimously adopted by the Committee on Fisheries and the two amendments tabled by our committee which accompany it, Nos 1 and 2, are merely amendments to improve the proposal.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the debate on the future of international fisheries agreements must take into account certain basic ideas or principles.
Secondly, the fact that the sector directly or indirectly employs hundreds of thousands of people, including those in the processing and preserves industry, which therefore gives it a social weight which is far greater than its direct economic importance, further worsened by the fact that many local communities depend on fishing activities.
Mr President, Commissioner, the international fisheries agreements certainly have an economic and commercial value, there is no getting away from that, but they must also be compatible with cooperation and development policies.
Of course we must pay due heed to the traditional cultures of these peoples, but the fact remains that in the ACP regions and in the SGP States these agreements fulfil an important function.
There are still some third countries which are not always making the best use of these agreements, and in some cases they are serving to enrich the local ruling cliques, thus creating a problem of democracy originating from the administration of European resources, which are not all that extensive.
We must remember that, even if we have a problem with the self-sufficiency of the food supply in the European Union, which is a very important point, and even if these agreements help to improve that self-sufficiency, liberalization would be likely to be harmful and would naturally result in the deterioration of those quality mechanisms and hygienic and sanitary standards that we have worked to bring about, while also creating conditions in which the workforce in third countries would be exploited, something which we do not like to see today.
For example, the second-generation international agreements also attach great importance to social guarantees, a not insignificant point, although we must be alert, since there are a lot of unscrupulous people who, once embarked on the high seas, make use of fishing licences under international agreements to indulge in smuggling.
I believe it is important to continue along this road, and to improve things further, but also that it is important to move forward to a further stage, going beyond the concept of bilateral international agreements.
With this in mind, we could try some experimental approaches in some areas, especially areas which are environmentally and geographically homogeneous and comprise groups of States; in areas like those it would be useful to talk to some of these associations on a more than just bilateral basis.
One final point, if I may, Mr President: I would like to thank the Commissioner for the co-operative way in which she has worked with Parliament on the international agreements.
Mr President, I should like to use today's debate on fisheries as an opportunity to highlight the importance of the legislative work we do in the Committee on Fisheries, and the value and status of that work within the policy of the European Union.
However, one of the failings of the Maastricht Treaty was that it did not take account of our efforts to ensure that future international fisheries agreements were subject to the assent procedure.
To that extent, we believe that by bringing our action concerning the fisheries agreement with Mauritania before the Court of Justice pursuant to Article 228 of the EEC Treaty, the Committee on Fisheries is promoting the further institutional development of the EU.
Ad hoc solutions and short-term thinking cannot and must not be used to eliminate the problem of structural overfishing in our waters.
We need to solve our overfishing problems internally within the Union instead of exporting them to other countries.
I fear that we Liberals are still alone in supporting our amendments, but I am sure that in a few years' time the majority in Parliament will come to share our views.
What I was looking for was an assurance that we would not come back to this matter until the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights had a chance to debate it properly.
But there is a very dangerous precedent being set here, if the Commission is allowed to get away with evading the provisions of the acquis commaunitaire and the provisions of the various fundamental treaties which set up the common fisheries policy.
That is why this issue of going to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is so important.
Mr Macartney, I already indicated at the start that the vote will only take place once we have the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on the legal basis.
According to the FAO, many commercial fish species are currently under threat.
In short, what we need is a long-term fisheries policy which guarantees that fish stocks are maintained and supports development policy.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
Madam Commissioner, everyone who has followed fishing issues closely knows the argument which tends to surround the agreements policy, and as you see, this report's passage through committee has also aroused lively debate.
It recognizes, first of all, the importance of the agreements for the Community economy, and not just for the countries which benefit because their fleets are in third countries' waters, but also - this point is often forgotten - for other countries with important processing industries which can be supplied with Community raw materials as a result and not have to rely massively on imports which would be much more expensive without the fishing agreements.
Finally, the report seeks to clarify another point of confusion: the fisheries agreements are fisheries policy, not development policy.
Yet it would be wrong to forget the important role they play in the development of local communities, thanks to the financing and experience provided by the Community fleets, to the point that - and this is another little-known aspect - in many cases it is third countries themselves which ask the European Union for fisheries agreements.
The most recent case - and here I am correcting some of my colleagues - is Senegal, where pressure to renew the agreement has come not just from Community interests, but also from the Senegalese sector itself because its processing depends on Community catches in its waters and some industries risked paralysis if the agreement was not renewed immediately.
As you know, some were already complaining before the agreement was renewed.
Finally, I would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs, but I want to highlight the Souchet report, Madam Commissioner, regarding Parliament's loss of power in the consultation procedure, and we obviously have to oppose your proposed reform of article 4 of the basic regulation.
You will appreciate that it is our right and our duty to defend the powers of this Parliament, and article 43 is considerably diminished by your proposal, so we shall continue to whittle away at it.
Mr President, I am speaking mainly to the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizen's Rights in relation to Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna's report on the proposal for a Council decision on ratification by the European Community of the agreement for the implementation of the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea relating to the conservation and management of fish stocks found both inside and outside exclusive economic zones and highly migratory fish stocks.
Given that the Community does not have full competence in matters of external policy, it seems to me very dangerous to introduce a dual procedure, and I think it is preferable to wait until jurisdiction develops in accordance with United Nations law rather than introduce this ambiguous situation.
And I especially want to congratulate my good friend, Mr Crampton, for his work as rapporteur.
And when Mr Teverson said that the percentage per ship was very high, he did not explain that the reason it is so high is that Community policy has been and is to reduce the number of ships.
In this case, the Council decided on the provisional application of the protocol on 25 October last year, so that the Commission could immediately proceed with the payments.
In the Council's eyes, that was more important than consulting Parliament in good time.
This time, the first payment is due on 31 July.
I should like to take this opportunity of emphasizing once again that the last Commission official in charge of negotiating fisheries agreements with third countries was, like his predecessors, made fully aware of the importance of observing the democratic procedure for ratifying an international fisheries agreement - even if negotiations on such an agreement go on until three in the morning - and was told that agreeing deadlines for payment three or four months after the initialling of an agreement would simply no longer be acceptable.
The Crampton report also backs our repeated demand for the question of the application of the assent procedure to be clarified as part of the continuing negotiations on the revision of the Maastricht Treaty.
Therefore, as the member of the Committee on Budgets with permanent responsibility for reporting on fisheries issues, I welcome the decision that was taken by the Committee on Legal Affairs on 17 April this year to finally make an example of the agreement with Mauritania and contest the Council's chosen legal basis for that agreement in the Court of Justice.
Mr President, one of the reports we are going to pass is the report on the international fisheries agreements.
So when our fishing grounds in Community waters cannot supply the catches required by the capacity of the European fishing fleet, we must look for alternatives in waters of other third countries.
But we must also bear in mind that the Community runs a deficit in fish, so the needs of our own trade balance impel us to look for and promote this type of alternative for our fleet.
That is clearly stated in this report, which is why it deserves our full support.
So the fisheries agreements themselves can actually be active instruments of the cooperation policies, in addition, of course, to serving the interests of the Community fishing sector.
And the report underlines another sad reality.
Year after year, the budget of the European Union increases and yet the amounts devoted to fishing in general, and to the fisheries agreements in particular, are not growing to the same extent but are diminishing in relative and indeed absolute terms - from ECU 278 million to ECU 273 million last year.
And as the European Parliament is a budgetary authority, logically this should give us food for thought too.
The report gives a realistic description of the Community fleet's ever-increasing difficulties of direct access to the fishing grounds of other third countries.
And I want to close with one thought, Mr President: we increasingly need a genuine European foreign policy to back up all our policies, including our socio-economic policies, and including our fisheries policies.
In the future a common foreign policy which also covers trade policy, economic policy and cooperation policy may facilitate the development of international fisheries agreements.
The Crampton report underlines the need for coherence between the various Community policies.
Indeed, the problems are already too urgent for that.
The capacity of the world's fishing fleet has doubled over the last 20 years, and the pressure on fisheries resources is steadily increasing.
Tackling these problems requires transparency, a coherent approach and, above all, honesty.
In particular, we wish to see the Commission adopting an integrated approach in this area, instead of the present ad hoc way of dealing with things.
Under Article 130v of the EC Treaty, the Community is already legally required to adopt a coherent approach to its various policies and to take account of their impact on developing countries.
Finally, an honest approach to international fisheries agreements also means admitting - to our own fishermen as much as anyone - that the long-term solution to the problem of overcapacity in the Community fleet does not lie in ever more intensive fishing of third-country waters.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there has often been a lack of will within the European Union over international fisheries agreements despite the fact that they are part and parcel of the Common Fisheries Policy.
Old arguments are trotted out, old chestnuts, such as budgetary costs, balance in the use of resources or the supposed contradiction between these agreements and the European Union's cooperation policy with ACP countries.
Access by the European Union's fishery fleets to the waters of third countries only has a raison d'être if it is in the interest of both parties.
On the other hand, it is a known fact that the European Union has an approximate 55 % deficit in fish supplies for its market.
In the face of these facts and circumstances, I think that we have every justification and can say that the current 270 million ECU spent annually on international fisheries agreements is money well spent.
As far as agreements with developed countries in particular are concerned, it is regrettable that the European Union should not have considered it a priority to look at the fisheries sector in economic trade negotiations with those countries.
I am thinking in particular of North America, where millions of tonnes of fish in international waters have been exclusively handed over for exploitation by Norway, Iceland, Canada and Russia, something which is very revealing.
But I must say, with every respect, that his report often confuses economic and commercial questions bound up with the common fisheries policy with questions which are more related to cooperation policy and tends in general to overestimate the problems of others compared with our own problems which are very many, especially in this area.
I therefore hope that the amendments tabled by the Committee on Fisheries will be approved, to make this report a balanced, realistic one serving the interests of the European Union.
A hundred million people is more than twice the populations of Spain and Portugal put together.
And these people depend for their basic survival on fishing.
This cannot be right.
And here in our own Union, where there are tremendous problems of decommissioning and areas suffering from unemployment because of constraints and the need to conserve stocks, we are reducing expenditure while at the same time we are spending a third of our budget on commercial agreements.
The Community has its priorities wrong and we need a new fisheries policy.
Some unhelpful amendments were tabled at the final meeting of the Committee on Fisheries.
But the report offers a way forward and we have to seize the opportunity for a new development in the fisheries area.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I want to add my congratulations to those received by the rapporteurs for their reports in this joint debate and I want to concentrate particularly on the international agreements, especially thanking Mr Crampton, in his Dr Jekyll incarnation, for the valuable work he has done and also for the flexibility he has shown in achieving compromise solutions in the Committee on Fisheries, even if the result was not entirely to his liking.
These are all attempts to undermine a policy which is not only vital to maintaining the activity in an important sector of the Community fleet, but - as the chairman of the Committee on Fisheries has mentioned - also for regular supply of the Community fish products processing industry at reasonable prices and high quality.
Because there is no getting away from it, the European Union is faced with a clear dilemma: either to abandon its current policy of negotiation or to make it more effective.
If it abandons it, there are two possibilities: either the field would be left open to fleets of third countries filling the gap left by the European Union, or we would be witness to a partial renationalization of fisheries policy, because the Member States themselves or their economic agents would negotiate more useful agreements.
So I encourage you, Madam Commissioner, coolly and rationally, to press ahead with this policy, which is difficult but has produced such good results so far.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mr Crampton for his skill, especially as he succeeded in getting an initial draft report that was perhaps a little extreme in its demands approved unanimously in the Committee on Fisheries by incorporating the amendments that were passed.
As this own initiative report deals with the international fisheries agreements, which are so important for the Community fishing fleet and arouse such genuine passion, his achievement was all the greater.
Secondly, as a socialist, I am pleased the Crampton report acknowledges the importance of preserving existing employment, both on the sea and in the processing industry.
Even if it does not have great incidence on the whole Community, fishing is a vital economic activity for the development of certain peripheral regions with income levels below the Community average and high levels of unemployment, regions where fishing is the principal activity and whose socio-economic structure would fall apart if they could not count on the international fisheries agreements.
And thirdly, the report records that, in spite of their commercial nature, the fisheries agreements provide certain benefits for developing countries contracting with the European Union.
As Mr Crampton has already mentioned, over half the 26 agreements have been signed with ACP countries, but our fleet principally operates in the waters of other countries.
The European Union could survive without a fisheries agreement with Sao Tomé, but that country would be deprived of a principal source of income if it did not have an agreement with the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report reflects the duality and political tension raised by this subject.
From the point of view of cooperation and development, we emphasize the option for local fleets of third countries, where the Community fleet is already fishing, such as the example of the fisheries development plan concerning the Kingdom of Morocco.
On the other hand, the Member States are systematically confronted with fleets and fishermen depending on international fisheries agreements.
In my opinion, all of these budgetary discussions about costs and benefits are all part of the scheme to try to transfer available financial resources to other objectives and this in the end reflects an incomplete picture in the whole approach to the European project, in a sector of huge political relevance and with enormous impact on employment in certain coastal regions of the European Community.
Finally, it is in particular from the viewpoint of resources management that we must assess the future of international fisheries agreements.
Sea resource management is the keystone for sustainable fishing and initially it will be for coastal states to see to this management without discrimination between national and Community fleets.
The resources we are talking about are finite and only sustainable fishing will allow the sector to continue, as well as international fisheries agreements.
The Commission played an active part in achieving the ratification of the United Nations convention relating to the conservation and management of straddling stocks, which the Commission believes represents a concrete step towards the protection and sustainable exploitation of resources.
As far as the amendments are concerned, the Commission's position is as follows: Amendments Nos 1 and 3 relate to various concerns regarding the provisions on the distribution of powers between the Community and the Member States and regarding the need for the agreement to be interpreted in accordance with the Convention of the Law of the Sea, but the Commission considers that these concerns have already been taken into account in the declarations annexed to the proposal or in the agreement itself.
Furthermore, with regard to Amendment No 2, the Commission considers this unacceptable in that it supports the idea of unified representation of the European Commission in disputes with international bodies.
Although I understand the underlying philosophy, Mr Varela, I would not want to see the same situation arising with the fisheries as has arisen with the CFSP, because hitherto - like it or not - at least the Community has spoken with a single voice.
Moving on to Mr Macartney's report, the Commission thanks the rapporteur for his excellent work; in fact the annex to the protocol has been amended to give the competent authorities of São Tomé e Principe better control over the fishing activities of foreign fleets in the exclusive economic zone.
The Commission agrees with the spirit of Amendments Nos 3 and 5, and agrees that it is indeed necessary to improve the provision of information.
In any event, pursuant to Article 130b of the Treaty of Union regarding cohesion, the Commission intends that the appropriations in favour of these countries should reinforce the fisheries sector synergistically with development policy.
Secondly, we had a joint action with DG XIV and DG VIII so it was a development and fishery agreement.
Third, following our pressure, we received a letter from the authorities of Dakar saying that they have finally decided to allocate 50 % of the total amount of the agreement to the fisheries sectors.
Our fleet is fishing in high seas 200 meters deep.
I have of course taken note of the anxieties you have expressed, which are reflected in the proposed amendments, but I cannot for formal reasons introduce them into the proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation 189.
In any case, the Commission undertakes from now on to pass to the Chairman of the Committee on Fisheries a copy of the report drawn up by the NAFO scientific council on the fish stocks situation.
Well, in this context, the Commission really does not think it is appropriate to apply the Article 43 procedure, after the measure in question has been adopted by the international organization concerned, since the Union does not in any case have a margin of discretion regarding the content of the measures.
The Commission, furthermore, cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 and 4, because they go beyond the legal framework of the proposal under consideration.
Let me take this occasion to say that you cannot simply transfer the overcapacity to third countries.
For seven months the Commission has tried to push through a capacity reduction of 30 % of our fleet.
If you can tell me how to prevent people from selling, I will probably learn how to prevent people from buying.
If we are referring to all agreements can we just have a look to the Greenland Agreement which is ECU 50 million for no fish.
Or if we do, it does not make a lot of sense, Mr Teverson.
We can try to evaluate it, if you want.
Indeed, in this report from the Committee on Fisheries we congratulate the Commission on one of their latest documents: ' Fisheries agreements: current situation and agreements' .
I hope that she will go back to look at the legal base which we are examining in this Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.00 p.m.)
