Mr President, there is a clear error in the Minutes relating to Commissioner Bangemann's speech here.
I do not actually think we are talking about violation of our Rules of Procedure, but there was a problem of communication between our services and those of the Commission, and as a result yesterday's debate did not take place according to the agreed procedure.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I realise interest in this report is not exactly lively, but it is an important document for our Parliament, for the life of the European Union and for the full incorporation of the instruments of economic and monetary union into the Union's legislation.
The Financial Regulation forms part of the basic provisions, and serves to govern relations between the institutions and the way in which, starting with the Commission, they implement the budget of the European Union.
The introduction of the euro into the EU context calls for a series of measures, on this occasion amending the Financial Regulation.
Firstly, the euro has to be introduced into the Financial Regulation and the debit/credit mechanisms in the Union budget adapted for those countries belonging to the euro area.
Secondly, the Financial Regulation needs to be adapted to a very important provision of economic and monetary union: the system of fines.
Parliament's amendments are not intended to record these fines in the budget, but to transfer them in accordance with the Treaty of Maastricht - using a derogation from the general provisions - to the countries belonging to the euro area.
Finally, many of these amendments relate to the implementation powers of the other institutions.
The Treaty of Amsterdam abolishes the common organisational structure between the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee.
We think that is possible and we are proposing that amendment in my report.
In conclusion, Mr President, I repeat that it is important for these amendments to be passed, especially the one which I told you concerned extending the powers of UCLAF so that it can check other institutional bodies and services of the European Union.
Amending the Financial Regulation is a small but significant step on the way to the third stage of monetary union.
Firstly, and this is something we already know from the ongoing negotiations on next year's Union budget, the euro will replace the ecu as a currency unit in just a few weeks' time.
I would, however, like to remind this House that the amendment he highlighted is, in fact, a compromise amendment between the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
Indeed, if the new Financial Regulation is to be formally correct, perhaps what we really need is a new Financial Regulation, with a new basis.
If the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee are consultative bodies of the Council and are given their own section, why was the Ombudsman going to be included in Parliament's section of the budget?
Perhaps half the amendments to the proposal for a regulation relate to this issue.
The question was also taken up in the Agenda 2000 papers.
Mr Colom I Naval wanted the Commission to present this formally and officially to the European Parliament.
The proposal simply seeks to bring the urgent and limited amendments required by the launch of the euro and the stability pact and the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam whose sole effect on the Financial Regulation - given the removal of Protocol No 16 on the common organisational structure of the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions - is to introduce a specific section for each of these two bodies.
The Commission can undertake to adopt several of the amendments proposed by the Committee on Budgets.
These are Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 10, 11, 14, 16, 19 and 20, designed to introduce a specific budget section for the European mediator, and Amendment No 22 which provides a different date for the entry into force of provisions relating to the euro and the stability pact, that is 1 January 1999, and for provisions relating to the Treaty of Amsterdam, that is following ratification.
In connection with Amendments Nos 1, 8, 9, 12, 13 and 15 on the agencies, these have their own budget and financial regulation.
In connection with Amendments Nos 5 and 17 on interinstitutional cooperation, the Commission considers that this cooperation can be organised, as is the case at present for open competitions and purchases, by means of the administrative arrangements between the institutions.
In connection with Amendment No 18 on the Commission's powers of inquiry, this is not a matter for the Financial Regulation but for arrangements between the institutions.
The Commission is not opposed in principle to widening the powers of the UCLAF, but this can be done through an arrangement between the institutions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Draft budget for 1999 The next item is the presentation by the Council of the draft general budget for 1999.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to be here today, to inform Parliament of the results of the Council meeting on the budget, which took place on 17 July in Brussels.
The two trilogues of 31 March and 23 June were, despite differences of opinion on the substance, characterised by a spirit of mutual understanding for each party's respective views, concerns and priorities.
The same can probably also be said of our discussions at the Council meeting of 17 July, when the main issue was that of legal bases.
I should now like to turn to the draft budget for 1999 and, firstly, describe to you the principles by which the Council was guided in its deliberations.
On agricultural expenditure, we agreed to examine a letter of amendment in the autumn, in order to take account of the decisions of the June 1998 Agriculture Council and the updated estimates of requirements.
We took account of both the criteria in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 29 October 1993 and the Court ruling of 12 May 1998 on the provision of legal bases.
Finally, the Council accepted a limited increase of 1 % in overall administrative expenditure.
The effect of the Council's decisions on the appropriations in the draft budget can be summarised as follows: commitment appropriations total EUR 96 500 million, an increase of EUR 5500 million, or 6.05 %, on the 1998 budget; payment appropriations total EUR 85 900 million, an increase of EUR 2300 million, or 2.81 %, on the 1998 budget.
For internal and external policies, there are still margins of EUR 937 million and EUR 878 million respectively beneath the financial perspective ceilings.
Finally, I should like to thank all the members of the European Parliament delegation who actively participated in our discussions at the Budget Council on 17 July.
Mr President, the draft budget for 1999 resembles the preliminary draft budget closely.
A difference of only 0.5 % confirms that there is a broad convergence of views with regard to the 1999 Community budget.
The Commission and the Council have had to reconcile rigour with the obligations of the Union, in particular with regard to the decisions of the European Councils of Edinburgh and Cannes.
These cuts are explained in relation to the reference amounts of regulations but it is not in the spirit of of the common declaration of 1995 to consider these reference amounts as if they were maximum amounts.
It is commendable that the Council provides this financing mainly through additional spending and thus limits the cuts in other important areas of external cooperation.
Above all, the draft Community budget for 1999 is a constructive step in the 1999 budget procedure.
It augurs well not only for next year's budget but also for the more far-reaching decisions which will soon have taken place on the next financial framework.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before addressing the Council's presentation of the draft budget after its first reading, I should like to say that the cooperation between the Council, Parliament and the Commission over the conciliation on legal bases, which we will be debating shortly, has been exemplary.
The Austrian Presidency has contributed to this and I wish it just as much skill and success in further deliberations on the budget and on Agenda 2000.
That is why I should like to make the following general statement on behalf of the Committee on Budgets: we will make every effort to place the 1999 budget procedure in the context of the discussions on Agenda 2000, and the recommendations in Mr Colom I Naval's report relating to the fundamental issue of flexibility.
But we are relying on the fact that we will all take the agreed ad hoc procedure seriously and that on the basis of a Commission letter of amendment we will achieve some results in the conciliation procedure in November.
I might remind you once again that expenditure on agriculture is ECU 1300 million in excess at present.
Had we not, in the face of bitter resistance from your 15 agriculture colleagues, cancelled ECU 1000 million of spending last year, we would now be ECU 2300 million over budget in the agricultural sector.
The experiences of this year and the last 15 years show, therefore, that we can take this step, and can do so without putting the legal provisions laid down in directives or regulations in the agricultural sector at risk.
The EUR 100 million you are cutting there is not going because it has been proved surplus to this programme's requirements - in that case perhaps EUR 86.45 million would have been the sum withdrawn.
The situation here is far worse.
In Council, you did not secure the adoption of a supplementary and amending budget for 1998, containing an additional ECU 150 million for PHARE.
If we are honest, we have to admit that PHARE will not need the ECU 150 million, either in 1998 or in 1999, because the interim accounts for the 1998 budget year, which were released by the Commission on 30 June 1998, reveal that in the first six months of the year, ECU 1000 million of the appropriations available under PHARE had still not been committed and, even worse, that more than ECU 2500 million had not been awarded and spent in contracts.
And then we are supposed to increase this by a further ECU 150 million, while at the same time making cutbacks in, for instance, spending on non-governmental organisations.
You are aware, Mr President-inOffice, that in parallel to our 1999 budget negotiations, discussions will be taking place on the total appropriation for the fifth framework programme for research, which accounts for a considerable part of Category 3 expenditure in the budget.
I can hear the voice of your colleague now, announcing that we will certainly reach a compromise on 29 September.
You know that this is an important decision, because it will have a major impact on the 1999 budget - over 60 % of Category 3 appropriations are allocated to research.
That is why I can only repeat my request to you - and your colleagues, the Finance Ministers - to please ensure that sufficient pressure is exerted on your side, so that we reach an agreement on the budget allocation of the fifth framework programme for research for the next five years in good time, before the first reading of the 1999 budget, or at the latest before the second reading.
In the same spirit, may I venture to hope that our further discussions on the 1999 budget are productive, interesting and exciting.
My speech will, in fact, be brief since the chairman of the Committee on Budgets has given a very comprehensive demonstration of the gaps that, in spite of the praise for the presidency, can still be seen in the 1999 draft budget procedure.
I believe that, as part of that bridge, we have together forged an important element: the agreement we reached on the legal bases.
The chairman of the Committee on Budgets has already stated exactly what Parliament believes in relation to Category 1 and Category 2.
Category 3 is a true scapegoat, to use a common expression.
In this category, to ensure that its accounts are balanced within the 1999 budget, the Council has made cuts in policies that are fundamental for the European Parliament.
It is strange that its priorities, as set out in Cardiff, match those of the European Parliament, yet the same Council states with regard to the Leonardo programme that - and I quote the exact English text - ' while bearing in mind the considerable success achieved by these programmes', it is cutting ECU 100 million.
Another paragraph from the Cardiff European Council, paragraph 12, states that we are going to pay particular attention to disadvantaged groups, to ethnic minorities and to people with disabilities.
However, at the same time, the Council, as well as the presidency, which had presented these policies to the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg, are removing these programmes from the budget due to a lack of legal base.
Finally, I would like to say with regard to Category 4 that I fully agree with the approach put forward by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, which has also been set out by Parliament in its guidelines.
We are not going to allow the PHARE programme to be implemented at the expense of other obligations the European Union has towards third countries.
As for Category 5, Mr Ruttenstorfer, I would like to remind you that, apart from the fifth framework programme on research and development, before Parliament's first reading we have another issue that remains to be settled: the question of pensions.
I would like to repeat my willingness and Parliament's willingness to cooperate in the future in order to reach a satisfactory conclusion in terms of this bridging budget, bearing in mind, as far as possible, both your and Parliament's priorities.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would endorse what the chairman of our committee said about close collaboration with the Council and the Commission in the trilogue and at first reading of the budget for 1999, which was brought forward by the Council this year to 17 July to give us adequate time in view of the tasks and places of work imposed on us by the Treaties.
In this financial statement, the sum earmarked for administration amounts to EUR 4.4 billion, with a total margin of EUR 300 million as compared with 1998.
As last year, the Council has deemed it appropriate to fix an inclusive total amount to be assigned to the other institutions for ordinary operating costs with an increase of 1 % over 1998 levels, with provision, however, for a significant margin to adjust the increase for exceptional and often justifiable cases.
In more detail, the first reading provides for the creation of 109 posts and only 10 conversions, modification of the establishment plans of the institutions by converting some permanent posts into temporary ones, and transfer to the Commission of five posts taken from the other institutions for the medical insurance service.
The first point is that since the Council has seized the opportunity to allow its own staff to increase by 71 to handle the implementation of the Treaty of Amsterdam and enlargement, it might have been appropriate to establish a common approach to this from the outset, given that this problem is common to so many other institutions, from Parliament itself to the Commission and the Committee of the Regions.
The second point is that frankly it is difficult for me to understand why, if the Council thought it right to award itself 71 new posts, it refused very modest demands from the other institutions, for example the Committee of the Regions, which has undoubtedly seen significant increases in its own responsibilities since the Treaty of Amsterdam.
As regards the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee, and the consequences of the Treaty of Amsterdam, mention should also be made of the abolition of Protocol 16, that is the common organisational structure which linked the two committees.
Finally, as regards the European Parliament, the Council accepted our preliminary draft estimates in line with the gentlemen's agreement.
By the same token, it also accepted the estimates for the Ombudsman, through a broad interpretation of the agreement which has essentially created a distortion between the criteria for examining the Ombudsman's estimates and those applicable to the other institutions and associated bodies.
This means there must be a specific section in the budget, and it lies outside the percentage of 20 % of the administrative costs which relates only to the European Parliament; it means there should be a dual reading of the budget.
This decision remains our point of departure for assessing whether a further increase is needed - respecting the procedures always adopted by the budgetary authority and certainly not equal to the increase proposed by the Council at first reading.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great attention to the views expressed by previous speakers and, in my capacity as chairman of the Budget Council, I have also taken note of what has been said.
We would expect to see improvements in the PHARE programme as a result.
I can only assure you that the Austrian Presidency is making every effort to settle the issue of the fifth framework programme in good time, first and foremost for the sake of research, but of course also in time to draw up the 1999 budget.
I should like to conclude by once more highlighting the very good level of cooperation that we have enjoyed with the European Parliament thus far in the budget procedure, and at the same time express the wish that this will be continued in the future.
The agreement as a rule makes the implementation of appropriations entered in the budget for any Community action dependent on prior adoption of a basic act, in other words a legal base, except in the case of actions relating to pilot, preparatory and autonomous actions by the Commission, and appropriations intended for the operation of each institution under its own administrative autonomy.
In other words, this new agreement imposes on us a sense of absolute responsibility, and that is very important for us and we should respond in the best possible way.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our views on the issue of legal bases have diverged for many years.
At the trilogue of 23 June, new impetus was given, making it possible to bring the parties' positions closer together.
All these efforts - and not least your own delegation's perseverance - led to a draft interinstitutional agreement being concluded on 17 July, which should be signed shortly.
This open-ended agreement will make it possible for appropriations under budget lines which do not have a legal basis to be utilised in a way which is satisfactory to the three institutions involved.
The agreement establishes a framework for our institutions to work together in a spirit of mutual trust, something which the Court of Justice has consistently called for in cases of this kind, and which, in my opinion, should be regarded increasingly as common practice.
On 17 July, the Council also took note of the work the Commission had done - in connection with the aforementioned Court judgment - to analyse the status of the budget lines which, though entered in the 1998 budget, clearly lacked a legal basis.
The Council further agreed that the Commission might, by virtue of its powers under Article 205 of the Treaty, immediately implement a series of measures, including some of recognised political sensitivity, such as the following: measures for combating violence against children, young people and women; measures to prevent illegal and harmful content on the Internet; support for, and supervision of, electoral processes; and measures in the field of human rights and democracy.
On a personal level I welcome the report.
I also have to say that when we were coming to this conclusion on 17 July, there was cooperation between ourselves, the Commission and, dare I say, the majority of the Council.
When we were coming to these conclusions, all three institutions were of a mind that the deal on the legal basis would be fine for the future, but we still have the problem of this year 1998.
This will be taken to our group tonight and we will do our best to convince.
On lines B7-611, 851 and 852, where sums in the region of ECU 11.5 million remain unused, what will happen to those amounts of money?
With that information I hope we can go forward to our group tonight and then vote positively.
One final point - we went to a lot of trouble to get this report put together and there was consensus on its content.
There are some amendments put forward - three or four by the Greens - which, while nice, are not necessary.
In resolving the legal bases issue, I believe that Parliament has proved - at least in recent years - through its work on the budget that it is not only consistent in terms of its political commitments, but also in terms of the way in which it funds these political objectives.
As rapporteur for the 1998 budget, I thought it was particularly important that on 17 July - to comply with the Court of Justice judgment - the Commission also tabled a proposal for the 1998 budget, a workable proposal in our view.
Once again, I should like to warmly congratulate Mr Christodoulou, who is, of course, an old hand, and has worked on this issue for several years.
In financial terms, it is 60 million for pilot projects and 30 million for preparatory actions - less than 1 %.
It can do nothing if it is not put under external pressure.
This is part of the budget debate in general and we are only talking about a few hundred million here and there.
I have one specific question to the Commission, a question which I put two months ago in the debate in the plenary.
I cannot believe that the Commission - and especially this Commissioner, who is very much a democrat at heart - will ever use Article 235 to emasculate the powers of Parliament vis-à-vis the Council.
Mr President, the legal dogmatism of the Court of Justice resulted in the Commission blocking a hundred budget lines for a total amount of more than ECU 900 million.
This has led to the abandoning of many projects run by associations and NGOs in such sensitive areas as combating poverty and exclusion, development aid, the fight against racism, democracy and human rights.
The widespread mobilisation of the associations and NGOs, which our group brought to the attention of Parliament, made a considerable contribution to the interinstitutional agreement of 17 July which resolves the issue of the legal bases.
I regret, however, that projects for the benefit of elderly people and certain measures to combat poverty remain blocked, and would like to repeat the request already made so many times to the Council for it to adopt a new programme to combat poverty, in cooperation with humanitarian organisations.
I believe that this position should be reviewed and a new plan proposed in the fight against poverty.
To conclude, I would point out that the involvement of citizens in European mechanisms makes it possible to overcome obstacles and to arrive at solutions and that Parliament plays its role to the full when it sets aside specialist discussions and becomes the vehicle for the intervention and aspirations of our citizens.
Above all, I am pleased that Parliament was steadfast in its efforts to have the judgment of the Court of Justice recognised.
I look forward to working in cooperation with the Commission on this matter.
In addition, there is still uncertainty about some areas, for example in my case about line B3-1000 and the European Youth Parliament.
Mr President, as the longest-serving Member of this Parliament I remember a time when even before direct elections Commissioners assured us, and through us the citizens of Europe, that the Community institutions had a human face.
Mr President, I think we still have some difficulties with this first part.
Firstly the question of the legal basis.
There is no way the taxpayer is going to understand that a further 150 million guilders are being earmarked for PHARE, money which cannot be spent, whilst at the same time here we are rabbiting on about a few million in relation to the legal basis.
As it happens, you are one of the leading lawyers in this House, but the fact is that the Treaty did not allow for this whole problem of legal bases.
Unfortunately, this trust has never been great.
The first was raised by many of you, namely the fact that this decision was important to many people in Europe, because the implementation of budget lines was at stake.
The second reason is that this has already remained an open question between Parliament, the Council and the Commission for around 15 years, and has hindered cooperation between the institutions.
Mr President, the draft agreement on legal bases which the institutions reached on 17 July 1998 is a remarkable achievement, and not merely because it is the first agreement since the 1982 Joint Declaration, which turned out to be unworkable.
The agreement strengthens interinstitutional confidence at the outset of the negotiations for the next interinstitutional agreement.
The Commission is ready to sign the agreement.
As far as the budget for 1999 is concerned, the preliminary draft budget is compatible with the agreed ceilings.
With regard to the 1998 budget, the remaining budget lines have been unblocked over the last few weeks.
The conclusion of the legislative procedures for a voluntary youth service and for NGOs in third countries has cleared the way for the implementation of these programmes.
It will decide on a communication which proposes to re-orient the lines towards preparatory actions for programmes on the basis of the Amsterdam Treaty.
But joint efforts have succeeded in limiting the problems to the minimum, and from next year the implementation of the budget will be on firm ground.
Thirdly, in reply to Mr Tillich, our services must work on the basis of the decisions which have been taken.
After hard, but honest negotiations in the Conciliation Committee, we have a result on the table.
The Commission, too, is happy with the result.
We have taken the first step and successfully completed the first phase; passenger vehicles, light commercial vehicles and fuels.
It is a fact that 80 % of journeys are made in cars.
I believe the result achieved by Parliament in the negotiations to be a success on two counts: firstly, from the point of view of improved air quality and employment in Europe; secondly from an institutional point of view.
We have succeeded - and I believe that this is almost even more important - not only in making procedures for registering new vehicles more stringent, but also in making sure that cars already on the road really do produce lower emissions throughout their lives, and not only when they are first registered.
On a list of 22 demands, only three are marked 'no'.
Suffice it to say that the second readings were on 17 February and, for light commercial vehicles, 30 April.
Incidentally, for the light commercial vehicles, the second reading only took one month, from 30 March to 30 April.
Overall, this result is a success, a success because it will improve air quality and a success for our institution.
Mr President, I can confirm everything the other rapporteur, Mr Lange, has just said.
I would sincerely like to thank all my colleagues for their cooperation and the spirit in which they worked to make it possible to carry forward this proposal in Parliament.
The Conciliation Committee pushed through the proposal for binding conditions for fuel quality for the year 2005 as well.
The legislative authority has now said what is expected of the oil industry by the year 2005.
Mr President, firstly I should like to congratulate the two rapporteurs and the other people who have been involved in the conciliation.
Finally, this is an excellent example of how, when the Council, the Commission and Parliament all work together and reach a consensus through conciliation we can make a serious legislative impact that affects the lives of all the people of Europe.
You just said that the oil industry has announced today that it has had the fuels we are demanding for the years 2000 and 2005 for a long time.
It should all have come under consideration on 28 June; it had something to do with the Council presidency, and of course we were happy to do our bit to bolster a Council presidency.
The oil industry is experiencing difficulties, not because of European standards, but because of structural problems and many other factors.
The loud protest we were hearing a year ago has died down in the face of our shared determination to bring about an improvement in air quality.
Mr President, the Hautala dossier contains three directives, on the quality of fuels and the reduction of exhaust gas emissions from motor vehicles and light commercial vehicles.
The compromise proposed in this joint proposal was achieved following a conciliation procedure and reached after two months of negotiations.
The agreement is based on the levels adopted by the Council for the years 2000 and 2005, but the European Parliament has managed to make them mandatory for 2005 rather than guide levels.
The levels for the year 2000 for unleaded petrol and diesel remain the same as in the Council's common position, which nevertheless includes a European Parliament amendment designed to increase the maximum oxygen content of unleaded petrol.
The specifications for 2005 make the Council's levels obligatory.
In addition, for these two fuels, the Council has accepted the principle proposed by the European Parliament to authorise the early introduction, in the year 2000, of petrol and diesel fuels which satisfy the specifications which will be binding from 2005.
In a statement appended to the text, the Commission also indicates its intention to speed up procedures authorising tax incentives for clean fuels.
On this occasion, exemptions are only authorised for sulphur content, until 2003, by way of derogation from the specifications which otherwise apply from the year 2000, and until 2007 by way of derogation from the specifications which otherwise apply for 2005, while therefore respecting the minimum levels stipulated for the year 2000.
The joint proposal can therefore be seen as acceptable to the extent that it guarantees the presence of superior quality fuel from the year 2005, or even from the year 2000.
Mr President, I naturally welcome this compromise text which resulted from many conciliation meetings and of course congratulate the two rapporteurs on their excellent work.
The European Parliament has shown real determination in the way it has handled this sensitive issue by pushing its environmental demands to the limit while always remaining within the realms of the possible and the realistic.
Progress in reducing the sulphur content of fuels, progress in banning leaded petrol and progress in introducing engine technologies which permit the use of fuels with a low sulphur content.
We all know that this is a major challenge as 20 % of cars are responsible for about 80 % of all car pollution.
It is not a question of making aid dependent upon the purchase of a new vehicle but upon getting rid of the old one, the funding principally coming from Europe.
I am thinking of the LIFE programme for example.
Consequently, the importance of legislation aimed at cleaner fuels and cleaner vehicles cannot be underestimated.
The outcome of the negotiations which we now have is a resounding success for a European Parliament which has singlemindedly succeeded in setting limit values for vehicle emissions and the quality of petrol and diesel fuels for the year 2005 and beyond.
Mr President, introducing mandatory limit values for fuels and vehicle emissions throughout Europe will certainly make an essential contribution to keeping our air clean.
The agreement on the use of on-board diagnostic systems is also gratifying; it constitutes a workable compromise between consumer interests and control systems.
A package of this kind makes it possible to balance out interests; it makes it possible to show clearly how the various industries involved in production interact, and to weigh them up against each other; it makes it possible to initiate developments which must, as in the case of Auto-Oil, be undertaken by the motor industry and the fuel industry together.
Europe's motor and oil industries must be able to comply with clearly defined targets in any new legislation, to ensure that they can plan in confidence for the next generation of motor vehicles and invest in better refineries.
By means of this directive no leaded petrol will be sold anywhere in Europe after January 2000, except where severe socio-economic problems would arise.
I would like to congratulate the decision of the European Automobile Manufacturers Association to accept a timetable to cut CO2 emissions in new cars by 25 % by the year 2000.
I have drafted quite a few reports in my time, but I have never before experienced such a good level of cooperation, producing work with such solid technical foundations, which has been presented in such a comradely spirit!
For more than two years, since the Commission tabled its draft directive, the introduction of clean fuels has been under discussion in Europe.
The specifications for the year 2005 are not mere indicative values; they are mandatory.
The package is also a unique example of how we can succeed - if only the will is there - in combining ambitious legislation with the concern to safeguard a competitive European industry.
The package will ensure that not only will industry be able to maintain its position on the European domestic market, it will also hold its own with the best in the world.
Parliament has obtained quite significant concessions from the Council of Ministers in a range of important areas, such as comitology, mandatory standards for 2005 covering the main parameters, bringing forward the requirement for on-board diagnostic systems in diesel and light commercial vehicles, the early and gradual phasing-in of cleaner fuels and many other things.
It contains provisions which will ensure that emission and fuel requirements beyond the year 2005 will be reviewed in the light of developments in air quality standards and technological possibilities offered by new fuels and propulsion systems in the future.
I must confess that, when I put forward the Auto-Oil package on behalf of the Commission two years ago, I did not think that we would make such progress in such a short time, and I have to thank Parliament for that.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Mr Christodoulou's report (A4-0296/98) will also be put to the vote tomorrow, since the deadline for tabling amendments was only yesterday evening.
As legal traditions in this field are very different, if not divergent, it has been very difficult to arrive at a common position of the Council.
It is impossible to harmonise all the legislation of 15 countries with their different legal traditions, and it will become even more impossible when the European Union is enlarged to include Eastern European countries which, until recently, were governed by totalitarian communist regimes.
However, Parliament had wished to include in the directive a 'compensation clause' which would have applied a system which my group and myself judged to be too complex and above all extremely difficult to implement.
The solution adopted was to 'freeze' the legal situation of the Member States while allowing them to evolve in the direction of more flexible protection.
Once the directive is amended, spare parts manufacturers and constructors will be invited to conclude a voluntary agreement on the protection of drawings and spare parts, which we believe is a better solution than compulsory uniformity.
Like my colleagues, I voted in favour of the Conciliation Committee's report on the draft directive concerning the legal protection of designs.
Although I welcome the material effect of Parliament's proposed 'repairs clause' as being in the interests of the consumer, introducing it would have thrown all the principles of intellectual property protection overboard.
This compromise also gives us grounds to hope for a legally sound solution in the long term.
The compromise represented by the text of the Conciliation Committee does not entirely accommodate this view, but I hope that in the longer term it will be possible to achieve improved rules in the spare-part sector with a view to incorporating them into the directive.
I am relieved that agreement on this important legislation has at last been reached between our negotiators from the European Parliament and the Member State governments.
From Parliament's point of view, neither the conciliation procedure itself nor its result can be said to be satisfactory.
In the course of the negotiations, it became clear that it would not be possible to reach agreement on the contentious 'repairs clause'.
In the light of the obvious lack of political will to find a common solution to an issue which is so important for the single market, we have to agree with the rapporteur that, on the one hand, the current proposal will allow a common EU-wide legal basis for design protection to be made available to all the sectors concerned, but that on the other hand, it will not allow the legal situation of the repairs industry to deteriorate.
My group therefore voted in favour of the Conciliation Committee's draft decision.
Lange report (A4-0314/98) I welcome this report and agree with the rapporteur that the importance of this legislation cannot be underestimated.
The rapporteur has shown due regard to public concern in pushing the case for more environmentally friendly vehicles.
Hautala report (A4-0313/98) The Conciliation Committee is presenting a package of anti-pollution measures today which involves a series of important economic consequences.
Thanks to Parliament's efforts, three texts have been adopted.
The agreement between the Council and Parliament will make it technically possible to improve the quality of the air, thanks to the compulsory provision for adding oxygen to diesel fuel, reducing the content of sulphur, benzene and aromatic substances in normal fuel and reducing emissions of anhydrous carbon.
Under the terms of the directive, leaded fuel will no longer be on sale after the year 2000, except where climatic conditions are favourable to its use or where very serious economic damage might be caused.
After two readings in Parliament, the common position was sent to the Conciliation Committee.
The compromise achieved lies between the positions of the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament.
As this common position represents an acceptable compromise, in terms of industrial constraints and protection of the environment, my group had no hesitation in approving it.
We choose to support the common position because more stringent requirements for the reduction of vehicle emissions will lead to a reduction in air pollutants and hence will benefit human health and the environment.
The concern for a better environment must not be used as a pretext for increased harmonisation of excise duties.
González Triviño recommendation (A4-0295/98) The report by our colleague Mr Triviño comes at a particularly painful time, and we can only express our condolences to the families affected by the Swissair tragedy.
Finally, I would like to repeat that air travel is one of the safest means of transport, if not the safest of all, and I believe the European Parliament must not lose sight of the need to legislate in other sectors, in particular road transport, in order to significantly reduce the carnage we see on our roads every year.
The Council's position, particularly in its response to the observations from the Commission and the European Parliament at the first reading of the proposal for a directive introducing a safety assessment of third-country aircraft operating in Community airspace, is simply unacceptable.
For fear of retaliation by third countries, the Council is rejecting Community-wide action, the right to information on the risks incurred by users of aircraft and the restoration of the rules of fair competition, which would impose on aircraft from third countries the same safety standards as those already in force for Community aircraft.
Both in Rio and in Kyoto the EU showed that, by taking a lead, we can secure agreement on a problem of such global complexity as climate change, even though the positions of the main participants at the start were far apart.
The most recent data show that the Community is well on the way to stabilising CO2 emissions in the year 2000 at the 1990 level.
To begin with, the EU and its Member States signed the Protocol in April this year.
That should happen as far as possible before Buenos Aires.
That is an important point, and we should all work to achieve a result.
Many of the countries will also be ensuring that the Protocol is signed before Buenos Aires.
These four concrete actions have of course increased the EU's credibility, and that makes it possible to continue our lead.
Well, in my opinion the meeting is of the utmost importance in securing a common action plan which will map out the basic principles for the implementation of the Protocol.
The EU must again take the strain in ensuring that we make substantial progress in Buenos Aires, even in some of the difficult areas.
However, we should not foster any illusions that it will be easy to find solutions when we have the so-called umbrella group, on the one hand, headed by the USA, which is calling for unrestricted application of the flexibility mechanisms, and G77 and China, on the other hand, which are committed to a more cautious and controlled application.
An important element in the national endeavours, not least in the EU, will therefore be joint and coordinated measures.
We have already made progress in this way in combating emissions, and call on other countries to follow our example.
I am aiming to secure further progress on these issues in Buenos Aires, also on the principles we have worked out, and get them reflected in the action plan that we hope will be adopted.
In its communication on climate change, the Commission has defined a number of key principles regarding the flexibility mechanisms.
I would, however, stress that flexibility which covers trade and other activities presupposes that the participants are able to monitor their own emissions - in other words, no trade without tracking.
It is crucial that we make progress in Buenos Aires on laying down the rules which are the precondition for flexibility mechanisms.
Until then, we must work more closely with them on the questions that preoccupy them most, such as mechanisms for sustainable development and technology transfer.
In order to follow up the meeting in Buenos Aires, and taking into account the national strategies which the Member States adopt, the Commission intends to present a wider-ranging implementation strategy for climate change in the first half of 1999.
An important step in the meantime will be for the Council to adopt as quickly as possible those proposals which are already on the table, for example the Commission's proposal for energy taxes or the proposals for a more effective transport policy.
It is this last point in particular that I wish to recall, because if we are going to talk about solidarity and fairness in this debate, and if we are going to say - and here I can only reinforce what you said, Commissioner - that it is necessary for industrialised countries who, after all, have produced and still do produce high emissions of climate-damaging gases, to work harder at reducing them and set a good example - as we are trying to do in the European Union with the 'bubble', where we are also taking common but differentiated responsibility - then we also have to be fair when we are dealing with the various flexibility mechanisms.
Technology transfer is a particularly important issue, and I eagerly await the action plan, because I believe that we in the Union can only assume the role of leader here if we ourselves forge ahead with measures, which in the end not only serve to protect the climate, but in actual fact also serve to modernise our economy.
We have not acted in this way so far, but we may have to start down this road, because this group of companies is the main obstacle to the implementation of the Kyoto decisions.
This text aims to establish a strategy for Buenos Aires, particularly with regard to the flexibility mechanisms, and does not just reaffirm our completely unaltered position on climate change.
Secondly, the overall objective of all the efforts of Kyoto and Buenos Aires is to obtain, in time, the progressive convergence of emission rights on a per capita basis among all the countries of the world.
It is right for this to be included, because the United States and Europe have a per capita share of emissions which is much higher than the per capita emissions of many of the countries of the world.
None of this is clear to me at the moment and, so far, I have not seen any European Union positions which enlighten me as to the stance which will be taken in Buenos Aires.
The ecotaxes are at a standstill in the Council, but the Commission could already have done more.
The policy in favour of renewable energy and energy efficiency continues to exist only in statements and communications and has not yet been transformed into a mechanism, into an operational policy of the European Union.
We have looked here at all manner of important questions - sinks, trading, hot air - all of which need to be resolved in Buenos Aires.
Lastly, I note that the transport sector accounts for some 25 % of greenhouse gases and that this percentage is set to rise further.
By the year 2010 it will be 40 %.
That is a complete reversal of policy on climate protection in this House.
I do not believe that we can talk of success, when we are giving the industry 22 years to reduce petrol consumption by just one single litre.
On the other hand we have the clear development mechanism which allows non-Annex I countries to become partners and allows us to finance projects which are targeted to reduce emissions in non-Annex I countries - developing countries, etc.
It also says that forest management should not be taken into account to meet commitments for Article 3(3).
However, nobody has been able to escape the global propaganda on the greenhouse effect.
The developing countries which will soon be producing 50 % of greenhouse gases have been exempted, which one can understand, from any need to reduce their emissions.
That is why I think it is good that there is, after all, a relatively broad consensus in Europe in favour of reducing greenhouse gases.
Now I should like to address a few remarks to the Commission.
This means that we have to go much further than the commitments made in our papers at present.
That is a plea to Parliament, but also to the Commission.
Mr President, unless the Kyoto Protocol is ratified and comes into force within the next few years, we shall in all probability never see the reduction targets achieved in practice.
In the USA, for example, the postponement of ratification by three years will mean that the annual reduction effort almost doubles.
Such a decision will only serve the interests of those who want to see the Kyoto Protocol overturned.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have three observations to make in the debate.
First of all, it is important to make the point that responsibility for achieving the objectives set in Kyoto rests primarily with the Member States.
The Union for its part must establish the framework within which measures can be implemented and its role is primarily to coordinate and support.
From this point of view, we have to favour the use of these mechanisms, subject to certain restrictions and following the step-by-step approach proposed by the Commission.
Lastly, as you have already indicated, Commissioner, we must press the United States to ratify the Protocol as swiftly as possible.
According to some sources the US Congress is now reluctant to ratify the Protocol because it is unwilling to cut emissions in the USA.
Mr President, Commissioner, this debate gives us the opportunity to recall that summits often serve to enunciate major principles and to conclude major agreements, while the most arduous work remains to be done.
These difficulties fuel the tendency towards pragmatism, and when you consider what can become of international negotiations on authorised CO2 emissions, there is reason to wonder if we are indeed dealing with major principles and ambitions or whether we are not moving towards progress in pragmatism and effectiveness.
The important thing is to understand that all economic activity has an impact on the environment and that the sooner we include the environment in international economic policy, the more we will be able to reduce its cost and preserve its capacity to create jobs.
We must also take into account the constraints, realising that production costs can include social dumping and also environmental dumping, but above all take into account the pressure which the consumerism of the North places on this level of the production cost.
The biggest political problem we still face is the lack of political will by the United States of America, as the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases, to ratify.
So once again it seems to me that the burden falls on the European Union to work on this political problem and to take a lead in the negotiations.
We need to remember that none of the joint implementation mechanisms can begin to work until the majority of the parties have ratified the Kyoto Protocol.
If that is the case we have to ask if there is the political will to sustain a free market in permits.
To come back briefly to what Rolf Linkohr said, it seems to me that the European Union does not present itself as a team.
We have to go with the principle of contraction and convergence over a longer period than set down in Kyoto.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after ten long days of negotiations, a protocol was agreed in Kyoto to reduce the gas emissions responsible for global warming.
But there are still some problems to be resolved in order to make the agreement operative: implementation of targets, definition of negotiable emission licences, application of the participation agreement between industrialised countries and developing countries, and not least, as other colleagues have said, ratification by the signatory countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, any discussion of Kyoto and Buenos Aires should of course also take account of the measures we are adopting.
In the first quarter of 1998 in the European Union, transport alone was responsible for pumping 179 million tonnes of CO2 into the air, which means that each of us - whether a Commissioner, MEP, baby or pensioner - consumes around 150 kilograms of petrol every three months.
The motor vehicle industry is offering to cut average consumption by 25 %, purely by taking technical measures.
In the agreement, it states that the details will be settled in an exchange of letters between the industry and the Commission.
In spite of the high degree of confidence that we have in the Commission, we cannot regard simply having a future exchange of letters as satisfactory.
Secondly, the motor vehicle industry makes several assumptions, about fuels and about various other things, which have to hold true.
We know that at least one third of emissions come from the transport sector.
Mr President, thank you for the debate, which shows clearly that there is strong commitment on these problems in Parliament too.
Let me comment on some of the crucial questions which have been raised.
One of the main reasons why the European Union was successful in achieving a result in Kyoto was that there was very close cooperation between the Member States and the Commission.
In my introductory presentation, I pointed out that we succeeded in securing a result on the sharing of burdens arising from the new targets set in Kyoto at the Council meeting in June, and I referred to the communication the Commission has presented which will be discussed at the Council meeting in October.
I also stressed the support from the applicant countries in Eastern and Central Europe, which I consider crucial and which may also help strengthen our position in the impending negotiations, for I share the view expressed by many that we should of course do what we can to bring the Americans on side.
Many speakers made the point that transport is one of the greatest problems and that transport accounts for a substantial proportion of total CO2 emissions.
We have such an agreement with the car industry, which means a reduction of 15 %.
In addition, the communication proposed that there should be a monitoring mechanism, on which we have also presented a proposal, and that there should be a directive which would directly require fuel consumption labelling in vehicles.
Such a directive has been adopted in the Commission and will soon be before Parliament for consideration.
So we share Parliament's view that transport is one of the areas which we must take very seriously and in which there is much to be gained, but also one of course in which there are great difficulties.
For the same reason, I wrote to the Member States at the end of July to request information on the measures they were planning to put in hand, because that would help us in drawing up the follow-up to our communication on climate change.
Mr President, I asked a question earlier, which I consider to be very important.
Commissioner, I do not think you need to tell us what we already know.
For the moment, the discussion is centred on whether it would be best to propose what could be called a quantitative ceiling or a quantitative target or whether it would be wiser to proceed in the direction of what has been described as a quality target or quality ceiling, whereby efforts would be concentrated on setting limits to the use of flexible mechanisms.
So it can be said that our line in this area is, on the one hand, to say that we uphold the principle that it is first and foremost a question of what one can do internally but, on the other hand, we do not intend to leave the flexible mechanisms to other countries but wish to take an active part in this debate ourselves, and we also intend to apply them.
Thank you, Commissioner.
I have received a motion for a resolution to wind up the debate.
The debate is closed.
This proposal for a directive, commonly known as the 'strategic environmental impact study', was favourably received by our Committee on the Environment insofar as it quite simply meets a need in regard to the European Union's environment policy.
As a result of this, decisions which could have a considerable impact on the nature of projects and which should, in principle, take into account environmental constraints, are taken too late in the decision-making process.
Certainly we believe - and when I say we, I mean the Committee on the Environment, the rapporteur and myself, deputising for the rapporteur - that it goes in the right direction.
But we also find it too restrictive.
First of all, as regards the scope of the directive, as defined in Article 2, the Committee on the Environment is proposing that it should not be limited to town and country plans and programmes, but that it should extend to all plans and programmes with an impact on the land and marine environment.
The reasons justifying the possible absence of a strategic impact study must be made public.
I am therefore against this amendment.
In any event, I am opposed to it.
Finally, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament, I myself and Mr Papayannakis have tabled two amendments, which I believe are extremely reasonable, for policies related to the environment to be included in the strategic impact assessment procedure at the time of the directive's first revision.
Mr President, strategic environmental impact assessment is an instrument used by governments to judge whether policy intentions, plans and projects are consistent with the concept of sustainable development.
Fundamental to the SEA is the principle of compensation.
The 1997 amendment has meant that the obligation to carry out environmental impact assessments has been extended to encompass many other projects.
I know, Commissioner, that it is particularly difficult for you because all our countries, without exception, are opposed to it.
Mr Lannoye, you know perfectly well that in many countries, the consultation procedure and the completion of the final environmental impact report - known as the statement of environmental impact - take two years, 18 months, 16 months or 12 months.
I believe that a consultation procedure of three months is more than sufficient.
In any event, the Committee on the Environment has approved a series of proposals by the Committee on Research and I am very grateful for this.
For years, construction has been taking place in areas close to rivers, areas that are prone to flooding.
It might help if I explained to those tabling Amendment No 35 the detailed reason why I have difficulty with it.
We know, because Mr Gahrton rightly says so in his explanatory statement, that conventional project-orientated environmental impact assessments have not been entirely successful.
We have problems with the directive we are now discussing.
In some cases, the consideration of the environmental impact is already very complex.
He says, among other things, that strategic environmental impact assessment should apply to agricultural and livestock development programmes.
That will be music to the ears of many farmers in the European Union.
The European People's Party have proposed a fundamental amendment which must mean that this is now going to be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee.
I think it entirely natural that we have this directive as a follow-up to the 1985 directive, which after all has clear limitations in relation to everyday life, where planning for various installations is concerned.
I always think that, when we discuss the environmental policy, we demand incredibly little - this applies on occasion to the PPE Group - in respect of investigations to be undertaken as regards the effects of plans on the environment, compared with what we demand when the effect of plans on the economy is at issue.
In such cases, Mr President, we have a multiplied environmental impact, something more than the simple sum of the effects of each respective project.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion in this House on environmental impact assessment has been an astonishing display of self-congratulation.
It was just last year that we decided upon environmental impact assessment for industrial plants, and in this directive we have defined a large number of other areas where the law is going to apply in the future.
The result is that the problems we have now are the biggest ever, and not only for us in Germany, Mrs Breyer, where we have been practising this system for five years now.
In all other countries this is handled more flexibly, sometimes better, sometimes worse.
I would only say to you that we have created a single market and the aim is that rules within this single market should be comparable.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is in a much better position to do this than ourselves.
Helmut Kohl and the French President were right to say that the Commission is meddling in too many things.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission's proposal for the extension of environmental impact assessment to plans and programmes is a typical route one approach, from the green table in Brussels to the offside position of practical implementation in the Member States.
I would suggest the following: before the Commission pursues this proposal any further, it should, in line with this proposal for a directive, apply the EIA to plans and programmes in its own area of responsibility, in order to gain experience with this instrument and prove that it is suitable for use.
Environmental assessments are a fundamental instrument in environmental protection, ensuring the early integration of environmental considerations into the decision-making.
The Commission's aim through this proposal is to supplement the existing environmental assessment system at project level by introducing measures at the planning and programming stage in the decision-making process.
The fact that we cannot accept some of the amendments may be due to technical reasons, but it may also be due to our adoption of a different approach for the proposal.
Those we can accept in their entirety are Nos 2, 3, 4, 7, 9, 11, 16 and 31.
We can accept Amendment No 25 in principle, and we can accept Amendments Nos 14, 17, 19, 22, 27, 32, 33, 34 and 37 in part.
I should perhaps make a few comments - several speakers raised this matter - on Amendment No 39, which concerns the legal basis for the directive.
It has been said here today that it should be Article 130s, paragraph 2, which requires unanimity, rather than Article 130s, paragraph 1, which requires a qualified majority.
We regard Article 130s, paragraph 2, as an exception to the general rule in Article 130s, paragraph 1, which is to be interpreted restrictively.
According to the Court of Justice, it is the main aim of a directive that determines the choice of legal basis.
It is not the intention of the proposal to intervene in town and country planning, but to give the planning authorities an instrument which they can integrate into their decisionmaking process with a view to improving it by providing a means of identifying, assessing and taking account of environmental effects.
I wanted to take a little time on this question because I have the impression that it has played quite a major role in the debate today.
To add sectors such as agriculture, forestry, fisheries or leisure activities explicitly cannot be accepted because these investigations have shown that there are, generally speaking, no separate land-use plans or programmes for these sectors of the type to be covered by the proposal.
Then there are amendments, Nos 22 and 25, in which it is proposed that means should be stipulated to ensure the quality of the information provided in the environmental assessment.
The intention was to avoid unnecessary delays in the procedure or further costs arising from the poor quality or lack of information in the environmental assessment.
We can accept these amendments either in principle or in part.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the Community action programme on the environment and sustainable development explicitly calls for a further reduction in noise emissions from aeroplanes by the year 2000.
The Convention divides aeroplanes into three categories or chapters.
These Chapter 2 aeroplanes may, however, be equipped with socalled 'hushkits' so that they produce less noise and can be included in Category 3.
The US Noise Act 1990 requires all large Chapter 2 aeroplanes to be taken out of service by 31 December 1999.
In other words, there is an increased need, in respect of the number of aircraft movements as well, to take structural measures for the longer term to reduce the nuisance of aircraft noise.
Not a directive, but a regulation and in time stricter, newer standards on aircraft noise.
Lastly, Mr President, I would say that I and my committee believe that the future of aviation in Europe is one of the major concerns of the future and I am glad that we are able to take this small step forward.
Noise pollution is an increasingly sensitive issue and something we are becoming more and more aware of.
The Commission itself has produced a green paper on this issue and is moving forward with action.
I wonder if the solution proposed by the rapporteur in his amendment to Article 6 will offer adequate solace?
I think that we must do our utmost in this European market to harmonise things, to achieve the highest level of environmental protection possible.
Mr President, the Commission joins with others who have spoken here today in welcoming the report by Mr Valverde López.
We cannot accept Amendment No 5, because the use of aircraft with noise attenuation equipment outside the territory of the Community is explicitly covered in Article 4, paragraph 2.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, the report we are submitting to Parliament comes under the Community policy on waste management.
It is assessing the situation after 20 years.
In one particular case, not a single report has been submitted in 22 years.
In December 1991, the Commission submitted a new directive standardising and rationalising reports in order to ensure that Member States fulfilled their responsibilities for the 1995-1997 period.
Existing legislation is very fragmented; up to 20 legal acts would need to be combined in order to improve its consistency and transparency.
Mr President, the issue we are considering is important enough to warrant a wide range of changes: firstly, a change of attitude on the part of the Member States, and, more generally, changes ranging from industrial processes to living habits and from product design to new visions of the world.
But I feel the main responsibility lies with the Commission.
The enlargement process is going to face us with a whole series of new problems with regard to implementation and enforcement of legislation.
The European Parliament is prepared to bring other elected representatives - ministers of Member States - to account and demand their presence here to explain the failure to implement legislation.
Sadly, the Commission's communication reveals that the adoption, implementation and enforcement of our directives on waste leaves much to be desired.
I hope Commissioner Bjerregaard will accept the Liberal Group's Amendment No 1.
It calls on the Commission to provide the European Parliament with a quarterly list of cases listing Member States taken to the Court of Justice in the field of waste management.
Moreover, it expresses the intention, in cases of a flagrant violation of European Union waste legislation, of inviting the responsible ministers of the relevant Member States to attend a committee meeting of the European Parliament to explain their policies.
Local authorities the length and breadth of Ireland are still engaging in the process of finding new landfill sites for the future waste disposal programmes.
Ireland is presently experiencing strong economic growth and part of our resources must be invested in alternative waste management schemes.
I strongly welcome the initiative taken by my government which has commissioned a study into the possible use of new and alternative forms of waste generation and disposal.
Mr President, there is no doubt as to the opportunity this Commission communication represents, nor as to how apt the report by my fellow countryman Mr Campoy Zueco is, since the communication relates to the extent to which four directives have been applied.
It could refer to many other things, and I believe that we would also come to the same conclusion: that the majority of the Member States are blatantly breaching these as well as other directives.
I believe we must welcome the infringement proceedings begun against 13 Member States that have failed to adopt waste disposal plans.
What is happening means that perhaps these infringement proceedings should be faster and more automatic, because they continue over a period of time and that leads to an increase in waste, something that is particularly alarming when the waste is hazardous.
I believe that our priorities should be to consolidate the Community law on waste management, as the rapporteur proposes, to support the work of the IMPEL network and, of course, to support the European Environment Agency with sufficient resources so that it can monitor and control the application of Community legislation in this area.
Mr President, as the rapporteur has pointed out, one of the most obvious things about this Commission communication has been the lack of information from Member States.
This situation cannot continue.
The Commission must take immediate legal action against Member States who default on their obligations.
The Commission appears to have an extremely weak attitude towards enforcing legislation on waste management and, as a result, irresponsible countries like my own are allowed to continue with dangerous approaches to waste with the unsustainable option of landfill.
In Ireland many dumps are on the periphery of large residential areas and, according to a recent study, are a serious threat to pregnant women.
According to a study that was published recently in the medical journal The Lancet , spina bifida, holes in the heart, malformations of major blood vessels and a host of other defects are 33 % more likely in babies born to mothers living within 1.8 miles of landfill sites.
The Irish Government's failure to enforce EU legislation and the failure of Member States throughout the European Union to enforce the waste management regulations is unacceptable.
The last three speakers exceeded their speaking time by 45 seconds.
I would now ask the last few speakers to be very brief.
Mr President, I share the concerns and criticisms of the rapporteur, Mr Campoy Zueco, on the subject of the considerable delays in implementing the directives on waste.
Our commitment to sustainable development and the protection of the environment obliges us to advocate a completely different form of waste management.
I would only go some way with our rapporteur when he stresses the need for infringement procedures.
Because this legislation has considerable financial implications.
We could of course reduce its costs and the Commission must submit proposals to this effect, in particular by means of tax incentives as the rapporteur proposes for waste oils.
I believe there is a contradiction between the Union's economic and monetary policies, which are backed up by strict obligations and criteria, and environment policy, where laissez-faire and laxness can dominate, as witnessed by the report which we are now discussing.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to congratulate the rapporteur and also express my dissatisfaction at the delay of the Member States in implementing coherent waste management policies.
Finally, like other Members, I also note that our debate has once again raised the problem of implementing the decisions taken.
Here too, the question of the political authority of Europe and its institutions is at stake more than ever before.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is questions to the Commission (B4-0482/98).
The honourable Member raises the problem of assimilation of Community law on social security in Sweden.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 established detailed rules for coordinating Member States' social security systems applying to European Union workers and their families resident in the Community.
Question No 45 by Robert Evans (H-0764/98) Subject: Voting rights for EU citizens Is the Commission aware that some EU citizens, living outside their own Member State are effectively disenfranchise, unable to vote in European or local elections as they should expect to do as EU citizens?
I give the floor to Mr Monti to answer Mr Evans's question.
As far as the Commission knows, all citizens of the European Union resident in France can participate in local and European Parliament elections if they wish to, regardless of their personal status.
The French law transposing Directive 94/80/EC, which establishes the procedures for exercising the right to vote and stand for election at municipal elections, states that Union citizens are considered as resident in France if their actual domicile is there or if their residence in the country is continuous.
The Commissioner is quite right in what he says about the Belgian authorities.
This raises a question: in the European elections next year, if the Commissioner was living in London he would get a vote.
I must also draw the Commissioner's attention to the point that I raised about people working at the Council of Europe who are - in my understanding - not eligible to vote as they are not paying full tax in France because of their status as working for the Council of Europe.
The French law transposing Directive 94/80, which establishes the modalities for the exercise of the right to vote and stand for election at municipal elections, states that Union citizens are considered as resident in France if they have their real domicile there or if their residence in that country is of a continuous nature.
At its first meeting in September, the Belgian Council of Ministers adopted a preliminary draft which aims to amend the legislation in force to provide for the transposition of the directive.
This draft has now been submitted for examination in the Chamber of Representatives and the parliamentary committees responsible have resumed their discussions on the reform of Article 8 of the Constitution, which is also required to extend political rights to non-national EU citizens.
Although these are indeed complex matters, the Commission hopes that on the basis of work now under way, the necessary measures will be in place in sufficient time to allow Union citizens to vote and stand as candidates in the next municipal elections in Belgium, which are scheduled for the year 2000.
Question No 46 by Willy De Clercq (H-0793/98) Subject: Voting rights for the European elections which must be granted, pursuant to the Treaty, to all EU subjects The resolution in the report on citizenship of the Union, adopted by the European Parliament at its sitting of 2 July 1998, requests 'the Member States and the Community institutions particularly to ensure that the rights to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the European Parliament are recognized and can be exercised by all citizens who in accordance with Article 8 hold the nationality of a Member State and reside in the Union'.
I give the floor to Mr Monti to answer Mr De Clercq's question.
The act in question contains an annex, constituting an integral part of the act, whereby the United Kingdom undertakes to apply these provisions solely to the United Kingdom.
In effect, this means that Gibraltar is excluded from voting in elections to the European Parliament.
The Treaty on European Union, in particular Article 8b, does not change this legal situation in that it is limited to granting the right to vote to citizens of the European Union residing in a Member State of which they are not nationals, under the same conditions as nationals of that state.
The definition of the area of application contained in Directive 93/109/EC on the method of exercising that right is linked to the 1976 act, under which Gibraltar does not hold elections to the European Parliament.
My question is very simple.
Whilst I would stress that the British Government did at the time recognise citizens of Gibraltar as British subjects, and since the European Parliament's resolution says that all citizens of the European Union must be free to take part in European elections, it seems to me that the position of this Member State is in clear conflict with that resolution.
Certainly, if we are asking what chance the citizens of Gibraltar have of securing the right to vote in the European Parliament elections, the obligatory first step is to amend the United Kingdom statement annexed to the Act of 1976, and Council Decision 76/787/ECSC, EC, EURATOM, which requires a unanimous vote in the Council.
The EC Treaty does not apply to the United Kingdom sovereignty zones in Cyprus, where the question of participation in the European Parliament elections does not arise.
As the author is not present, Question No 47 lapses.
Question No 48 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0746/98) Subject: Implementation of Euro-Mediterranean policies in Algeria What are the immediate prospects facing the Commission with regard to programmes and projects for cooperation with Algeria?
As you know, Mrs Izquierdo Rojo, the Commission has agreed with the Algerian Government, as well as with the other Mediterranean partner countries, a multiannual programme for bilateral financial cooperation within the framework of the MEDA programme.
Due to the difficult social situation - according to official figures, unemployment affects around 30 % of the working population, and probably affects more in reality - efforts in this multiannual programme have been focused for the most part on this question of support for policies aimed at reducing unemployment.
The remaining issues in the current programme include aid for structural adjustment mechanisms, privatisation and modernisation of the financial sector.
In terms of the negotiations on the association agreement, the Algerian Government, as you probably know, decided to take some time to analyse the Commission's proposal, primarily the section relating to the period of industrial restructuring, and in principle, the Algerian Government has still not told us when it would like to recommence formal negotiations.
We are naturally willing to provide such information and when the Algerian Government informs us that it wishes to continue with formal negotiations, we will thus continue with them.
However, I would like to ask you more specifically if it has already been possible to open a Commission delegation in Algeria.
It is true that the situation in Algeria calls for a specific project for that country at the moment.
I believe that the Commission should ensure that provision is made within the Euro-Mediterranean process to allow us to initiate now - and especially now since early elections have been called - a specific programme for Algeria that can be implemented with a certain degree of flexibility.
As for the programme, what I have told you already clearly shows the efforts we are making to be flexible, within certain limits of course, since I have already said that we have employed three groups of experts who are working in very complicated situations.
Question No 49 by Maj Theorin (H-0747/98) Subject: Burma The people of Burma have for several years had to live in extremely difficult circumstances.
We are monitoring the development of the situation and are negotiating with the ASEAN group to ensure that the European Commission's position on the situation in Burma is very clearly defined.
As you are aware, for the International Criminal Court to become operational, the provisions require ratification by a minimum of 60 countries so that it can be established.
The question was, however, whether there were any plans to utilise this new instrument to initiate proceedings against Burma's military government.
As I already said, to make use of the International Criminal Court, the protocol on it becoming operational must be ratified by 60 countries.
But, as I said in my response, the right of initiative to request the intervention of the International Criminal Court, as stated in the protocol, belongs only to the member countries, the Security Council and national prosecuting authorities, and that was an integral part of the protocol.
Question No 51 by Bernd Posselt (H-0772/98) Subject: Christians in East Timor What measures does the Commission intend to take to support the oppressed Christians in East Timor following the political changes in Indonesia?
The Commission has often expressed its concern over the situation in East Timor in the meetings held with the Indonesian Government, and we are urging that government to find a peaceful and lasting solution for the area.
In terms of aid, the European Commission, as you know, is providing a specific programme for East Timor.
The first is a proposal from Bishop Belo on the demilitarisation of East Timor.
During the meeting in the Philippines, the Indonesian Minister for Foreign Affairs very surprisingly, in my opinion, presented an offer to the ASEAN group relating to the East Timor problem.
One of the elements contained in this offer was, in fact, the withdrawal of the Indonesian military presence in East Timor and an offer to negotiate a status of autonomy.
We are going to assess this week whether or not the situation in the area does, in fact, warrant the withdrawal of our observers because the security conditions are not being met.
This issue is a very important one, Mrs Kinnock, because we must not forget a fundamental point: this is the second time that the international community has been involved in organising free elections.
To correct this situation, the international community has returned in order to organise new elections.
I thank the Commissioner for his kind words and the personal support that he gave me in what he acknowledged was a quite difficult task in Cambodia.
I am very worried to hear you say that there is a likelihood that our observers will pull out because that will send a very serious message to the people of Cambodia who are clearly going through very difficult times.
Naturally, I shall first consult all of the Member States and this is something that we want to do on Friday.
In this situation we are faced with something that often occurs: we have to assess the safety of the observers, the situation on the ground and the political damage that might be caused by withdrawing the observers.
But you have worked with them yourself, and you will understand that not even I can ask our observers to be heroes.
And if their head believes that at any stage the observers could find themselves in a serious situation, then it is very difficult to ask them - particularly those in the northern provinces whom you visited with me - to remain in an area where they could be killed or kidnapped, or where anything might happen to them.
In any event, I have told my services to prepare a draft decision for Friday, which we are going to submit to the Member States.
Because what I truly fear is that, after the efforts the European Union has made in terms of representatives, observers and hard work, and after having spent USD 12 million, the situation might repeat itself.
I have already experienced other situations that have ended in fatigue, in fatalism, in 'there is nothing we can do'.
And when that happens in places such as Cambodia, then we can fear the worst.
Consequently, on Friday, I am going to take on my responsibility to make a decision one way or the other, and we shall see if the Council of Ministers provides us with a solution.
Questions Nos 53 and 54 will receive written answers.
Question No 55 by Astrid Thors (H-0739/98) Subject: Commission communication on pan-European geographic information EU ministers asked the Commission to investigate the status and role of pan-European geographic information (GI) in 1994.
DG XIII of the Commission initiated a wide consultation process which should lead to a communication to the Council and Parliament called GI 2000: Towards a European Policy Framework for Geographic Information.
Over the last few years, we have received a number of letters from Member States supporting GI 2000 and requesting the Commission to take a pan-European initiative.
We have a website at any rate, in which over 300 players are involved.
We have introduced the concept of GI 2000 time and again at conferences, and these programmes will be continued in the context of the fifth framework programme of research, as part of the new projects aimed at creating a user-friendly information society.
That therefore means that we have a whole series of activities that will, of course, be going on.
As the author is not present, Question No 56 lapses.
Question No 57 by Mark Watts (H-0791/98) Subject: Safer car fronts When does the Commission expect to come forward with the proposal for a Directive requiring safer car fronts for pedestrians and cyclists which is anticipated for introduction in 1998 in the Commission's Second Action Programme for Road Safety?
I give the floor to Mr Bangemann to answer Mr Watts's question.
As soon as these results are available - and also, by the way, the final report which is expected in December - the Commission services will agree on a final version of the proposal for a directive, so that we should be able to discuss it in Council and Parliament at the beginning of next year.
I can confirm what I said as to the dates: we will try our best - provided we get the study in December - to propose to you early next year the necessary amendments to our original draft.
Question No 58 by Niall Andrews (H-0830/98) Subject: Malicious telephone calls According to available figures, malicious telephone calls are on the increase across Europe.
I give the floor to Mr Bangemann to answer Mr Andrews's question.
This is Directive 97/66/EC of 15 December 1997, on the processing of personal data and protection of privacy in telecommunications.
Experiments with this system in the USA have shown that malicious or annoying telephone calls can be reduced by 25 %.
Thank you, Mr Bangemann.
The Commission therefore rightly concluded that Sweden did not satisfy the convergence criteria referred to in the third indent of Article 109j(1) of the Treaty.
This conclusion remains pertinent and the Commission repeats that the conditions for entry to economic and monetary union will be strictly the same for the second-wave countries as for countries which adopt the euro on 1 January 1999.
No, I would very clearly point out that the Treaty is extremely explicit.
For two countries, namely Denmark and the United Kingdom, there is what is known as an opt-out clause, which means that even if the conditions for switching to the euro are fulfilled, these countries can and must state whether or not they wish to participate in economic and monetary union.
The Commission fully assumes its power to submit proposals when deciding the principal direction of Member States' economic policy, pursuant to Article 103 of the Treaty.
I would remind you that this document constitutes the framework instrument for coordinating economic policy in the Union.
I would also draw your attention to the stability and growth pact, which clearly confirms this essential Treaty provision.
Finally, the Commission has the power of recommendation in the field of exchange rate policy, pursuant to Article 109 of the Treaty.
The President of the Council of Finance Ministers, ECOFIN, can also attend the Governing Council on the same basis and, as is the case for the Commission, the General Council of the ECB.
Once these data are known, they are compared to those for other countries, the currencies are compared and a relative idea obtained.
Question No 61 by Paul Rübig (H-0737/98) Subject: Denominating EURO banknotes Now that all the basic decisions for the introduction of the common currency have successfully been taken, it is now more important than ever to make sure that these decisions are properly implemented.
I give the floor to Mr de Silguy to answer Mr Rübig's question.
At the time, that is three years ago, this agreement took into account likely developments up until the date when the notes and coins would be effectively introduced.
In certain countries there are notes which have a value of less than five euro.
However, it does consider the 1995 agreement to be fair, for the reasons I have just mentioned.
On the basis of the initial estimates of the Member States, a summary of which I requested in order to be able to answer your question, it seems that there should be no increase in the number of coins in circulation in the euro zone compared to the present time.
Generally speaking and to conclude, it is the responsibility of the Member States to instruct European citizens in the use of euro coins and notes, even if the Commission does make recommendations and even if, with the support of the European Parliament, we have launched information campaigns in order to increase public awareness.
It is not only that we in Austria are going up from six coins to eight, but also that in the EU at present there are only two countries which have banknotes of a higher denomination.
The decisions have been taken, and today we are at the stage of implementation.
Some countries have already started minting the coins and are to start printing the notes at the beginning of next year.
On the other hand, the honourable Member is right in saying that we have a great deal of information to provide and a lot of explaining to do.
A compromise was obtained between the different positions of the Member States.
It is now up to us, in each of our Member States, to explain the changes.
Question No 62 by Hans Lindqvist (H-0740/98) Subject: EMU - 'A new Berlin Wall' The single currency, the euro, is likely to create problems in Europe as the countries involved do not constitute an optimum currency area.
First of all, because the euro has already had positive effects.
The efforts made to improve our economies and finances in preparation for the euro are beginning to bear fruit.
I would remind you that public deficits fell from a European average of 6.1 % of GDP in 1993 to 2.4 % in 1997 and that growth, which was negative in 1993, at minus 1 %, stood at 2.6 % last year and is set to increase to 2.8 % this year.
Two and a half million jobs should be created in Europe by 1999, and this is the result of the economic policies being pursued.
Another positive effect is that the euro, even before it is created, before its real legal birth, is already fully assuming its role of protecting Europe against the financial crisis in Asia and Russia.
I believe we will have the opportunity to discuss this during tomorrow's sitting.
Finally, I note that it is the countries in the euro zone which have the healthiest economies in Europe today.
So rather than erecting a new wall, I believe that the euro will facilitate the integration of the candidate countries.
They all wish to participate in the euro, and the European Council in Copenhagen established the principle that the candidate countries will adopt the acquis communautaire of EMU, even if they do not participate in the euro immediately they join the European Union.
Also, at the time of joining, the candidate countries will enter stage two of EMU and thus by adopting the acquis they will also acquire the means to progressively meet the conditions required for their participation in the euro.
I believe that far from erecting a wall, economic and monetary union is participating in this inclusive process of bringing together the countries and peoples of Europe.
But it is the same as with every coin, which has its other side.
The Maastricht Treaty lays down the principles of economic policy, the implementation of which has proved positive for the European Union, and I believe that the candidate countries, that is the Central and Eastern European countries and Malta, will ultimately reap the rewards of applying the formulas which have produced good results for us.
I believe it was wise not to require these countries to fulfil the conditions for switching to the euro when joining the European Union.
The distinction between the two is a factor of progress and will have a revitalising effect on the continuing process of European integration.
Question No 63 by Wayne David (H-0757/98) Subject: Future of the British Royal Mint Recently, the British Government announced that a new public/private partnership would be introduced at the Royal Mint, based in Llantrisant, South Wales.
It was decided to keep the present principle for the minting of euro coins: each Member State will mint the coins it issues and, failing a sovereign decision by a Member State in the euro zone to have its coins minted by the Royal Mint, the latter will not be directly concerned by the launch of the euro.
The Commission is not therefore competent to comment on the possible future status of the Royal Mint, or indeed of any other national monetary institute.
You are right to say that there may be problems comparing costs between various issuing bodies or between different companies which manufacture coins and notes.
Having said that, the decision which has been taken is that each Member State will manufacture the stock of notes or coins which it needs for its country.
So, at least when launching the euro and when manufacturing the first stock of notes and coins, everyone remains free to proceed as they wish, and it is true that in strictly economic terms we have not taken into account comparative advantages or competitiveness.
I would like to thank them all and ask them to excuse this lack of timing in our work.
Since the time allotted for questions to the Commission has come to an end, Questions Nos 69 to 107 will receive written answers.
If ever there was a controversial issue within the Community's system, and one which gives rise to a great deal of debate in interinstitutional relations, it has to be comitology, although from a strictly technical point of view the system has worked well.
In particular, control by this Parliament of the decisions adopted, a problem which has become much more serious following the introduction of the codecision procedure.
Committee meetings have therefore become forums for the exchange of ideas, which has doubtless proved most useful to both the Commission's services and those of the Member States.
Secondly, in accordance with the Treaty, the Council - and I should remind you that until 1993 it was, for all practical purposes, the only genuinely legislative body - delegated powers to the Commission, and was therefore entitled to regulate the activity of the latter.
The first function, integration into national systems, is still essential, because at present, the acceptability of Union regulations calls for even greater transparency and for much wider consultation.
On the other hand, the achievement of greater transparency has been the key issue in the exchange of notes between the Commission and the Parliament since 1988, and also in the modus vivendi of 20 December 1994.
I am well aware of the confusion which sometimes arises in the Parliament as a result of such decisions, but I believe that this flexibility of regulation is a great advantage in a rapidly changing world, preventing the legislative paralysis which can set in all too easily nowadays.
The first point is simplification.
The procedures are therefore to be reduced to three main types, without the current variants.
Procedures in the management committee will guarantee a speedy decision on matters of financial and agricultural management, whilst granting the committee a significant right of investigation.
In its proposal, the Commission has sought to maintain and enhance the information procedures contained in the modus vivendi .
It is clear to us that the role of the European Parliament should be greater in those areas where the basic legal act has been adopted under the codecision procedure.
At no stage in the procedure should the European Parliament's control be excluded.
I believe that we too have it at heart to improve the legislative mechanism and the mechanism of executive proposal, but it appears to me that even if a few steps forward have been taken with this proposal, the main concerns and requests from the European Parliament have been somewhat sidestepped.
The European Parliament's initiative on comitology stems from problems of transparency and respect for legislative procedures raised by the current system, all the more unacceptable today with a Treaty of Amsterdam which has redefined the role of the European Parliament in the codecision procedure, bringing it up to parity with the Council.
It is therefore evident, not least in the absence of a modification to Article 202, formerly Article 145 - which refers to the acts adopted by the Council and not the acts adopted jointly by the European Parliament and the Council - that comitology is a grey area, with virtually no rules.
The European Parliament has decided to act at two points: to begin negotiations with the Council and the Commission as soon as possible on the basis of the resolution we are discussing today and - with the negotiations started or indeed swiftly completed - to express its final opinion on the Commission's proposal.
The first principle is to guarantee full respect for the legislative procedure, in order to avoid a legislative act being adopted outside the regular codecision procedure.
From this point of view, the definition of an executive act which is given in the Commission proposal is worrying, because it goes in the opposite direction to respect for the need for a more precise determination of the respective roles: the executive role of the Commission, on the one hand, and the legislative role of the Council and the European Parliament on the other.
The other essential principle for a correct and democratic balance between the different institutions is that the European Parliament should have the possibility of exercising real control over the implementing rules, in other words of intervening within a limited period to possibly contest the legitimacy or the procedural substance of the rule.
We are very aware that these two points are essential in the framing of the new decision and the procedure for implementing legal acts.
Finally, as regards the principle of genuine control by the European Parliament, I believe that this is very strong and must remain so.
I hope that the dialogue will have a positive outcome, and I believe the European Parliament has every intention of asserting its position.
Madam President, Commissioner, I think it is right, especially after Amsterdam, to claim legislative parity for the European Parliament with the Council.
Simplification means transparency, and comitology is the science of committees, but a science of committees obviously needs rules and the rules must be transparent.
A good many jokes have been made about the word comitology, but we should not forget that we are talking about the role of the institutions and the opening up of the legislative process to the citizens.
This is not so in this case, as Parliament and the Council lay down the law together, but the Council decides the implementing measures on its own.
The Commission is quite happy with this situation.
There is no mention of this anywhere in its text, except to say that, as the Council did not want to change Article 147, the Commission is quite satisfied.
However, you are happy to remain within the framework established by the decision of the Court of Justice and by the refusal of the negotiators of the Amsterdam Treaty to amend Article 145.
The Amsterdam Treaty could have been taken to its logical conclusion by reinforcing the control over the implementing rules so that the legislative procedure could be fully respected.
The Commission has responded to this request in the time required, for which it should be thanked.
Tomorrow in Parliament we will be discussing the Miller report on excise duties.
The Commission decided to refer it to the Committee on Excise Duty, thereby totally precluding Parliament from any involvement in the decision-making process.
The hostility of the Council to any re-examination of the problem is becoming annoying, but what is worrying and serious is that the Commission, in its proposal of July, seems to be edging towards positions which are far removed from those of the European Parliament.
It is therefore with the utmost urgency that serious negotiations should be started in order to conclude an interinstitutional agreement in this respect, with this agreement clearly going further than the current modus vivendi which, it must be said, leaves all the comitology procedures as they are.
My group demands that not a penny should be paid in travel expenses to committees we do not know or cannot find out about.
Then only the Commission can put a matter back on the agenda of the Council of Ministers.
It is crucial therefore that the Council of Ministers and Parliament have a general right at all times to have a matter put on the agenda.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, comitology is neither about an esoteric lore nor a new religion.
In the comitology procedure which was organised before the Treaty of Maastricht, the representatives of the Member States take a number of decisions in the expert committees which affect the legislative and budgetary powers of the European Parliament.
Secondly, the supranational nature of the integration process is a constant area of conflict between the interests of the individual Member States and the supranational perception of Community interests.
In order to counteract this risk, the European Parliament is demanding a right of political control parallel to that of the Council of Ministers.
Certainly, the perception of common interests at supranational level is first and foremost your business, Commissioner, and is thus a matter for the Commission.
Since the management committee procedures often give the Council of Ministers the opportunity to outvote the Commission's position, however, the creation of a political counterbalance at parliamentary level is a sensible move.
We are not so concerned about Parliament intervening in the executive, but rather that the Council is intervening much more strongly in the executive authority of the Commission, and in an unacceptable way.
We are therefore very interested in the conclusion of a sensible interinstitutional agreement which sets out these elements with much greater force.
There are three or four main reasons.
Firstly, it is because these committees of national civil servants - and only these committees - have the right to block the Commission implementing measure and refer it back to the legislature or part of the legislature.
Secondly, if something is referred back in this way, it is only to one branch of the Legislative authority - the Council - not to both branches - Council and Parliament - as it should be in the equal system of co-decision we now have in the European Union.
All procedures 3 can lead to a system whereby it is almost the same as the legislative procedure.
That is why we cannot accept this system.
We will now have interinstitutional negotiations and the resolution we will adopt will serve as a mandate to our negotiators.
But we will take this opportunity to sort out the system once and for all.
Madam President, I should also like to thank the Commission for its statement and suggestions on this question.
There are accusations that we are bringing in lots of levels of bureaucracy and new regulations that are burdening the citizens of the European Union.
Indeed, on one issue, namely customs and indirect taxation, there are 43 comitology committees operating in that field.
Thank you, Mr Barton.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The supervisory authorities of the European Union are to be able to determine more effectively in future the actual degree of solvency possessed by insurance undertakings belonging to an insurance group.
The Council's common position and the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights take clearly differing positions on some important points, aimed at limiting the financial burden to an appropriate amount.
We are also particularly pleased that the Council has at least come closer in its common position to Parliament's call for all the aspects of solvency that apply to the supervision of individual insurance undertakings to be applied to the supervision of group undertakings too.
Amendment No 5, adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, is aimed at reducing this excessive protection to an appropriate level.
The scope of the group supervision provided for in this directive remains the main point of contention.
The common position now includes any participation of an insurance undertaking in other insurance or reinsurance undertakings, whereas at first reading, the Parliament provided for its application only above a threshold of 20 % and where the influence was dominant.
If the directive were adopted in the present version, it would have clearly negative effects on the capital structure in Europe and the European insurance industry.
The directive would cause additional problems in raising capital for insurance undertakings such as mutual insurance organisations which do not have access to the money markets because of their legal form.
Another point in this context is that, unlike the European rules on the solvency of individual insurance undertakings, the directive and the common position only harmonise the supervisory intervention criteria and not the supervisory measures themselves, to say nothing of the various methods permitted for calculating adjusted solvency which are only said to be equal to each other anyway.
This may result in the supervisory authorities of a Member State demanding increased capital when a deficit is established in calculating adjusted solvency as provided for by the directive, whilst the supervisory authorities of another Member State demand at most a report.
My group welcomes this report.
On examining these aims, the common position as presented to us seems satisfactory.
Amendment No 4 in particular seems to me to reduce the scope of supervision too far.
However, in its current wording, we cannot vote for this, since it is too restrictive and limits supervision to the parent company alone.
This directive is intended to prevent avoidance of this obligation by groups of insurance companies in contexts where it would otherwise be possible to use the same funds more than once in calculating solvency.
The Council's common position on the directive confirms the key elements of the Commission's proposal and accepts, with or without adaptation, 19 of the 24 amendments adopted by the European Parliament at first reading.
All the amendments proposed, with the exception of Amendment No 5, do seem to pursue the same objective: restricting the scope of the directive or making its application more discretionary.
The common position provides for the directive to be applied in cases where the holding amounts to at least 20 %.
Amendment No 4 explicitly limits the scope to parent companies and subsidiaries - with a participation of at least 50 % - so any insurance company which has a holding of between 20 and 50 % will be able to dilute the reserves it needs, which everyone considers necessary for an individual company not forming part of a group.
This optional character, which is acceptable in the context of a set of accounting rules such as the Seventh Directive on company law, becomes inappropriate in a precautionary set of rules like this, understood as guaranteeing that solvency requirements are respected at group level.
Finally, Amendment No 3 is understood as transforming automatic application, above the threshold of 20 %, into mere presumption.
The insurance companies and the supervisory authorities would then have the opportunity to exclude holdings greater than 20 % from the scope of the directive.
The Commission considers Amendment No 5 superfluous, since its aim is already achieved in the common position.
The common position already makes it clear in the recitals that any reference to the first directive on insurances must be understood as a reference to the amended version of the third directive and any other subsequent directive.
In debating the amendments, it is perhaps easy to forget the reasons why this directive is essential, reasons which make these amendments unacceptable.
In the last analysis, the directive fills a gap in the supervisory rules for insurance firms, banking and investment groups being already covered by Community legislation.
Weakening the content of this directive would definitely send out the wrong signals, particularly at the moment.
Thank you, Commissioner Monti.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the celebration of Averroës European Day certainly provides the ideal opportunity for reflection on the relevance of the life and work of this great philosopher and commentator on Aristotle to contemporary society.
I can but make an appeal - hinted at in the report's resolution - naturally, the majority view prevailed - that the authorities in the Member States, and all men and women of good will should take into account the implications of the fact that Islam is now clearly the second religion in our societies.
And so, ladies and gentlemen, it is my earnest desire that Mohammed, Fatima or any other Muslim who serves us our daily coffee in Brussels or here in Strasbourg, absorbed in his or her work, should become again, for all of us in Europe, men and women to whom we can relate, neighbours whom we respect and accept because we have come to appreciate them as equals.
In short, we should consider them our partners in everyday life, link hands with them and work together towards a fairer future.
We European Muslims, or those of us who live in Europe, are resolved to give of our best in the building of that Europe which, as Jacques Delors said, is in need of a soul we must all help to provide.
However, we have to work for more than just tolerance of other cultures; we have to appreciate and celebrate diversity in our society.
The problem is that this report, in its current form, seems to have several objectives.
We realise that these questions are very delicate and that they are answered with specific solutions in each country, depending in particular on the level of representation of the Islamic communities and the place given to each religion by each state, according to the constitutional rights.
Finally, as I have already said, this report, which has moved away from its original objective of dealing with cultural questions, does not tackle the essential political problems, such as the integration of immigrants, voting rights, social problems and the concept of citizenship, all of which are elements which are currently being examined in depth in the various states.
For all these fundamental reasons, and on the grounds of competence, the ELDR Group will abstain.
Madam President, this own-initiative report has moved away from its cultural objectives, as my colleague Mr Monfils has just said.
I deeply regret the wayward direction taken by this report, although I do share the idea that intercultural dialogue is a source of enrichment and must be developed, and that we must be actively involved in this.
I therefore believe that our group will abstain from voting on this report.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the name Averroës stands for the Islamic interest in the traditions of enlightenment and emancipation in Europe.
Whenever Thomas Aquinas wished to quote the most important authority for him when commenting on Aristotle, he only needed two words: commentator dicit .
Admittedly, this is also a reminder that the proposed programme can only become effective when the constitutional position of Islam and its believers in the European Union has been established beyond that of a merely tolerated marginal existence, and towards a publicly recognised and guaranteed position.
Madam President, this report, as presented to us today by our colleague Mr Mohamed Alí, is the result of many exchanges and debates which have taken place since it was first presented to us last year.
If the celebration of the memory of Averroës causes us to ask all these questions, then we must ask them very frankly.
As for a university, instead of your proposal I would much prefer a European university in which, at the highest level and in all sincerity, in the search for truth and with mutual esteem, we could study the problems of the relationship between religion and politics, between faith and reason, in Islam, Judaism and Christianity in all its forms.
I must pay tribute to the work which we have done together within this committee, but I cannot endorse your proposals without reservation unless certain ambiguities are eliminated.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report definitely had a difficult birth: we spent several months discussing it in committee and there were a great many complications.
Fundamental rights and individual dignity, for both men and women in equal measure, must be respected and examined through calm dealings with the Islamic world, without any condemnation and discrimination, particularly as regards women.
Finally, I think calm dialogue is really necessary in this whole sector, but it is equally necessary for nothing to be imposed, because our culture, our education and our experience can only be enriched if we achieve what we consider important and what we have always asserted: a clear, calm period of information and face-to-face dialogue.
I think it is most important that a report like this should also pay tribute to the contribution which Islam and the Arab world, but Islam in particular, has made to European culture.
There are two serious points in the report to which we are opposed, both of which have to do with the separation of powers between religion and state.
The second objection is in paragraph 10, which introduces an anti-personal element which does not accord either with the position of present-day Muslims.
So I urge Mr Mohamed Ali to get rid of these two points along the lines we have suggested, otherwise he will not secure our votes.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I fear that we are doing Averroës a great wrong here this evening.
Furthermore, much of Averroës' work in its original Greek has been irretrievably lost.
The great historian, Jean Dumont, director of Amiot-Dumont publications, dealt with this in his magnificent work ' L'Église au risque de l'histoire' , as did the great Jewish historian from Israel, Bat Ye'Or.
We can therefore accept the thinking of Averroës, but not Averroës in all his aspects!
And if we want to organise an Averroës Day in Europe, let us do that, but let us also organise one at the al-Azhar university in Cairo.
I do not intend to open a debate on historical issues at this juncture, but I would venture to say - indeed I must - that the presence of Islam in Spain was not simply colonisation.
Thank you, Commissioner Oreja.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11 p.m.)
