Good morning, Mr President.
Mr Carnero González, the very applause of this House amounts to a second ratification of that motion, which expresses a view shared by all honest men and women.
Thank you very much, Mr Sindal. (The Minutes were approved) Mr President, I would like to point out that we have submitted over one hundred signatures in support of the urgent need for an exchange of views on criminality and I can understand why there will be no discussion on the topic this week.
I should also like to thank you for your letter to the Belgian authorities suggesting that the police presence in the area be reinforced visibly and that a police bureau with an emergency number be set up in the immediate vicinity of the institutions.
There are some very serious human rights issues in the world, and that is what our topical and urgent debates are for, not for dealing with our own matters in Parliament.
This means that we want to make sure that over the coming years - and it might be quite a few years before the entire enlargement process has been completed - the European Union institutions, which have to lead and steer this entire process in the right direction, stay together in every respect vis-a-vis their policy.
Mr President, we have judged the texts, both the proposal for a regulation and the individual partnership agreements with this intention.
Yet we also said in the regulation that this is such an important issue and that Parliament wants to be heard when this regulation, the framework for the entire accession, is significantly amended.
We think that in the case of the objectives which have been identified for the short term, a few technical easily realizable targets to repair the constitutional state can be implemented.
But in some partnership agreements points like these have, strangely enough, been mentioned with regard to the medium term.
Although we did not alter the Copenhagen criteria, we did add some very important, specific environmental and social issues among others.
And here I use the term "rights' not simply in the purely legal sense, but rather in the sense that we, as representatives of the European people, have a right not only to involve ourselves in these affairs, but also to decide which countries can accede and when.
That is why we were so inflexible on certain issues: it was important to show the applicant countries that, following last December's decision, we do not intend to become embroiled in long debates on points of order and on formal and administrative matters, but rather that we want to take a decision quickly.
In addition, it also looks as though - and I assume that this will be confirmed today - the Council and the Commission, which are perhaps understandably a little shy when it comes to Parliament having its say, will be able nevertheless to approve our procedure.
We do not want to abandon this social model for Europe.
Our group in particular has always defended democracy, freedom and human rights in all situations.
We are not blind in one eye either as regards Slovakia or any other country.
As he knows, this morning's debate is the culmination of a three-month discussion between all three institutions, and we wait with interest to see what statement he makes on how Parliament should be consulted on the matters raised in the Oostlander report.
It seems to me, if I might say so to the President-in-Office, that consultation without delay is no more than the courtesy which the executive of this Union, Commission and Council, should pay to the legislature of this Union, this Parliament and its sister parliaments in the Member States.
An opportunity for proper debate is all we ask before our quasi-imperial Council takes its decision.
So please do not tell me that, in the event of a political or economic collapse in one of the applicant states, it would be desirable or, indeed, politically possible to ignore the views of this Parliament.
They, even more than us, value democracy and parliamentary democracy in their institutions.
If the Council wishes to avoid the inconvenience of a three-week referral back, it must allow the Presidency to commit itself to that serious procedure and to do so here and now.
I too believe that, at the moment, the voice of the European Parliament is fundamental in this process of expansion, in this pre-accession partnership.
We want the EU to show how to reconcile differences and how democracies working together through voting can solve their problems and become a force in the world.
We are therefore worried by rumours to the effect that the Commission has now started digging trenches between the 5+1 countries and the other applicant countries, trenches which supposedly include, among other things, the fact that the acquis screening will be different for those in the first group and the other applicant countries.
My question to Commissioner van den Broek is this: are the rumours true that the Commission has started digging trenches to widen the gap between the 5+1 and the other applicant countries?
This does not mean that we think Parliament should now be removed from the enlargement process until the time when we have to take a final decision on what has been negotiated - to approve or not approve new members.
Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the challenge set us by the enlargement of the European Union lies in determining whether or not we can shape the process in a spirit of partnership and without tensions.
However, both sides must play their part in ensuring that the economic and political integration of the countries of Eastern Europe results in a high level of social and economic benefits for all the countries involved.
This would also mean that the reform would be structured in a spirit of partnership and that the burden would fall on both sets of shoulders, for we know that the failure of enlargement would not only undermine the economic and democratic development of Eastern Europe, but that it would also do serious damage to the image of the Union as a model of peaceful, economic and political integration.
We are particularly pleased about the choice of a single procedure to be applied to all of the countries concerned.
This project has its roots in history, from the time of the great network of European universities at the end of the Middle Ages up to and including the ordeals which have often, and recently, divided our peoples.
If the great and wonderful project of a European Union finally reconciled with its history and its geography has to be thus reduced to some kind of continental supermarket, I fear that public opinion in the candidate countries, an opinion which was for a long time oppressed, especially in terms of its expression of national identity, will bring to light real doubts regarding their interest in joining Europe and that this scepticism will also gain ground in western Europe.
Mr President, we are about to start the negotiations on the accession of the new states to the European Union.
At last, the revolution of 1989 has been acted on politically, and the isolation of a number of former Warsaw Pact countries seems at an end.
Mr President, everyone is aware of the importance of the decisions we are adopting today to prepare for the accession of the new Member States.
The economic dimension of the measure may be criticized, but certainly not the political validity of this Marshall plan for the central European countries.
The risks of deviation in the management of measures or of inefficacy are very high.
The echo of the grave criticisms made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the Commissioner competent in measures in Bosnia, and today responsible for relations with the applicant countries, is still too recent to be fully reassuring.
These partnerships will lie at the heart of our relationships with the countries concerned.
If we delay the end result will be to delay the enlargement process itself.
I know this would be contrary to the wishes of an overwhelming majority in this House and, I believe, among the peoples of Europe.
The Presidency, working closely with the Commission and Parliament, is determined to get the enlargement process off to an effective start.
Tomorrow Heads of State and of Government will be in London for the inaugural meeting of the European Conference.
Our goal is to see each candidate country joining the Union as soon as it is ready and to offer all the help we can along the way.
This would allow us to meet the deadline which was set in Luxembourg in December and would leave no doubt in anybody's mind that the three institutions of the European Union are working together to successfully achieve a process of enlargement.
I am also a parliamentarian in a national parliament and I appreciate the desire of this Parliament to play a full and proper part in the process.
We see enlargement as a process involving on the European Union side all three institutions.
In any case, the European Parliament will have a final say on any accession treaty which is agreed by existing Member States.
That is why Robin Cook, the British Foreign Secretary and President-in-Office of the European Union, wrote to you on Monday to make the Council's position clear.
We want Parliament to be fully involved and to have an opportunity to express its views.
I am confident that the arrangements outlined by Robin Cook will work well and give all here a sense of real involvement in the enlargement process.
Firstly, in line with Article 235, the European Parliament will be consulted when the framework regulation for the accession partnerships is to be modified.
Secondly, the Presidency is committed to giving the European Parliament an appropriate opportunity to express its views so that they are available to the Council when the Council takes a decision.
Thirdly, taking into account the exceptional importance of the enlargement process for the Union, the Presidency of the Council and the Commission will provide oral or written information to the European Parliament on the major aspects and developments concerning the partnerships and the accession negotiations.
I can assure Parliament that the Presidency is fully committed to the enlargement process and that the presidency believes in an open and inclusive approach.
They eagerly look forward to the official launch of the enlargement process, which will take place on 30 March.
As you will know, the same group of nations will meet next Thursday with the Union, during the first European Conference.
I listened with great approval to the words of the Presidency, because the Commission also believes that the European Parliament must be involved as closely as possible in this whole process towards the accession of new Member States.
At an earlier date the European Commission, building on the experience from earlier enlargement processes, already committed itself, where possible, to inform Parliament as closely, as comprehensively and as early as possible, both on the preparation process and on the state of discussions with countries with which we are actively negotiating.
Naturally, there is absolutely no difference of opinion on the European Parliament's right of consultation with regard to the basic regulation.
I think this clearly reflects that the Council, the Commission and Parliament agree on the importance of the transparency of this process.
I would like to take the opportunity to make a few comments about the second Oostlander report, and in particular about the remark he made concerning priorities such as they were included in the drafts, which also reached this Parliament.
It is my modest view that this conditionality has been articulated sufficiently clearly both in Article 1 and Article 5 of the basic regulation.
In his excellent report Mr Oostlander requested the participation of the European Parliament throughout the entire accession procedure.
The second issue over which there is concern is the issue of delay.
Mr President, the most important political point being discussed here today is the role the European Parliament will or will not be able to play in this entire process.
The documents I had to go through in the course of my duties as co-rapporteur revealed that since as early as 1982, when Hungary was still operating under a one-party system, its legislation has been structured in such a way that Hungary really can become a member of this European Union.
Governments have since changed without problems.
Two major problems remain: the problem of the Russian-speaking minority and the subsequent naturalization process - the so-called non-citizens still account for 30 % of the population; and the problem of the judicial and administrative system.
All this is a network which in reality is trimming and leading the political work, not least to pull the three Baltic states into a European partnership in the European Union.
As Danes, we also usually see the three Baltic states as part of Scandinavia in some way.
All this is in accordance with Lithuania's hard, determined work to put itself economically and politically and in terms of life as a whole in an integrated European partnership and hence also in the EU.
Mr President, in preparing the accession partnership for Poland, I support the short- and medium-term priorities proposed by the Commission.
The Commission refers to the administrative reform whereby the number of voyvodships is to be reduced from 40 to approximately 10.
We have even made it an accession criteria.
Mr President, I would like to make three points.
That is quite normal in a democracy, but it can certainly give rise to a delay in fulfilling the accession criteria when the time comes.
With regard to Slovenia, it seems to me that this country is preparing itself seriously and so all the conditions are present for important and serious negotiations to commence.
We are having a separate debate in Parliament tomorrow on the actual situation in Slovakia.
Slovakia's political problems continue to be a priority, and dominate other questions which are of importance in the accession process of this country.
At the moment the country does not have a president.
The current situation is therefore not very encouraging.
The Meciar problem has been doing a hop, skip and jump of late.
Of course I would like to reply, but perhaps it would be better if I did so in my response at the end of this debate.
Mr President, I want to express my support for the Oostlander report and its approval today because I think it is important in politics to give the proper messages at the right time, and the European Conference is just about to start.
What I mean is this: as I understand it, these letters and the proposal made by the President-in-Office of the Council have the status of what the British call "constitutional convention' , in other words, a proposal for constitutional agreement corresponding to what we in this Parliament and the Union know as interinstitutional agreements.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my belief that the Oostlander report represents an important contribution by the European Parliament to progressing the enlargement process in a constructive manner.
In fact, we are far more concerned with the implementation of the political Copenhagen criteria, namely, democracy and human rights, and with clarifying from the outset in this first round of the enlargement process that the European Union has a political dimension as well as an economic one.
Those leading the negotiations can count on the European Parliament in this respect.
I am grateful to the Commissioner and to the President of the Council for the various clarifications they have given here, firstly in relation to the European Parliament's role in the process within the framework of the partnerships, but also on the enlargement process as a whole.
I am also sure, Mr President of the Council, Commissioner, that both the Council and the Commission will discuss the outcome of Parliament's resolutions as appropriate.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, bringing the applicant countries of central and eastern Europe up to the political and economic standards of the EU is essential if, in the long term, we are to allow these states to join the EU without at the same time damaging the legitimate interests of the Member States.
The accession partnerships with the applicant countries are the most important tool in ensuring that this is achieved in the most efficient manner possible for all concerned.
The three institutions have to cooperate with each other.
We must also work in partnership with the applicant countries.
No doubt this is part of Mr Hague's reforms.
Mr President, financial assistance to the applicant states to help advance the process of enlargement is clearly needed.
It is right, however, that Parliament should emphasize that the development of democracy and respect for the rule of law is a priority and that steps will be taken if any applicant country displays manifest shortcomings in this respect.
We are extremely pleased with the rapid adoption of the framework regulation and the decision taken by a qualified majority on this basis, regarding the principles and priorities, the medium term objectives and conditions relating to each individual partner.
It is also a question of the importance of the enlargement process to our citizens, for in the absence of transparency our citizens will not understand the work which we have embarked upon.
In conclusion, Mr President, let me take this opportunity to remind you of our commitment to the conclusions - all of the conclusions - of the Luxembourg European Council.
On this undertaking, we await proposals regarding method and timetable, given the urgency.
Secondly, we attach great importance to the European Conference.
Mr President, the objective of the many initiatives intended to form the basis of the enlargement strategy is that of ensuring that the applicant countries satisfy the political and economic conditions laid down by the European Council of Copenhagen.
This will make it possible to establish the bases for negotiations on a fundamental principle for the enlargement process, the opposition to any logic that leaves the countries concerned loopholes or exceptions in respect of the political obligations established.
We know that, in the effort to provide greater impetus for this stage of approximation, the accession partnerships and the planning and assessment system constitute the basis of the entire accession strategy and that the assistance provided by the EU should fall into a new framework, an accession partnership with each applicant country.
Granting pre-accession aid should be subject each year to the level of achievement of objectives and fulfilment of the commitments assumed and the state of progress of the national accession programme.
Finally, I would like to point out the gravity... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I would like to make two points in relation to this debate.
It is absolutely vital that the European Parliament, as the directly elected representative of the peoples of Europe, has a continuous and regulated involvement in this process, rather than appearing to give the process free rein initially but ultimately making a pronouncement about whether the outcome is acceptable.
On the other hand, I should like to prevent the European Parliament giving the wrong signal.
We should not be slamming doors in the faces of the candidates even before the enlargement process has started.
The position which I outlined this morning in my previous contribution is a Presidency statement which has the backing of the Council and therefore has the authority of the Council.
A point was raised by Mme Berès about timing and that is an important point.
As to the question of how long Parliament should have to be able to express its view, it would be wrong for us to tie ourselves down to a specific time on every occasion.
Maybe it would be helpful if I were to explain that my interpretation of appropriate time would be the kind of time that allows the normal processes between one plenary and another, between one Council and another Council within the institutional framework which is four, five or six weeks.
It might often be shorter than that and there may be occasions when there are very urgent matters which have to be dealt with in a period very much shorter than four weeks.
Let me make it clear that the Presidency and the Council are absolutely committed to the process of enlargement.
Enlargement has a large up-side, with the potential of great gains in security and great gains in economic prospects, but there are things that need to be dealt with by the Union in the period leading to that and some of them will involve difficult decisions.
It is important that we take public opinion along with us so that the public are fully informed and are aware of the issues at stake in that process.
That is why I believe it is very important that the European Parliament is given a role to be able to express a view, to involve the public in a dialogue and also to take issues to the public.
I thank you, Mr President, for again giving me the opportunity to try to clarify some of those points and I hope that there will be assurances given to Parliament which will enable Parliament to give an opinion to allow the process of enlargement to proceed in a speedy and effective way.
At the moment all you are saying is that we have the chance to express Parliament's views.
I believe it is important and correct to expand the European Union to include other countries, but this union should not be established before achieving the political union which is the only premise that will permit peace and progress in our countries.
And so we vote with reservations, to show that the National Alliance is obviously in favour of Europe and enlargement, but against a purely economic union based on the particular interests of the great capitals or some countries of the Union.
The distinction between short and medium term is primarily made on the basis of what we can actually expect to achieve in the short term, and what on the other hand will need more time to be achieved.
That is why a reorientation of PHARE has taken place, in which everything which has to do with institution building and enhancing administration comes under the category of 30 % of the PHARE resources, which has been given as a rough target figure to be spent on this.
In other words, when we speak of the independence of the legal courts, respect for the rule of law and equal access to public services, which have been mentioned in some cases in relation to the medium term, this means that the Commission does not believe that the country concerned is prepared to achieve this independence, this access and so on, in the short term.
Mr President, by short term we mean those things which can be achieved in 1998.
I am not saying that particular sections of the political constellation or shortcomings in the field of democracy, human rights and so on, might not still be improved this year.
It is difficult to draw the exact line, but I hope that we have indicated clearly that short and medium term does not mean giving an evaluation of the urgency of things which must be done, but the assessment of the time needed to correct these matters in their entirety.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
Situation in Kosovo The next item is the Council statement on the situation in Kosovo.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking those who have tabled this resolution today for this debate, because they have given this Assembly an opportunity to express the very deep concern that, I am sure, we all share at the serious violence which has taken place in Kosovo over the last two weeks.
I know that concern is shared by all the European Union Member States.
Police operations around the villages of Drenica and Prekaz in the last week appear to have left at least 80 people dead.
The authorities in Belgrade claim this was legitimate anti-terrorist action by the police.
Human rights abuses are a matter for all of us, and the European Union has a particular responsibility to reduce tension in the region before it causes instability in neighbouring countries.
Fifthly, over the next few days, we shall be actively discussing with our partners and others what more can be done to bring home the message to President Milosevic that he must change course.
There are a number of opportunities for this: the European Conference with the associated states on 12 March - tomorrow - provides an obvious opportunity.
The EU Foreign Ministers' informal meeting in Edinburgh on 14 and 15 March is a further opportunity, and today the views of Parliament will be particularly timely.
People ask what the European Union's position is.
That is why the European Union and the rest of the international community must do all we can to keep the pressure on President Milosevic and keep the pot in Kosovo from boiling over.
I understand from the news media this morning that a statement has been made by the Serbian Government in response to measures taken earlier this week.
I hope those remarks are a basis on which a debate will take place this morning on this terribly serious and, in many ways, deteriorating situation in Kosovo.
May I join the Presidency in saying how much we are alerted by the explosive situation in Kosovo.
The European Commission is preparing its regular report on regional developments in the Balkans and it stands to reason that under the present circumstances one cannot expect that the Commission would recommend to the Council the restoration of the autonomous trade measures for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia or would go further in recommending the incorporation of the FRY into the PHARE programme or starting the negotiations demanding a mandate for negotiations on a trade and cooperation agreement.
We are also studying at the moment the conclusions that were drawn in the contact group regarding other economic and financial measures to step up the pressure on the FRY in order to bring them to constructive initiatives.
I need scarcely repeat, following the Presidency, that the European Commission shares the greatest possible concern as regards what is happening there.
The European Commission wishes very much that in the first place the European Union and its allies will have the courage to take the necessary measures which may prove inevitable in the near future.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Council, Commissioner, naturally everything you have said merits our full support.
We need of course to get our message across not only to Milosevic, but also to Rugova and the Albanians.
I would like to see the European Union advocate autonomy for Kosovo, but prevent any changes being made to the borders in the region.
I raised the Kosovo problem in this House in January 1991 and have raised it again on many occasions since and urged that something be done about it.
Yugoslavia should not have been recognized without Milosevic being required to make some progress towards finding a political solution to the problem.
It is also good that the contact group is finally dealing with Kosovo, even if the results are feeble and the threat of an arms embargo, for example, is quite laughable.
If Milosevic does not soon start a serious search for a political solution with Rugova and others within the framework of international mediation, an escalation of the violence will be unavoidable.
There is nothing to stop the Albanians in Macedonia, in Albania and in Montenegro joining forces.
Milosevic alone is responsible for the internationalization of the crisis.
The Yugoslavia of Tito granted them an autonomy which, unfortunately, has since been dispensed with.
A new conflagration in this region would spark a chain reaction which risks spreading the crisis to the South, on the very eve of the ambitious enlargement towards the East that has been decided upon by the Union.
Belgrade must understand that closer ties with the European Union cannot come about through violence and that an internal dispute which places the peace of a wider region in danger is much less internal than it claims.
Mr President, all aspects which in Bosnia led to war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide are present in Kosovo.
On Monday, the contact group decided to take a few half-baked and weak measures.
The response of the European Union to the crisis in Kosovo is one of shameful hypocrisy.
The European Parliament is using journalists as a threat.
The conflict in Kosovo is a bigger threat to international peace than the conflict in Bosnia ever was.
At some point we must draw our conclusions from the policy of the large powers in the Balkans, and we must assume the responsibilities which are appropriate to the dramatic developments taking place against the peoples of the former Yugoslavia.
The rights that the Albanian minority in Kosovo must enjoy, as every minority in the context of existing states and borders, must be respected and safeguarded.
If there was one conflict and one outburst of violence which was heralded years ago, it was the one in Kosovo, and it proves once and for all that in practice we, the European Union, are nowhere when it concerns extending realistic conflict prevention.
Mr President, I will speak on a personal note.
The international community must therefore intensify its activity, even if it does not have the same basis on which to act as in Bosnia, whose independence it recognized.
At the same time I believe that it would be good for us within the European Union not to practise self-pity, in the sense that we are not doing anything.
On 15 February the Commission sent a fact finding mission to Kosovo to find out what else could be done.
I am pleased to say that in the debate this morning the President-in-Office was able to offer us, on behalf of the Council, sufficient guarantees of what is, in effect, the structure of a consultation process that I am not going to recommend that we refer back to committee.
We have received from him assurances and we noted every single word that he delivered this morning, which offered sufficient undertakings as to timing and to Council consideration of our views to satisfy me, as chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that we have in essence an interinstitutional agreement that we can make work in a pragmatic way.
I should like to pay tribute to the President-in-Office and Commissioner Van den Broek and therefore not to recommend to Parliament that this matter should be referred back to committee. (Applause ) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, as you are aware, you and I were elected on the same day in June 1984.
My group regrets the fact that once an agreement had been reached on a joint resolution, two political groups thought it necessary to table amendments restoring passages to the joint resolution which had been removed.
I feel that whoever is not in agreement with the joint resolution, although they had agreed - along with the rest of us - not to present any amendments, must remove their signature from this joint resolution.
In protest, my group has decided not to vote for any amendments, even if the content of some of them have our full sympathy.
It is not about simplicity, it is about causing difficulties. (Mixed reactions) - After the vote on Amendment No 4 (The sitting was adjourned from 12.00 noon to 12.30 p.m.) Mr President, I rise to make a point of order pursuant to Rule 127(2), which deals precisely with points of order.
Mr President, I rise to make a point of order under Rule 127.
The point of order I wanted to make - even though the issue is no longer relevant - is that in your interpretation of the rules, a Member need only announce his attendance and not participate at the start of a vote.
Secondly, Rule 19 governs order and the conduct of the House.
However, Rule 127 states that the President must make a decision on whether or not he will accept the point of order, and that he may wait for up to 24 hours before he makes that decision.
You did not do that when I called for my original point of order.
Not prior to every individual vote but prior to the vote.
I was not going to have a procedural debate with you in the middle of a vote.
We were discussing the Cornelissen report which is an extremely important one.
A President of a sitting is not superior to the Rules of Procedure: he is in a position to ensure observance of the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure require the President to grant all Members the right to speak in reference to the Rules of Procedure, particularly when the chairman of a large group asks to speak.
I do not speak or read Italian, as you know, but the sessional services have told me that in Italian it is clearly 'may' as well.
The Bureau and the Conference of Presidents confirmed that there were issues that needed to be looked at.
We would like you - and I am sure my group would endorse this entirely - to get on with the votes.
The Bureau will look at this issue as it has decided. (Applause ) Mr President, my point of order relates to the use you made of the word 'Rules' .
The reason was I could not hear what you were saying, what votes were taking place, and that was a very confusing situation.
I appeal to all Members of this Parliament to respect the decisions for a period of three months.
Mr President, you referred to a paragraph of a rule and you said that the Presidency has the discretionary power - among other things - to regulate compensation for Members and you linked that with the issue now under discussion.
Mr President, I support your policy on this matter, but it was my group which clearly pointed out that this system as it is presently implemented by the Bureau is not right.
It is not right for two Members to try to keep delaying this House before every vote.
The second point I would like to make is that we cannot continue with an interpretation made by one President and a different interpretation made by another President.
We have a simple note from the Quaestors; surely the Quaestors should stand up and give their interpretation of their note to clarify the situation.
Mr President, you decided to continue with the vote although there was considerable noise in this room.
We should all recognize in this House that one of the most difficult responsibilities that any of us can face in our Parliament is to chair the sittings of the European Parliament.
I would like to appeal to all colleagues present not to abuse their rights under the Rules to draw this plenary into a debate which debases the dignity of the entire institution.
After three months of implementing the reforms that have been agreed, the Bureau has said it will look again at the practice.
If my colleague had spoken first, we would have saved 25 minutes and we would have given ourselves and our work a better image.
These three texts set up an elaborate network of multi-faceted, neocolonialist bonds for those countries concerned, the countries of central and eastern Europe.
It must be the aim of all Europeans to ensure peace and stability in our part of the world.
It is essential that Parliament supports the increase in the partnership principle which will assist the individual candidate states in working towards accession to the European Union.
The framework which has been laid down for the EU's assistance to applicant countries in their preparations for joining the EU is the main tool we have to ensure that the future Member States fall in line with the EU.
One problem has been that Parliament has not had much time to come up with a statement on the Council's regulation: we have had just two months to deal with this very important subject.
But we must not use this as a reason to delay the process of working towards admitting the countries of central and eastern Europe into the European Union.
With the partnership principle, we have sent a very important message to the applicant countries, namely that they are all welcome in the European Union.
Even if not all of them are ready to join at the same time, it is important to show them that they are all involved in the process.
Their objective is limited to calling for a systematic consultation of the European Parliament on all phases of the formulation and implementation of the partnerships for accession of each and every one of the eastern and central European countries.
In this case, consulting the European Parliament would have the overall effect of weighing down the already complex process anticipated in the framework regulation and of increasing the delays even more, if the process of each individual partnership has to be systematically reviewed.
Furthermore, the motion for a resolution submitted to us seems to err in its interpretation, since in points 3 and 4 it considers that the medium term priorities to have been postponed.
In actual fact, the Council has explicitly stated that the medium term priorities must be implemented as from 1998.
Although the Oostlander reports are touchy on the issue of permanent consultation of the European Parliament, they are however careful not to tackle the root issues which the European Conference is going to have to deal with.
There is no confusion mentioned regarding the vocation or not of an enlarged European Union to assure the security of the Baltic states, in particular Estonia, in the face of Russia which will remain outside the Union.
Perhaps later on, questions will be raised as to the nature and objectives of this new European construction and its geographical limits.
Oostlander report (A4-0087/98) With the debate and the vote on the Oostlander report today, 11 March 1998, on the eve of the European Summit and, more importantly, before the official opening of the accession procedure on 30 March, the European Parliament is sending out a very important message.
The accession procedure is a unified procedure and begins at the same time, and from the same starting point, for all ten applicant countries of eastern Europe, that is of central, northern and southeastern Europe.
The European Parliament has, and indeed fundamentally exercises, an equally valued institutional role with responsibility and transparency.
The participation of the European Parliament is a guarantee of the preservation and observance of the decisions and criteria of Copenhagen, in accordance with the requirements of the Treaty of Amsterdam, in the context of the decisions and conditions of the Luxembourg Summit of December 1997.
The European Parliament, by endorsing the principles and conditions of enlargement and, more importantly, because it has responsibility for the final decision on the accession of any country to the European Union, must monitor and give its opinion on all phases of implementation of the accession procedure.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of the Oostlander report.
We support the rapporteur's statement that structural support should be managed on a more decentralised basis, to make the structural support measures more effective and reduce costs.
The Danish Social Democrats do not believe that the report is objective in its treatment of the different countries.
This gives the impression that Parliament has a preset attitude as to which countries are most suitable for membership of the European Union, which we consider very unfortunate.
The report stresses that Parliament should be consulted in this area.
We believe all the applicant states are potential candidates, and so should all be treated objectively.
Watts recommendation (A4-0068/98) As a Member from the north of France, I am aware of the difficulties which the establishment of a new European directive on the registration of persons sailing on board passenger ships to or from Member States' ports would raise.
Consequently, it is clear that serious distortions in competition will become apparent between these two means of transport.
That is why I support the amendments proposed by Mark Watts aimed at maintaining fair competition between the ferries and the Shuttle , whilst staying in keeping with the position within Europe as a whole.
A short time ago the European Parliament voted on the Watts report.
In this recommendation for second reading, the European Parliament proposed in Amendments Nos 4, 5, and 7 that as far as the registration of passengers is concerned, companies operating a railway tunnel must meet the same requirements as those operating a passenger ship.
Fair competition between different means of transport means that each method can maximize its strongest points.
As an elected Member of a coastal region, I can only subscribe to the rapporteur's proposal to extend the directive's field of application to include "underwater' tunnels with a rail journey of more than 20 miles.
It is a question of passenger safety and fair application of the rules of competition within the European Union.
The European Parliament must be consistent and strengthen its vote given at first reading.
It is essential to extend the measures within this text to include the Shuttle under the Channel.
It is a question of public safety and respect for the rules of competition.
In fact, the recent fire in the Channel Tunnel showed that the lack of detailed registration of passengers made the work of the rescue teams more difficult, both during and after the fire.
The Commission's directive as proposed wishes to make the rules on registering ship passengers in Member States more uniform.
I feel it would be unwise to impose unreasonable competitive conditions on this sector.
I am in favour of a set of sensible ship security rules being imposed within the framework of this directive, and so I am voting in favour of this recommendation, as I hope that rail will be kept out of its field of application.
Novo Belenguer recommendation (A4-0069/98) , in writing. (DA) Transportation of dangerous goods requires clear, consistent regulation if the authorities are to react quickly and effectively in the event of an accident.
We must urgently look for solutions to this major public health problem.
Specific and original proposals are needed, given that only 38 % of young people who have tried to take their own lives have had any subsequent follow-up from a doctor.
It falls within the jurisdiction of the European Union to support applied research programmes in this area, in order to set up a network of structures of a personal nature.
Out of the four public health reports we voted on, the Trakatellis report to my mind occupies a separate position.
The Member States must inform people themselves, modifying certain elements for their own population and culture, to prevent injury.
The intention of the Commission's action plan, namely, that it wants to prevent suicide and accidents is, of course, appropriate.
The coordinator of a support group of one such rare disease, Action on Tracheotomies lives in Billericay, in my constituency.
I should like to remind people here today of my report on noise as a source of pollution, and also of the forthcoming meeting on this question in Copenhagen in May, with the participation of representatives from all over the Union.
If the EU really wants to prevent diseases caused by pollution, it would be best if it stopped a number of the decisions it has taken which will directly cause more diseases because of pollution.
The intention of the Commission's action plan is, of course, good, but you must still ask yourself whether it really is best to let the EU take action in this area.
Of course I am not against cooperation between Member States on these issues, but I think this can be carried out, as today, through cooperation between the professional groups which work with these issues.
I agree with the rapporteur's view expressed in his report that the Commission's proposals to reduce pollution related diseases do not go far enough.
The rapporteur is right in calling for a broader programme which could deal with noise, food, water and waste pollution-related diseases as well.
I would like to see a Commission programme on pollution-related diseases which is broad enough to include matters such as that which I have outlined.
Trakatellis, Viceconte and Cabrol reports I would first of all like to congratulate the three rapporteurs for having carried out this work and for having reconciled their points of view.
Mr Viceconte's report marks an important stage in the treatment on rare diseases.
I support the proposal inviting the European Community to become involved in research on these diseases.
I also want to support Mr Cabrol in his efforts to widen the programme's field of action against pollution-related diseases.
A study seems necessary into the effects of long-term pollution and the possible synergies between the different pollutants.
Finally, given the costs supported by society in the area of public health, an investment of ECU 14 million will work in favour of the well-being of the population in the long term, but also towards a reduction in the budgets which we currently devote to social security.
The three reports which the House has just adopted regarding programmes for Community action on rare diseases, injury prevention and pollution-related diseases clearly improve upon the proposals submitted by the Commission.
Rare diseases, which are 80 % genetic, will from now on be the objective of concerted effort on the part of the European Union and I am very pleased about this.
I am thinking, for example, of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease but also many other lesser known, but just as dreadful, diseases.
With regard to the programme on injury prevention, I must stress that Community information systems, one on intentional and one on unintentional injuries, should be set up as the rapporteur recommends.
Similarly, I am in complete agreement with him that absolute priority should be given to the groups most prone to these injuries: children, women - through domestic violence - and old people.
Finally, pollution-related diseases are becoming more and more unacceptable.
Trakatellis, Viceconte, Cabrol and Flemming reports The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have voted in favour of the Trakatellis, Viceconte, Cabrol and Flemming reports on popular health programmes in the EU.
These programmes will cover research and cooperation between Member States until the year 2003.
We would also like to point out that these programmes come under Article 129 of the Treaty, which calls for cooperation between Member States, although is not mean the same as harmonizing those states' health policies.
Bazin report (A4-0072/98) The report by the chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism bears the stamp of good sense.
The achievement of this objective requires a financial effort on the part of the European Union in order to support that of the Member States.
Finally, our satisfaction with this proposal must be added to that of the road haulage professionals who participated in its formulation.
If you add this to the pain of Algerian women in the face of the terrorism they suffer you can see that perhaps there has never before been such a need to demonstrate our support to the women of the world on 8 March this year.
I welcome the call this Parliament is making to commit all EU institutions to renew efforts to improve the lives of European women at work and in the home.
However, on this particular International Women's Day - 8 March 1998 - we are turning our attention to the terrible pain and suffering being endured by Afghanistan women under the cruel Taliban regime, which has taken away their freedom of movement and freedom to work and provide for their families, as well as their right to proper health care.
The "anniversary' crowns and the celebrations of 8 March will end up by being simply quaint if not deliberately disorientating, since they do not call on women, who continue to be one of the most vulnerable categories of the population, to fight for their rights, which are being roughly trodden underfoot by today's socioeconomic system.
A victim of religious fanaticism, a victim of exploitation by international crime networks, a victim of unemployment and social marginalization, female dignity suffers in the most terrible way the behaviour of a world which offends human dignity and existence just as severely, though in different ways, in Third World countries, in developed countries and in countries of the European Union.
Equal opportunities for women can have no meaning in a society without equality of social outlook, a society of unemployment, underemployment, a society without a welfare state, a society of the commercialization of human worth.
Not only are social rights and social gains not expanding, they are being squeezed more and more as too costly, a fact which places even more burdens on women who have to combine many duties with dual and triple social roles.
The institutional protection of women against any form of discrimination and the guarantee of their positive influence in social, economic and political life, cannot be achieved independently of the reorientation and the reorganization, often from the very foundations, of the model of development of our societies.
In the face of plans for war, for exploitation and for oppression, in the face of a tactic of discrimination, women are called upon to push forward their own demands in the context of a broad popular battlefront, in each country individually and at European and international level, to express the common struggle to obstruct this policy, until it is overturned and until the power of the people is established.
Other situations are, unfortunately, much less well known, and were not mentioned in last Monday's debate.
UN agencies specialized in population issues, along with the IMF and World Bank, practise a veritable imperialism towards a substantial number of African and Latin American countries, making development aid conditional on permanent or, when it relates to chemical treatments, partial sterilization policies imposed on women who are often illiterate.
In Europe, women often see a male model of social and professional achievement imposed on them, which brings about a double workload, often to the detriment of their personal well-being and that of their family.
Under the guise of the sexual liberation of 1968 onwards the trivialization of sexuality, which has reduced sex to an immediate consumer object, exposes many young women and girls to problems which compromise a full and lasting life as part of a couple.
There is clearly still a great deal of ground to be covered before women from different societies around the world can be recognized fully, not in a climate of rivalry exacerbated by men, but in respect of their equal dignity and their own responsibility as men or women.
I read Mr Pétrus Cornelissen's report attentively and I fully support the desires and objectives set out in the text.
Mr Cornelissen's text contains many good ideas, both in the area of prevention and suppression and I feel that a correlation between social legislation and safety in the area of road transport is most timely.
I have already asked the Commission to look into specific measures to be taken in particularly dense fog and I would like to take advantage of the debate on this report to encourage all Members to agree to a possible temporary closure of motorways in thick fog.
This proposal will undoubtedly surprise some of my colleagues.
Unfortunately, first prize for this awful death toll in all probability goes to my country, in proportion to its population, with 2 000 dead, 32 000 injured and approximately 22 000 accidents a year.
We believe that the report makes positive proposals and improves the Commission proposal by promoting measures for the improvement of the road network and other necessary infrastructures, the safety of cars and the safeguarding of the observance of rules of conduct.
Every country should have the right to go further by keeping or introducing tougher rules.
As regards road safety, a sense of responsibility will be encouraged through the provision of the necessary financial means to create the best conditions of safety possible.
Consequently, we agree with the different objectives put forward by the rapporteur.
Indeed, it is particularly important to protect children at school entrances, to improve the standardization of vehicle safety systems, to assure the safety of cyclists and pedestrians and to give some notion of first aid in driving schools.
Nevertheless, in point 7(c), the rapporteur suggests prohibiting the sale of alcohol in service stations on motorways.
This measure seems largely sufficient to us since it is linked to the maximum level of alcohol permitted in drivers' blood, which is 0.5 mg/ml of blood.
But if we want to change this situation we have to revolutionize the way driving schools function.
Training must be completed in slow cars, with a maximum speed of 20 kilometres per hour in town and 80 kilometres per hour on main roads.
The principle of accompanied driving encompasses three stages.
This training can commence from the age of 16.
Then, practice with one or a number of designated accompaniers over the age of 28 who have held a driving licence for at least three years.
The driving test can be taken from the age of 18 onwards.
However, I am convinced that the introduction of such a licence would have a favourable and direct impact on road safety and awareness raising, and would certainly reduce the total number of accidents in the various countries.
To have a points system on your driving licence would at least have the benefit of putting everyone on an equal footing.
My third remark concerns the lowering of speed limits in towns.
Kreissl-Dörfler report (A4-0073/98) Mr President, the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations firmly supports the criticism of the draft multilateral agreement on international investments on which a vote has just been taken with the Kreissl-Dörfler report.
Indeed, we consider that whereas it may be useful to provide an overall legal framework to these investments, the text of the agreement should establish, in its first article, the inalienable sovereignty of a people and their right to choose the laws and the type of society that suits them.
There is no question of us accepting the project as it stands thus prepared by the OECD, which seems to put Member States in the position of the accused, as if the only result of their actions was the prevention of multinational firms from working for the common good.
We are therefore delighted with the European Parliament's sudden burst of resistance and would like to comment on the fact that our protests regarding the GATT have perhaps slowly and finally borne fruit: a good number of the motions voted for today, for example on the need for a clause recognizing the legitimacy of regional preference zones, would have been included in the GATT if our requests had been listened to at the time.
But this sudden outburst from Parliament is insufficient, for the multilateral agreement on investments is only one aspect of a more general movement which is developing on many levels and which tends to distance power from the control of the people and to take away from them the final word in controlling their destiny.
Thus, on a different level, the Amsterdam project pushes us in the same direction, by by-passing national democracies, by reducing the quality of democratic control in Europe and by favouring the emergence of a technocratic European power which obeys the pressures of the global financial powers far more than the needs of its people.
It is for these reasons that we must reject not only the MAI, but also the Treaty of Amsterdam.
We are voting for the report which deals with the shortfalls in the agreement, and we would like in particular to stress the importance of Amendment No 1.
The issue also shows the importance of strong associations of the kind the European Union represents and the need for the European Parliament to have the opportunity to express its opinion on the Union's participation in this agreement.
The MAI issue requires additional, clear scrutiny, and the role of the European Parliament must be seen as an important element in such scrutiny.
We are the first parliament to discuss the draft multilateral agreement on investments and to give an opinion on this subject.
We believe that governments should not accept the agreement as it stands.
Will the multilateral agreement be incompatible with international agreements such as the Rio Declaration, Agenda 21 or the United Nations guidelines on consumer protection?
As the rapporteur notes, what guarantees do we have that the environmental, social and cultural policies of the European Union and its Member States will be respected?
As the rapporteur also notes, what mechanisms must we put in place to protect the cultural sector from unconditional liberalization?
I believe that, in the final instance, this report is superfluous for the simple reason that, as point 8 of the report itself states, the EU is not a member of the OECD.
There is no doubt in my mind what the intention is here: trying to give the EU the status of an economic and political superpower.
I supported the Group of the Party of European Socialist's amendment encouraging the European Parliament to insist that governments and national parliaments do not sign the agreement as it currently stands.
As it stands, the MAI constitutes a new stage, a decisive one, one of liberation, of economic globalization with no protective rules, with no democratic rules which, as we know, does not benefit the majority of people, not even in the developed world.
If such an agreement were to be put in place, we would be depriving individual states, the European Union and public authorities of their means of action and authoritative sovereignty to enact, for example, social or environmental rulings, commitments benefiting regional development or employment or to use Structural Funds, incentives and selective measures.
If it becomes concrete, the MAI will make European political and social construction all the more difficult and will remove all substance from it.
In short, the project of a community which is master of its own destiny, capable of giving life to an area of solidarity, liberty, creativity and cultural diversity, will no longer have any sense nor the effective possibility of embodying this.
Of course, we can only subscribe to a better organization of investment possibilities in a transparent and just framework and the report clearly sets out the conditions without which such an agreement cannot be accepted.
The framework of this agreement must be global and cannot be defined by the rich or developed countries alone.
The WTO, or better still UNCTAD or the UN, would be in a position to offer a more representative context in which to draw it up.
The agreement should instead be negotiated in the framework of the UN or possibly the WTO.
Tax payers in the European Union are going to pay to offer markets, jobs and profits to our North American competitors.
The European Union which, with 350 million inhabitants, should be a power over and above the nation state, thus shows its dark reality: it is an authority submissive to the power of the WTO, to that of the OECD, and to the ideology of global free trade.
The farmers have known this since the GATT agreement in 1994, if not before.
They have gone directly from Maastricht, Geneva or Hollywood to Vichy.
The agreement gives every multinational the possibility of demanding the state in which it is investing to abstain from any attempt to support national production or some sector or some region through the granting of state assistance or other advantages.
Moreover, the implementation of the agreement will allow multinational companies to rescind any previous commitment they have undertaken in relation to the investments they have already made.
The agreement deals a hard blow for the trade-union rights of working people and urges governments to crack down in any way on labour movements by brandishing the threat of compensation for lost profits as a result of strikes, social unrest and even revolts.
At the same time, the standstill principle consolidates any liberalizing or deregulatory measure, given that every new measure to protect social rights could be attacked as being protectionist and could therefore be invalidated.
The European Union has shown a tendency to produce ever more agreements without stopping to think whether each additional agreement contributes anything new and, more particularly, whether it runs counter to the basic interests of society as a whole, in terms of the future.
Under the MAI agreement, in the context of the OECD, the European Union could exert considerable influence if all its members were united in defending a long-term view which did not benefit the market at the expense of the European acquis in the environmental sphere.
Under GATT/WTO, any countries concerned with defending the interests of the European audiovisual sector had only to refrain from making offers in that area.
I am going to vote for the report - assuming that Amendment No 1 is approved - because it is critical of the MAI agreement and in effect demands that it should be renegotiated.
However, I have reservations about certain formulations, such as point 22 of the draft report which seeks to approve a ban on investment subsidies.
There are also a number of other points in the report of which I am sceptical, and which I would like to see expressed in a different manner.
Flemming report (A4-0022/98) As a doctor in charge of a hospital ear, nose and throat unit, I witness the damage caused by the abuse of tobacco on a daily basis.
On the other hand, the proposal to carry out research into the cultivation of other types of tobacco with lower levels of nicotine seems far more logical in terms of its medical and economic consequences.
It would contribute to a real improvement in consumer protection.
As everyone knows, Article 129 of the Treaty of Amsterdam increases the obligations of the European Union towards the protection of public health and consumers.
That means that in order for the Union to address and properly fulfil its new commitments in these areas and, especially, the demand for health protection to be included in Community policies, new proposals will have to be presented following the ratification of that Treaty.
I hope that the European Parliament takes this decision, since so many times in the past the majority has continued to support subsidies for tobacco growers.
Just as political decisions which affect the environment should be accompanied by environmental impact assessments, decisions which affect health and consumer protection should be accompanied by health effect assessments.
Environment, health and consumer issues should be given greater priority in political work at European level.
Each Member State should have the right to keep higher standards or introduce tougher rules than provided for by the EU.
I voted in favour of the report.
It skates over the need to promote a pedagogical approach and to introduce preventive measures which discourage tobacco consumption, which is a clear and obvious factor of risk for health.
It merely emphasizes, in point 10, the need to stop subsidies for tobacco growing in the European Union, and even specifies maximum periods of ten years for this to come into effect.
We question this partial approach to the health implications of tobacco consumption, and clear protectionism of the interests of the tobacco firms.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations is also aware of the effects of tobacco abuse on health that have been noted by the rapporteur in his explanatory statement.
Nevertheless, if you estimate the number of deaths per year in the European Union caused by tobacco at around 500 000, it is also appropriate to note that various recent epidemiological studies have shown that in the United States the death rate due to tobacco, whilst not decreasing, is remaining constant.
Our group has tabled an amendment to point 10 of the motion for a resolution.
Our group would thus like to see a restrictive policy with regard to the promotion of tobacco consumption.
Alzheimer's disease I fully support this series of questions regarding Alzheimer's disease.
Indeed, it seems necessary to put in place an action programme against this disease, which affects a considerable number of old and sometimes even young people in the European Union.
It is essential to establish a programme of this type on the basis of both research and on prevention and treatment.
Let me add that any progress in the fight against this disease must be considered as an improvement in the living conditions of the elderly.
A large number of elderly people find themselves cut off from all links with society and Alzheimer's disease only accentuates this sad fact.
It is already two years since Parliament adopted the Poggiolini report, which requested the Commission to present an action programme to fight Alzheimer's disease and other neurological syndromes which affect the cognitive functions.
The text at the time requested that this programme should be implemented as soon as possible.
The Commission must double its efforts, support research and make special budgetary provisions in order to speed up the improvement in care that the sufferers deserve.
The numbers are significant and high in comparison to other viral diseases such as AIDS.
To date there have only been research programmes of limited scope, while the funding of programmes does not correspond to scientific and social interest.
Alzheimer's disease does not feature in any social security organization funding programme, while neither the Member States nor the Commission have responded to the need to step up efforts to fight a disease which is turning into a scourge, since forecasts predict that it will affect 8 million people by the year 2000.
The rules of an unaccountable free market "vote' for death when this costs less than life.
Madam President, it is rather pointless continuing a debate which seems to have already ended, but let us carry on.
They are asking for respect of their human rights and the leader in Belgrade, Slobodan Milosevic, chooses, against all logic, the policy of intensification.
I think that we must regard the actions of the Presidency and the initiatives of Mr Cook as very constructive.
If several thousand refugees are forced to take refuge in neighbouring countries, the governments of Tirana and Skopje will face serious problems.
Madam President, once again we have seen the distressing pictures of children and women disfigured by the violence of the Serbian government police and once again we have arrived late, despite the fact that these events were heralded by a whole series of episodes.
When the Serbian government representative subjects the beginning of discussions to the recognition of the Serbian constitution, he is establishing an objectively unacceptable condition because, as you recalled, that constitution is the worst obstacle to beginning negotiations.
The situation is becoming objectively more difficult because, instead of drawing closer, the parties are moving apart.
The Council's work therefore needs to be extremely energetic, if we want to prevent blood baths and if we want to prevent further outbreaks of war with unforeseeable consequences.
Mr de Vries, Mr Swoboda and Mrs Pack have already given a thorough analysis of the situation, which I agree with.
Madam President, in spite of the difficulties and in spite of the dramatic number of deaths in Kosovo, I think there are elements which can give us some optimism at least in relation to what happened in Bosnia.
In the case of Bosnia we had a Croatian population in Bosnia and opposed to it was a nationalistic and aggressive Mr Tudjman.
In the case of Kosovo we have an Albanian population but also Fatos Nanos, who is moderate and prudent.
Madam President, I hope nobody in this Chamber is unaware of, or in any doubt about, the seriousness of the crisis which confronts us today.
After the Bosnian war many of us feared there would be some who would use the peace as an opportunity simply to take breath before returning to their evil work.
In Croatia, as we know, President Tudjman's recent speech to his party congress, the situation in eastern Slavonia and the way in which the Dayton Agreement is not being enforced effectively all indicate that the international community must not drop its guard in the region.
Clearly, in Kosovo President Milosevic believes he is strong enough to challenge that international community and its resolve.
We therefore have to send out a very clear message that we remain committed to the permanent restoration of peace and stability in the region.
I congratulate the Presidency and the contact group on the speedy response they have made to the latest crisis.
Recently the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy of Parliament asked for a high representative to be appointed to Kosovo.
Therefore, we welcome the new mission and mandate given to Felipe González as the personal representative of the OSCE Chairman-in-Office for the former Yugoslav Republic.
If we can resolve the short-term problems we must increase our efforts to resolve the long-term problems.
In particular, we must try to have the education agreement implemented and make progress on civil building measures within Kosovo.
At the same time, we need to reject the illusions of independence established, this morning, by Kosovo.
Madam President, we have the opportunity to use preventative diplomacy to prevent Kosovo from suffering the same fate as that which we were unable to prevent in 1991 in the former Yugoslavia.
So we are going to support the measures adopted by the contact group, call on Europe to play a greater role and, of course, support the mission which appears to have been accepted by the former president of the Spanish government, Felipe González.
I reject any suggestion first of all that the Presidency has been inactive in trying to do what is practical and realistic in dealing with the problems in Kosovo.
He will also be visiting other neighbouring countries to find out about their particular problems and concerns so that he can bring that information back to the centre.
Additionally, the European Conference, which is taking place tomorrow in London, is another opportunity for matters to be discussed and again, the foreign ministers' informal meeting in Edinburgh on Friday and Saturday is yet another occasion.
If the answer to those questions were both yes, it would then need to be decided who would be involved in it, what would be the purpose, how any military action would end, and what political solution would be required.
The important thing is to try to seek a political solution to this problem.
There has been activity, the Presidency has been active, the Council has been active and indeed the international community has responded to the crisis.
That is also reflected in the very fact that there is a debate in Parliament today and that Parliament itself is playing its role in speaking for the peoples of the European Union on how seriously they regard the situation and, it is to be hoped, how they would be able to seek a solution based on a political settlement.
Perhaps this was because I am one of the few people in the Chamber but I must clearly state that my criticisms were not directed at the current President-in-Office but the Presidency, Commission and even Parliament, which for many years recognized the problem without doing enough.
I hope that the present Presidency will contribute much to solving the problem and the crisis.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Our banks are extremely exposed and our dependence on trade make us extremely vulnerable to this sort of crisis in the world markets.
The demands this Parliament frequently makes for respect of human rights is as important a part of the process as the demands for economic freedom.
I will be interested to hear what the Council and the Commission have to say about how they intend to approach the ASEM Summit from these points of view.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the ASEM Summit is of course extremely important.
Europe should have been present right from the start of the uncertain financial situation in South-East Asia.
This should be part of balanced dialogue between that part of Asia and Europe.
The Asian countries should implement reforms on a large scale, but the Union should express its support for this, and cooperate with the IMF.
In line with the conclusions of the ministerial meeting held at the beginning of last year, I therefore call on the Council to put human rights on the agenda of the ASEM Summit.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, my group is also waiting with bated breath for the answer to the four written questions, for Asia-Europe relations are very important not only for our own foreign relations but also as regards the economic and social situations in the 25 countries involved.
We would also be very interested to find out whether the Council intends to discuss the enlargement of the ASEM with its Asian partners.
We see the inclusion of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, New Zealand and Australia as interesting possibilities.
I do admit, however, that it must be our Asian partners themselves who take the decision, in the same manner as we have reservations in the case of Burma, due to its human rights situation, and are unable to accept the inclusion of Burma.
The London Summit can be successful only if the 25 heads of state and government can demonstrate that we can find common solutions to ending the financial crisis in Asia.
Finally, I believe - as some of those speaking before me have already said - that it is important to involve the European Parliament and the Asian parliaments in the process.
This is also an opportunity to support democratization in general and to strengthen Members' responsibility for international relations in particular.
Today we are discussing expectations, but it is also important that this House has a chance to debate the outcome on the basis of an official statement by the Council and the Commission.
Over the past few months in this House we have repeatedly demanded democratization in Burma, the establishment of trading relations only if Burma guarantees human rights and makes some progress towards democracy.
In relation to North Korea we have asked that money not simply be poured into the KEDO project, but that we should use the money to relieve or alleviate hunger, that we should promote the development of the domestic market and thereby promote a policy of peace in Korea.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the ASEM II Summit, in my opinion, it is important to define the role which the European Union can and must play within the framework of cooperation and the development of links with Asia, what its priorities must be, and what steps must be taken to coordinate and target clearly the actions to be undertaken.
Aimed at encouraging dialogue with our Asian partners, the Asia-Europe Meeting can indeed contribute to encouraging reciprocal understanding and to tightening the links between our two continents.
These are links which, in the crucial context of current globalization, must be made concrete through the setting up of a Euro-Asian form of cooperation on regional and international questions of major importance, in particular on economic and financial, scientific and technological, environmental, cultural and humanitarian issues.
Within the framework of a new partnership with Asia, it is therefore essential that the Union plays a predominant role in the development and implementation of the tools which will enable synergies and partnerships to be created in these areas.
I therefore fully support the initiatives identified during the first ASEM Summit and the suggestions drawn up at the second Asia-Europe Business Forum in Bangkok, which should improve the overall climate and develop reciprocal investments.
In conclusion, and with the objective of giving a parliamentary dimension to the ASEM process, it is appropriate to support the organization of an Asia-Europe Parliamentary Partnership, or ASEP, and to involve the House closely in this.
Madam President, I was privileged to be on the ASEAN delegation that visited Malaysia and Singapore in January.
We have a deep sense of commitment to this part of the world and to the countries which have been suffering in the crisis.
In today's press I notice that one editorial suggests that Indonesia is facing a total collapse and that the re-elected Suharto has said that he is not going to keep to the conditions of the IMF.
We must encourage democracy and human rights in all these countries.
Madam President, the second Asia-Europe Meeting, to be held in London on 3 and 4 April, will be an important landmark in the development of Europe's relationship with Asia.
The range and depth of the questions by the Members of this Parliament underline the importance of ASEM and the expectations it has raised.
Since the first ASEM in Bangkok in 1996, we have seen results in all three key dimensions of the ASEM process.
Questions have been tabled by Members of this Parliament on what has been achieved.
For example, working groups of customs officials have met to put forward proposals on how to harmonize procedures and enforce the regulations to make trade between the two regions work better.
The Asia-Europe Business Forum has met twice already: in Paris in 1996 and in Bangkok last November.
The Asia-Europe Foundation was established in February 1997 to further links between ASEM members at the level of civic society.
It has sponsored a series of lectures and conferences, including a seminar on human rights and the rule of law held in Sweden in December last year.
Cultural links will have a high profile at ASEM II; there will be a full programme of cultural and arts events taking place to coincide with the summit; some of which will be visited by those attending the summit, and I hope some ideas will be taken back from those inspirations.
The importance of the ASEM process in general, and ASEM II in particular, becomes even clearer at a time when there is a need for a better understanding of respective economic situations and of the need to help bring stability to the situation in Asia.
It is also an opportunity to stress the need for Asian countries to act on the recommendations of the IMF.
We hope discussion will cover regional issues in Asia and Europe, as well as international issues, and will touch on issues of fundamental rights.
The Council is committed to the equal importance of the three dimensions of the ASEM process and welcomes the cooperation between European and Asian countries in numerous fields, such as environment, child welfare and education.
The Union is looking forward to the adoption at ASEM II of an Asia-Europe cooperation framework to focus and manage ASEM activities.
This will report to foreign ministers in 1999 in good time for the conclusions to be fed into ASEM III in the year 2000.
The Presidency looks forward, with the Council, to a fruitful meeting in April.
Since the first ASEM, progress has been extremely rapid.
In the political field a substantive political dialogue has begun at both ministerial and official level, touching on global and regional issues.
In the economic field, economic ministers and officials have made great progress in preparing action plans for both investment promotion and trade facilitation and in establishing a commonality of views on WTO-related issues as well as on such themes as infrastructure and sustainable growth.
Intensive cooperation has been established in the field of customs and the private sector has established its own ongoing dialogue through the Asia-Europe Business Forum and other meetings.
In the cultural and social field the Asia-Europe Foundation provides a flagship initiative seeking to promote mutual awareness between our two regions.
I note that the period since the Bangkok Summit has also seen much thought being given to questions of process, coordination and vision.
In particular, the proposals to establish an Asia-Europe cooperation framework and an Asia-Europe vision group are both likely to be taken forward at the London Summit.
The coming two years will first and foremost be a period of consolidation.
But we will need to show more concrete, tangible results by the year 2000.
The ASEM process has been and should remain an informal one which should primarily function as a political catalyst for achieving mutual understanding, dialogue and cooperation.
ASEM should not develop into an institution with a secretariat, or anything of that kind; but we will need to focus the process more clearly on a limited number of priority areas.
The Commission has nominated Mr Percy Barnevik, previously CEO of ASEA Brown Boveri and currently chairman of the Investa Group, as its participant.
The Summit will also launch some new initiatives, possibly in areas like money laundering, child welfare, environment, etcetera.
The ASEM financial crisis clearly increases the importance of Asia-Europe cooperation and of ASEM.
The London Summit will devote a lot of attention to it.
We must give strong political messages and also put forward initiatives to help overcome the crisis.
The UK Presidency has just sent a high-level mission to the South-East Asian countries to correct misunderstandings about the extent of Europe's role in dealing with the situation and to help prepare the Summit's message on this subject.
The Summit will have to deliver a strong political message with regard to the crisis, recognizing that it has global implications, highlighting the contributions that European partners have made, confirming the commitment of ASEM partners to undertake the necessary reforms and underlining the need to resist protectionism and pursue further liberalization as the most effective antidote to any calls for protectionism in both Asia and Europe.
We are considering how to provide further assistance to strengthen financial supervision and to address the social implications of the crisis.
ASEM is intended to build a comprehensive partnership going beyond governments and administrations, which would include a dialogue between parliamentarians of the two regions.
It was therefore appropriate that the first ASEM was followed by the meeting of the Asia-Europe Parliamentary Partnership here, in April 1996.
It is also notable that the Asia-Europe Foundation is planning a programme to bring together young parliamentarians from both regions.
This kind of informal approach between parliamentarians should be particularly useful.
After all, the ASEM process is not intended to replace multilateral cooperation in any form, but to promote partnership between Europe and Asia on certain issues.
My thoughts on this matter concern not only possible solutions to the crisis in Asia but also the progress that can be made in reforming international financial institutions by developing ideas common to both regions.
I feel, too, that in fact we probably need new supervisory rules and a new definition of public foreign debt.
Undoubtedly, too, this ASEM Summit should be used to emphasize the fact that the euro can help not only to stabilize monetary and economic relations within the European Union, but can also make a contribution towards international monetary stability.
This is an important message which the Summit should convey.
Despite our different traditions and cultures, opportunities for cooperation exist and are also necessary, precisely because we already have such a high level of economic partnership.
It can do so because security concerns in Asia are also our security concerns, and good government is a topic which should increasingly become a focal point in political dialogue.
I would ask the Presidency of the Council and the Commission through its projects and programmes to provide a clear and concrete model of cooperation at all levels.
Japan has a golden opportunity to make up what it has caused in grief and suffering to the people of these areas by its occupation during the war.
The War Chapel in Rangoon has a hand-written list of the British casualties who were killed in action after 5 May and before 15 August.
I have asked the Council - and I would like an answer - to raise flags throughout Europe on 15 August.
The same is true of the relationship between Europe and Asia as it is between the Member States of the European Union.
The ASEM II Summit will bring together the heads of state and of governments from ten Asian countries and the fifteen Member States of the European Union.
The meeting in London will be an opportunity, a means to forge stronger economic, political and cultural ties between the two economic powerhouses that represent over 50 % of world trade.
The first summit meeting in Bangkok in March 1996 ASEM I laid down the framework for future relations between the EU and Asia, initiating a series of parallel dialogues aimed at finding common ground where we could work together on peace and stability, creating conditions conducive to economic and social development, political dialogue based on mutual respect, equality and the promotion of fundamental human rights.
Alongside that, we also have the parliamentary dialogue and in 1996 parliamentary delegations from the Asian countries plus the relevant members of the European Parliament met here together in Strasbourg.
It is in the interests of both Asia and Europe to cooperate for our mutual advantage.
There are areas where the countries of Asia are helping in Europe.
For example, as the vice-president of the European Parliament's delegation with Japan, I can report that Japan is contributing approximately ECU 500 million for Bosnian reconstruction.
It has a programme of aid and assistance to the Palestinians to help establish a Palestinian settlement.
The crisis in Asia will have an impact on Europe.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Madam President, it is a very opportune moment indeed to discuss the question of the international criminal court.
Against that background it is very important that the European Union and at this moment the European Parliament should exercise new leadership.
If we really want to be clear, we can give a signal that we want to have an international criminal court, with a properly independent public prosecutor.
Most of the Member States of the European Union support these basic principles.
There are one or two who are hesitant and it is against that background that it is extremely important that a clear and unanimous signal should be given by Parliament.
Madam President, the process of setting up a permanent international court should be supported, and it is the not the first time that I am speaking in this Chamber to support it.
In this connection, I hope that the government of my country, the Italian government, will manage to take effective action to prepare adequately for the eve, naturally cooperating with the other Member States of the Union.
In view of the diplomatic conference, it would be useful if the Council were to adopt a common position with regard to the Treaty in support of the Court.
I would also like to say that, in my opinion, the Council should say no to any subjection of the court to the UN Security Council.
I would therefore like to ask the Presidentin-Office of the Council to commit himself, if he can do so, in this connection too, on this divisive issue: it is very important for the Court to be separate from the UN Security Council.
Madam President, the questions I asked three months ago, when we discussed a resolution here in this House calling for the establishment of a permanent international criminal court, have not been answered.
Regrettably, the ad-hoc tribunals in Arusha and The Hague on Rwanda and Yugoslavia have not managed to catch the perpetrators most responsible for the atrocities.
The investigation was focused too much on the first part of the war.
I am thinking of Saddam Hussein and Milosevic.
Madam President, I think that when we are talking about the principle of an international criminal court, it is hard to underestimate what far-reaching consequences this might have.
But to my mind this says more about a lack of resources and a lack of transparency and freedom to act, than about the principle of such a tribunal.
Moreover, the Public Prosecutor should have the freedom to act, without having to depend on prior permission from the Security Council or anybody else.
Madam President, Mr President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I have today already endeavoured to indicate what a member of the public can see by turning on his television set, and I have already pointed out just how negative the impression must be as a result of there not being a European Union representative in Kosovo while the Americans are very well represented indeed.
This is why the issue of an international criminal court is so important and so hard to achieve.
This independence must be guaranteed, and it is with this objective in mind that tomorrow we will give this joint motion our full support.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, it is not the first time that Parliament has expressed its opinion on the international criminal court.
That, I think, could be the best possible message we could send to the Presidency-inOffice: that those elected in the EU countries support a text which, as you will have seen, Mr President, is a very specific text, that is in line with and matches the position of the so-called like-minded countries in a prudent version, an open version to be able to bring everyone together on this strong position but, at the same time, including the reasons why some countries continue to obstruct, not the establishment of the Court, but the operating procedure.
I also think that this may help the British Presidency to look for that cohesion which seems to me to be lacking at the moment and lacking in particular because one Member State, which is also a member of the Security Council, continues to doubt this line which we will be voting on and approving tomorrow.
The last session of the preliminary negotiations will begin on 16 March and the Rome Conference will begin on 15 June, in a Member State of the EU, thereby giving the Union a key role.
I hope, Mr President, that in your reply you will reassure us of the attempt you are certainly making to reach a harmonized position and that you will, in particular, agree with us on the extraordinary importance the establishment of the Court may have for the development of international law and, I would also say, for the role the EU may have as such in an initiative of civility, of law, of change, of an end to the impunity so many criminals still enjoy today throughout the world.
The tribunals for Yugoslavia and Rwanda, however, had a very clear objective.
I think that our entire group is very strongly in favour of the resolution before us.
I also hope that society and its specialized associations will be able to contribute, along an orderly path, to the success of this international criminal court.
Madam President, the Council fully supports the establishment of the international criminal court to try the most serious crimes and violations of international law of concern to the international community including genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
The European Union is encouraged by the ever-growing number of countries that support the establishment of the court.
This is manifested in the wide international participation and a general spirit of cooperation in the preparatory committee meetings held in New York.
The Union looks forward to the diplomatic conference to be held in June and July this year.
It is important that the conference is attended by the largest possible number of states.
We also welcome the role being played by non-governmental organizations in the process of establishing the court.
The Union coordination meetings have been regularly held prior to and during meetings of the preparatory committee.
At the meeting there was a useful exchange of views on various key issues and discussion of how best the negotiations in the court should be taken forward.
The Union does not seek to agree common positions in advance on the detailed provisions of the court's statute.
However, there is a considerable measure of agreement on many issues.
We are in particular agreed on a number of key principles, including the following: the court should be effective, it should stand the test of time, and it should be complementary to national systems of criminal justice.
The court should draw on the experience of the two ad hoc tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and for Rwanda, whose work we also support.
The Union expresses its hope and confidence that it will be possible to achieve a successful outcome to the diplomatic conference that is to finalize and adopt a comprehensive and universal convention establishing the international criminal court.
We urge all states to demonstrate the spirit of cooperation necessary to achieve this task.
The first relates to the high symbolic value of a strong initiative assumed by the EU.
The second reason lies in the fact that, in this world, we need many rules, but one of the essential rules is that relating to the fundamental criterion of justice and the possibility that all the democratic countries, the civilian society of men, recognize and punish those guilty of serious crimes against humanity.
It is one of the conditions for democracy to remain on its feet, and we know it, and that is why the rules for establishing this court are advanced rules providing a guarantee for democratic systems.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in any society which calls itself civilized, the fundamental principles which form the basis of political action should be the principle of respect for the overriding importance of the individual and his or her dignity, and the principle of the defence of the rights which arise from that dignity.
The objective of the resolution prepared by the European Parliament is precisely to ensure that hope can become reality.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is not enough that tomorrow this resolution will probably be voted for unanimously and that all the political groups of this House have a broad and strong political desire to further this initiative.
The ad hoc tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and for Rwanda have certainly served to further demonstrate, if that were possible, the need to set up this international criminal court.
That position should commit all the Member States to promoting the creation of a truly independent international criminal court, which is not modelled on the ancient fossils of international law such as the right to veto in the UN Security Council.
Madam President, impunity is a war of sorts, because the victims continue to feel they are being attacked.
I think we need to support them in these activities, because that will be the best way to implement this permanent court.
I have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Competitiveness The next item is the Council communication on the problems in the sector of competitiveness.
Mr President, I wish to thank Parliament for giving me the opportunity to talk to you today about competitiveness.
It is a great pleasure to be here, as the President-in-Office of the Council.
The new Labour Government in the United Kingdom welcomes the marvellous opportunity that this six months offers, and I am personally looking forward to the prospect of working closely with my colleagues across Europe to ensure that European industry is sufficiently competitive to meet the challenges we all face today.
The problems of competitiveness are not unique to any one country: all Member States are facing the same challenges.
It is common ground for the Council, the Commission and Parliament that in today's global economic environment we must not only improve European industrial competitiveness to match that of the best in the world but also continuously maintain that position once achieved.
There are three main elements required to meet the challenges we face: ensuring our markets are strong, our companies are modern and that we are promoting enterprise to provide the foundations for all our futures.
Strong markets are vital for a range of reasons, not least because they expose our companies to the best practice of their competitors.
The European single market is said to have done more to improve EU competitiveness than any other single policy.
The single market has already increased EU GDP by between 1.1 and 1.5 %, created up to 900 000 more jobs and kept inflation around 1 % lower than would have happened without it.
The determination of all the EU institutions to implement the Single Market action plan is a major step.
The Commission's report last month shows that telecom service markets are growing very quickly.
Prices in some Member States have fallen by up to 40 % since 1990, and the liberalization measures agreed for energy should soon have a similar effect in those markets.
Indeed, it is anticipated that more than 50 % of the electricity market will be open next year.
Of course there are new markets - the markets of the future.
Enlargement will bring an additional 100 million consumers with rapidly rising incomes into the single market.
However, I am confident that the European Union is putting the right pre-accession structures in place.
We must ensure that the European Union provides a modern forward-looking legal framework which is clear, accessible and promotes business competitiveness.
The message of the European Union's Competitiveness Advisory Group in its report 'Competitiveness for Employment' is that creating new jobs and lower unemployment is a by-product of globally competitive firms.
But we have to prepare for such change by equipping our people as individuals with the skills necessary to adapt to change successfully.
In short, employability.
Member States are committed to delivering their action plans demonstrating progress by mid-April.
The presidency believes that we must urgently produce employment action plans and ensure that they are implemented.
In addition, we are tackling the problem of long-term youth unemployment through a new deal for young people, equipping people with the skills and experience they need to get into the market.
The Commission, Council and Parliament have all emphasized the importance of benchmarking in this context and Member States are working together to encourage companies to compare themselves with the best in the EU and the best in the world because, finally, we must encourage an enterprising Europe.
The employment guidelines which were agreed at Luxembourg identified entrepreneurship as one of the four key areas for improving employment.
There are many ways in which we can improve our position.
As President-in-Office of the Industry Council, I welcome the fact that we shall be having the first discussion of finance for innovation at the Industry Council in May and our message cannot focus purely on big firms.
I, for one, will be a strong voice for the smaller firm in this debate.
They are an important motor for job creation.
Last year under the Dutch Presidency the Council of Industry Ministers concluded that Member States and the Commission must increase their awareness of the impact their actions can have on competitiveness and, under the Luxembourg Presidency, the Council adopted a work programme carrying this forward.
The Commission and Council are working together on a series of pilot projects to examine some key factors underlining competitiveness: finance for innovation, as I have already mentioned, skills, transport and organizational change.
I hope I can help to develop this partnership by getting ministers and representatives of industry together on the evening before the Council to discuss what we should be doing on competitiveness.
When the Council meets on 7 May we will continue the debate on the key factors affecting EU competitiveness.
We will not find all the solutions at once but we must at least identify the issues and see how best to tackle them either at EU or national level or, indeed, at both.
I hope we can work together to strengthen Europe and European industry.
Much can be achieved at Member State level where national characteristics may prescribe different solutions and much must be done by industry which has prime responsibility for its own competitiveness.
But at EU level we can exchange best practice and look for ways forward on issues which are common to the peoples of Europe.
I have listened attentively to your speech, Minister, and I can say that I am largely in agreement with you.
As rapporteur on this issue for several months now, with a few weeks to go before its move on to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and before its probable vote during the May part-session, I would like to reiterate my personal desire for a concrete piece of work to be carried out in direct contact with the economic and social players on the ground, in order to arrive at ideas, proposals and concrete approaches which will enable us to advance in the right direction.
I am sure that our debate will help me to finalize my report and I thank you, Minister, and all of the speakers, in advance.
I would thus like to have your opinion, Minister, on the decision of the Council of Research Ministers, held on 12th February, to reduce the Fifth Framework Programme to ECU 14 billion.
My second question relates to the European textile observatory whose preparation is due this year.
Quite rightly, the President-in-Office talked about the importance of innovation.
But one of the things that the Commission identified in its Green Paper as an inhibitor to innovation - in the sense of creating companies - was red tape, whether from the European Commission, or national governments, or, quite often, local authorities.
I would welcome a word or two from the President-in-Office on that point.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this really is a very timely debate on competitiveness at EU level.
Unfortunately, this House has not always supported that process of liberalization as it should, for example in the area of energy.
The President-in-Office of the Council mentioned the European internal market several times, but she did not say much about the need to increase levels of competitiveness once we have Monetary Union and the euro.
Finally, following on from this, I should like to ask the President-in-Office about the part played by the European Commission in promoting the viability of levels of competitiveness and employment, following instructions from the Council, especially in the wake of the Cardiff Agreement.
Proof of this is in what happened this morning, with the adoption by the Commission of the draft transatlantic agreement, the so-called NTM, devised by Commissioner Brittan.
Adopted without a vote and negotiated in the greatest secrecy, this agreement favours the business world.
It aims to lift all trade restrictions and to remove all customs duties on industrial goods by the year 2010 as well as to create a free trade zone for services, including postal services.
In spite of growing opposition to the multilateral agreement on investments, which has just been rejected by a large majority in the House this morning, Brussels has thus persisted in this matter and done the same thing again.
Surely it cannot be the third way between the continental European welfare capitalism of the post-war period and today's deregulated US-style capitalism or, in other words, a pretty term for the further deregulation, privatization and micro-economization of our society.
I am somewhat surprised that in this context the internal market is so glibly referred to as a success.
She has added some colour and charm to a fairly dull House when all the men are in dark suits.
I am hoping that the President-in-Office supports rather the view of the Secretary of State for Scotland, Donald Dewar, who is arguing for continuation for the very reason that we are unique.
We have been losing our young generation for decades and only now is Objective 1 beginning to have the correct effect and to retain our young people for the first time in generations.
I do hope, therefore, that you will support the Secretary of State for Scotland in his battle for Objective 1.
I entirely share his view that it is important for the European Union to play to our strength.
I also absolutely share his view that there is no single remedy; that there is no single apocalyptic step that we can take that will somehow resolve all these problems and create prosperity on its own.
It may be less dramatic but it is likely to be more effective.
The decision on Framework V was the unanimous decision of the Council.
When they make up their minds whether we are completely different from them and therefore disastrous, or exactly the same, it will be a lot easier to know the terms of the debate.
He talked about innovation and red tape stifling innovation and asked what was being done.
At European Union level there is a proposal, which I very much welcome, to set up a group of business people to look at a very early stage proposals coming forward, to see whether they are practical and constructive.
Similarly, at national level, we have remedied a deficiency - as I see it - left by the government he supported.
Even before the last election we had set up pilot projects with local authorities to try to get some practical moves to tackle such problems at local level.
Member States have to address their own concerns and conditions on issues such as a 35-hour week.
The whole history of, for example, the United Kingdom, is based on the development of free trade and on prosperity through mutual exchange or multilateral trade.
I understand that he is putting forward some proposals for moves towards more liberalized trade between the European Union and the United States.
Our colleague at the back asked what the middle way was and whether it was a middle way between a United States model and prosperity.
I share what I suspect is his concern that this prosperity is not always as widely shared as we would wish to see it within the European Union and its Member States.
I am not quite sure what democratic responsibility for economically efficient social development as a model for running an economy entirely means.
We in the United Kingdom, and indeed all Member States, place increasing emphasis on the role and importance of SMEs, particularly their role in job creation which is so important for the whole of Europe.
She also asked me about the structural funds and raised the particular issue of the handling of the Highlands and the Islands.
Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to sincerely thank you, Minister, for choosing to speak about the enlargement in such positive terms and as an opportunity.
It is a matter of encouraging confidence in Member States and in all the participants in this discussion and debate, that this is indeed the path forward for Europe.
In those days, there were arguments, there was discussion about whether or not a group of countries coming together was Europe.
It is an opportunity for development for the whole of Europe of a kind which our predecessors could not have imagined.
The Minister referred to the United States of America: they have seen substantial steady increases in recent years in investment.
I share the Member's great concern both about current levels of investment and also the need to improve those levels of investment as a basis for future growth and for future wealth.
It is a role which politicians in particular can play, but drawing on the practical experience of business.
Mr President, I think there are two very important points here.
Mr President, the Member asked me what I think of the SLIM initiative.
I am not entirely sure but perhaps he was suggesting to me that it is a practice that could commend itself on occasion to some of the bodies in which we participate.
My second question refers to another complex matter, namely to what we call electronic trade.
Mr President, I support moves to continue to develop international trade.
With regard to electronic commerce, it is undoubtedly an area which is going to transform the climate within which we seek to make Europe competitive, the climate in which our companies will operate and, indeed, the background and the framework.
The honourable Member referred quite rightly to the moves that are taking place in Japan and the United States.
This has been a good example of partnership between successive Presidencies.
Luxembourg started it, the British Presidency is taking it forward, working closely with the Austrian Presidency, and, I understand, the Austrian Presidency is now talking to the Germans, who will take the Presidency in due course.
This is a good practical example of some of the other benefits it can have.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B4-0260/98).
Mr President, thank you for your helpful suggestion, which will enable me to take back the good news from Parliament today to the European Conference tomorrow morning.
In reply to the honourable Member's question, the Commission's proposal for revision of the common organisation of the market in raw tobacco has only recently been tabled.
We will also consider whether changes to the regime could bring benefits such as a reduction in costs or in fraud, an improvement in public health, or an increase in efficiency and competitiveness.
As the Commission's proposal on tobacco is based on Article 43 the European Parliament has been invited to give its opinion.
I am sure that in preparing this opinion Parliament will want to consider the employment issues the honourable Member raises in her question.
I can understand why you are so vehement and passionate in defending the interests of such a beautiful area as Granada, but I must ask you once again to do so within the allotted time.
I dare say you are familiar with the area, but if not, I am sure Mrs Izquierdo Rojo will invite you to visit it.
I have to say to the honourable Member that no government in the world can guarantee that there will not be a single job lost in relation to any economic proposal.
That is unrealistic and the Council of the European Union cannot give that guarantee either.
What I can say is that the Council is working on the Commission's proposal and one of the factors which will be taken into account in assessing the appropriateness of the proposal is the employment effect on the people who work in the area to which you have referred.
I have to say to the honourable Member that I cannot go further than I have already gone in my initial answer and in the supplementary answer I gave to the first questioner.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this seems to be a debate between Spanish Members and yourself, since it is your turn to represent the Council today.
I really have to refer to my original response, which was that employment is an important factor which should be taken into account but there are other factors.
We will want to consider whether changes to the regime can bring benefits such as a reduction in costs or an improvement in counteracting fraud, whether there would be any implication on public health and what impact any proposal might have on efficiency and competitiveness.
The Council will look at all these aspects as it develops its view on the Commission's proposal.
On the basis of the debates of the last few weeks surrounding the communication from Commissioner Manuel Marín on the Union's role in the Middle East, does the Council not believe it would be appropriate to bring effective political pressure to bear on the authorities in Tel Aviv to change course in favour of peace, and to meet their obligations to the Palestinians, by temporarily suspending the current agreements between the EU and Israel until such a time as Prime Minister Netanyahu adopts such an approach?
The Council also underlined the determination of the Union to intensify its dialogue with Israel on the removal of obstacles to Palestinian economic development.
We believe that the current framework for negotiations provides the best hope for a just and lasting peace between Israel and the Palestinians.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is true that the measure I suggest in my question would not necessarily break the deadlock in the peace process, as you say.
But the fact is that the process is at a deadlock.
The issue is this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: that any agreement signed between the Union and a third country includes a clause on democracy and respect for human rights.
The position of the Union is that a range of initiatives are being taken to try to break the logjam in the peace process in the Middle East.
It is important that the trade agreement with Israel is successful, because part of that deal enables products from the Palestinian sector of their economy to be exported through Israel and, were action to be taken to curtail trade, it would have a damaging effect on the Palestinian people, without necessarily substantially influencing the Israeli government's position.
It is not my impression that Israel has unilaterally denounced the Oslo process, or do you see a different policy?
That means that it has to be more receptive to some of the ideas arising out of the Oslo process - for example the port and the airport in Palestine - to be able to bolster those sections of the population who want to have a stable society, which means they must have more economic stability.
That is a basis, or more of a basis, for political stability.
What we want to see is that trade agreement forming the basis of greater movement by the Israeli government and greater recognition of what it needs to do to push the Oslo peace process along.
The Council agrees that following the World Trade Organization's finding against certain aspects of the European Community banana regime, the regulation on the market organization for bananas has to be made WTO-compatible.
The Commission presented its proposals for revising the regulation to the Agriculture Council on 20 January.
I should also mention that the consolidation and strengthening of the multilateral trading system remains one of the main priorities of the Council in the field of external economic relations.
The Union believes in the rule of law for international trade and it is to the World Trade Organization that we must look to establish that rule of law.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, many thanks for your concern and for your answer.
You will be aware that the framework agreement between the EU and the four Central American bananaproducing countries was declared invalid.
We are looking at whether it is the kind of proposal which is fair and balanced in terms of the interests of the Council.
It is important that any final conclusion is compatible with what would be necessary under WTO rules.
The Council has also to balance those interests with the need for compatibility with the World Trade Organization rules.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your answer.
You talked about taking Parliament's view into account.
I can say to Mr Medina Ortega that I understand the point he is making.
Indeed, those same lobbies have been in touch with me in my national capacity, and I am giving consideration to those matters.
I understand that Parliament would want to give protection to those areas of the Union and its territories where there is an important interest.
I would also expect that Parliament would want to uphold the rules of the World Trade Organization as being essential for a trading community such as the European Union.
Question No 5 by José Valverde López (H-0188/98) Subject: Presidency of the Council In his speech to the plenary of the European Parliament in Strasbourg the President-in-Office of the Council referred several times to the "Presidency of the Union' .
It is important not to create confusion among the general public as regards the nature of the Community institutions.
The British Presidency has followed the terminology of previous presidencies.
If the question was asked in the British parliament, the answer would be that members of my constituency would not understand what the Council, Parliament, the Commission or any of the institutions were, but they would want to know that the European Union was doing a good job and making their life better, and that if the Presidency had a role in that, then it was a positive role.
But there are perhaps greater priorities in forming public opinion and galvanizing public understanding on the European Union.
Question No 6 by André Sainjon (H-0189/98) Subject: Child labour in the United Kingdom The situation of many children working in the United Kingdom is intolerable.
Council Directive 94/33/EC on the protection of young people at work includes provisions strictly limiting the number of hours that can be worked by children under 16 and the types of work they can do.
I think that our countries set a really bad example by continuing to use antiquated methods such as child labour.
The President-in-Office should be a lot more precise and affirm his political will to prohibit child labour in the European Union.
It is the policy of the Union in the Council that there should be protection against child labour in all Member States.
Question No 7 by Maj Theorin (H-0191/98) Subject: Support for action against drugs European Cities on Drug Policy is an organization working for the legalization of drugs.
According to reports, it received over 6 m SKR in 1996 and the same in 1997.
European Cities Against Drugs, as its name reveals, is an organization working for a drugs-free society.
The Cannes European Council adopted a five-year action plan to combat drugs.
The activities are too numerous to list here but include: a Council initiative to stem the flow of drugs through the Caribbean and Latin America to Europe; an initiative to begin to create a security belt around Afghanistan by working with the central Asian states to help improve their drug-fighting capacity; the establishment of the European Monitoring Centre in Lisbon to give a clear and objective picture of the nature of the drugs problem across Europe; the creation of Europol, shortly to become fully operational, to ensure that all of our law enforcement agencies have rapid access to the intelligence that they need across the European Union.
The European Union's action plan to combat drugs does, of course, form a framework for the EU's and the Member States' work on preventing the risks connected with drug addiction.
My main question is therefore: is the EU not sending out contradictory messages?
The question of funding for the organization that is mentioned in the question is a matter for the Commission and not a matter for the Council.
He heard the response I have already made to the two previous questioners about the Council position.
The Council does not accept that agricultural and structural spending is of interest only to some Member States while other spending is of interest to all Member States.
It would be premature for the Council to take a position on those issues raised by the honourable Member at this stage.
The Council recalls that budgetary discipline and efficient expenditure are essential at Union level, just as they are at the level of the Member State.
The issue of future expenditure flows in the Union resulting from the reform of the Union's main policies, highlighted by the honourable Member, is one which will clearly be addressed in detail over the coming months in the course of the deliberations in the Council on the Commission's proposals.
I thank the President-in-Office for that answer.
The question did not intend to imply that items such as structural funding were not of interest to some Member States.
Clearly, all Member States benefit from a happy and balanced regional development of the European Union, and that is something I would certainly strongly support.
As we move to an enlarged Union of nearly 30 Member States in the next few years, we are in danger of entering into negotiations on the future financial perspectives in a situation where there is a gross imbalance in what Member States perceive to be their relative advantage.
In relation to the current negotiations which the Union will face, the Council looks forward to receiving the Commission's proposals which I understand will be published on 18 March.
It will then be up to the Council to try to make progress on those matters as speedily as possible, recognizing that some of them are very complicated and that time will be necessary.
It is important for the Union that at the end of the process the priority for the Union and for its coherence is a factor which all Member States will take into account in submitting their views to the Council to enable it to reach a decision on those important matters.
Mr President, I would like to address in particular the problems faced in the border areas.
I would like to ask what ideas have been developed in this report.
Another major issue which the Council will have to consider at the time of the Commission's proposals is the extent to which support should be given to those countries in central and eastern Europe who seek to accede to the European Union as a proportion of the total resources which are available for expenditure within the existing Union.
The first decision which has to be reached by the Council is how far the Community will be able to help those new countries who seek to accede to the Union.
I know that states like Austria will be making representations on those matters through the normal channels.
As the author is not present, Question No 9 lapses.
If this issue is raised by a Member State and there is agreement in the Council, the Commission would certainly be asked to advise on what precise arrangements should apply after 1 July 1999.
The other point I want to bring into this is the lack of dialogue between the different institutions and the operators themselves.
I would like to ask if the President-in-Office could give us an undertaking that wider consultation will take place in the future?
Set against that, there are already provisions in international law, and advice from the Commission will have to be consistent with existing international law.
But that is not really a matter for the Council.
If he is able to confirm that, it is very welcome news indeed, bearing in mind that in the constituency of North Essex and South Suffolk we have both the port of Harwich and Stansted airport.
Perhaps the Presidency is not aware but KLM, which now operates out of the airport, has announced job losses already consequent on this decision taking place in 15 months' time.
The Council have agreed a position in the knowledge that a mandate was there.
It clearly makes no sense and the Council needs to ask the Commission to look at this very serious matter because chaos could well result, undermining the very principle that all of us are trying to contribute to, namely the completion of the single market.
But the tax regimes are quite different in every Member State.
Question No 11 by Liam Hyland (H-0202/98) Subject: Wool In April 1996, the European Parliament unanimously adopted a motion calling for the development of a European wool industry.
But the honourable Member will be aware that wool is not included in Annex II of the Treaty of Rome and is therefore not considered as an agricultural product.
Any amendment to the Treaty to designate wool as an agricultural product would be difficult to achieve and would require the agreement of all Member States.
Assistance is already available for wool producers from the Union's Structural Funds programmes.
At the moment this is not on the agenda of the Council.
At the moment, as the President-in-Office of the Council, I have to repeat my original reply to the honourable Member's honourable friend.
What I said was that I had not been approached as a national representative, and that the Foreign Secretary had not been approached specifically to raise that issue at the Council at this time.
If it does, I am sure it will approach me to have the matter discussed at the Council.
The honourable Member is undoubtedly aware that Annex 2 of the Act of September 1976 concerning the election of representatives of the European Parliament by universal direct suffrage provides that the United Kingdom will apply the provisions of the Act only in respect of the United Kingdom, that is to say excluding Gibraltar.
Amendment would require the agreement of all Member States and ratification by all Member States.
The 1976 Act was adopted on the basis of Article 138(3) of the European Community Treaty on the basis of a draft drawn up by the European Parliament which made no reference to the particular case of Gibraltar.
I thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
It is highly regrettable that there is a difference for the citizens of Gibraltar.
Given that the President-in-Office drew a line between his position in the British Government and that of representing the Council, could I invite him, as President-in-Office, to invite the appropriate Member State to start to make appropriate amendments to make sure that all citizens are democratically represented here in Parliament?
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in July 1997 an application was made in the House of Commons by representatives of both main parties examining the method of suffrage used at both national elections and European elections in Gibraltar.
The question of the legal position of Gibraltar is something that is clearly designated and entrenched in law.
Question No 13 by Sören Wibe (H-0204/98) Subject: The situation in Algeria Reports of fresh massacres in Algeria appear in the media every day.
A European Parliament delegation visited Algeria in February 1998 and, in its conclusions, tended towards the view that the authorities are not to blame for the massacres.
The Council has repeatedly reaffirmed its outright condemnation of those abhorrent acts of terrorism and indiscriminate violence.
As the honourable Member will be aware a ministerial troika mission visited Algiers on 19-20 January 1998.
The Council welcomed this visit as an effective expression not only of the deep concern of the European Union at the situation in Algeria but also of the strong sympathy of the peoples of the European Union with the suffering of the Algerian people.
It hopes that such contacts will help strengthen democracy and the rule of law in Algeria.
The recent visit of European Parliamentarians is an important step in the continuing dialogue between the European Union and Algeria.
I recognise that the situation is not completely clear which is the point of sending the mission in the first place.
It is hoped that there will be a further meeting between the Algerian Foreign Minister and the Presidency to try to examine the matters that the honourable Member has raised.
Mr Posselt wishes to make a point of order.
I simply wanted to ask why Question Time ended before 7.00 pm today.
In an earlier discussion with Mr Henderson, he told me he had a very tight schedule and suggested we should start ten minutes early, so he could catch his plane.
If current trends continue, the population structure of the European Union will develop as follows over the coming 30 years: the over-60 age group will increase by 50 %; the number of adults aged between 20 and 59 will fall by 6 %; and the number of young people aged between 0 and 19 will fall by 11 %.
These trends were also evident in other demographic reports previously approved by Parliament.
We must modernize the management systems of current levels of public social protection to ensure that they work to the advantage of competitiveness and employment.
The demographic changes taking place will not in themselves resolve the employment problems, but they will have effects on the job market.
The balance of the population of working age over the past 20 years is going to shift in the future and it will therefore be necessary to expand the participation of women in the labour market, since many of them still do not work.
We must also consider the demographic situation in the applicant countries, those countries which want to join the European Union.
Possible increases in migratory flows from the applicant states to the present Member States of the European Union will increase the pressure on social protection systems in both the current Member States and the applicant countries.
Current demographic trends in the European Union are also going to have an impact on the definition of new active employment policies - what they will entail and who they will affect -, on public spending on social protection, on the management of employment and training, on family allowances and on the internal cohesion and balance of our businesses.
In any case, I wanted this report to include the opinions and suggestions of as many of the members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs as possible and, in fact, the report was approved in committee with only one abstention.
Mr President, I would like to end by thanking all the members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs who helped to draw up this report, and I hope that it will receive the full support of the House.
The European Union is preparing itself for an important new enlargement to include the countries of central and eastern Europe, which will have repercussions for our demographic map.
Only in this way can the demographic problem be combated effectively, and only in this spirit can the Commission act and can we support our positions.
Currently, within the European Union there are 48 million people over 65, 20 million of whom are over 75, so that gives some indication of the problem.
In 1996, 20.18 % of the population were over 58.
We must ensure that older people remain integrated in society and that solidarity between the generations is promoted and older people are assured dignity and non-discrimination in their twilight years.
In Scotland and throughout most of the EU, older people face a serious threat of economic insecurity and growing inequality.
However, until a few years ago, out of all the European governments only the UK's own last government had decided to cut the level of maintenance to senior citizens.
However, since the election last May we have had a change in climate, a change of environment, and we have had measures which help the elderly.
Across Europe, not just in the United Kingdom and not just in Scotland, all governments are facing a challenge.
The demographic trends are such that there are fewer people in the younger age range and more in the older age range and we must look at these changes.
In October of this year, we will be putting forward the Social Affairs Committee's points of view, this Parliament's points of view on this trend, to make recommendations to the United Nations for the Year of the Elderly.
It is clear that up until the year 2015, Poland and Slovakia will see a modest increase in both the total population and the working population, but it will be lower than that of the EU.
A second innovation in this report is the interest devoted to the interregional dimension.
It concerns relevant social and economic indicators of remarkable variances between regions or of differences between the Member States.
Population growth is irregular, but in many regions appears to be evaporating towards the year 2015.
The fall in the population of working age will start as early as 2000 in certain regions, and in others not until after 2010.
This will in any case lead to a distinct need for permanent education, and the continuous training of largely elderly workers.
I note that my proposals regarding research into the labour market, the promotion of mobility, cross-border vocational training and so on, have all been accepted.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe a few additional themes were to be discussed here, but there is insufficient time.
My colleague, Mr McMahon, has already pointed out that because of better health care and because of longevity the number of people over 75 years of age living within the European Union requiring more personal care and attention has risen.
Finally, there is the question of rural depopulation.
Members should remember this when we are voting on the budget this year for the Cork Declaration to ensure we can encourage industry and people to come back to rural areas.
Last year I had the pleasure of being rapporteur on a similar subject, and I think it is terribly important that we continue to draw attention to this issue.
The world population is not decreasing, but what we have to note is that, demographically speaking, Europe's importance in the world is diminishing.
There is also a tremendous potential amongst these elderly people which we could use on all sides.
If we are prepared to look together for creative solutions, then it might well be very possible to keep pensions affordable throughout Europe.
That is why I believe that the demographic data should be included in the annual report on employment, and that the solutions which are created for the Member States should continue to be discussed in the form of benchmarking.
At a time when the young are not coming into the job market in quite the way they did before, it is necessary to start paying attention to the work skills and fitness of older employees in a whole new manner.
Nowadays fitness for work is becoming more and more a matter of psychological well-being and feeling happy at work.
I do not believe in the inevitability of such a substantial demographic decline or in the inevitable ageing of the European population.
Of course, policies must never be imposed in either a pro or an anti-procreation direction, and this is not at all my intention, but I do believe that there is a serious responsibility to make citizens' choices possible, in particular when it concerns a desire such as this.
There have been indications from a number of my colleagues, which are perhaps not sufficiently highlighted in your report, Mr Cabezón Alonso, but which are present in your text, Mrs Daskalaki, as well as in the previous speech, which take up what was very clearly stated by a number of experts, including economists, at the International Conference in Beijing, and in particular at the World Summit for Social Development in Copenhagen.
We are rightly tied to the European social model, even though social policies in all of our countries cost a great deal of money.
Mothers have always worked.
This was done at the same place, at the same time.
I believe it is possible to find the meaning of a more generous Europe once again.
Mr President, every year Parliament receives a report on the demographic situation in the Union.
At the same time, however, we know that the decreasing number of contributors, the increase in expenditure on public health systems and the tightening of budgets in response to the convergence criteria are difficult to reconcile.
But the longer these problems remain unsolved, the more difficult they become and, above all, the more difficult they are to finance.
My ideas are based on a model of society which places the family at the centre of things and does not therefore see the solution to diminishing birth rates in an increased influx of migrants.
Mr President, may I begin by extending my warmest thanks to the rapporteur for this demographic report 1997, and in particular for his commitment to the social market economy, which is not something which can be taken for granted.
The question of financing is a difficult one to answer.
After retirement, the role that the elderly play in society must be very important.
In conclusion, Mr President, I agree with some of the points set out in the Cabezón Alonso report, and I would like to mention three of them.
Secondly, I share the rapporteur's concern because in Europe many early retirements do not involve replacement contractual arrangements, and I can say this as someone who lives in a region, Asturias, which has lost more than 12 000 direct jobs without any hope of these jobs being filled again by young people.
Mr President, it has already been said that there has been a tremendous increase in the number of very elderly people in the European Union, with a reduction in the working population and an even greater reduction in the number of young people under 20.
This year's report on the demographic situation of the Union concentrates on three specific areas of action: the labour market, regional disparities and the challenges faced by the candidates for accession.
Let me first of all reiterate what the report says with regard to the problem of the labour market.
In particular, we must adopt new approaches to issues relating to this link between age and the job market.
We must fight against all discriminatory practices which are based on age and encourage companies to take greater account of the consequences of these demographic tendencies.
It is precisely our inability to take into account the age dimension in our concept of jobs and the work place that has led to the growing tendency to lay off older workers in recent years.
Defining an active strategy on the issue of ageing assumes, as an essential component, a greater awareness and the promotion of better practice in this area.
The report reveals that, over the next fifteen years, women will become the most important source of growth in labour supply.
The integration of this aspect into both general and specific policies must be strengthened.
Despite the progress made in recent years, for many women the birth of a child leads to a cessation of work outside the home or, in certain cases, to alternative part-time employment.
All over Europe, there is significant progress in women's sharing of bread-winning responsibilities in the home.
Consequently, there is a risk that the ageing of society could increase the care burden on women in terms of looking after dependants, and this, in turn, could impose constraints on their increasing presence in economic and social life.
In its second part, the report concentrates on the regional dimension.
It shows that the impact of demographic changes varies considerably from one region to another.
The risk of regional polarization is an important challenge for the political decisionmakers.
The regional dimension of these changes could jeopardize overall performance at national, and even European level.
Finally, the report sets out the current situation in the twelve candidates for accession.
They have to face a complex and challenging set of problems, made even more difficult as a result of the sharp differences between urban and rural areas, for instance.
For the Commission and Parliament, demographic changes represent a serious challenge.
I thank the rapporteur, as well as the House, for this report.
It seems that we are all moving in the same direction.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the European Training Foundation which we are discussing tonight, dovetails perfectly with the problem we discussed this morning on the basis of the Oostlander report on assistance to applicant countries in central and eastern Europe.
In this context I am convinced that the Foundation will be able to make a considerable contribution to the development of education and training programmes in the new Member States.
This is the most important political message in my report.
Education and training in central and eastern European countries form the basis for social integration, lasting development and successful processes of economic transformation.
This way these countries will be able to quickly take over the acquis communautaire .
To support this view I tabled Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, and 8, and I hope that the Commission will implement the spirit of these amendments.
At the same time I expect the Commission to clarify the situation with regard to the division of roles between the Foundation and the relevant Commission services, in particular DG XII and DG IA.
That is why, in my report, I am asking the Commission to submit a report before 1 July 1998 on the financial consequences of the modified regulation on the activities of the Foundation.
This will become all the more important now that the Foundation's activities are extended to include the MEDA countries.
Education and training plays an important part in these countries too, in areas such as the economy, the environment, and the strengthening of democracy.
I hope Madam Commissioner will be able to give a hopeful reply to this tonight, because, in themselves, the Council decisions did not differ all that much from what we as Parliament want, and that can be taken up very well by the European Commission.
To conclude, I would like to call on the Member States to play a more active role in the work of the Foundation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Johanna Boogerd-Quaak for the excellent work she has done on this report.
It may appear a very technical report but it covers some important issues and was unanimously agreed by the committee.
Johanna was generous enough to accept the amendments that came from the Socialist Group and although we recognize that it is late in coming to Parliament, we think that many of the proposals that are set out in this report can be acted on by the Commission in conjunction with the Foundation and without reference to the Council which I know has already met and considered this issue.
We thought it was essential that we and the Commission should recognize the importance of the Foundation for vocational training, not just to support the market economies of the emerging democracies but also to strengthen democracy and respect for human rights and equal opportunities and for those strands to be present throughout the PHARE and TACIS programmes.
Thirdly, there should be an agreement on a three-year rolling programme and an annual work programme which should be done jointly between the Commission and the Foundation.
We want to ensure that issues such as non-discrimination and equal opportunities are built into the programmes for education and training in the new democracies.
Our committee has seriously considered how the Foundation can play a significant and valuable role in meeting the vocational training needs of the new democracies in Europe and our proposals are aimed at careful planning and the need for monitoring.
The aim of the Foundation was to help central and eastern European countries in their efforts to restructure their systems for vocational training.
In the beginning, it involved the countries which came under the PHARE programme, then the TACIS countries joined, and now the road is paved for the MEDA countries.
This kind of cooperation is therefore extremely important.
In this way young people in central and eastern Europe will be able to familiarize themselves with the market economy as created in Western Europe.
The transition from a centralist economy to a market economy comes down to a question of supply and demand.
That is why the Foundation in Turin will have to accord it due significance.
That is why, Mr President, this Foundation is a very good thing, and that is why I believe we will be able to continue along the path we have taken with these amendments.
Several corrections are now requested, following an initial analysis of the work, aimed, among other things, at extending the mandate of the Foundation with a view to putting itself in a better position to involve the new Community partners, particularly the Mediterranean partners.
Finally, we call on the Commission, which was so far-sighted and timely in setting up the Foundation at the time, to take into account the obligations to provide vocational training in view of the participation of the MEDA countries in the Mediterranean area, to improve the activities and the objectives of the Foundation.
Vocational training is a fundamental means of revitalizing the entire labour market.
Mr President, I too congratulate Johanna on her very good report.
Speaking on behalf of the Green group in particular, I would like obviously to stress the importance of training in environmental management and monitoring given the environmental problems of central and eastern European countries.
Specific training programmes and expertise in that area as well would help in the report.
I believe that this is extremely important and that this cooperation may proceed even more constructively than the already constructive cooperation between the Foundation in Turin with the Foundation in Thessaloniki.
The Foundation in Turin must work even more closely with CEDEFOP.
Mr President, the role of the Centre is to provide education and training as the foundation for social integration, lasting regional development and successful economic transformation.
The European Training Foundation can be useful as a tool in helping to implement essential partnerships and will provide the new programmes and the formal frameworks for EU aid to candidate countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for her sound report and also for the fact that it takes into account many of the proposals made by the Committee on External Economic Relations in relation to the content and organizational tasks of the Foundation and its role in establishing practical vocational training in third countries.
I would like to say clearly that the Foundation is doing good work.
The evaluation of the work carried out to date will lead to a much needed clarification of the status of the Foundation and its relationship with the Commission, an issue of great importance to its very committed staff, as I was able to discover for myself on the spot.
This evening, the debate has focused quite rightly on the role of modern vocational training in these countries in terms of new economic and employment structures and improved external trade relations.
The Commission now needs to make full use of the specialist skills available at the Foundation in the preparation of accession candidates from central and eastern Europe in order to accelerate the alignment process as quickly as possible, and I also hope that in the process an effort will be made to speed up the disbursement of PHARE funds.
Project-based cooperation between the Foundation and the partner countries should be more intensive.
The emphasis was placed on training, an essential factor in the development of the eastern and central European countries and their adaptation to a market economy.
The Brussels European Council then decided, in October 1993, to choose Turin as the headquarters for this Foundation.
In the context of the pre-accession strategy confirmed by the Luxembourg European Council, our eastern and central European neighbours will be increasingly included into the "Europe of knowledge' emphasized in Agenda 2000.
The achievements of the Foundation to date confirm its capacity to contribute to a reform of vocational training in our partner countries from eastern Europe and in the New Independent States.
In its report of 18 July 1997 to the European Parliament, the Council and the Economic and Social Committee, the Commission outlined the Foundation's progress and its overall positive results.
The Commission's current proposal aims to extend the scope of the Foundation to cover the Mediterranean countries in response to the conclusions of the Barcelona EuroMediterranean Conference of November 1995, confirmed by the Madrid European Council of December of the same year.
The Commission's current proposal also includes certain accompanying measures which are drawn from experiences gained over the course of the Foundation's work to date.
The Council has already adopted a political agreement, on 7 October 1997, which retains the principle outlines of the Commission's proposal.
The Economic and Social Committee also gave a favourable opinion on 29 October 1997 and the Council should take its final decision before the end of the first half of 1998, during the British Presidency.
I would like to thank the different Parliamentary committees which have examined this proposal for a Council Regulation and for the welcome the Commission's text has received.
The Commission will draw the attention of the Governing Board and the Director of the European Training Foundation to the approaches proposed by Parliament and will try to assure their follow-up on a practical level.
As regards Amendments Nos 1 to 9 concerning the political direction to be followed by the Foundation, its mission and the way it operates, I would like to underline that the points emphasized in these amendments have largely already been taken into consideration in the development of the Foundation's modus operandi within the framework of the current regulation.
To give specific follow-up to the priorities expressed by Parliament, both in eastern Europe and the Mediterranean countries, the Commission and the Foundation intend to draw up a declaration of objectives.
This declaration will be subject to the agreement of the Foundation's Governing Board in October 1998 and will then be forwarded to Parliament so that it can be debated by the relevant committee.
The Foundation's work will draw its inspiration from the Community's vocational training policies, in particular those relating to access to training and equal opportunities.
The Foundation will prioritize innovative actions and transfer of experience and good practice, in particular pilot projects set up jointly with other Member States.
As regards Amendments Nos 10 and 16 relating to the Foundation's budgetary procedures, specific measures have already been taken in response to Parliament's requests.
Particular emphasis will be placed on setting up close links between the Foundation's work programme and its budget.
The 1999 work programme will take into account the results of this analysis and the budgetary constraints.
The Foundation's budget already states the number of staff employed.
With regard to Amendments Nos 14, 15 and 17, which deal with the way in which the Foundation operates, we consider that the Commission's proposal already largely takes into account the amendments suggested by Parliament.
Amendment No 14 concerning the procedure for appointing a Director and the definition of his or her mandate, corresponds to existing practice.
Similarly, Amendment No 17, concerning evaluation of the Foundation, corresponds to current practice.
On the other hand, the Commission has proposed strengthening the role of the Board through the participation of experts designated by the Commission in order to lay greater emphasis on relevant Community actions.
Although the Commission shares Parliament's concern to see the Governing Board functioning effectively in spite of its size, we consider that the Board has already carried out fruitful work to date.
Furthermore, the exchange of views and dialogue between experts from different regions has been shown to be a valuable asset.
Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for her response, but I would like to reserve the right to have another thorough look at what exactly she said.
We now have the problem that much seems to have been promised, but a number of issues have not really been taken on board, and I wonder if the Council still ultimately has to decide whether a number of aspects can be positively incorporated.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
The population of Ukraine is 52 million.
It has had two periods of independence: firstly, ironically, after the Thirty Years War and, secondly, in 1918.
We must do so without unnecessarily antagonizing Russia and without causing a reaction among the population of Ukraine.
We have also set out previously an overall strategy for support for the transition process in Ukraine.
It has adhered to a policy of preventative diplomacy, participating in I-FOR and SFOR, an international police task force.
It is also participating in the UN force in eastern Slavonia.
We look forward to the elections at the end of this month to reinforce the consolidation of democracy in Ukraine.
Only 7 % of land in Ukraine is in private hands, not least because the sale of land remains technically illegal in Ukraine.
There are enormous problems in the energy sector reinforced by the fact that Gasprom has recently presented Ukraine with a US$900 million bill, which represents in excess of 40 % of Ukraine's foreign resources.
Tomorrow's launch of the European Conference represents another opportunity for us to offer the hand of friendship to Ukraine because we could offer it a future role as observers or associated partners in the European Conference.
The European Union has a major role to play in the stability of Ukraine and its future.
On 15 May 1997, the Court of Auditors presented to the European Parliament its Special Report concerning TACIS subsidies for Ukraine.
If we look at the application of the programme in Ukraine during the period 1991 to 1996, we can see that of the total earmarked budgetary resources of ECU 342.62 million, only 37.5 % were paid out.
If we go on to examine the programme within the framework of nuclear safety, the sum disbursed is only 25 %.
The coordination and division of responsibilities between the Commission on the one hand, and foreign aid organizations and Ukrainian partner organizations on the other, also leave much to be desired.
Of all the Court of Auditors' recent reports, none has made such a lasting impression as the Special Report on TACIS subsidies for Ukraine.
The situation becomes dangerous when, for reasons of political sensibility, information on nuclear energy and Ukraine's energy policy are withheld and, as a result, experts form diverging opinions.
The conclusions to be drawn from this situation are unambiguous.
The Commission needs a clear strategic vision of what it wants to achieve.
It also needs the necessary technical, financial and administrative preconditions and a programme which can be implemented by an appropriate project manager on the basis of technical rather than political criteria.
The second element in the action plan is the further development of existing reforms of Community aid.
Thirdly - and most importantly of all - it highlights synergies between, on the one hand, the individual programmes and treaties and on the other hand, to an increasing extent, the measures implemented by the European Union, the measures implemented in Ukraine by the Member States and the measures implemented in Ukraine by third countries.
This means that there should be far more cooperation, both between the European Union and its Member States and between the European Union and third countries.
It does not show the logic of a pan-European policy in relation to the countries of central and eastern Europe.
Nothing it says is wrong; but it does not say anything about energy policy, or anything about energy policy in the field of nuclear safety in Ukraine.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Madam Commissioner, as Western Europeans we should not lose sight of the fact that what we are dealing with here is a unique - certainly a first and perhaps even unique - transformation process which has a dimension different from any that we in Western Europe have hitherto experienced.
This is the first time that a process of this type has taken place and none of us can predict or define it with certainty because we are experiencing it for the first time.
Since experts estimate that the national economy of Ukraine is characterized by the existence of a black economy accounting for at least 30 %, and probably even as much as 40 % of commercial activity, the question arises as to how we can move peacefully and sensibly towards its successful conversion - and its success is imperative - into a legally operating social market economy.
I have had the opportunity to visit with other colleagues several TACIS farming projects in Ukraine.
Undoubtedly it makes sense to promote other projects which are better suited to the prevailing conditions in Ukraine.
It is an impressive political achievement that the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement signed between Russia and Ukraine in May 1997 succeeded in ending or easing years of continuous tensions.
This provided Ukraine with better conditions in which to make its contribution towards stabilization in a large and very sensitive region.
Cooperation with the European Union is a natural desire in the west of the country, but a topic rarely discussed in the east.
In a few days, on 29 March, the people of Ukraine go to the polls once again.
The aid proposed in the action plan can be structured more efficiently.
It took the Commission only two days to submit the plan to the Council and to inform Parliament.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, not only for his report as a whole, but also for his contributions today in which he has so clearly highlighted Ukraine's great significance for the economic and political stability of the whole of Europe.
I find it unacceptable that Ukraine signed the Convention on Human Rights, indeed that it promised to abolish the death penalty and that despite this, as the report clearly shows, 13 death sentences were carried out last year.
I am convinced, as point 18 of Mr Titley's report states, that we must help to make Chernobyl reasonably safe.
I hope that the amendments which have been tabled on this point will prove successful in tomorrow morning's vote.
As the first country to have rid itself of its nuclear weapons potential, Ukraine must be integrated into a European security system which has as its objective a Europe free of nuclear weapons.
Finally, in a country which lives every day with the threat of radioactive contamination, European aid must promote alternative sources of energy, not create new dangers.
Secondly, the obligation imposed on Ukraine to abolish the death penalty leaves me baffled when we know that in Belgium, for example, capital punishment - recently removed from the penal code - can still be used on innocent children by monsters like Dutroux.
From my own knowledge of Ukraine I am certain that both the reports hit the main issues that we have to address.
But it is on the energy side that I would like to comment this evening.
It is astonishing that only 20 % of the electricity that is supplied in Ukraine is actually paid for in cash.
The latest TACIS document which lists the energy projects for 1998 totalling ECU 7 million is split up into four projects.
In the case of the several hundreds of millions of ECU of TACIS resources for Ukraine referred to in the Hoff report, the damage is crucial.
For a significant part of the TACIS programme for Ukraine, namely the issue of nuclear safety, the gap between the "near' standstill in nuclear safety mentioned in the report and a "near' catastrophe is not too wide.
What do we have to do in order to remedy this situation?
Ukraine is a large country which is an important partner for the EU and, owing to her geographical situation, a major crossroads in Europe.
One problem is that Ukraine has nuclear power plants in poor condition.
Merely to demand that Ukraine should shut down its nuclear power plants cannot be the only political line to adopt.
I should like to make it quite clear to them that personally I am more involved in Bosnia.
I could say the same thing about Bosnia when I see how my colleagues are working in Sarajevo.
Regardless of whether it is PHARE, TACIS, humanitarian aid or the former Yugoslavia, the story is always the same: much ado about nothing!
Then, some time later when, as the budgetary authority we look at what has become of these announcements and this money, we find - just as in this case - that only a fraction, and a small fraction at that, has actually been spent on what it was allocated for.
In terms of staff motivation, the European Parliament cannot be dependent upon whether or not Commissioner van den Broek finally manages to motivate his staff in GD Ia!
It is not the Council, it is not the Member States, it is not Parliament, it is an entirely internal matter which I hope you can solve to our satisfaction and once and for all in the interests of the taxpayers of this Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank the European Parliament for its keen interest in relations between the European Union and Ukraine.
The reports we are discussing today are to be commended, as is the work of the two rapporteurs.
The partnership and cooperation agreement with Ukraine, which came into effect on 1 March 1998, has opened a new chapter in relations between the Union and that country.
Closer association with Ukraine could take the form of a free trade area, as provided for in the PCA, when structural reform in Ukraine is sufficiently advanced.
The first meeting of the Cooperation Council between the European Union and Ukraine will take place next June, and that of the first interparliamentary committee as soon as possible.
An independent Ukraine is faced with three major issues: sowing the seeds of democracy; establishing its independence and unity; and putting a market economy in place.
Ukraine has put in place the foundations of a democracy and strengthened its international position.
The signing of a Friendship Treaty with Russia in May 1997 has contributed to a stabilization of relations between these two countries, whilst the signing of a special partnership charter with NATO in July 1997 has helped the integration of Ukraine into a Euro-Atlantic security bloc.
Nevertheless, Ukraine is at a crucial stage in its economic transition.
The European Union and international donors as a whole are concerned about the blockage in economic reforms and hope that the outcome of the elections on 29 March will enable an essential revival of such reforms.
The many commercial problems between the European Union and Ukraine illustrate the inadequacy of its economic restructuring.
A team from the Commission is in Kiev this week to discuss these issues, particularly the situation of the motor market, which runs the risk of being closed to foreign producers.
The actions being developed by the Commission largely match the recommendations in the Titley report.
A joint mission with the United States is currently working on the preparation of a support programme for Ukrainian civil society, thanks to Parliament's amendment to put ECU 2.5 million aside for joint actions with the United States in the former USSR.
As you know, the agreement with Ukraine anticipates the closure of Chernobyl in the year 2000.
The implementation of this agreement is progressing.
At the same time, the Commission continues to provide aid for the reform of the energy sector in Ukraine, which has been a priority for Community assistance right from the start.
This position fits in well with that of the G7, which established a link between actions supporting the closure of Chernobyl and the long term reform of Ukraine's energy sector.
I can assure you that this report has caused us to reflect internally on both the substance and the management procedures of our programmes, particularly the nuclear ones.
The Commission has also taken on other accompanying measures.
It has created a group of high level advisors, whose main task will be to provide independent advice on the direction and implementation of programmes, as well as on the nuclear risks in partner countries and, furthermore, it has taken measures to strengthen internal coordination in the area of nuclear power.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, we are now at second reading of a directive which is of great importance despite its modest title.
Consumers have been paid special attention by the European Union and there are many directives granting rights to consumers.
This directive regulates procedural law for the first time and allows consumer associations to bring actions in any country of the Union.
It sets out that as long as these organizations are recognized as such in a country, they can bring an action against the infringement of the directives on substantive rights of consumers in any country.
Therefore, given the serious work carried out by the Council, I proposed, and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights approved this with a majority, not to introduce amendments at second reading and to accept the second reading as presented by the Council with its important aim, taking into account that the directive is acceptable, of speeding up as far as possible its implementation.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work on an important Commission proposal.
It is an important plank in the protection of consumers and consumer associations.
It is an important project for the third pillar on cooperation on judicial affairs.
Up until now we have had very few proposals in this area and therefore I particularly welcome this one.
Mr President, I am speaking tonight on behalf of my colleague, Mr Añoveros Trias de Bes, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
I would like to begin by highlighting, as the rapporteur did, the work carried out by the Council.
In many ways, the common position improves on the ideas thrown in the ring by Parliament at first reading.
Nevertheless, the Group of the European People's Party has tabled four amendments, which bring together most of the ideas approved at first reading and recognized by the Commission in its amended proposal.
The Group of the European People's Party is presenting them once again for several reasons.
Secondly, also concerning the field of application, I must state that there is no sense in separating the interests of consumers and the interests of other collective organizations recognized in those directives since, in fact, its aim is to enhance the smooth running of the internal market.
Article 3, in fact, which is legally incorrect, at least in Spanish, talks about "finalidad' , or purpose.
Since the ad causam interest - not the ad processum interest -, in other words, the legitimation of cause, is left to the Member States, nor will we interpret in the same way what the interest of a certain association is.
The third amendment concerns paragraph 1; the fourth amendment concerns Article 6 and is related to the two previous ones.
As Ms Oddy and the rapporteur said, this directive on legal cooperation is great news for us.
It is also important for us to include the applicant countries in this process, because I see that marketing of this type also comes via these countries.
Mr President, on the subject of consumer protection and its legal possibilities, I should like to address a wider issue: the current situation with regard to animal feed.
We have asked the legal service of the European Parliament and the Commission to do something in this regard so that we can take a political initiative, so that the Commission can take action against the Council which is failing to observe its own laws in the Member States, to ensure that consumer protection measures can be implemented in the various areas.
At first reading, the European Parliament accepted several amendments to the specific directive which went beyond the remit of consumer interests to include the public interest and the interests of persons carrying on activities in commerce, industry and trade.
Time and again in the various reports we see that it is in the interests of the Union, in other words, of the public, to formulate regulations in the general good.
For this reason we wish to ensure that the aim of this directive is the harmonization of regulations in the interests of consumers, persons involved in commerce, industry or trade and the public interest.
To use the language of political opposites, it is not a question of consumer interests in the spirit of the theory of class struggle, but a definition of the consumer as it is used in business where total quality management is the order of the day.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is extremely pleased with the progress regarding the proposal for a Council Directive on injunctions for the protection of consumers' interests which, only two years after its presentation, has arrived at a part-session of the European Parliament for second reading.
It is also pleased with the extremely positive results of the inter-institutional cooperation, which have enabled the drawing up of a common position by the Council and its approval by Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which shows a high degree of consensus on the protection of the collective rights of consumers.
Considering the innovative character of the mechanism the directive aims to introduce, an initial evaluation of its impact is anticipated two and a half years after its implementation by Member States.
Some of these amendments, in particular Nos 1, 3 and 5, hark back to the debate which has already taken place within the said committee.
That is why, on behalf of the European Commission, I consider it appropriate to keep to the conclusions of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which has already rejected these amendments, thereby demonstrating an understanding of the importance of a rapid approval of this proposal for a directive.
With regard to Amendment Nos 2, 4, 6 and 7, insofar as they aim to establish links between national law and the capacity of qualified entities to act, as well as apprehend offenders, these amendments are less drastic than the common position.
That is why the Commission recommends that you retain the text of the common position, as approved by the Committee on Legal Affairs, by rejecting the amendments in question.
This will enable us to reach an important stage in European consumer protection and to give a significant response to the protection of collective interests which is targeted through this European legislation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.50 p.m.)
