Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 9 May 1996.
It therefore seems to me extraordinary that a shortened speaking time is to be shared between the groups: 75 minutes for nine parliamentary groups is obviously not enough in view of all the Members wishing to speak on the subject.
Mr President, I understand very clearly what Mr Pasty is asking for.
However, the problem has arisen as to the category of one type of cultural goods, namely water colours, pastels and gouache, which for reasons which would be too troublesome to go into this afternoon, some countries regard as paintings and others as drawings.
I hope, Mr President, that this is a way of solving the difficult problem of categorising and trading in these cultural assets and that this will be in keeping with the fundamental principle of any legal order: in other words, everyone must deal with the same things in the same way otherwise no legal order, as everyone knows, could survive.
That is why the introduction of Article 36 undoubtedly represented progress: it gives Member States the discretionary power to invoke a clause limiting the import or export of certain cultural goods on grounds of protecting national treasures of artistic, historic or archaeological value.
If it is absolutely fundamental that cultural goods should be protected, it is all the more regrettable that the RAPHAEL programme has been blocked.
Thus, the present cultural mechanism, which consists of a Regulation on the export of cultural goods and a Directive on the return of cultural goods, seems to us to be well balanced.
In addition, in the different language versions of the two regulations - as indeed in the cultural traditions which vary from one country to another - gouaches, water colours and pastels are categorized differently: in some, they are classified as paintings and, hence, protected only if their value exceeds a high financial threshold, in others they are classified as drawings and are therefore protected from a far lower financial threshold.
I wish, however, to point out to the many honourable Members who have spoken and raised other problems of a more general nature that go far beyond the technical aspects we are discussing, that, in this connection, the Commission is already arranging for Parliament to hold a comprehensive debate on the protection of cultural goods during this year, when it presents its first triennial report evaluating the application of the regulation and directive at issue.
The vote will be take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Finally, the third amendment refers to Commission relations with humanitarian agencies and responds to a compromise reached with non-governmental organisations.
As I said, the final outcome is a good Regulation on humanitarian aid, which is why I am asking for a vote in favour of the Recommendation by the Committee on Development.
We willingly accept that the Commission and ECHO can alone decide emergency measures not exceeding a budget of ECU 10 million.
The Procedure 3a suggested seems to us quite obviously cumbersome, expensive and sometimes difficult to implement.
A final decision must be taken on this at the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference, and on the abolition of the unanimity rule.
Speaking just for myself I must say that some comments made by the responsible Commission officials - I do not mean you, Madam Commissioner - did rather irritate me.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's action represents an important stage in legislation because we are finally reaching the end of a process which will at last enable us to establish a legal basis for the European Union's humanitarian aid.
The European Parliament is not associated in any way with the onceyearly discussion on general guidelines on operations.
I hope that, following tomorrow's vote, the 'development' Council, which meets on 28 May, will be able finally to close this dossier.
The Commission - let me repeat this - intends, through its declaration, to enter into a very specific political commitment vis-à-vis the House and our partners who are in fact the nongovernmental organizations.
Thank you, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Over recent years we have always had more than 50 wars on this planet, with many people in the European Union becoming very rich from arms exports.
We can only have a genuine food aid policy if, among others, we reorganize agricultural production in our European Union.
He is right: the food is there, but the problem in many countries is to procure it when their individual annual income is less than 200 dollars, or even less than 100 dollars.
Mr Telkämper has mentioned some very specific points about these recommendations and I am of course in agreement with him.
This concerns what is called the transnational dimension of a region wishing purchases to be made, as far as possible, either in a neighbouring country or in the country itself, or else in another part of the country where there is no famine.
However, while short-term food aid is vital to respond to emergencies and rapidly deteriorating situations, EU food aid policy must work towards long-term security in food supply for the countries in question.
The formulation of a long-term objective of food security must be strategically based, with specific targeting of aid.
Mr President, in opening I wish briefly to refer to my speech earlier and to highlight the fact that this regulation on food aid requires the setting-up of a new comitology, committee 2.
Often in crisis situations it is women who become the sole providers and they therefore deserve particular recognition and support for this role within our development programmes.
Reproductive health and family planning are also an integral part of our approach in this field.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telkämper, the Commission is grateful for the speed and interest with which the House has analysed this dossier, which has given us the opportunity to be here to adopt the Council's opinion and, I hope, to adopt this legal basis by 28 June, at any rate still under the Italian presidency.
First of all, I would stress that food aid is a fundamental factor in long-term food security policy.
I wish, however, to speak briefly about those amendments, and in particular the two most important amendments, which the Commission is not able to take on board, namely Amendment No 16, because the Commission takes the view that allocating food aid exclusively to population groups that are unable to cope with food supply shortages themselves and focusing only on fundamental food shortages, as you have proposed, is likely to limit the scope of the aid and the food security operations.
Looking now at Amendment No 21, last indent, concerning Community funding, the Commission wishes to point out that the funding concerns all operations but not individuals, and the Commission is not therefore able to accept a request that individuals or those with responsibility be funded.
Moving on to Amendment No 33, which basically concerns the common position, the Commission currently believes that it has to abide by the common position which also represents the outcome of very difficult negotiations with the Council.
Thank you, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In 1993, the European Parliament drew attention to the need for aid for the structural recovery of the countries in question and, in order to deal with those needs, considered it appropriate to set in place two budget lines, intended to finance the programmes for the resettlement of southern Africa - B7-5071 - and measures for recovery and construction in the developing countries - B7-5076 - which the Council decided, on 29 January 1996, to adopt together in the common position we are discussing, in which the Council will - I hope - pay special attention to southern Africa.
The European Parliament, as well as the ACP-EU Joint Assembly strongly supported the idea of a special economic rehabilitation and social reconstruction programme.
But for prevention there is never any money, never any attention, never any policy decisions.
The NGOs' workers often live in appalling conditions in fear of their lives, and yet by their work in the medical and social fields they are responsible for saving millions of lives.
Any programme of reconstruction needs close cooperation between donor and recipient states.
The programme of action proposed by the Council for rationalizing rehabilitation and reconstruction operations to the benefit of developing countries is important, because it should make possible a speedier and hence more effective response to the needs of developing countries that are victims of natural disasters and war, giving priority to the poorest of them.
The second point concerns the implementation of these programmes.
Council in this instance requires a 3a committee for all actions above ECU 2m, whereas you join with us in seeking a 1a advisory committee for all actions.
However, let me use my remaining time to highlight another crucial, but often disregarded area, namely, Amendment No 5 to Article 2, which seeks to integrate disabled persons into the rehabilitation process.
In the development situation, as elsewhere throughout this world, the main problem for disabled people is in the attitudes and lack of awareness of other able-bodied people rather than any aspect of their physical and psychological impairment.
We ask you to look again at the wording of Amendment No 5 and we ask you to reply on the issue of comitology.
The Commission takes the view that this is a regulation of a general and global nature and simply referring to a single territorial zone would seem somewhat inconsistent - not because we are not convinced that it is fundamentally sound, but just because we are talking about a general regulation and reference to a regional aspect does not seem to us to fit well into this type of document.
Moreover, the Commission cannot accept either those amendments which are somewhat disproportionate, those concerning more particularly the powers, structures, staffing and resources of the Commission, or those amendments which have already been incorporated into the common position - concerning mine clearance, for example, cultural issues or the sustainable nature of rehabilitation.
It seems to us that all of those amendments already form part of the common position.
I wish also to underline that, as far as the amendments to the last paragraph of Article 7 and Article 8(2) are concerned, these, frankly, are interinstitutional issues.
I wish to thank the Commissioner, but there is one point that I should like us to look at again together.
With specific reference to the political interest in and special attention to be paid to the developing countries, I would point out that, as far as southern Africa is concerned, this House worked together with the Commission, just last year, on budget line B7-5071, because we wanted to move forward a programme in a particular way.
The debate is closed.
