So in future, I will always speak in another language and I will also listen in other languages.
You all know that the question of how far the European Parliament's right to information extends, pursuant to Article 206 of the Treaty, was the subject of fierce controversy with the Commission in connection with the UCLAF report on the ECHO affair.
In this agreement we undertake to waive our right to information in the case of, for example, final reports on administrative inquiries, which are internal Commission reports on administrative procedures.
I would therefore request, pursuant to Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure, that we do not simply put this to the vote today without having a debate.
In particular, the Committee on Institutional Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Control should have the chance to look at it and discuss it before it is put to the vote.
As with all agreements of this type, I would remind you again that no amendments may be tabled.
The report of the Wise Men will not only be distributed to all Members but it will also be put on the Internet, so that everybody can look at it.
Preparation for the extraordinary European Council in Berlin on 24-25 March 1999 The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the preparation for the extraordinary European Council meeting in Berlin on 24 and 25 March 1999.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to have this opportunity today - immediately before the foreign ministers begin the final round of Agenda 2000 negotiations at their informal meeting this coming weekend - to give you an overview of developments in the Council and inform you of how the negotiations on Agenda 2000 will proceed in the run-up to the European Council in Berlin on 24 and 25 March.
Some weeks have passed since this subject was last debated here in the plenary on 10 February, and in that time the Council has made considerable progress in its search for a balanced overall package.
We were also able to note a large measure of agreement on the amounts proposed by the Commission for pre-accession aid in the immediate future.
The fact that we already reached a broad political agreement on the pre-accession instruments under the Austrian Presidency therefore sends out a clear signal to the applicant countries that we attach particular importance to the pre-accession instruments, as they will enable enlargement to come about quickly.
For Categories 3 to 5, as a basis for further negotiations, the delegations set ranges within which the final annual ceilings will lie.
At the same time, account will be taken of the effects the political reforms contained within Agenda 2000 will have on the Member States, and also of the need to implement measures of this kind in several phases, with the first phase beginning in the year 2000.
On the basis of the foreign ministers' deliberations, the Heads of State and Government met on 26 February at Petersberg near Bonn and discussed Agenda 2000 as a whole for the first time, exploring the scope for an overall political compromise.
Applause In the end, a number of important and useful pointers came out of the meeting of the Heads of State and Government, and these will form the basis of the further work of the Council - in its various configurations - in the run-up to the special summit in Berlin.
On behalf of the presidency, I should also like to make it perfectly clear and state in all seriousness here that we will not abandon this goal and that we will strictly refuse to engage in any discussion on a possible extension of the deadline, also because this is in Parliament's interests.
Applause The principles governing the negotiating procedure, which were agreed at the Vienna European Council, were confirmed: Agenda 2000 to be treated as a complete package; all the Member States to be willing to compromise, and a need for all the elements to be on the table.
There is a general conviction, therefore, that at the end of March in Berlin it will be possible to reach an overall compromise which respects the own resources ceiling of 1.27 %.
A majority of the Heads of State and Government came down in favour of giving the agriculture ministers clear instructions to reconcile agricultural reform and genuine stability, and in this context also to examine various models for making step-by-step reductions in agricultural subsidies.
In the course of their deliberations this week and last, the agriculture ministers have been endeavouring to produce a basis for a genuine and reasonable reform while satisfying the austerity constraint.
I am assuming that it will only be possible to resolve this issue in the very last phase of the negotiations, that is in Berlin itself.
On the issue of own resources and budgetary imbalances, there is a general willingness in the Council to review the decision on own resources, provided that this initiative is part of a balanced package which also takes account of the expenditure side.
The scope of the negotiations was revised in the light of the discussions and will once again be presented for discussion to the foreign ministers this weekend and the ECOFIN Council next Monday.
In his capacity as President-in-Office of the Council, the Chancellor will tour all the capitals between 15 and 19 March; he will discuss the results achieved so far with the Heads of State and Government and will try, as a result of the tour, to bring home with him the makings of a compromise.
The President of the European Parliament, Mr Gil Robles, was invited by Chancellor Schröder to meet the Heads of State and Government at Petersberg and to present Parliament's thoughts on Agenda 2000.
I think that we all want this great challenge that is Agenda 2000 to yield workable results for the future of Europe.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
The European Council must now assume its responsibilities.
While budgetary discipline is most certainly necessary, it must not become an end in itself with no attention being given to our actual ambitions for Europe.
Mr President, in this context, I should like to make a comment which in my view is important.
The real problem facing us is the call for genuine stabilisation of expenditure on the one hand and the need for a real reform of the common market organisations on the other.
There are different ways of reconciling these objectives.
The Commission is prepared to consider all the options, but there is one direction it refuses to take, that of a diluted and distorted reform.
The second problem still to be resolved concerns economic and social cohesion.
As always in the Union, we will find the appropriate transitional solutions that enable us to avoid excessively brutal shocks.
In its October 1998 report on own resources, the Commission placed a number of possible options on the table.
In fact, some of our financing mechanisms were devised at a time when enlargement to include Central and Eastern Europe was no more than a distant prospect.
We therefore have a very difficult task on our hands.
Agenda 2000 is essential for the future of the Union and for the future of the European continent.
Applause Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to thank the President-in-Office and the President of the Commission for the detailed accounts they have given us of the current situation.
All three institutions are concerned about the need to reach a political agreement this month if we want to fulfill the objective of approving all of Agenda 2000 during the German Presidency.
Our main concern in the Socialist Group is to ensure that we do not destroy what we have already achieved, namely Agenda 2000 itself.
The Commission's document was supported by a broad majority in this House and we still believe that it is the key element for the future funding and the future financial perspectives of the European Union.
I therefore believe that the principle of having sufficient resources for Community policies is a key element.
The last report by the Commission on cohesion policy highlighted the fact that the Community policies have been effective in reducing the differences between various regions in terms of the level of development.
The creation of a community where there are different levels of development would harm not only the less developed regions but also the more developed regions and sectors, as they would find that the levels of consumption would be too low in the regions with a lower purchasing power.
Finally, one very important issue for the European Parliament's Socialist Group is the environment.
Moreover, we fully understand the difficulties the Council faces and our concern is to ensure that the timetable is met.
The German Presidency has had some thankless work to do, but without it the European Union would not move forward.
The Socialist Group hopes that once this hard slog is over, once this work has been done properly - which is what we expect of the German Presidency, and this German Government in particular - we might be able to strike off on a new path.
The end of the German Presidency should mark the end of these lesser discussions on strictly budgetary issues and a new beginning along a path set out by the Presidency of the Council and by the Presidency of the Commission in Agenda 2000.
Indeed, our reach should also extend even further, as it is not only the countries of Central and Eastern Europe that have expectations of us, but also the Mediterranean countries, Latin America, Africa and the third world in general.
We in the European People's Party will be prepared to play a constructive role in this process - despite all that has been said - and to help to find a solution which will allow us to steer the European Union forward.
If you are to bring about an agreement which will benefit the European Union, you will of course also need the support of our group.
But this has to be a good agreement, not an agreement for its own sake, not an agreement at any price, but an agreement which makes sense, which respects budgetary discipline and which contains the necessary reforms, if we are to be able to support it, and if at the same time we are to retain scope for enlargement within the 1.27 % which you mentioned.
In addition, we must of course also say that the debate on rural areas and agriculture is a very important one for our group.
Furthermore, it should also be said - and this is in the joint motion - that we are not prepared to put at stake the principles underlying the internal market in the negotiations on structural policy, and that controls on subsidies must continue to be recognised as one of the basic preconditions for the proper functioning of a common market and should not be abolished as part of the structural policy.
As both President Santer and President Verheugen were saying, if there is to be no agreement by the end of this month then there will be difficulties.
In this time of difficulties in the Commission, I would like to say that Agenda 2000, which was put forward two years ago by the Commission should still be the basis of the overall approach.
The Liberal Group, especially, will judge the overall outcome on whether or not it deviates from the future development for a viable European Union.
Against that background we welcome the fact that the President-in-Office of the Council has indicated that already, at this stage, there is an agreement that money available for enlargement will be set aside.
On the CAP, President Santer indicated that there is a basic conflict, on the one hand between stabilisation, and on the other hand a real reform.
At the same time, real reform is necessary.
I wish the presidency and the President of the Commission every success for a positive result in Berlin.
Mr President, the Agenda 2000 negotiations now under way are among the most difficult which the European Union has faced as an institution and political entity since the foundation of the European Economic Community.
The Union can take credit for the bold and innovative initiatives which it has taken over the last 10 years in order to improve the competitive performance of European economies.
European leaders and European Union institutions can equally point to the fact that an internal market has been put in place, allowing free movement of goods, persons, services and capital, as well as the creation of a new single currency regime which commands so much influence within the European Union itself.
The EU governments must look to the issue of reforming the EU budget, the common agricultural policy and the EU structural funds in a balanced, even-handed manner.
The partnership approach involving all European governments and all the institutions in order to develop and formulate key EU policies must always be preserved.
We should remember at this time that the European Union budget only amounts to a little more than 2 % of the overall spending undertaken by the 15 Member States of the Union in any given year.
One option to reform the European Union budget which is not acceptable is the renationalising of the common agricultural policy back into the remit of the individual Member States.
The common agricultural policy is a uniform European-wide programme.
Its operation will clearly be fragmented and distorted if national governments within the EU have to contribute 25 % of all CAP payments to their respective farmers.
Mr President, the decision on the Union's financial perspectives is becoming extremely difficult politically, giving the impression of a confrontation of national interests without a common vision of European integration.
I might add that we share some of the concerns expressed by Mr Lafontaine.
The previous enlargements of the European Union were always preceded by a considerable increase in the budget, but the Agenda 2000 budget is so inadequate that it does not allow us to guarantee internal solidarity and cope with the new members.
When we talk about enlargement, what we are really doing is endangering the economic and social cohesion of the Europe of Fifteen, without any thought to the future, with less solidarity, without a social dimension and without a genuine employment policy.
As a result, the approach adopted by certain governments, who are calling for a reduction in their net contribution to the Community budget without taking account of the commercial advantages of the internal market, is making the negotiations very difficult.
The German Presidency is at fault in that it has not helped to solve the problems in a situation where the Commission no longer has the ability to mediate.
The financial perspectives must be approved unanimously in the Council and by a sufficient majority in Parliament.
The agreement must be acceptable to all, not only a majority.
We would therefore call on the European Council to postpone the nomination of its candidate for the Presidency of the Commission until after the European elections, and we would like a response on this matter.
In conclusion, I would point out that the extraordinary European Council on 25 March in Berlin will coincide with the anniversary of the Treaty of Rome.
And an essential condition is to reach a fair agreement on Agenda 2000 so that no government or country is the winner.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Berlin summit must succeed in tying up the Agenda 2000 package.
We have become somewhat concerned over recent weeks, the difficulties seeming more serious than expected.
A European Union without optimism and without the will to act would be in very poor shape to tackle forthcoming key events such as the parliamentary elections on 13 June.
Fortunately, the German Presidency seems to have abandoned this dangerous idea with regard to the common agricultural policy.
Mr President, the Berlin summit will largely decide the survival and even the strengthening of the Community spirit.
It exists in Danish at least, and I am reminded of it almost every day in the institutions of the European Union, because these institutions - the Council, the Commission and this Parliament - have never grasped the wisdom, the very simple wisdom contained in the Norwegian handbook for mountain walkers, which says: 'in the event of disagreement between the map and the terrain, you should follow the terrain'.
Firstly, in our opinion - and in the opinion of many Danish andNordic citizens - the enlargement project is heading in the wrong direction.
Thirdly, this summit is taking place only days after we in Parliament were discussing the most serious constitutional crisis the institutions have yet faced, and I can imagine that - as so often in the past - the agenda of this summit will be different from the one which reflects the current political reality.
But now the thorny problems already on the table are compounded by the bombshell of Germany's call for a reduction in its budget contribution.
Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, a few days before the EU summit in Berlin, where a decision will also be taken on the future of policy in rural areas, it is timely to repeat two demands made by the European Socialists.
Firstly, Europe needs a socially responsible support policy which assists the weak and demands practical solidarity from the strong while also giving them the necessary freedom.
Secondly, through its structural and support policies in rural areas, Europe must also make determined efforts to safeguard existing jobs and create new ones, because for Socialists throughout the Union, labour market policy must be the number one priority.
But if you take a look at this system or this new proposal, this regulated market turns out to be a European Union which is closed off to the outside world, managed, as it were, like a sandpit.
Mr President, two weeks before the Berlin European Council, I believe it is pointless to try to hide the pessimistic atmosphere that prevails.
We must remember that what we are discussing is how to finance the European Union until 2006 and how to reform the Structural Funds and common policies in the light of enlargement.
In my view, the Presidency would do well to set aside the debate on net fiscal balances and look for solutions to its problems that keep faith with the Treaty.
It is up to the German Presidency to put forward proposals that bring us closer to a final agreement, that accommodate the different interests involved, but that also set out a future objective of integration that all the people of Europe can identify with.
In order to arrive at an agreement which is global, positive and acceptable to all, we must move beyond complicated calculations and develop financial solidarity on new bases in order to promote economic and social cohesion, which is under pressure from unemployment and growing poverty.
To arrive at a more balanced budget, the share of each Member State must be in proportion to its share in the Community's GNP.
Tomorrow, when the House votes on Mrs Haug's report on own resources, it may pronounce itself in favour of 50 % cofinancing in agricultural policy.
Were we not to succeed in doing this in the negotiations, then in my view we would be faced with a complete disaster on the first day of enlargement, because we all know that step-by-step reductions and capping alone are not much help to us when the question we really need to answer is how to restructure agricultural policy.
We also know that the real problem with agricultural policy does not lie in the agricultural policy of the 15 present Member States, but in the agricultural policy of those who are to join us, because that is where the heartland of European farming is to be found.
Mr President, I listened with great interest to the President-in-Office of the Council when he said that central questions have not been resolved.
Everybody talks about reform and says that reform is needed and required.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when Jacques Santer and the European Commission presented Agenda 2000 in July 1997 with a view to preparing for enlargement towards Eastern Europe, they did not think that they would be jeopardising Europe's cohesion, and the Franco-German axis in particular.
It is true that just a few months before the European elections, national concessions are difficult to win amidst this vast bargaining process of European reform.
Of the three reforms included in Agenda 2000 - reform of the CAP, reform of the Structural Funds, and the review of the financial perspective for 2000-2006 - only the first has been discussed at length by the ministers, and the only tangible result is that Germany has abandoned the idea of national cofinancing of direct subsidies to agriculture.
In these difficult negotiations, France has made two enormous mistakes.
Given these conditions, ladies and gentlemen, the Berlin European Council on 24 and 25 March is likely to produce a fool's bargain.
In 1918, France said that Germany would pay.
Times have changed.
Mr President, it will come as no surprise that my main plea today is for the Council to make the effort to meet its timetable to enable Parliament to fully exercise its democratic mandate and add democratic legitimacy.
I was even more convinced of the need to retain the URBAN initiative in the European Union.
While we acknowledge the need to continue to concentrate our resources on the poorest and declining areas, some of which are in my own region Merseyside, we still have to have solidarity as a two-way process.
We have to retain the capacity to invest and support in our marginalised groups and communities which are not necessarily in Objective I or Objective II areas.
This means that we also have to have a crisis initiative in order to enable us to support the future crisis sectors.
The partnership principle is fundamental to enhancing the democratic credibility of the funds that we use back in our regions.
Let me commend your efforts to try to meet the timetable.
The ECB President, Wim Duisenberg, recently stated in an interview that he had been asked to defend the value of the euro, our common currency, and price stability.
If he is to pursue these aims single-handedly using monetary means alone, he will undoubtedly create more unemployment.
We wish to hear the German Presidency confirm these commitments, and expect them to be followed up at the Berlin summit.
Mr President, no-one is any doubt that the extraordinary summit in Berlin will be of great importance to the future of European integration and, as a result, to the farming sector.
It is not enough to say that the future of the common agricultural policy will be preserved.
The question here involves the CAP's future share in the budget.
And I know that statistics can be used to say anything you like.
You can say, for example, that farmers' incomes have increased since the CAP reform of 1992.
We are becoming increasingly dependent on the agricultural production of third countries and will no longer be able to guarantee the quality of the products European consumers buy.
It is about our credibility in the eyes of all the people in the Union, but above all it is about our credibility towards the 27 million who are unemployed, whom we repeatedly assure that both the Member States and the European Union itself will make every effort to combat unemployment as effectively - and above all as quickly - as possible.
Let us take the example of preventive labour market policy, which is today one of the four pillars of our employment strategy.
In 1994, however, when the Social Fund introduced this prophylactic approach to labour market policy in the Member States for the first time, many Member States - and also the German Länder - fought it tooth and nail.
That applies equally to the four other spheres of intervention: measures to combat youth and long-term unemployment; social integration; general and professional training; and preventive labour market policy.
I think it is vital to assess whether one or more States are still contributing too much to the budget while other Member States, equally prosperous, are paying in too little.
On this score, I should like to emphasise three points.
The second point is that the 0.13 % of GNP necessary for funding pre-accession measures for the new Member States must not be obtained by redirecting funds previously channelled into the weakest regions of the current 15 Member States of the European Union.
Just as we were hoping for a new balance to be struck in the CAP to help producers and crops that so far have barely benefited from it, for stronger rural development benefiting agri-environmental and forestry measures and in particular increasing aid to the less favoured regions, what we now see on the negotiating table of the Agriculture Council are proposals for equal cuts in aid for everyone without the slightest suggestion that any attempt could be made to introduce the principle of fairness into the CAP.
As if all farmers had benefited equally from it in the past.
After all, Europe has only made progress when it has been able to demonstrate solidarity and look beyond its ambitions.
The Prime Minister of my country is always saying that Europe lacks political ambition and leadership.
Let me remind Members and the Council President that without an interinstitutional agreement there is no Agenda 2000.
Without an interinstitutional agreement we go back to Article 203 and Agenda 2000 is dead.
On financial matters, we have the situation where Agenda 2000 is linked with agreements on future financing.
It is obvious why it is the case but there is no need to link a new own resources system with Agenda 2000 and I hope that if that is a problem then we can get an agreement on Agenda 2000 and afterwards continue to look at future financing.
For the current year 1999, for example, EUR 216 billion is budgeted for regional policy.
In the longer term, the Commission has requested EUR 240 billion and at present a whole series of Member States is offering EUR 190 billion.
The President-in-Office spoke of austerity constraints, but obviously some see making savings as the true objective of agricultural reform.
On 1 May, the Treaty of Amsterdam will enter into force.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank the groups and those Members who have spoken for making this debate a very constructive one.
Overall, I think this debate has been encouraging in so far as we agree on the objectives and also on how they should be achieved, namely to actually conclude Agenda 2000 now so that we are once again free to devote our energies to the major tasks of which several speakers rightly reminded us today - the fight against unemployment in Europe, the fight for a better environment and the fight for greater social justice.
All those who are critical of the fact that there was no mention of this in the Council statement are forgetting that this Council statement concentrates - and indeed had to concentrate - on the Berlin summit.
Admittedly, there is a noticeable difference here between the way in which issues can be discussed in Parliament and how they are discussed in the Council.
I would be delighted if it were possible to say to the Heads of State and Government: 'My friends, this is not actually about how much money goes to particular regions of Portugal, Spain, Ireland or Italy; it is about the great European vision!
And it must encompass the future use of the Structural and Cohesion Funds, and of course the purpose of these funds is to put the principle of solidarity into practice within the European Union.
That also applies to Germany; we know that very well.
Parliament's support is important.
It will be particularly important after Berlin for there to be very close and trusting cooperation between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
Applause The debate is closed.
I should like to express my wish that the discussions you will have today at the first inter-parliamentary meeting with our delegation for relations with South-East Europe will be fruitful.
Situation in Kosovo The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Kosovo.
It was only through the international community presenting a united front that it was possible to bring the belligerent parties to the negotiating table and to lay the foundations for a possible final peaceful settlement.
Kosovo's final status would then be determined three years later at an international conference.
That is a point on which a final agreement remains to be negotiated on 15 March.
This intention was confirmed by the General Affairs Council of 22 February 1999.
According to the Commission's initial assessment, the damage runs to around EUR 330 million.
We are prepared to give it, provided that the leaders of the Kosovar Albanians and the leadership in Belgrade show sufficient courage and are sufficiently far-sighted to accept the Contact Group's proposals on 15 March.
There is no doubt that this is a crucial time and we hope that when the international community and the parties involved meet again on Monday in Paris, they will be able to sign an agreement, despite the news we have received of the recent clashes at the border with the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
A meeting was also held in Pristina with the political leaders, who all expressed their support for the outcome of the Rambouillet Conference.
The Commission hopes that the Kosovo Liberation Army will overcome its hesitation and sign the agreement.
Under the agreement, Kosovo's autonomy must be established by promoting economic and social development in the region.
The Commission itself will guarantee an adequate presence on the ground and it hopes to play a prominent and visible role in the reconstruction work.
At the same time, the development of civil society in all its dimensions must be encouraged, and this is an objective to which the European Union hopes to contribute along with other international organisations such as the OSCE.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I should like to fully endorse the picture presented and the views expressed by the presidency and the Commission on this matter.
It is also difficult to become a partner under pressure, but we have no alternative other than to exert this pressure on both the Serbian and the Kosovar-Albanian sides.
The final point which I should like to underline clearly once again, and which I would ask to be taken into account in the position we adopt at the talks in Rambouillet, is as follows: without military back-up, the whole initiative does not make any sense, and it will be years - as we have of course also seen in Bosnia - before a real solution is reached here.
At the same time, the inglorious Lord Owen - of whom we all still have painful memories from the war in Bosnia - puts in an appearance and makes the abstruse proposal actually to offer Milosevic compensation for Kosovo by separating Republika Srpska from the State of Bosnia, which is recognised under international law, and allowing him to annex it.
It is both right and essential that Parliament and the EU as a whole should concentrate their efforts on reaching an agreement that will put an end to the bloodshed in Kosovo and pave the way for a lasting peace.
However, our commitment in the Balkans should go considerably further.
Mr President, naturally the Greens are in favour of an international commitment to achieving a peaceful solution in Kosovo.
I cannot help thinking of my own region, namely the Nordic countries, where during the last 200 years, in the wake of centuries of warfare, we have managed to find satisfactory ways of cooperating without damaging the sovereignty of the individual countries.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I cannot help but detect a whiff of Munich in this whole European approach to the Kosovo issue.
I have no illusions, but the Council must finally implement a common European policy and confront this problem of democracy in Belgrade and then clearly confront it in Kosovo too.
Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his statement.
But we have to keep to our principles here: firstly, we have to keep the contact group together and on board; we have to make sure there is full solidarity between EU Member States - any weakening by any one of the Member States will undermine the push for a final agreement; we have to recognise again that what we are talking about is autonomy for Kosovo while respecting the territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
I have to say, in disagreement with at least one speaker, that I do not believe this agreement will work without a military presence.
Mr President, I should particularly like to say that I fully agree with my friend, Mr Dupuis.
Applause Mr President, the tension over Kosovo has risen in the last few days.
What role will the European Union play in that?
We can only continue to note this lack of political will with regret, and call on the Europeans finally to make up their minds about what we call the common foreign and security policy!
Mr President, I too would like to stress that the basic condition for a just solution to the problem in Kosovo is solidarity among Member States of the European Union.
While we welcome the American presence in the region, nevertheless this issue is essentially a European Union issue, which is why we need solidarity among all Member States of the European Union in dealing with it.
The debate is closed.
These two reports present the European Parliament with a heavy responsibility: promoting the liberalisation of international goods transport by rail.
The Commission directives, to which these reports refer, contain no more than technical provisions and do not recommend this solution.
In the Council, the governments of the Member States are divided on this issue.
For all these reasons, I call on Parliament not to go down this road and to refer these two reports back to committee.
Mr President, I can oppose this both as rapporteur and on my own account.
The Treaty of Amsterdam includes the concept of general interest services.
In a field such as rail transport, it is clear that this concept must take precedence over a liberalisation of rail transport services.
I repeat that, at this stage, we are talking about gradual liberalisation only in respect of the transport of goods.
I must also say that since 1970 there has been a Commission directive which calls for partial liberalisation.
Applause (Parliament decided against referral back to committee) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Commission's report (COM(98)0326) makes it possible to analyse current or planned actions aimed at implementing the conclusions of the intermediate ministerial meeting on the integration of fisheries and environmental issues held in Bergen on 13 and 14 March 1997.
Commercially, the most important catches are sand eel (38 %), herring (13 %), Norway pout (10 %), sole, haddock, saithe, whiting (8 %), sprat (7 %), horse mackerel (4 %) and plaice (3 %).
All the countries involved are members of the European Union, with the exception of Norway.
The report on the Bergen conference that we are considering today clearly shows that the European Parliament's approach is unrealistic, especially if we include the zone's extension from 12 nautical miles to 24.
We simply cannot accept the proposal that only those seaports with an annual goods turnover of at least 1.5 million tonnes can be considered as interconnection points for developing intermodal transport.
The implementation of the single market is leading to a constant increase in mobility, especially in the transport of people and goods.
The needs of sustainable development and the Union's international commitments in this area make it essential to ensure that production of CO2 and other greenhouse gases falls.
Given the ever growing traffic jams that are increasingly suffocating our towns, this approach is ultimately likely to generate substantial savings, not only in terms of environmental costs but economic costs too.
I voted for the Piecyk report both for its intrinsic merit in that it clarifies the issue of the intermodal connections within Europe and, in particular, for Amendment No 13 referring to the intermodal links joining Spain and Portugal.
For the internal market to operate efficiently and to ensure that all regions within the EU can compete on a competitive basis then the completion of the trans-European transport network must be made a priority for all national EU governments.
The European Commission commissioned a report on the issue of whether public/private sector partnerships should be given a role in the development of trans-European transport network projects within the European Union as envisaged by the Maastricht Treaty.
Member States are invited to involve the private sector as soon as possible in the development of such infrastructural projects.
In the year 2006, Ireland will be receiving only 20 % of its present allocation of EU structural funds.
The Irish Government must be innovative and proactive in devising new ways of compensating for the reduction of EU regional and cohesion fund monies.
I welcome the opportunity given to the private sector to have a tangible role in addressing how best public project initiatives and programmes which have previously been funded by EU monies can, in the future, be funded by the private sector.
Commission Neil Kinnock has already noted the role that the private sector can play in the transport sector.
Yet these three activities have been progressively separated to each die a slow death.
A good example of this is the independent port of Le Havre.
Already dealt a blow in 1979 by the sale of the liner 'France', the town, with its 30 years of communist management and CGT co-management, has just lost its port which will be shutting down in two years' time.
On 9 November, the European Commission deemed illegal the FRF 1.8 thousand million in aid granted by the French Government to Le Havre's workshops and shipyards, demanding that it be returned in accordance with the rules of competition.
After having destroyed our agriculture and our farmers, our public services, our textile industry, our mines and coal industry, as well as our merchant navy, Brussels has now turned to our ports and our shipbuilding industries.
Brussels is refusing to adopt a policy of European preference in the building and repair of ships flying a national flag.
Brussels is banning all state aid and subsidies aimed at bailing out companies.
Brussels is forcing any company that takes over a firm that has received aid to pay back all the public funds received.
Brussels is opening up our ports and shipyards to competition from those with cheaper labour costs.
This is also an important area of cooperation between the Member States and the European Union.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations naturally voted in favour of the Piecyk report, although we wondered about the length of the procedures: has the Committee on Transport not had the file since 4 March 1998?
We therefore regret the European Union's delay in this field which is essential for the economic activity of our regions.
We believe that the Commission's proposal is of note in terms of both its structure and the approach adopted.
In terms of the Commission's approach, it would seem necessary - while naturally respecting the principle of subsidiarity - to better integrate the interconnection points by including in the guidelines specific references to the interconnection points, by identifying them and by introducing new or revised specifications for projects of common interest.
Sarlis report (A4-0058/99) Mr President, we have just voted against a European Parliament report on the liberalisation of the railways, an issue which, judging by what has happened in the UK, could have serious social and economic consequences for the European rail sector.
To complement the judicial process of removing frontiers and allowing the free movement of people and goods, in January 1998 we adopted the Commission's White Paper on rail transport in the European Union.
The important thing at that time was to implement an ambitious and quality programme for national rail companies which were often in debt.
The interconnection of existing networks poses both material and legal problems.
The ones I see as most necessary are flexible management that is better adapted to customers and open competition in a free market.
Between 1985 and 1995, 500 000 jobs were lost in this sector.
The rail sector needs new impetus and we must encourage what is already taking place, namely, cooperation between national networks.
While not denying the solid work done by Pavlos Sarlis and Hannes Swoboda, I strongly oppose the Commission's desire to impose a uniform liberal system on the railway sector.
It is not for us to question the forced march of the British towards the complete deregulation of their rail network, but the experience has clearly been a failure, from the point of view of both the consumers and the operators.
When it comes to freight transport and the transport of certain sensitive goods in particular, the public sector is best placed to guarantee safety due to its status and its ethics.
The second is that if the operator is going to be able to satisfy its shareholders, it is going to have to make a profit.
As it seeks to increase the share of the railway sector in the transport of goods and persons, the liberalisation of rail transport naturally relates to sustainable development and respect for the European Union's international commitments in terms of environmental protection.
As our rapporteur pointed out, the European Parliament's wish, as expressed in its resolution of 13 January 1998, is indeed to achieve the widest possible liberalisation of rail transport, even if this should take place in successive stages.
It is therefore very unfortunate that the Commission is making no proposals to this effect.
The liberalisation of rail transport principally rests on two pillars, which must be acted on as quickly as possible.
In this respect, our rapporteur's amendments go in the right direction and are perfectly in keeping with the route outlined by Parliament.
It is therefore essential - and on this point I totally agree with the rapporteur - that those who manage the rail infrastructures take responsibility for operating and supervising the safety systems.
There is indeed a very real need to revitalise rail transport in Europe, and goods transport in particular.
I am thinking in particular of the desire for liberalisation, as proposed or sought by the Commission.
But in this instance, excessive development of intermodal competition would most certainly prove damaging to the rail sector as a whole.
On the contrary, we should prepare the rail sector to face its own future.
Faced with this situation, European policy has been to liberalise the railways.
Since the early 1990s, a whole series of first generation directives have contributed to this.
Some of these have yet to be fully transposed into the legislation of all the Member States.
The Commission believes that logistics companies should also have access to railway infrastructures.
We would like to express our satisfaction today with the two texts proposed by the Committee on Transport and Tourism concerning the 1991 directive on the development of the railways and the 1995 directives on the licensing of railway undertakings, and the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the charging of infrastructure fees.
The two rapporteurs should be congratulated on their excellent work.
Rail transport, which is very frequently used in Europe, has been experiencing a serious crisis for some years.
In this respect, some Member States have been able to react quicker than others and we must draw inspiration from the successful experiences in each of the Union's Member States.
Europe's consumers are demanding when it comes to both safety and also quality, particularly in terms of delays, prices, services, and so on.
This liberalisation must naturally be progressive and take place in stages, as our two rapporteurs have indicated.
Rail transport makes a major contribution to town and country planning and plays a very important role in rural and isolated regions, for example.
Moreover, in the fight against air pollution, rail - and the combined transport of goods in particular - is a political choice that we have always defended.
The Amsterdam Treaty refers to general interest services but there is in fact no directive that defines its framework or guarantees the logic of public service, namely, equal access by people and territories to rail transport infrastructures and services on the one hand, and the adjustment of costs that guarantees the right to transport and movement on the other.
I will be voting against the Sarlis and Swoboda reports and the related proposals for a directive.
For example, to take an issue in the news at the moment, it is inconceivable that a new airport is being built that will not be served directly by a major rail link, thus, incredibly, making access for over 10 million passengers a year possible only by road.
There is no avoiding partial liberalisation in the railway sector.
In this way, the ground will be prepared for developing the railways into an efficient and reliable mode of transport for the future - not least in Luxembourg, in the centre of Europe.
At present, the impact of the new measures seems impossible to assess.
I shall therefore be voting against the Sarlis and Swoboda reports.
The easier access private undertakings will have to infrastructure is preparing the ground for the privatisation of the profitable activities of public railway undertakings and the overhaul of labour relations.
The repercussions we are already seeing in the other transport sectors that have undergone a process of liberalisation, our concerns for the fate of the public service, for the protection of the environment and regional growth, our diametric opposition to the practices of social dumping and to the policies aimed at overhauling labour relations, lead us to vote against these reports.
I have therefore voted against paragraph 21 in the report.
In his work on the report, Mr Tamino wanted to take into account the possible long-term effects of magnetic fields.
However, it has not been scientifically proven that there are health effects, such as the development of cancer, in the long term.
Research in this area, such as that carried out by the Anti-Cancer Association in Denmark, is very extensive, and on the basis of the results of this research, we unfortunately cannot support Mr Tamino's very restrictive amendments.
Nobody in this House can reasonably dispute the fact that the health of our populations and the protection of consumers and the environment are major concerns which must guide our thoughts and our actions.
I will therefore support the proposal for a recommendation, as amended.
The Treaty of Amsterdam will reform many previously traditional procedures and, above all, in accordance with the new Article 152, it should make it easier to achieve a level of convergence in the health sector.
Community public health policy needs to be somewhat adapted in line with new priorities and new structures.
The serious 'mad cow' crisis unfortunately brought home to us the importance of improving the information distributed when it comes to promoting public health.
We must also react quicker to health threats.
We could also give more consideration to the unique medical situations in each of the Member States and implement appropriate policies, particularly for problems such as drug addiction, cardio-vascular diseases, nutritional problems, and so on.
Health protection is a fundamental right recognised in the European Social Charter (Article 11) and an objective enshrined in the Treaty (Article 3).
Both talk of complementary Community action consisting on the one hand of policy measures and on the other hand of cooperation by Member States and with third countries or international organisations.
The Treaty speaks of 'ensuring a high level of health protection'.
The Treaty also says that Community action must be directed towards the improvement of public health and the prevention of human diseases, in particular the major health scourges.
The Commission says after all that its communication contains no new proposals for a new Community policy on public health.
The Maastricht Treaty includes a separate title on public health, and the Court of Justice, with the Decker and Kohll judgments, has ruled on the Community dimension of certain social security services.
Cross-border health hazards have increased considerably as a result of trade and mobility - both recreational and occupational.
And consumer policy, like public health, is a title in the Treaty.
The Maastricht Treaty laid the basis for a European contribution to consumer and health protection.
An effective health policy cannot reasonably be envisaged without taking a look at all the other policies implemented by the European Union and the Member States.
The Treaty of Amsterdam is therefore right in stating that a high level of health protection must be guaranteed when defining and implementing all the Community's policies and actions that are likely to affect health, and in subsequently defining the role of the Member States in organising and supplying health services and medical care.
Its role must be to support and complement the action of the Member States.
That is why I am also of the opinion that in addition to the search for greater consistency with socio-economic policies and programmes, Community action in the field of health must also make it a priority to actively promote real equality between people in terms of free movement.
With regard to public health, according to Article 152 of the Treaty, Community action should 'complement national policies'.
A telling example of this is to be found in the proposal to appoint a Commissioner and establish a directorate-general with responsibility for health, which would encompass all aspects of public health policy.
Cooperation between the Member States, and indeed worldwide, needs to be strengthened in order to improve the health of men, women and children.
The Palestinians are in an untenable situation.
Much has been done in this regard, but it is unfair to ignore the fact that any action carried out in that region is hampered by security measures and other constraints which defy economic reason.
The date of 4 May is a landmark which could prove disastrous.
We must issue a binding political statement confirming the aims of the Oslo accords and, above all, guaranteeing that the Palestinian people will retain their full right to self-determination beyond the deadline of 4 May 1999, which was set five years ago in Oslo.
Furthermore, in my opinion they realise that a unilateral declaration of independence on 4 May could provoke a reaction from the Israelis - as already announced - and that such a reaction would damage the peace process.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, the Euro-Mediterranean partnership, which began so promisingly at the Barcelona Conference in November 1995, has today not yet really got underway, having been in existence unofficially for three and a half years.
I have presented two previous reports to the House on the Euro-Mediterranean partnership, which led to corresponding resolutions by the European Parliament on 11 October 1995, shortly before the Barcelona Conference, and on 13 March 1997, shortly before the Malta Conference.
What we have before us this time is a recommendation to the Council, which has deliberately been kept very short so as not to repeat the proposals of the two previous resolutions, which are already known and have been adopted.
I would like to draw your attention to four points, Mr President-in-Office, and I would ask you to comment on these.
In my opinion, the recent developments in resolving the Lockerbie problem have created more favourable conditions which might allow Libya to be invited to the next conference.
Equally, the Committee on Budgetary Control has long had a deep interest, a concern that arises from the fact that something in the order of 54 cents in the dollar of the Middle East peace process is financed by the European Union budget.
Mr President, Mr Tomlinson has already mentioned the points that we have been discussing in great detail in recent weeks, particularly in connection with his report on the Palestinian issue and the new rules which we have fortunately been able to put together in a joint package with the Council and the Commission.
However, what we need - and I know how difficult this is, as we also attempted to improve this procedure in cooperation with the Commission - is a more reliable procedure, including in terms of the anticipated expenditure in a particular financial year.
As you know, the European Union is a resolute supporter of the peace process in accordance with the Oslo and Madrid agreements.
In 1996 the European Union appointed the Spanish Ambassador, Mr Moratinos, as the EU's special envoy for the Middle East peace process.
I mention this here because the European Parliament's resolution could give the impression that the EU is not sufficiently represented in the peace process.
I would like to point out that so far the European Union has rightly decided to support the USA in its various committed attempts to achieve a peaceful solution in the Middle East, rather than to compete with it.
The EU has been most generous in its financial support for the Palestinian areas since 1993.
The EU is aware that a number of problems have arisen here.
Examples include the building programme for schools, water treatment plants in Bethlehem, Nablus and Hebron, and waste disposal in Gaza.
It is certainly no consolation to imagine the disastrous route that economic development in the Palestinian territories would have taken if aid from the EU and other donors had not been so generous.
We should bear this in mind in future, since our disappointment at the economic development of the Palestinian territories must not undermine the EU's fundamental financial commitment.
Without our support the peace process and, accordingly, the people in this area would not have stood a chance.
Reference was made not only to obstacles caused by Israeli bureaucracy but also to the difficulties within the Palestinian administration that were rightly addressed in your parliamentary report.
With the third follow-up conference of EU foreign ministers and their twelve Mediterranean partners under the Barcelona process in Stuttgart next month, the EU will be making a further specific contribution to regional integration and economic development in the Middle East.
Our Foreign Minister, Mr Fischer, also spoke to the new King Abdullah during his trip to the Middle East and expressed the EU's wish that Jordanian policy should continue as before.
It is very much in Europe's interest that security and stability in this important state should be maintained, and the EU should therefore help Jordan as far as possible.
The second point concerns the lack of water resources in the Middle East.
We all know that this is one of the most serious problems in the region and that all states affected will sooner or later be forced to cooperate.
I can assure you that the European Union will continue to play an appropriate role in the Middle East peace process.
I would like to thank Mr Sakellariou and Mr Colajanni for their reports, especially since both Members are particularly interested in these issues.
I am only going to give you a very brief political analysis because what the President-in-Office said corresponds exactly to the Commission's position.
On the one hand, there is the deadline of 4 May that is laid down in the Oslo agreements; on the other hand, there are the Israeli elections, which are naturally going to play a key role in the peace process and in the implementation of the Wye Plantation agreements.
We have worked tirelessly in recent months with the German Presidency - whom I would like to thank publicly - in order to conclude the association agreement with Egypt.
In principle, I believe that we will be able to complete these difficult negotiations before the Stuttgart Conference, thereby allowing this important country to finally have its own agreement.
You raised a key point: how to resolve the disruption affecting the peace process and the Barcelona Conference.
I am very hopeful and believe that we will be able to make significant progress in Stuttgart.
We must make every effort to try to obtain an adequate solution for 4 May and a commitment on the part of the Israeli Government to quickly move the peace process forward.
That is where the special regulation in the Tomlinson report, approved by Parliament, comes into play.
As a result, I cannot promise the chairman of the Committee on Budgets that there will be 100 % funding for the financial programme.
I do not think that Mr Samland can ask that of the Commission, of the Member States, or of this Parliament.
Mr Verheugen made a very important point.
In February, at the meeting in Frankfurt, the Presidency and the Commission highlighted the two most significant problems of the last five years.
To ensure that the Palestinians enjoy economic development, two requirements must be met: there must be greater transparency in the Palestinian budget, and Israel must put an end to its restrictive policies.
This is why we want to complete the financial programming for the next few years and, in conclusion, I would ask Parliament to understand one point in this respect.
Over the last five years, in order to implement political decisions taken by the Council, for exceptional reasons, and to keep the Palestinian Authority active for political reasons, the Commission has had to finance current expenditure operations that were not included in the economic assistance programme.
But what the Commission will propose is that in each instance a joint decision be taken by the European Parliament and the Council.
However, Mr Tomlinson, when you present the report on the discharge, I would ask you not to forget that, for political reasons, the Commission has allocated current expenditure that, in principle, was not included in the economic development programme.
But we all know that there is a precondition.
But there is firstly a precondition to resolve.
Mr Sakellariou, I have listened very carefully to what you have said.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank Mr Colajanni and Mr Sakellariou for their very committed reports which really show the direction that Europe should take.
Being involved in foreign affairs, I know how important financial resources are in conducting foreign policy, but as a Member of Parliament I also know that we in this House and also the public must be sure that the resources are used properly and efficiently.
Finally, I would call upon the Commission and the Council to approach 4 May 1999, an important historical date for the Palestinians, in such a way that it does not provoke renewed conflict but instead marks a further step towards peace.
Here, different cultures have been in contact for centuries, more often clashing than meshing, but also trading and establishing the principle of communicating vessels in important areas of culture, philosophy and mathematics, to mention but a few.
My first point, therefore, relates to the Mediterranean countries in their entirety.
My second is as important as it is insidious, and answers this question: is the problem of the Mediterranean a matter of joint economic development with Europe?
This is just what the West has sometimes misunderstood when following its colonial and post-colonial inclinations.
Mr President, the Middle East peace process is deadlocked and the parties are waiting for two things, the May elections in Israel and the declaration of an independent state of Palestine.
We should not forget that 4 May marks the end of the transitional phase of the Oslo Agreement, at which time the final outcome of the negotiations will become apparent.
The rapporteur speaks of unconditional withdrawal from Lebanon.
They were unanimously adopted by our committee and also have the support of our group.
I would like to make a comment on the Sakellariou report.
The rapporteur proposes a further effort by the Palestinians, a degree of procrastination in order to delay any unilateral declaration of independence by the Palestinian Authority.
The European Union will gain little by not daring to speak its mind.
In fact, as Mr Sakellariou and Commissioner Marín pointed out, the position we must adopt on this subject is largely determined by the position we must adopt in order to relaunch the whole process of Mediterranean cooperation.
Apart from the clauses on human rights and democracy, every option must be envisaged in a flexible frame of mind in order to genuinely relaunch the Barcelona process.
The solution to the economic and demographic difficulties of the countries in question will clarify, facilitate and anchor the gradual appeasement which time alone can bring to the eternal dispute between fraternal enemies which is undermining the Middle East.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a stalemate in the Middle East peace process since the Wye Plantation agreements.
As regards our military interventions, if they are essential, why must they be carried out within the framework of NATO, which has no legal or political justification except to chain us to the decisions made in Washington?
We claim to be able to solve the problem of Albanian immigration in Kosovo yet we are incapable of solving immigration problems in Strasbourg, Hamburg, Brussels or Genoa.
Our inconsistencies in this field will benefit neither our interests nor peace in the Mediterranean.
Firstly, Europe is currently obsessed with its enlargement towards the East and Agenda 2000.
There are too many long delays in ratifying agreements between Europe and southern countries followed by further overly long delays before concrete, quantifiable and, above all, visible actions are implemented in the field.
Indeed it must, but at the present time it must act without interfering in the forthcoming elections; otherwise, we will be acting contrary to our objectives.
Finally, Europe must take initiatives to avoid a unilateral declaration of independence by the Palestinians on 4 May, while supporting the principal of a Palestinian state.
This is a double requirement which anyone with good sense today recognises as a condition for relaunching the peace process immediately after the elections.
Mr President, the Mediterranean policy of the European Union must be our most effective, high-minded and unanimous policy.
However, our Mediterranean policy is our most neglected, irresolute and ineffectual policy.
Mr President, we support the two reports being discussed.
The economic and political situation has deteriorated sharply over recent months and the Lebanese thorn is proving increasingly painful.
Mr President, the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy on the Middle East tends to place the Israeli Government and the Palestinians on the same footing in terms of responsibility for the current deadlock in the peace process.
I do not accept the way in which the report tries to organise pressure on the Palestinians to postpone their declaration of independence on 4 May 1999.
These explicitly set the date of 4 May 1999 for the declaration of Palestinian sovereignty.
Another problem remains in connection with the Mediterranean policy: the situation in Western Sahara.
The UN Secretary-General, who is personally committed to resolving the conflict, set a new deadline of 31 March 1999.
I would call on the Council to intervene speedily in order to ensure that the conditions established by the United Nations are respected by that date and that the Sahrawi people can express their right to self-determination and independence.
Mr President, the delayed entry into force of the five association agreements signed as part of the Barcelona process is deplorable and significant, as is the fact that - three years on from the Conference that took the name of the city where it was held - not all the Mediterranean countries have been invited to participate in the partnership process which was so loudly applauded in November 1995.
It seemed to be the dawn of a new age, a welcome opportunity to establish new relations and revive cooperation between Europe and the Mediterranean countries, particularly in the political, economic, financial and cultural spheres.
The delay is deplorable for two reasons: firstly Europe's lack of a common foreign policy, and secondly the stalled Middle East peace process.
A Europe which is incapable of giving itself a political identity cannot claim to have the weight required to play a determining role, both in guaranteeing peace and in fostering cooperation and development.
And yet the EU has to play an increasingly important part in these processes.
Otherwise its role will simply be to beat the human rights drum: a noble role, without a doubt, but utterly useless in terms of influencing proceedings, unless our words are followed by deeds.
Mr President, let me finally turn to the German Presidency, which is hosting the Euro-Mediterranean Committee in Bonn on 19 March and Stuttgart on 14 April, to say that we hope these meetings will finally lead to tangible progress.
The Council is making a mistake by leaving it entirely up to the United States to formulate proposals for a solution to the Middle East problem.
We call on the President-in-Office to tell us: firstly, what the position of the European Union is on the withdrawal of Israeli troops from the Golan Heights; secondly, what the opinion of the European Union is regarding a solution to the problem of Southern Lebanon and, thirdly, what will happen to the agreement between the European Union and Syria.
Finally, Mr President, in order for us to arrive at that point, the institutional presence of the Council in the Middle East needs to be re-examined.
This can only be achieved if a decision is finally reached to set up a joint task force comprising the Council, the Commission and, possibly, the European Parliament, which can tackle each of these problems in turn.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to highlight once again the importance of the Mediterranean policy for the European Union.
In my opinion, this North-South dialogue must work in parallel with the policies being implemented by the European Union with a view to achieving a fair and necessary enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe.
These issues were raised at the 1995 Barcelona Conference and the proposal was made to initiate dialogue between civil society in the north and south of the Mediterranean.
The Euro-Med Civil Forum held in Barcelona a few days after the Euro-Mediterranean Conference also examined these issues and established the foundations for discussion and collaboration between north and south.
Following that conference, a second conference was held in Naples, and similarly further Euro-Mediterranean Conferences were held in Malta and will this year be held in Stuttgart.
The report talks about the Middle East.
We must therefore state clearly that if an international agreement provides the legal authority for the Palestinians to declare an independent state on 4 May, then the European Union must support such an international agreement with all the consequences it entails.
Mr President, the Colajanni report once again sheds light on a glaring reality, a treachery which many refuse to see: the evident determination of Israel to ignore the agreements concluded and to ignore the UN resolutions, which they do not care about.
The European Union has a duty to stand up to this.
The Palestinians' aspiration of finally receiving the land promised to them a thousand times over is totally legitimate and the intention of the Palestinian Authority to declare on 4 May 1999 the independence of the territories that are still occupied, must be supported by the EU at a political, financial and, if necessary, military level so that a free Palestine can finally flourish.
I shall not dwell on the difficulties in the peace process, because the rapporteurs have already done so, or on the need for a more incisive EU role, because most of my colleagues have already done so.
I for my part would invite the Council to react to five very detailed proposals contained in the Sakellariou report: human rights, encouraging active participation by civil society, enabling new states to participate politically in this process, debt and immigration.
Perhaps, if these proposals are taken up by the Council in Stuttgart, this very difficult and complex process will be revitalised.
To continue this theme of thoroughness, I would just comment on one of these aspects: civil society.
And, finally, just one comment of substance: after Barcelona, Palermo, Malta and Naples, let us not be lured into making Mediterranean tourism policy the dynamo of growth.
Israel is the only democracy in the region and the political strategy of the democratically-elected government should be respected.
After all, the peace process did not reach a state of deadlock because the wrong politicians are in power in Israel but because Arab terrorists refuse to end their campaign.
Mauritania is one of the five countries that together form the Arab Maghreb.
Mauritania is also involved in NATO's Mediterranean dialogue.
As Commissioner Marín is aware, Mauritania has participated as an observer for ten years.
Mr President, Commissioner, I welcome the fact that these two reports are being discussed jointly here as the problems experienced in this region can only be solved by a joint effort on the part of all concerned.
But Israel is more or less the only functioning democracy in the whole region and it is also a country that is particularly under threat.
This patience will certainly also be required when the deadline of 4 May, agreed in Oslo, expires.
In the Middle East peace process, the United States is jointly responsible for the implementation of the accords, whereas the European Union remains on the sidelines of discussions concerning the political future of that region.
I hope that the Stuttgart conference will be an opportunity to launch the reform of a policy based on the principle of attentiveness in distinction, which means playing an active role in the Mediterranean Arab world without forgetting the unalterable historical and cultural differences which divide us.
The best guarantee of stability, especially in international politics, is a healthy, sensible realism.
Mr President, I shall focus on Mr Colajanni's report.
As regards the EU's cooperation with the Middle East at a political level, we must continue to make every effort to help build autonomous and independent institutions for the Palestinian people.
Mr President, I just wanted to say that this has been an excellent debate.
I see that a large majority of the House is in favour of a certain position and its main points are very clear.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, as Members will be aware, the trans-European electricity and gas networks are an important part of our energy strategy and there is provision in the Community's budget to carry out studies as to how these can be best improved.
They are summarised on pages 8 and 9 of my report.
There is concern also that the ownership of electricity stations seems to be more easily bought in some countries than in others.
Not only do technical issues arise in this matter but there are also questions of competition and questions relating to environmental impact.
The first is that there is an inherent conflict in opening the trans-European energy network to former Soviet states.
They want to earn money and they want access to a liberal market on different terms from those we wish to see.
And the conflict will intensify later today when we discuss Mr Adam's second report.
I would like to emphasise once again the problem of granting access to a liberal market for some nuclear power stations which should in fact have been closed down a long time ago.
It creates a conflict in the political situation, in the political negotiations connected with accession.
That is why I have said that it is one thing to talk about trans-European energy networks for gas and electricity, and another thing to talk about the safety of nuclear power stations in Eastern Europe.
I particularly welcome the development of the gas and electricity networks as this is essential for the liberalisation of markets, to establish closer relations and to improve the standard of living in the countries involved.
The 1996 decision, which was reviewed in 1997, included 74 projects.
And that is where the problem arises.
I would ask us to apply some common sense, in this case as in others, in order to combine essential energy projects with respect for the environment, sustainable development and, above all, the unanimous wish of those who may be affected, particularly when less traumatic solutions actually exist.
In view of the fact that there is also enormous doubt concerning the economic viability of nuclear power stations, as established in the last few days by the Pemelin commission, Euratom loans for the construction of new reactors can no longer be justified.
Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz recognised this clearly.
The list of projects of common interest was updated in 1997, when it became necessary to add projects to the list, chiefly to take account of the enlargement of the Community.
The majority of the amendments and additions that have been put forward by the Commission during the present phase are the result of the rapid development of the situation in Europe, mainly in the gas sector.
I think you will recognise the opportunities that are opening up, not only in respect of the energy balance but also for the use of renewable energy sources and, mainly, of solar and wind energy, which we have in abundance in Greece.
Our desire to keep the European Parliament fully informed on all these issues and on all the developments in the years to come remains steadfast.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, since 1990 nuclear power has been an important issue for the European Union's relations with the Central and Eastern European countries and the newly independent states.
The European Parliament has recognised the sovereign right of states to determine their own energy policies, including the nuclear option.
The European Union has a significant presence in the nuclear activities of the Central and Eastern European countries and the newly independent states.
There has been undisputed progress in improving the operational safety of nuclear power stations, including the first generation reactors of the RBMK1000 and the VVER230 types.
These improvements in safety have been achieved particularly by the use of on-site assistance teams, supported by the PHARE and TACIS programmes.
I would note that this change in safety culture and the increased operational safety cannot be measured in direct monetary terms.
We should note that all the reactors in the European Union, in Central and Eastern Europe, in Russia and the newly independent states operate to the standards set by the International Atomic Energy Agency and the nuclear conventions which are currently in force.
It is clear that the use of nuclear energy in these Eastern European countries will continue.
Although the European Union has been very active in the nuclear sector, up to now there has been a clear failure of the European Union and G-7 policy.
Future activity must involve real cooperation and negotiation with the recipients of aid.
The ultimate aim of this increased cooperation will be the development of an acquis communautaire for the use of nuclear energy.
Nuclear safety standards, applicable throughout the European Union, the Central and Eastern European countries and the newly independent states must be the goal.
I hope it will accept that cooperation and not confrontation must underpin our relations with the applicant countries and the newly independent states in relation to nuclear activities.
I would also like to express my appreciation of the intensive debate and positive exchanges of views held in the European Parliament on the difficult subject of nuclear safety.
The report we are looking at today paints a realistic picture of the scope of the problems and of the difficult task facing anyone working to improve nuclear safety in Central and Eastern Europe.
The strategy which has been much discussed, as it was in the report of the European Court of Auditors and the Commission, goes back to the G7 decision of 1992, which was really taken in the wake of the Chernobyl disaster.
A strategy for nuclear energy was devised at that time to serve as a basis for the Commission's activities in this field too.
As regards the most pressing safety problems, I am convinced that despite the criticisms which might be made and which have been made, the European Union's efforts have borne fruit and that the money - 800 million or so - was well spent.
A number of things have been achieved under the nuclear safety programmes.
The Commission has learned a great deal, not only from practical experience and internal audits, but also from the criticisms voiced in various reports of the European Parliament and the Court of Auditors.
I am more than happy to assure Parliament that we shall report periodically on progress under the PHARE and TACIS programmes on nuclear safety.
Lastly, it is our firm intention to improve the internal management of the aid programmes.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, which unanimously adopted my opinion on this report on 27 October 1998, considers that nuclear safety is a crucial element of the pre-accession strategy.
It emerges from the Court of Auditors' special report that only ECU 300 million of the 850 m made available for the period 1990-1997 were spent by the CEECs on nuclear safety.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, my compliments to Mr Adam on his report.
The Union's energy policy vis-à-vis the countries of Central and Eastern Europe is focused on the safe operation of the existing nuclear facilities.
But in fact not one reactor in Eastern Europe has been closed down since 1992.
Even the Chernobyl reactors I and II, although they have been inoperative for a number of years now, are still not regarded as having been decommissioned by the Ukrainian Government, despite all the resolutions passed by the European Parliament.
My second point concerns the Court of Auditors' report on measures taken by the European Union in the field of nuclear safety in Eastern Europe.
That brings me to my final point, and I have a question for Commissioner van den Broek.
So when, Commissioner, can we expect a report here in Parliament on the millennium compliance of the nuclear facilities in Central and Eastern Europe?
I ask this because we are already almost a quarter of the way through 1999, and 1 January 2000 is the crucial date.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B4-0144/99).
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 1, 2 and 3 will be taken together.
Question No 3 by John Cushnahan (H-0179/99) Subject: Duty-freeOn 17 February the Commission presented its Communication as a response to the EU leaders' request at the Vienna Summit.
In the document the Commission shows an aggregate job loss figure of 56 000 based on figures of direct job losses from 10 Member States and indirect job losses from a mere 7 states.
The Council would however like to emphasise that when examining this communication it will take into account all relevant aspects of the conclusions of the Vienna Council.
This includes not only the effects of the abolition of duty-free on the labour market and the economy as a whole, but of course also the consequences of revoking or changing a decision taken in the European Union.
I am not giving anything away if I say that an immediate reaction to this proposal was that we should perhaps also consider extending it for two and a half years or for three and a half years.
I would like to ask the Council to comment on the fact that a growing number of Member States have expressed serious concern regarding the success of the regime, and that the Commission's recent statement that there is unanimous agreement that the current legislation 'provides a clear, simple and easily enforceable solution' is totally misleading.
The Council, or rather in this case the presidency, is of course aware of the status of discussions in the Council bodies, and it is also aware of the views of the individual Member States.
Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his reply to the questions so far.
Laughter Mr President, it is quite obvious that there is a strong, powerful lobby on the side of those who are against abolishing duty-free, while there is no-one on the other side because it is made up of small groups and small businesses.
If B is outside the European Community this opportunity does exist; it is relatively simple.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 4 and 5 will be taken together.
Question No 4 by Paul Rübig (H-0116/99) Subject: Increase in parliamentary powers of control through the next amendment of the Treaties Discussions in recent weeks have shown that both the EU's institutional order and the actual policies pursued call for a modern system of checks and balances.
The European Parliament has proved that it is willing and able, as the Community's only directly legitimised institution, to perform the control tasks demanded by its citizens.
In accordance with Article N of the Treaty on European Union, or Article 48 of the EU Treaty after the Amsterdam Treaty comes into force, the government of any Member State or the Commission may submit proposals for the amendment of the Treaties to the Council.
After consulting the European Parliament and, where appropriate, the Commission, the role of the Council is confined to delivering an opinion in favour of calling a conference of representatives of the governments of the Member States, which is then convened by the President of the Council.
Mr President, Mr Rübig, I regret that I am not in a position to answer this hypothetical question.
The question is hypothetical because the Council presidency does not yet know the contents of the report, which is due to be published next week, and without knowing the content, structure and recommendations of this report it is absolutely impossible to comment today on whether and how the Council will deal with it and what conclusions it might draw.
Mr President, I do not believe I am authorised to answer this question.
It is only what I can tell you about the opinion of the Council, in my capacity as President-in-Office, that is of relevance.
To date, the position of the presidency has been that we must now make a procedural proposal on how these remaining issues are to be dealt with, in other words on how and when the next intergovernmental conference will take place and with what agenda.
The agenda we have hitherto envisaged includes the composition of the Commission, qualified majority voting in the Council and the weighting of votes in the Council.
You must also be able to give that answer.
There was a general consensus in the EU that these remaining issues would have to be dealt with before the accession of the first new Member State.
Mr Rübig referred to today's Belgian newspapers and asked the President-in-Office if the Council had any reaction to what appears in the Belgian newspapers today.
I would like to ask the President-in-Office if Belgian newspapers form part of Community law or if the President-in-Office intends to incorporate them into Community law at the next intergovernmental conference.
Newspapers play an important role in Europe.
The regulation was declared invalid by the European Court of Justice, but its legal effects were expressly maintained.
As Hong Kong inhabitants are not included in the common list of nationalities requiring visas for entry to the European Union, under Article 2 of this regulation it is the Member States alone which decide the entry requirements.
The other Member States have announced that they will apply the same visa requirement rules that apply to China to residents of Hong Kong.
In view of the fact that the Hong Kong authorities have made strenuous efforts to make their travel document difficult to forge and that there is the issue of reciprocity, from which European travellers to Hong Kong benefit, is there not a special case at this point to make progress on this issue, which would strengthen relations between the European Union and Hong Kong and, for that matter, between Europe and China?
Mr Newens, we could spend a long time discussing whether the decision that has been taken is realistic or not, and whether the concerns or considerations that led to this decision are correct or not.
Bearing in mind the President-in-Office's comments about the exclusive right of Member States, would he not also accept that the policy of the European Union is support for the concept of one country, two systems?
Respecting the right of individual Member States, would the Council not coordinate a policy which grants visa-free access, which, in my view, is the total implementation of the concept of one country, two systems?
Question No 7 by Arthur Newens (H-0126/99) Subject: The EU banana regime Would the Council make a statement about the latest developments in the dispute with the United States and other parties over the EU's banana regime?
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Newens's question.
The Council supports the Commission in taking all possible measures within the framework of the WTO to protect EU interests, and is to discuss the developments further.
Between Council meetings there has been constant close cooperation with the Commission in the 113 Committee and in particular with the ambassadors in Brussels.
However, does the Council accept that it will be regarded as an acid test whether the European Union is prepared to stand by poor producers in developing countries, in particular the Caribbean where they have no effective alternative means of livelihood, or give in to United States pressure on behalf of the large multinational companies who already control most of the market and have used their wealth to lobby major American parties?
Only when this decision is announced can the WTO arbitrators decide on the US request for authorisation to impose sanctions, for example.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Kaklamanis's question.
You belong to a body to which 14 other governments belong, 13 of whom declare themselves to be Socialist governments.
A huge effort is being made in all these areas, and in all these areas the German Presidency is extremely active.
As the author is not present, Question No 9 lapses.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 10, 11 and 12 will be taken together.
I give the floor to the President-in-Office to answer Questions Nos 10, 11 and 12 together.
The Council would refer to the statement issued by the European Union on 22 February 1999, in which the European Union notes the assurances of the Turkish Government that Abdullah Öcalan will receive a fair trial.
The Council does not have access to any clear and definite information concerning the way in which Abdullah Öcalan was brought to Turkey.
In reply to your second question I would refer to the EU statement of 22 February 1999 which notes the Turkish Government's assurances that Abdullah Öcalan will receive a fair trial.
In its statement of 22 February 1999, the European Union said that it expects the Turkish Government's assurances about a fair trial to include fair and proper treatment.
I would point out first of all that we are also opposed to terrorism.
Thank you, Mrs González.
The Council will also take careful note of all information concerning the progress of the trial and the treatment of Öcalan, and will consider whether this information requires it to take action.
Leila Zana was sentenced to 16 years in prison.
Equally, I do not believe that we will help achieve a peaceful solution to the Kurdish problem by continuing to sell arms to Turkey.
That is simply the problem we have when we are dealing with countries in which there are certain constitutional shortcomings, and we all consider this to be the case in Turkey.
Has Mr Milosevic been persuaded that the problem in Kosovo is an international problem, that NATO is threatening to drop bombs and that NATO forces are preparing to enter Kosovo?
Our trip there was a spontaneous one as Members of the European Parliament and it was very difficult for us.
As I mentioned earlier, the Council put forward this demand and also supports similar demands from the European public that international trial observers be admitted to the trial.
Question No 13 by Astrid Thors (H-0142/99) Subject: Coordination between the EU and the Council of Europe as regards policies for mutual assistance in criminal matters The Member States are negotiating an EU Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters.
The working party on mutual assistance in criminal matters, which is drawing up the new EU convention, last examined the question of coordination at its meeting on 17 and 18 February 1999.
One of the concrete results of this coordination process was that the Council Secretariat drew up a technical comparison of the EU draft and the Council of Europe's text.
Certain overlaps between the draft EU convention and the Council of Europe's draft protocol are unavoidable given that the objective of both new instruments is to improve rules for mutual assistance in criminal matters.
The EU convention will impose stricter mutual assistance obligations on the 15 Member States than the Council of Europe protocol, which can be applied to over 40 countries with very different legal systems.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 14 and 15 will be taken together.
Mr President, the Council has not answered my question at all.
Under Article 232 of the Treaty, the Council must ensure that the rules of the Treaty and those relating to staff are implemented, and the Council must be responsible for ensuring that the rules that apply to the European Central Bank carry the same weight as those applying to other EU institutions.
I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council to answer my question.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
You know very well that Members can only speak once during Question Time.
Question No 16 by Maj Theorin (H-0146/99) Subject: Global solidarity 1.3 bn of the world's population are living in acute poverty, and the number is increasing.
In 1997 the OECD countries' aid to developing countries fell to 0.22 % of GNP.
The flow of private capital from the industrialised to the under-developed countries also declined sharply in 1997 and 1998.
With regard to the flow of private capital to the developing countries, the European Union is very much aware of the importance of private investment and developments in the private sector in general.
This was also the view stated by the European Union recently at the ACP-EU Ministerial Negotiating Conference on 8 and 9 February 1999 in Dakar, and it was a view which our ACP partners entirely shared.
Nevertheless, there are also some EU countries whose aid budget comes to considerably more than 0.33 %.
I would remind the Council that the Trade Agreement with South Africa comes within that category, and I hope it will be signed on 22 March, thereby making it possible to provide assistance.
As we in Europe are in a better position than most people in the world, it is also in our own interest to ensure that large parts of the world do not decline into ever worsening poverty.
The development cooperation provided by the European Union itself is geared towards these objectives, and the same applies to the development cooperation of most Member States.
But I fully agree with you that a great deal more can be done and in particular that we must shed the notion that development cooperation consists of sending money somewhere in the belief that that will do.
Question No 17 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0148/99) Subject: Participation of Libya in the forthcoming Euro-Mediterranean Conference in Stuttgart Will the European Union make it possible for Libya to participate in the forthcoming Euro-Mediterranean Conference in Stuttgart?
This issue has already been discussed today, and the answer is that the Council has noted the Final Declarations of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Forum of 27 and 28 October 1998 in Brussels, which included the recommendation that the participants of the Third Euro-Mediterranean Conference should take whatever measures are necessary to allow Libya to participate fully in the Barcelona process.
It has noted the recent positive developments and encourages the continuation of others' efforts in this area.
I gather from the reply by the President-in-Office that we have now reached the stage where we can actually welcome Libya since, as he knows, there is already an agreement between the parties involved, as was announced by the Secretary-General of the United Nations a few days ago.
Mr President, this afternoon Commissioner Marín said what needs to be said on the subject of Mauritania.
The requirement is that the Security Council resolution must be implemented in full, and this will not be the case until the suspected assassins have been extradited.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
Questions Nos 18 to 40 will receive written answers.
I was recently told about this by a German nuclear power station, Neckar-Westheim, which has been working with Zaporazhye for 10 years on improvements to valves.
As you will be aware - and if not, I am telling you now - an accident took place there on 20 April 1995 along the lines of the Harrisburg incident.
The point at issue is to optimise electricity distribution throughout the whole of Europe, taking into consideration the ineluctable development of the market for gas, of which there are still substantial reserves.
The objective is not only to interconnect the electricity networks of central Europe and the EU, but also to facilitate natural gas imports from third countries.
Given the rapid growth in energy demand, we need to develop a realistic percentage of renewables and at the same time exploit Europe's nuclear know-how.
Gordon Adam's second report is about improving nuclear safety in eastern Europe.
In this context, fuel reprocessing is just as important as operational safety.
Improved safety at traditional nuclear power stations is an objective of the PHARE and TACIS programmes, which new regulations have improved for the period 2000-2006.
We are not talking about a replacement for government strategy in third countries - this is about using dialogue and cooperation to achieve essential improvements in the safety and energy efficiency of their reactors.
It is particularly important to achieve better management of waste from civil power stations, as well as eliminating 50 tonnes of military plutonium in Russia.
Whilst by using MOX fuel nuclear waste can be eliminated in part, we still need to be making preparations for the long term now, and - at the same time - to initiate a study to evaluate the technology involved in hybrid reactors, such as the reactor recently proposed by Carlo Rubia.
However, work is also needed on high temperature reactors, which are notable both for their energy efficiency and for their capacity to eliminate 90 % of military plutonium.
Madam President, we have been looking at the issue of nuclear safety in the CEECs and the New Independent States for well over 10 years now, and a solution is still not in sight.
If we apply the same principle to the nuclear power sector, this means that it is absolutely essential for nuclear safety standards in the applicant countries to be brought into line with those in the EU.
So it is only logical to demand that EU funds from the PHARE and TACIS programmes intended to improve nuclear safety in eastern Europe should not be used to finance upgrading, but rather that they should be used solely for supporting nuclear regulatory authorities in eastern Europe, for nuclear safeguards and to create a state-of-the-art regulatory regime.
Madam President, as all the other speakers here have pointed out, the safety of nuclear power stations is the most important issue when the EU is dealing with the nuclear power sector in the applicant countries and the New Independent States, and it is unacceptable to grant these countries transitional arrangements.
It is well known that the first generation RBMK and VVER 440/230 Soviet reactors are dangerous, since they are unable to withstand accidents.
I should like in turn to assure you that the Commission will continue its attempts to achieve the maximum level of safety in respect of nuclear reactors.
As regards the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, we will of course incorporate the issue of nuclear safety within the framework of bilateral agreements, and above all within the framework of the attempt to prepare these countries for their adoption of the acquis communautaire and subsequently their accession to the European Union.
In other words, this will be an important aspect of the pre-accession strategy for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
Finally, as regards the efforts of the Commission to decommission nuclear reactors in those cases and in those countries where safety problems have been identified, I wish to assure you that the Commission, regardless of the respective strategies of those countries, is continuing to stand firm on the agreements that have already been concluded with them.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, in 1916, Thomas Edison, who knew a thing or two about electricity, wrote the following: 'We should use the forces of nature to obtain our energy.
We live like savage invaders of the earth and not as if these resources were ours forever.' In my mind, these dreadful words, written over 80 years ago in the middle of the First World War, are clearly an appropriate starting point for the debate on the three reports the European Commission is using to help fill the gap left by a lack of a Community energy policy.
There are forerunners to these reports and to this situation.
Firstly, there was Altener I, from 1993 to 1997, then the provisional form and the final version of Altener II that should take us up to the year 2002.
Let me also remind you of such important documents as the Green and White Papers from the Commission and, if I may make a slightly more personal reference in this case, the 1994 Madrid Conference.
We are talking here about wind energy, thermal and photovoltaic solar energy, biomass, small-scale hydroelectric schemes under 10 megawatts, geothermal energy and, perhaps in the future, harnessing energy from tides.
Many countries are already aware of the fact that this situation is changing.
I should like to finish by saying that we must continue along these lines and that, as rapporteur, I recommend that we all vote in favour of my report as well as in favour of the other two.
Madam President, together with the Altener programme, the SAVE programme is our only weapon for achieving the 8 % reduction targets to which we committed ourselves in the Kyoto Protocol.
This makes it all the more amazing and incomprehensible that we only intend to spend ECU 68.45 million on SAVE II over five years and ECU 281.1 million on Altener, also over five years, whilst in the same year we are throwing ECU 170 million at nuclear fusion for just one year!
We all know that the Council does not want anything to happen.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate my colleagues, and I think that we are all pulling in the same direction on this subject.
Another political motivating factor is that if we carry on in this way, the share of imports will rise from 50 % to 70 % by 2020, and with it our dependency on third countries.
If we take our political role seriously, it becomes apparent that we need annual efficiency gains of at least 2.5 %, instead of just 0.6 % at present.
The Commission is calling for 1.6 %, but there is scope for more.
An 18 % target is sensible and this also has the Commission's support.
Madam President, the Committee on the Environment has drawn up opinions on two areas within the multiannual framework programme for measures in the energy sector.
The reason I am emphasising this is because the second point - involving ordinary consumers - is absolutely essential if we are to achieve the results we wish to see.
Madam President, the only thing you can say about these three reports is that they are acceptable, and we can vote for them - but that does not solve our problem.
Hydro and biotechnology combined account for 95 % of renewable energy.
The fact is that a key omission from the proposals on agricultural policy in Agenda 2000 is a chapter on renewable energy.
That is why Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz is quite right: nothing will happen without legislative measures.
Even to achieve the aims of the White Paper, not to speak of the still more challenging aim put forward by the committee, there has to be growth in the biomass sector in particular.
I would like to emphasise two points.
The first challenge is of course the environment.
Furthermore, these new energy sources should also allow us to reduce our dependence on third countries for supplies of oil, gas and other energy sources.
This percentage is due to rise to 70 % by 2020, which is not without its risks.
What is more, although technological developments have certainly reduced the prices of these new energy sources, this reduction is still not enough, and we must therefore finance RTD programmes in this field.
I also expect, Commissioner, that during accession negotiations you will pursue a strategy of increased use of renewable energy sources, because the other countries have signed up to the European Union's Kyoto objectives and the first six applicants, which will already be Member States at the relevant point in time, will have to comply with these objectives in exactly the same way.
Madam President, I am pleased to see that there is a large measure of agreement on the importance of developing new forms of energy among all of us here in Parliament and at the Commission.
And we know that the use of fossil fuels will double by the year 2020.
Madam President, on behalf of my group, I should like to say that perhaps there is no real need to be as pessimistic as some of our colleagues have been.
I have just returned from northern Austria, where 30 % of energy already comes from renewable sources and where there are more solar panels than the whole of Spain, despite the fact that there is less sun.
At the same time as this meeting on solar energy was taking place in Wels, which followed on from the Madrid and Milan meetings, a major conference of the European Wind Energy Association was being held in Nice, which hundreds of people attended.
And there are many countries that take wind energy very seriously, such as Holland, Sweden, Finland and Greece, a country that is also covered in solar panels.
This form of energy is experiencing tremendous growth in Navarre, for example, a region that already meets 20 % of its needs in this way.
The Commission now wishes to begin an experiment with 100 local authorities that hope to be fully supplied and served by some form of renewable energy.
All three reports are part of a broader Community initiative to achieve a cleaner and sustainable future energy supply.
The promotion of renewable energy sources and increased energy efficiency are the keystones of our policy to tackle environmental pollution and to reduce CO2 emissions.
Following the adoption of the Altener and SAVE programmes within the next few months, the framework programme for energy will be able to operate as a unified whole and as an overall energy plan.
The Altener programme is a fundamental instrument for the implementation of the Community strategy and action plan for renewable energy sources, through which we aim to achieve our objectives.
In the context of the Altener programme, the development of standards for the equipment needed in connection with renewable sources will continue, as will the development of strategies and the strengthening of those methods which will promote the market penetration of renewable energy sources.
New production activities will strengthen the contribution of Altener to the 'Campaign for take-off', which was announced in the White Paper on renewable energy sources.
These are Amendments Nos 2, 6, 11, 14, 16, 21 and 22.
Amendment No 3 refers to the putting in place of a Community plan of action which, however, has already been established.
We would prefer a reference to the implementation of the action plan which was formulated in the Commission proposal.
Amendment No 15 provides for a new programme objective 1a which is already covered by Objective 1, and also relates to the actions that are to be taken under Objective 2e.
Amendment No 12 cannot be accepted because it refers to indirect costs and competitiveness, whilst the internalisation of the profits from renewable energy sources and the different ways and means of improving the competitiveness of renewable energy sources have already been elaborated at some length in the White Paper.
In addition, the Commission is unable to accept Amendments Nos 27 and 28, because they go beyond the scope of this programme.
Nor can we accept Amendment No 29, since we feel that the organic part of urban waste is a renewable energy source.
Finally, we accept Amendment No 30 in principle, but we believe that this is already covered in the monitoring of progress of renewable energy sources which is provided for in Article 2.
I would like to thank the rapporteur warmly for the quality of her report.
We all agree that the contribution of the SAVE programme to the rational use of energy and to reducing CO2 emissions in the European Union is especially important.
The SAVE programme will continue to support energy labelling and also the development of standards of energy efficiency for appliances which consume energy.
The Commission will put forward new legislative measures where these are fully justified at Community level and in cases where other means, such as self-regulating agreements with the industry, have not yet proved effective.
Moreover, initiatives by the Commission to take new legislative measures do not depend on the SAVE programme being adopted.
Amendments Nos 1, 6, 9 and part of No 11, which provide for the number of legislative initiatives from the Commission to be increased, are not appropriate in this specific context and, as such, cannot be accepted.
Amendments Nos 13, part of 15, 9 and 20, in which additional areas of study and pilot actions are proposed, substantially limit the scope of the programme and also the flexibility of the initiatives, and cannot therefore be accepted.
The Commission is unable to accept Amendment No 4, because an evaluation of the SAVE programme by independent assessors has shown that the programme has contributed to a large extent to improving energy efficiency in the Community.
Amendment No 5 and part of No 11 also cannot be accepted because the objective of 1.5 %, although desirable and although we could agree to it in principle, is nevertheless over-optimistic in practice.
Amendment No 18 cannot be accepted because it creates confusion between the SAVE and Altener programmes, and nor can Amendment No 12, because it too creates confusion between the SAVE programme and the fifth framework programme for research and technology.
We are also unable to accept Amendment No 21, because we feel that the call for complementarity with the programmes that are being developed in the Member States makes our action more effective.
We want the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, Cyprus and Malta to participate in the programme, but it is clear that funding their participation cannot be covered by the SAVE budget, because this would render the programme completely impossible to implement.
However, following discussions with the presidency, with certain Member States and also with the European Parliament, we realised that our proposal was a more ambitious one than the Member States were able to accept at this particular time.
Madam President, I would once again like to thank the three rapporteurs for their excellent reports, which were of considerable help to us when we held our discussions, and which have brought us one step closer to attaining our common objective, which is nothing more than a sustainable future energy supply.
Madam President, have I understood correctly?
It is not necessary to include the legislative initiatives in the SAVE programme.
The debate is closed.
What strikes me is that the fee structure in the various Member States is remarkably similar.
I have heard that there are even central banks which have stopped making no-fee exchange transactions.
We need to know how high costs and charges were before the introduction of the euro and how high they are now after its introduction.
Prior to the introduction of the euro, as the honourable Members know, the Commission adopted Recommendation 98/286 on banking charges for conversion to the euro.
It provides that banks should not charge fees either for the conversion of accounts from the national currency of a Member State participating in the euro zone, for example from the French franc to the euro in France, or for the conversion of payments from the national currency into the European currency and vice versa.
As you know, we must distinguish between two types of operation: the conversion of euro zone banknotes and cross-border payments.
The elimination of the exchange-rate risk, deemed to represent around 15 to 20 % of the charges levied, and greater competition resulting from transparency should lead to a reduction in conversion charges, which has already happened to some extent.
The Commission has been monitoring recent developments in this field very carefully, and has taken a number of measures to ensure that the cost of converting banknotes in the euro zone really is competitive.
On 12 January 1999, I wrote to the European banking associations requesting the necessary information to compare the level of fees before and after the introduction of the euro.
We asked the euro-zone banks to forward this information to the Commission by 31 March, via their European associations.
These relate to the level of fees, or to the continued existence of fees, rather than a failure to respect the legal framework or the recommendation.
Mr Van Miert has since begun to investigate possible violations of the rules on competition, so as to ensure that there is competition between financial service providers in respect of exchange-rate fees and other bank charges.
The honourable Members wonder, furthermore, whether or not the disappearance of the exchange-rate risk has affected the level of the charges made for such services.
We have received some partial data in response to our enquiry of 12 January; we publicised these on 29 January, but by 31 March we expect to have a complete picture of the situation on the basis of the requested information.
On two occasions, Parliament reached a conclusion which it made clear to the Commission: in order to avoid unfair practices in this field, the Commission would have to use its power of initiative to prepare a regulatory instrument, a definitive regulation that would set specific limits and establish some discipline.
It is difficult to believe the claim made by some banks that the exchange rate risk component in former charges only accounted for 10 % of the charge.
Today, the Commissioner is telling us that it is between 15 % and 20 %.
It is more expensive to change a euro-zone currency now than it was in 1998.
To his answer that the lira is our national currency, I replied that, on 1 January, the lira - or franc, deutschmark or peseta - in fact became the national unit of the single currency.
In this context, charges of 4 % and above have been mentioned.
Madam President, first of all I should like to say that one of the major arguments used to convince our EU citizens of the benefits of the single currency was the fact that the euro would reduce costs for travellers and for enterprises involved in cross-border trade.
Notwithstanding these arguments, charges for exchanging euro area currencies have remained relatively high, as have bank charges for cross-border transfers, despite the fact that all the currencies are now inextricably linked.
Parliament has consistently insisted that compulsory conversions between national currencies and the euro must be eliminated in every shape and form.
It is important that the EU institutions remain vigilant on this matter.
This data must take account of the structure of bank charges and must allow for direct comparisons between conversion costs before and after the introduction of the euro so that transparency can be maximised on this important issue.
The banking and financial sector in Europe should take it upon itself to draw up a code of conduct to ensure that the EU financial legislation governing these currencies is strictly enforced.
Charges still exist and in some cases they have even risen.
Madam President, Commissioner, in Le Monde on Wednesday 10 March there was an article with the following headline: 'Euro still a virtual currency for consumers', with the sub-heading: 'Two months after its introduction, the European currency is still a marginal method of payment'.
So two months after all the fanfares surrounding its introduction amidst hype unprecedented before 1 January 1999 - and we as Members of Parliament were party to that - not only has the euro not caught on with consumers, it has also stirred up various doubts and fears amongst them.
Of course it was predictable that national currencies would not be replaced by the euro very quickly in day-to-day transactions within the Member States.
If anything, charges have increased.
By way of a second example, a member of the public wrote to me reporting that he had paid LUF 200 in bank charges on a transfer of LUF 268 to Germany.
None of this will do anything to develop the single market in financial services for the consumer.
In its communication on financial services, the Commission explained that there were enormous differences between one country and another in all areas affecting the ordinary consumer.
Finally, it is unacceptable that the banks should not yet have developed a cheap and efficient system for cross-border consumer payments.
The development of such a system should be the top priority in my opinion, and it would also enable the banks to get at least some of their own back.
Madam President, I wish to thank all the speakers.
The figures deriving from the first partial returns from the banking associations indicate that charges for exchanging banknotes have decreased in many cases by anything from 15 % to over 40 % depending on the amount and the currency being exchanged.
They also indicate, however - and this is the most unsatisfactory part of it - that the decreases have been less when small amounts - for example, less than the equivalent of EUR100 - are exchanged, and in some cases the charges for exchanging small amounts may have increased.
The divergence arises where apparently some of you seem to believe that simply setting the level of the charges by a directive or a regulation would be both necessary and sufficient.
There the relevant instrument is the one on which legislation has already been enacted - the directive for cross-border credit transfers of early 1997.
As I indicated in my earlier intervention, there the problem is with a delay in transposition on the part of Member States - hence the actions vis-à-vis finance ministers.
So in our draft directive we made provision for other institutions to create electronic money - provided, of course, that they are submitted to an appropriate prudential framework.
Therefore, we all share the point of view that this is an extremely serious matter, of great relevance, as you all stress, to the credibility of the euro and, incidentally, of the financial system.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, the Commission proposal only partly addresses the restructuring of the common organisation of the market in tobacco.
There are four points in relation to which the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has made changes which we believe will be adopted.
What our committee is proposing, therefore, after much study and debate, is that up to 25 % could be transferred, at least in the case of Greece.
These are the four points in relation to which our committee has made changes which I believe must be accepted by the Commission.
What the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is proposing, therefore, is that these amendments should be rejected - and we have already rejected similar amendments in committee - because, as we have said, we believe that there must be economic and social support in the tobacco-producing sector.
What we are in fact doing is punishing our own tobacco producers while rewarding tobacco producers in countries outside the Community and creating a major social problem in the European Union.
Madam President, the Commission proposal we are examining this evening focuses on issues relating to the fixing of premiums and guarantee thresholds for leaf tobacco.
By a decision of the Council of 22 June 1998, the additional funding which is allocated for cultivated tobacco in Austria, Belgium, Germany and France will increase by between 50 % and 65 % in relation to the 1992 harvest.
In addition, in order to maintain financial neutrality, the overall level of guarantee thresholds will fall by 0.95 % between 1999 and 2001.
Premiums are to be increased by 10 %, with a corresponding reduction in special subsidies allocated through producer organisations.
I would point out that the value of the premiums has fallen by 5 % in real terms in relation to 1995.
The fact of the matter is that we have been, for 28 years, supporting tobacco growing within the Community and the financial dependency that goes with it.
We intended that, in the countries where the dependency was the greatest, to take effect by 2008 - in ten years - and in the northern countries, where, as we have just heard, there is a proposal to increase the sums available from 50 % to 65 % in relation to the 1992 harvest, we wanted that abolished within five years.
We are moving in the wrong direction and we are creating a health problem.
It is true that smoking is unhealthy, but it is equally true that the problem will not be solved by reducing or eliminating tobacco growing in Europe.
Madam President, the Commission proposal on the fixing of premiums and quotas for tobacco over the next three years centres around two main issues.
As regards the first issue, the Commission seems to be unaware of the particular conditions of production in the specific regions where these varieties are grown, since it is proposing the substitution of certain varieties, such as black tobacco, in soil where their cultivation is simply impossible.
As regards the second issue, the introduction of the Katerini variety into Italy will affect the operation of the market both in terms of prices and stocks, since it will have a negative impact on the balance of supply and demand, and in terms of the quality of this variety of tobacco, since the soil and climatic conditions of the new producer regions are totally different from the regions where it has been grown for the last 30 years.
These amendments aim to improve conditions for the production of tobacco, to set in motion a rational and feasible adjustment in terms of time towards improving the quality of tobacco and, finally, to maintain the level of income of many families on the continent of Europe who live in some of the poorest regions of the European Union, something which the author of the study never really took into consideration.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Trakatellis report is a moderate one.
In my country, it is taxed at 82 %.
Madam President, I could not allow to go by default possibly my last opportunity in this Parliament to point out the nonsense of spending over ECU1 billion subsidising the growing of a product which kills and maims its consumers.
We are actually discussing here a Commission proposal to increase payments to tobacco producers in four of the richest countries in the European Union, allegedly because they produce better quality tobacco.
France, Germany, Belgium and Austria are not countries so poor or with soil so poor that no other crops can grow there.
There is absolutely no case on social grounds, such as could possibly be made for Greece or Spain, for public money to be used in this way.
I was a lone voice in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the date of the vote, supporting the amendments of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and very similar ones of my own, calling for the phasing out of subsidies for all tobacco.
Increaisng subsidies over three years to rich countries is totally indefensible.
The importance of tobacco production in the agricultural sector of the European Union and of individual Member States varies widely.
I think we are all acutely aware of the social and economic pressure on the population of these regions.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, both the Commission proposal and the report before us are based on the premise that health should be sacrificed on the altar of structural policy.
I find it hard to believe that no other crop would thrive where tobacco is grown.
It is also clear that we need a change, an improvement in structural policy in the weak regions, in this case in Greece and Italy.
The quotas for varieties with guaranteed markets and high market prices are being gradually increased, whilst the quotas for varieties with weaker markets and low market prices are being correspondingly reduced.
For 28 years now tobacco production has been receiving massive support without any sign of a change of course.
Having said that, I should like briefly to review the main issues raised in the amendments.
Furthermore, the impact of the proposal on producers is limited, in that the guarantee thresholds are maintained for all variety groups with the exception of group V; for this group, the existing threshold is below 30 % for Greece and 22 % for Italy.
The amendments dealing with the adverse impact of monetary conversion - Nos 4 and 5 - are unacceptable because, in the Commission's view, the same rules must apply to the common organisation of the market in tobacco as to the other COMs.
Concerning the amendments on the guarantee thresholds - Nos 7, 8 and 9 - the Commission wishes to avoid disrupting the market in all group V varieties, for which market prices are poor and which face competition from cigarettes manufactured in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
Therefore, although we are prepared to examine the impact on the sector of the proposal to transfer amounts to other groups, we confirm our reservations concerning any reduction in group V.
Amendments Nos 11, 12, 14 and 15 deal with the mandatory disengagement of the Community.
Mr Trakatellis, the report has an intrinsic value which transcends the individual amendments, clearly, and our words of appreciation related to the undertaking as a whole.
As for the amendments on the guarantee thresholds, the Commission wishes to avoid disrupting the market in all group V varieties, for which market prices are poor and which face competition from cigarettes manufactured in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
Therefore, although we are prepared to examine the impact on the sector of the proposal to transfer amounts to other groups, we confirm our reservations concerning any reduction in group V.
My impression is that he does not accept any of them, but he could at least tell us in a word, so that we do not leave the House without having understood.
Madam President, I am doing my best to convey the Commission's position in a field which, as you know, does not fall within my competence but that of Mr Fischler.
Amendments Nos 7, 8 and 9 are accepted, with a transfer - or rather a change - in Annex II, transferring amounts from group III to group I and to group II in France.
The Commission reserves the right to examine the other transfers covered in Amendments Nos 7, 8 and 9, namely those in Annex II aiming both to lessen the reduction in group V in Greece and to prevent the introduction of Katerini and similar varieties into Italy.
The debate is closed.
The proposal essentially provides for the conditions of employment of other servants to be included in a new Article 78, the gist of which is that parliamentary assistants are categorised as other servants of the European Union, and furthermore that the details of the conditions of employment should be laid down in general administrative provisions to be enacted by Parliament itself.
The legal basis of the Staff Regulations and the conditions of employment of other servants, that is to say the Merger Treaty, does not provide for an enabling regulation for Parliament.
Nor am I the only one of this opinion: in its judgment of 7 May 1992, the European Court of Justice made exactly the same point.
This is what I proposed in a second report to the Legal Affairs Committee.
For this simple reason I would urge the House to adopt the original draft report presented to the Legal Affairs Committee and not the Commission proposal.
We should now adopt these proposals by a clear majority in the interests of our closest confidants.
The autonomy of Parliament to make decisions on its own affairs will be guaranteed by the second part of our proposal.
The first one is short and simple.
Madam President, I agree with all those who have said that the work carried out on this regulation has not been easy; indeed, it has been extremely difficult.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if it would not be more courteous if I were to face the interpreters' booths, as it seems that there are more people in the booths than in the Chamber itself.
However, one simple and fundamental principle underlying any social doctrine is that every person has the right to fair pay in return for their work.
The Commission drew up its proposal at the request of the President of Parliament and on the basis of a European Parliament Bureau decision.
The legal basis laid down in the Commission proposal allows Members to confer on their assistants the status of auxiliary staff.
Amendments Nos 1, 4, 5 and 11 refer to the rules governing Members' expenses and allowances.
The debate is closed.
