Decision on urgency Madam President, the Committee on Fisheries has agreed to accept urgent procedure and to ask for this to be placed on the agenda for the procedure without debate. (Parliament agreed to urgent procedure) The report will therefore be put to the vote on Friday morning.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today at second reading on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council Decision adopting a Community action programme on customs known as 'Customs 2000' .
The aim of the programme is to assimilate and increase the efficiency of customs procedures and customs administration.
Finally, as part of the urgently needed computerization of the customs services in the Union, we propose that they should have the right of access to certain data in the Member States' data bases, and that a common data bank should be set up.
In the Netherlands alone, carriers have had to pay almost ECU 900 million, the situation in Germany being almost as bad.
For Europe as a whole, the figure is estimated at around ECU 3 billion, and it is often only fairly small-scale firms which are involved.
Individual firms have faced demands for more than DM 50 million, for example, and for many this can spell financial ruin.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, having arrived at this stage of the discussion following the European Parliament's adoption last October of a strong text after the Council had adopted a rather insipid common position lacking in force and depth, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has sought to restore a more real and direct force to the Customs 2000 programme by voting for a number of amendments.
Among other things, we have sought to reaffirm, through these amendments, the concept of the domestic market to which we attach considerable importance; we have also sought to give more substance to the notion of Community customs with a whole series of distinctive signs and symbols in this area; finally, we have sought to ensure the beginnings of genuine mobility for customs officers between the 15 Member States, common training and exchanges and, of course, the harmonization of controls in quantitative and qualitative terms.
In the field of legislation too, efforts are being made to achieve harmonization between Member States, and there must also be a certain homogeneity between them in the way they interpret this legislation.
But I should like to place particular emphasis, as most members of the committee sought to do, on the fight against all forms of fraud, and fraud arising out of transit operations in particular.
As you know Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a committee of inquiry has been set up to investigate fraud involving Community transit operations and its initial findings have already shown that there is a great deal of fraud and a great deal of effort required in the matter of TIR documents, computerizing the Community transit system, data exchange, and effective checks on these data.
Such are the conclusions of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and at this point I should like to thank our rapporteur and chairman Mr von Wogau.
Madam President, a single market needs common protection.
This common protection needs harmonized and strong customs at the Community's borders, and that is precisely the subject of this report which we would like to see reinforced by a vote in favour of a number of our amendments.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur on behalf of my group for the great commitment he has shown over a number of weeks while working on this recommendation.
His goals of ensuring the successful operation of the internal or, as he calls it, home market and helping to combat fraud and illegal trade are objectives which we all share.
The second point I would like to make concerns a completely different aspect of the programme.
Madam President, the issue we are again discussing today - in the hope of being able to arrive at a definition of it - is of the greatest importance for the European internal market.
We welcome then the extension and automation envisaged and the setting-up of an information system with a common data-base which has a twofold function: firstly, to eliminate the incompatibility between the various systems of data preparation and, therefore, simplify customs procedures and, secondly, to serve as a useful instrument to combat fraud and illegal trafficking - a task that has assumed great importance since the creation of the single market and one to which the customs authorities can now devote all of the resources that are gradually being freed up.
In our opinion at least one-fifth of the Customs 2000 funds should be used to develop those countries' customs institutions and cooperation with them.
Madam President, it is obvious when a programme like 'Customs 2000' was thought up there is no doubt that everyone who created the single market had no doubt that ending customs barriers would means more fraud, more unfair competition and more crime within the European economy.
The measures which must be taken are well and truly enshrined in Articles 7 and 8.
As regards Amendment No 5, of which I am in favour, I believe that it is important to stress that if it proves possible at Community level to agree criteria for the scale of customs controls, those criteria should be for a minimum level of checks.
In the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs Mr Von Wogau also confirmed that the criteria would be of this minimum nature.
I believe that we can, without in any serious way having to obstruct the free movement of goods and services, preserve a certain measure of internal border controls, precisely in order to prevent various forms of cross-border crime, such as that involving drugs.
As stated in the report, the vital precondition for creating a genuine internal market is that there has to be joint protection of external frontiers.
Of the 34 amendments you then tabled, 23 were taken up by the Commission in its amended proposal of 21 November, and 14 adopted by the Council in the common position of 22 December 1995.
As I emphasized to the House at the time of first reading, this programme forms part of the policy that the Commission has been applying since 1993, designed to set in place a framework that will encourage cooperation between the authorities of the Member States and between those authorities and the Commission, thereby improving the administration of the internal market.
The 'Customs 2000' programme is in no way intended to interfere with the organization of the public authorities or national administrations or to intervene directly in the area of customs cooperation strictly speaking, a sector in which, under Title VI of the Treaty, the Commission has no power of initiative.
Similarly, this decision does not of itself represent the main instrument devised by the Commission to tackle serious but specific problems it has identified in relation to fraud, particularly as regards transit.
Those issues will be specifically dealt with, in separate proposals, in a different context.
Nonetheless, the 'Customs 2000' programme will provide a framework particularly suited to developing a genuine policy of prevention to combat customs fraud.
The House proposes incorporating 23 amendments into the common position of the Council - on which the Commission gave its view on 11 January.
Consequently, the Commission is able to accept, as currently drafted, Amendments Nos 1, 3, 5, 7, 9(2), 15, 21 and 23; it can also accept, with some changes to the wording, Amendments Nos 2, 4, 8, 10, 11(1), 19 and 20.
Finally, there are three amendments which we consider unnecessary because they reflect amendments from the first reading which the Council has already included, in substance at least, in the common position: they are Amendments Nos 12, 13, 16 and 24.
To conclude, the Commission welcomes the great interest that the 'Customs 2000' programme has generated in the House and the active support our proposal has been given.
Thank you, Mr Monti.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, I should like to begin by saying how much I have enjoyed working with my colleagues on this pharmaceutical report, especially recently in the various rounds of votes and compromises, and I should like to thank them all for their help and cooperation.
Ladies and gentlemen, this report is sure to provoke very widely differing views on the industrial policy we should pursue in the pharmaceutical sector.
On the subject of patent protection periods for generic medicines, I have not only emphasized the vital role which these medicines play in social policy terms, but also the fact that more and more pharmaceutical companies are becoming heavily involved in the generics sector, either directly or through participation in research.
We have to recognize, however, that the idea of having an industrial policy for the pharmaceutical industry is rather different from the other industries we have dealt with in the past.
We have to acknowledge that the pharmaceutical industry is intimately linked to health issues and to the national social security systems of our Member States.
Indeed, we want the Commission to come back in the very near future with a new communication on the pharmaceutical industry based on the consultations they have taken on their 1994 proposal and recognizing the rapid developments taking place in this sector.
But in addition - and we see no contradiction in this - we want the development of an EU-based generic pharmaceutical industry as a positive contribution to competition.
There is no contradiction if we recognize the importance of the pharmaceutical industry for the health of our citizens and for our national social security systems.
So, we want a well-balanced industrial policy but we want to make sure that this balance recognizes the responsibility that the pharmaceutical industry has in Europe.
What we could do, however, is to harmonize the durations of these periods, which vary between six and 36 months in Europe for generics, with an average of 18 months after the expiry of the patent period.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the Liberal Group feels that if our policy in the pharmaceutical sector is to be successful, we need to strike a sound balance between public health requirements on the one hand, and on the other the need to have a competitive pharmaceutical industry as the jewel in the European economy's crown.
Research and progress in the pharmaceutical industry depend entirely on having a watertight patent protection period.
The American market is also not fragmented as it is in the Union, where the protection period is calculated from the first time a licence is granted in any of the Member States.
I wonder which is the more ethical: encouraging scientists to carry out genetic research into diseases which cannot yet be treated, or thinking that we politicians can judge how this genetic research should be developed or curbed.
Madam President, in relation to this report it is important to emphasise the special nature of the pharmaceutical industrial sector.
It is umbilically linked to public health and, as point E demonstrates, we should first of all aim at the objective of providing the whole population with safe and efficient medicines.
This undeniable priority comes up at Community level against the differences between the health systems and social security regimes in the different Member States and various national peculiarities.
We can only ask, as hinted at in part I, whether it will be inevitable that the European pharmaceutical sector should suffer the same fate as other national sectors, given that Europe is the biggest medicine market in the world, as is pointed out with emphasis in the opinion issued by the Committee on Social Affairs.
However it is very important to prevent that research and development from being exclusively at the service of private interests rather than mankind as a whole or public health.
The delicate nature of these questions and the dimension of the interests at stake are both reflected in the report which should deal less with the market and prices.
Secondly, there are the interests of society, since our social security and healthcare systems are greatly affected by price levels in this sector.
Is not an industrial policy for the pharmaceutical sector reminiscent of the planning we used to see in the iron curtain countries?
While it is admittedly impossible to harmonize the management policies in the pharmaceutical sector, there are certain major subjects of concern which this report fails to address.
A medicine exists because it provides treatment, irrespective of whether it is profitable or not.
In Europe there is a legal vacuum in this area.
Europe should endeavour to promote this protection of life at all levels, without excluding the so-called risk groups or the victims of rare diseases.
A healthy notion of public health must allow every individual to obtain treatment according to his real needs.
This communication from the Commission seems to be seeking to ascertain how best to restrict the supply of health care.
Madam President, I wish to record my thanks to the rapporteur for her important work on this key industrial sector in the European Union.
We have no real public health strategy for the European Union, and this is an important omission, which perhaps we can rectify in other pieces of work.
She has drawn attention to the employment consequences of mergers and other changes, and she has rightly drawn attention to the problems of exporting into poorer countries drugs which are not allowed to go on sale within the European Union.
This leads me on to the important role of the pharmacist in the sale and prescription of over-the-counter medicines.
It is difficult to balance the need for adequate regulation and the safeguarding of patients' rights.
But certainly to look at the pharmaceutical industry and its effectiveness without placing it in the context of the link between poverty and health, between housing and health, between employment and health, between education and health, means a serious omission.
I do not agree that we need a pharmaceutical industry with price controls as they are at the moment, but this is an important contribution to a key-sector policy development.
As for the use of genetic technology in the production of pharmaceuticals, I can only see the huge opportunities which this offers, and I feel that there is no point in discussing the risks until we can assess the advances that are likely to be made in the treatment of diseases which present a major threat to mankind.
I have been part of a minority - but a substantial minority - in the Liberal Group in welcoming this report, although I feel that the criticisms of the Commission in paragraphs 3 and 4 are perhaps unjustifiably harsh.
We know that this work is done for European companies in Turkey and in Iceland, for example.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a large part of our European identity is based on our system of social protection and, in particular, our system of health insurance.
At the international level, the pharmaceutical sector is going through a period of upheaval, caught between the globalization of competition and cost-cutting measures applied to public health systems.
I repeat, it is essential to prevent any backsliding and to establish sufficient health safety not only between the Member States but everywhere.
As to gentle and homeopathic medicines, these attract me but also leave me sceptical.
I see this is an excellent first step towards Community regulation.
Madam President, first of all I should like to say that the communication from the Commission on industrial policy for the pharmaceutical sector is appropriate and balanced, although in the future there will have to be more ambitious proposals to make innovation possible.
It calls the attention of governments and of public opinion to the need to create a social climate conducive to therapeutic research.
Certain mistaken scientific, economic and social policies in the last 25 years have led to the European pharmaceutical industry's losing almost 25 % of its competitive edge in introducing new medicines on the world market.
The best protection of the interests of patients as consumers is the availability of high quality, safe and effective medicines.
Many of the speeches made by distinguished fellow-Members on this report forget that there is very full legislation in the European Union and that this communication deals only with the perspectives of an industrial pharmaceutical policy.
If we had concentrated on that, perhaps we should have achieved a better result and practically full support for the Commission's proposals.
Madam President, I too am a small but active minority within the Group of the European People's Party.
In 1993 the average cost of research and development was estimated at ECU 275 million.
At the same time, there is a risk that all our technological know-how will move to America and Japan, where you can start research before the patent expires, if we do not provide the same conditions in Europe.
If the House does not support paragraph 17, we shall simply be relegating our industry still further down the table.
Producers in Asia and America, where there is a research exemption, will pull further and further ahead, and in ten years' time we could be reading a Commission report which says that only 10 % of products are now developed here.
Madam President, this debate has shown that our communication was very necessary and, in my view, that we still need to discuss this issue further.
In the 1980s, employment in the sector could be expected to grow by more than 2 % a year on average.
Between 1975 and 1979, 61 % of all new pharmaceuticals were developed in Europe, but the figure dropped to 48 %, in other words to less than half the total, between 1990 and 1994.
Over the same period, the United States' share grew from 26 % to 31 % and Japan's from 11 % to 31 %.
Patents at the clinical and pre-clinical development stage account for 58 % and 48 % of all patents held by American firms, in other words around half.
And - something which is particularly important with new drugs - we have already put in place some of the legal protection called for in this report.
The USA and Japan have even followed our example.
But this does not, of course, mean that we do not need public involvement in this particular field.
Mrs Read is right.
Look at how little of the total healthcare budget goes on medicines, for example: 14 % a few years ago, now down to 12 %, and even less in some Member States.
And when you consider that the sensible use of medicines can in many cases eliminate the need for in-patient treatment, it becomes quite clear that medicines can be very effective in reducing costs.
This brings me on to the question of how what we do affects the social security systems in the Member States.
If we succeed in doing this - and we have urged the Member States to comply in a special protocol to this communication to the Council - we shall already have achieved a great deal.
When we looked at the Sandoz-Ciba Geigy case after they informed us that they wished to merge, we were astonished to discover that these two companies, which are so important in Europe, and indeed worldwide, share only 4.8 % of the world market between them.
Mr President, please let me put a supplementary question to Mr Bangemann, since he was given five times as much speaking time as I was.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for this second reading also we have taken into consideration a number of key factors.
The first is that drug dependence is no longer a marginal issue.
What we actually need is to be tough in tackling the problem but also to be willing to talk.
The work with which we, as a committee, tried humbly to make progress is at risk of being undermined.
I therefore ask you to reject some of the amendments tabled by the European People's Party, because, as I said at the outset, we cannot take a superficial approach.
We are engaged in a war in which we should all be fighting because we should all consider ourselves very much involved.
I would also stress that at first reading, the Burtone report was approved by the vast majority of the House, and that this present report also secured a sizeable majority in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
However, in recent weeks a great deal of nonsense has been talked about the action plan, and in particular about the report itself.
No more than 10 % of the growing supply of drugs is intercepted.
Paul Cook, a police officer from Manchester, said much the same at a recent conference in Brussels which was organized by the Commission under the Spanish presidency.
The policy of tolerance pursued in the Netherlands is not the answer.
Mr President, within every political group in the House there is a majority view and a minority view on the action programme on the prevention of drug dependence.
I think that is the basic problem confronting all the institutions, including the European Parliament, which try to deal with such a terrible problem as drug dependence.
Those amendments also take into account the social situation of those excluded from society and the social situation of poverty which - not in all cases but in many - leads young people to drug dependence.
It therefore seems to us that the report, unlike other amendments with which we do not agree, ought to be approved in the European Parliament perhaps by the same majority by which it was approved in the Committee on the Environment and Public Health, an overwhelming majority: 28 votes in favour, 1 against and 3 abstentions.
In my country 60 % of prisoners are behind bars because of drug dependence, and 40 % of that 60 % have the AIDS virus.
Prevention must therefore be fundamental and two other amendments therefore seem important to us: in the first place to provide the Lisbon Observatory with sufficient human and financial resources to keep it right up to date all the information we have throughout Europe on which actions have been most effective; in the second place to hold in 1996 the conference proposed by the rapporteur under the aegis of the United Nations, the European Parliament and the Commission, in which the experiences of all the European countries may be evaluated, not only those of the past 20 years, so that we may know what experiences have been the most effective and may then take more practical decisions in this field.
Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of these people whom it seems you respect but whose opinion you do not share and who is in favour of positive drugs control, or what you describe as 'legalized liberalization' .
Mr Chirac is a veritable danger to the public when it comes to public health and drugs.
I therefore approve of the general inspiration behind the report and virtually all the amendments, with the exception of Amendment No 8 which refuses to distinguish between hard and soft drugs at the prevention stage.
But yet I do not propose to counter the dogma of unprincipled repression with a dogma of liberalization lacking in any public health objectives.
Our pragmatic position can be summed up in four simple ideas which are effectively adapted to the reality of the situation: the decriminalizing of all drug use, controlled legislation for products which do not lead to addiction, public international control of the supply and trade in hard drugs based on an agreement between the European Union, the United States and the other major consuming and producing countries, and, finally, the generalization of policies of risk reduction and substitution treatment.
I know that the rapporteur had a difficult task to the extent that, right from the start, the distinction between prevention and repression seems rather artificial.
Repression is clearly in many cases the best form of prevention.
I am thinking in particular of Amendment No 2 which says that a completely drug-free society is a Utopian vision and Amendment No 3 which says that the goal should be to limit the adverse effects of drug consumption.
Another mistake is the way Amendment No 4, for example, suggests that drug addicts are simply people with a health problem.
Consequently, I believe it is a basic philosophical error to believe that you can dispense with repression in this area.
The human mind is not entirely rational, as we now know thanks to the work of phrenologists such as Mac Lean, and collective repression is absolutely essential.
You have been very courageous Mr Burtone.
The Lisbon Observatory provides us with the tragic figures.
For these are our drugs.
Tobacco leads to a dependence estimated at 25 or 35 %.
But when you consider that, in my country in particular, there are five million cannabis users, I wonder how we are going to manage to lock them all up.
I believe that this will be progress and that this conference which you mention and which we all want to see, in 1996, will be a step in the right direction.
Finally, we must not demonize any experience or initiative, whether negative or positive.
I believe that if we do not offer alternatives to our young people, not enough dreams, not enough adventure, and not enough certainty, then drugs and drug dealers still have a bright future ahead of them.
Mr President, drugs are a scourge which destroy our families and kill our young people.
For very many years already the European Parliament has concentrated on three courses of action in combatting this tragedy.
Understanding at last that punishment is not the solution to the drugs problem seems to me to be in itself an important step forward, as is the fact that the preventive approach is being adopted.
Mr President, Mr Burtone has done some wonderful work and he is obviously very concerned about drugs but at the same time I would like to say that I do not share all his views.
In our group I speak for something that we call the minority but I in fact believe that in this case the minority is bigger than the majority.
This debate has also strengthened still further my conviction that the area of criminal law should remain a purely national concern for the Member States.
The UN's drugs conventions should rather be strictly applied by the EU countries as one element in the battle against drugs.
The battle against unemployment, social injustice and segregation is thus an important part of the battle against drug abuse - the most important part.
This policy forms a single whole, all parts of which are needed.
Mr President, it is customary to congratulate a rapporteur.
So today we are concerned with the question of prevention.
We must therefore confront an illness and its complications - which are admittedly a major element - whether viral contamination, which essentially means hepatitis or AIDS, social contamination in the form of family dramas, marginalization and exclusion-dereliction, or judicial contamination through the resultant delinquency.
I cannot therefore support the Burtone report and I hope that this house will be able to produce a more positive and more active policy on drugs.
Reference is always made in these debates to the consequences of alcohol and nicotine abuse.
We must also promote improved cooperation between Member States and between the competent Community bodies in this field.
The starting point of drugs policy must be clear: society does not approve of drugs.
Mr President, I strongly agree with the proposals contained in this report.
The imbalance has been somewhat redressed by the public health competence given to us by the Maastricht Treaty.
Mr President, I have been working on the issue of drugs since the very first committee of inquiry in which I served with Sir Jack StewartClark.
In fact, the whole question of why some people choose to deal with life through the haze of drugs, why some people become addicted and others do not, is also part of the issue we have to face.
I am sure many colleagues from other countries have experienced the same problem that very often young people in prison, who may not in fact be addicted when they go in, come out addicted.
While 80 % of the people in our own prisons are there because of drug-connected crime, some of them are not.
Mr President, I know that Commissioner Flynn shares with us the regret that we do not have total competence in all matters concerned with drugs.
The fact that law and order sits within the third pillar is regrettable.
Indeed, if we look at my own country, in Scotland and England there are two separate drugs policies.
The policy on drugs must be approached from different angles.
The goal must be a society free of drugs.
The dialogue about combating drugs is not interference: it is European domestic policy.
Mr President, I first of all thank all those who have contributed in such a sincere and dedicated way.
The text before you today for this second reading is the Council's common position on the first programme for Community action to prevent drug dependence.
We all agree on the need for such a programme and the need to adopt concrete measures to combat drug abuse at European level.
As you know, the initial proposal has been extended following the incorporation of some 21 amendments which were proposed by Parliament and which were supported by the Commission either fully or partially.
The Council took on board many of the amendments, sometimes, I have to say, in a different form.
The Council wants to reduce the overall budget for the five-year programme from ECU 28.5m to ECU 27m.
The Commission finds this unacceptable given that the common position which has been suggested by the Council substantially extends the scope of the original proposal.
The Commission supports the setting up of a purely advisory committee, both as a matter of principle and in order to avoid unnecessary administrative burdens.
I remain of that view, notwithstanding the decisions taken on the committee structure for the three other health programmes recently approved under the codecision procedure.
I would like to turn to the Commission's position on the 32 amendments proposed by the rapporteur in the second reading.
Twelve are acceptable to the Commission, Mr Burtone, fully or in part.
On the remaining amendments the Commission cannot support the draft recommendations for the following reasons: Amendments Nos 1, 2, 8, 11, 14 and 30 and the new Amendments Nos 33 to 36.
These lie outside the Community powers based on Article 129 or deal with matters that fall within the scope of other pillars of the Treaty, the exact point Sir Jack Stewart-Clark has been making for some time.
Amendment No 4: this statement is already covered by recital 1 of the common position and by Amendment No 6.
Amendment No 5: Amendment No 7 describes the objectives of the programme in greater detail without reference to the objectives of a policy on drugs.
Amendment No 6: the first statement is fully acceptable since it confirms the public health approach to the scourge but the second part falls outside the Community powers under Article 129.
Amendment No 9 is already covered by Amendment No 7.
Amendment No 13: the content of this amendment is covered by Amendment No 15 which is acceptable to the Commission.
Amendments Nos 19, 20 and 21: I have already underlined the Commission's position concerning the nature of the committee foreseen by Article 5 of the proposed decision.
Furthermore, I would like to point out that Amendments Nos 19 and 21 are not in the line with the decisions taken by the three health programmes that were adopted at the beginning of this year.
Amendments Nos 22 and 37: the activities foreseen in these amendments are not in line with the principle of subsidiarity and would exceed the budgetary possibilities of the programme.
Amendment No 23: the Commission was supportive of the evaluation and exchange of experience in the fields mentioned in the amendment and this has been incorporated into the common position.
Amendment No 24: the Commission considered that these activities are already included in the common position under generic provisions.
Amendment No 25: the first part of this amendment is already covered in the common position whereas the second part, which relates to the organization of social and health services, is a matter for the national authorities.
Amendment No 29: the prevention of drug dependence and associated risks with the support of the activities of relevant bodies is the main aim of the programme and it is already underlined in the Council text.
The Commission's report on the evaluation of the European drug prevention week of 1994, which has recently been transmitted to Parliament, confirms the interest of those involved in the day-to-day management of drugs-related problems in cooperation on a European scale.
There are those who - albeit in good faith - have failed to understand our position but there are also those who are doing their utmost - deliberately - to undermine the work designed seriously to combat drug dependence in Europe.
The debate is closed.
Votes Madam President, we would like a separate vote on Amendments Nos 5 and 6.
Madam President, I was under the impression that we had agreed that if we wanted a separate vote on anything, we had to say so in advance.
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, you are perfectly right in the case when there is a recommendation from the committee responsible.
Excuse me for intervening once again, Madam President, but we also want a separate vote on Amendments Nos 22 and 23. (The President declared the common position adopted as amended) I should like a separate vote on Amendment No 16, Madam President.
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, on this occasion the committee responsible has recommended a block vote on Amendments Nos 12, 16, 19, 21.
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, as you were able to appreciate this morning, we are introducing a system which is, let us say, rather more constraining and rigid than we are used to.
Mr Pompidou, you are seeking to shamelessly profit from the situation!
No, Madam President, it is in the interests of consistency.
No, Madam President, my group is with me.
I cannot decide alone to withdraw this request. (The President declared the common position adopted as amended) Madam President, I wanted to say a word on this point as I once again presented the table which failed by just one vote to win the Commission's support.
But I should like to draw attention to the fact that having approved the previous text we will be contradicting ourselves if we do not adopt the amendment which I propose.
This is why I invite you to vote in favour of my amendment, especially as the Commission and Parliament must succeed in convincing the Council.
The committee approved the table unanimously because, in the table, priorities are established very clearly, perhaps more clearly than in the broader brush-strokes of the text.
As I said, however, there is no contradiction here, and the committee approved this table unanimously.
After the adoption of the 'table' part of Amendment No 27: Madam President, the table I referred to was, of course, that of the committee, not the table submitted by Mr Soulier and the PPE.
Mr Lange, I believe that there is in effect some confusion.
I believe that for my part I have been very clear.
I put to the vote Amendment No 27 by the European People's Party.
The rapporteur then requested to speak in order to explain why he was in favour of this amendment and why he had tabled it.
It is indeed normal for a rapporteur to speak on behalf of the committee.
But in this case we were misled for the simple reason that the rapporteur did not speak on behalf of his committee, but on behalf of his group.
Mr Dankert, I listened carefully to the rapporteur, especially as he spoke in my language so there was no possible interpreting error.
Everything was very clear.
Mr Soulier felt that as rapporteur he had to present Amendment No 27 which had been tabled by his party, taking into account in particular the conclusions of the debate we had this week - a debate sometimes serves a purpose - and the replies given by Commissioner Papoutsis.
I assure members of my group that everything was conducted properly. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Madam President, although the House is empty, there is a great deal of noise going on behind me, but I am none the less pleased that the House has accepted my report, and that we have approved the legislative measures in the SAVE programme.
I would call on the Commission, as a matter of urgency, to follow Parliament's lead in this case, for once, because we have clearly seen that without legislation there is absolutely no movement: that has been demonstrated with regard to CO2 reduction and energy efficiency.
That is why the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy included the legislative element in SAVE II.
The proposal for a Council Decision concerns an exceptionally important area for the Union's Member States in terms of the economy, the environment and supply policy: the promotion of energy efficiency.
There is no point in not legislating in this area - on grounds of the principle of subsidiarity - in view of the cross-border nature of the problems associated with CO2 .
Recommendation for second reading by Mr von Wogau We assume that the Customs 2000 programme is concerned with agreeing at Community level criteria for the minimum level of the controls to be carried out.
In our opinion each Member State should itself be allowed to decide on the level of controls to be carried out at its borders with other EU countries.
At the time of our intervention at first reading on the Community action programme on customs, we welcomed this initiative designed to better coordinate national customs controls at the Union's external borders, while at the same time being concerned at the direction taken by the European Parliament: its amendments tended to 'communitize' the national customs and to promote the objective of a 'domestic market' which is even more unified than the present single market and which would virtually deny countries any margin for manoeuvre in their legislation.
As could have been expected, the European Parliament has returned to the attack with amendments which my group voted against.
We believe that the Community, under pressure from federalist groups such as those in this House, is systematically adopting the wrong approach: first, we dismantled controls on goods at the internal borders without even having harmonized controls at the external borders, a mistake for which we are now paying very dearly.
I approve of Parliament's insistence in giving the Community 'Customs 2000' programme more force and substance faced with the hesitations of the co-legislator, the Council.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy thus wants to step up the fight against fraud through harmonized and reinforced customs.
Such a programme can encourage the European Union to advance in this direction, but we must of course show we are serious in implementing the programme, in particular when it comes to the controls.
Each Member State must provide its customs with the technical and human resources necessary to fulfill this task.
I stress in particular the importance of continuing high-level training supplementing the initial training which each customs officer receives in his country of origin.
This continuing training, to be given at a European customs academy, will be a vital asset for European customs officers working at external borders and involved in the fight against fraud.
The European Parliament has now approved, at second reading, its definitive version of the 'Customs 2000' action programme.
A drugs policy aimed at restriction and prevention is the common path we ought to take, in order to be able to combat drugs effectively.
It is highly regrettable that the Council does not have a point of view to match the scale of the problem of drug dependence and the essential need for prevention.
The Council must see drug addicts as people in distress who must be brought back into society and not as delinquents.
I hope that the Commission will support our approach.
I invite the Council to show greater realism and commitment in implementing this programme.
By approving the Burtone report the European Parliament would be sending out a completely different signal, a signal which could lead to many more young people in Europe being drawn into a life of hopelessness, prostitution and crime.
A common EU strategy would not be the best way of preventing the drugs problem, and the prospects of there being agreement about such a strategy are unlikely in the light of the differences between the various speeches made here today.
The report still contains a number of elements which the environmental party cannot support: The environmental party cannot accept the so-called 'harm reduction' strategy , because this concept has become a code word for a liberal strategy on drugs.-The environmental party cannot accept that the introduction to the programme states that 'a completely drug-free society is a Utopian vision ' .
Fighting against drugs dependence, in particular by motivating co-operation between the Member States, backing respective actions and promoting and co-ordinating their policies - the basis of the programme of Community action to prevent the scourge of drugs in the framework of public health - deserves our agreement.
Everything that can promote information, prevention and education, prophylaxy and treatment, whether in the younger age bands, where appeals to consumption take place at ever earlier ages, or within families, schools or at work, or through actions aimed at risk populations (including prison inmates), or aimed at public opinion in general, can count on our support and approval.
I fully support these proposals to improve the Community's programme of action.
Recommendation for second reading by Mr Castricum The proposed interoperability of the transEuropean high-speed rail system is a good project.
But it only has any meaning if it is accompanied by a financial plan allowing Europe to complete the efforts made by the individual Member States.
We must apply the principle of subsidiarity and too often the European Union intervenes illegitimately in matters which are normally within the sphere of competence of the Member States.
The European Union should redirect its efforts at genuine transborder projects.
For example, the International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates that the developing countries, which in 1990 accounted for 75 % of the world's total population, but for only 25 % of the global consumption of energy, will account for 80 % of the world's population and 40 % of total energy consumption in the year 2010.
First of all, we completely rule out even a partial standardization of the social protection systems of the Member States (in order to harmonize the reimbursement amounts for medicines).
Despite these major reservations, we voted in favour of this report.
Community guidelines for an industrial policy for the pharmaceutical industry must take account of the fact that the trade in medicines does not take place under normal market conditions.
The European Union's interest, and particularly that of the European Parliament, lies in both the industrial and public health aspects.
Mr President, I would not have objected to my Danish colleague, Eva Kjer, speaking first.
There are 11 debtors whose loans exceed 25 % of the ECSC's net assets.
The main commitments exceed 800 % of net assets, which means that the risk is not sufficiently spread.
I also wonder, in regard to all the properties we have at our 126 embassies around the world, whether the accounts have been tampered with there as well?
I was told that the President-in-Office would attend our debate and hear at least the first reports.
Were I in your place, Mr President, I would deny the Council speaking time in our discharge debate if it is so capricious in its attitude that it decides to double-book itself.
I hope therefore, Mr President, that you will consider denying the floor to the Council when it arrives, because it has treated this House with disdain and contempt.
Mr President, I have just come from the trialogue and Commissioner Liikanen is indeed tied up there as is the President-in-Office.
I have sent someone to ask whether after these ten minutes we can expect the Council and the Commission.
I therefore put to the vote the question whether the debate should continue. (Parliament decided to continue with the debate) Mr President, I warn in advance that God help the Council if it comes in here wanting to lecture us for half an hour on a debate it has not heard.
Thank you, Mr Tomlinson.
The Council has a distinguished representative here who will naturally report these points of view.
You know that it is not for me to censor what the Council wishes to say in this Assembly and you will receive the appropriate answers in parliamentary terms.
The Member States accept the corrections in the majority of cases, but we have also seen a number of examples of disagreements which have then been brought before the Court.
The fact that there is often negotiation between the Commission and a Member State means that the law is not necesseraly upheld.
Mr President, the discharge for the 1992 budget has caused something of a stir.
Finally, there was the failure to recover ECU 170 m from Spain for the nonapplication of milk quotas in 1989.
I know that the Commission is to make a statement tomorrow, but perhaps the Commissioner responsible for the budget and budget control could say something now about this 'spend, spend, spend' approach.
Mr President, these eight reports for joint debate represent something rather new in the Community this year because the Maastricht Treaty instructs the Court to produce a Statement of Assurance each year on the Community's finances.
It does not tell the Court how to do it nor does it tell Parliament what to do with it.
I was preparing to follow Mr Wynn with my remarks and now I find that I am playing St John before him!
While one of the mines was closed in 1990, the Markham main colliery has been mothballed, in that it is under repair and maintenance so that it can be used in the future.
I hope that the House will endorse the Committee on Budgetary Control's recommendation that discharge for the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions in Dublin be granted.
The Budgetary Control Committee recommends to the House that we defer discharge to CEDEFOP for the time being.
The problem when we give discharge is the fact that 80 % of the Union's budget is spent by the Member States, and we all know this.
Unfortunately, we do not give discharge to the Member States, we only give discharge to the Commission.
The results of the Court of Auditors' report on the Commission were somewhat mixed.
In the main, we could blame the Member States, because they are the ones who spend this 80 % of the budget.
I think we find an answer to that within that Explanatory Statement; and that is why paragraph 8 is so important to this Parliament, because that is the way that we can give discharge to the Commission, even with the Statement of Assurance being as it is.
Parliament's discharge power is focussed on the Community's accounts.
Those of us who have been here for many years and have seen the EDF discharge year in and year out know the problems of funding through the European Development Fund and we have accepted that over the years - not that we have tried to cover anything up, but at least we have tried to take cognizance of all those areas where, in development terms, things are not as simple as they would seem to be to an everyday accountant.
Quite frankly, there are three things that have come to a head and which have now brought us to the stage where we say enough is enough.
Within this report and within the resolution Parliament recognizes the Commission's attempt to improve the EDF through its better financial management, even working within what we consider to be an impossible framework.
But the DAS gave us the opportunity to look at the accounts, and the Court of Auditors said that the accounts imperfectly reflect the financial situation and the operations of the EDFs.
In other words, the Commission acts as a sub-contractor to manage these Funds and to all intents and purposes Parliament has no say in this expenditure.
The nature of the Commission's role as regards development funding gives rise to contradictions that Parliament as a democratic institution finds extremely hard to accept.
The third aspect was what happened at the Cultural Foundation.
It gives me no joy whatsoever to make a recommendation not to give discharge to the European Development Funds but the time has come for Parliament to stop providing this veneer of respectability, this fig leaf which we have always given in the past.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Parliament we have a different task from that of the Court of Auditors.
In the area of social policy, it reveals a gulf between the requirements, in terms of European social policy, and the European social policy that exists.
If we cannot manage to curb this behaviour on the part of the Member States, there is something strange about criticizing the Commission and refusing to grant it discharge.
Mr President, it is our job to monitor the efficiency of development aid and to exercise control, in our own political interest and the interest of the taxpayer.
If we do not grant this discharge, we may spark off a fresh debate about Lom IV and financing.
Mr President, I would like, first of all, to congratulate all the rapporteurs on these many reports and say that in each case I will be following the rapporteur's recommendation.
I hope it will continue to improve until we have the sort of culture that has been visualized both by the President of the Commission and in the sound and efficient management documents that have been put before us.
The clearance of accounts is in the Member States.
The fines are then against the Member States.
If we look at what has happened since the reports were debated in committee, particularly those relating to 1992 and 1993, Italy has been fined ECU 217m on milk quotas, ECU 89.4m on non-existent cereals - and I have to tell you ECU 89.4m on non-existent cereals represents a lot of cereals - ECU 25.6m on beef storage, ECU 16m on exceeding tobacco quotas.
Whilst we were debating Mr Wynn's report on the approval of the implementation of the budget for 1994, the opinion was expressed in the Committee on Budgetary Control that the Court of Auditors was in danger of becoming the victim of its own success.
We think that is clear now because the Court of Auditors will leave this hemicycle today not only with recognition of its hard work but also with the burden of at least six special reports and perhaps two or three new control procedures.
However, we can already see growing signs that the Court lacks the material resources to achieve the objectives which Parliament itself has laid down.
This Parliament has voted and will continue to vote for austerity in expenditure, particularly as regards the appointment of new staff, but we must bear in mind that without a Court of Auditors with sufficient resources we shall find it very difficult to comply with one of the principal mandates of our electors, namely to ensure that Community funds are used correctly and that European taxpayers' interests are protected when we are faced with the certain fact, stressed by the Wynn report, that 80 % of the Community budget is spent within the Member States.
There is a current of opinion, as honourable Members are well aware, which considers that in view of the 80 % it should perhaps be the Member States and their own national control institutions which should have full responsibility in supervising Community expenditure; that is to say, the pure and strict application of the principle of subsidiarity to budgetary control and its renationalization.
In no case do Community funds represent more than 2 % of national budgets and so to treat them in the same way as total national expenditure for control purposes would only reduce the actual quality of the control.
If that is hard to manage for the moment it is because there are considerable differences in accounting between the Member States, particularly in periods for drawing up and presenting accounts and also because there are differences in the functions of national audit offices and the political and administrative structures.
Clear expression should also be given to the importance which this Assembly attaches to keeping the Court of Auditors responsible for controlling 100 % of Community resources, with the Court retaining full autonomy and independence from Parliament in addition to observing and fulfilling the conditions laid down in the Treaties.
I should like to end by congratulating all the rapporteurs whose capacity and readiness for discussion are shown by the small number of amendments tabled.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the discharge for 1994 is proving of to be of greater importance than in the past.
I believe, however, that it is depressing to note that there are so many repetitions in the discharge reports, year after year.
It is a fact that 80 % of the EU budget is spent by the Member States, and it is precisely there that significant deficiencies are emerging.
The Commission should therefore take very seriously all the proposals made by the Committee on Budgetary Control for securing and recovering sums wrongly disbursed.
As regards external policy, the important thing is to overcome difficulties in the treaties, in order to achieve a more transparent spending policy and genuine cooperation between the two arms of the budgetary authority.
I would therefore say to all those who argue that a refusal to grant discharge would be an insult to development policy in general and our commitments under the Lom Convention in particular: it is quite the opposite!
There is a major procedural loophole, and unfortunately it now also affects discharge, because at the end of the day, Parliament cannot discharge the Council.
I follow Mr Cornelissen's report on this point.
We cannot go back to our European citizens who are very critical about the question of fraud and what they read in the press, and tell them that this is the system.
I am very critical of the Member States.
Regarding my question on the Development Funds, is Mr Wynn aware of the feelings of the ACP's 70 states expressed at the recent Lom conference, that if we do not grant discharge, it might affect them in some way?
Mr President, representative of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with a comment on procedure.
I was not present just now when my colleagues expressed their views on this subject, and this is not because I was attending the trialogue as I was not included in the European Parliament's delegation.
The second of these reports concerns action to be taken following the 1993 discharge.
I now come to the two reports by Mr Wynn, one on the 1994 discharge which he proposes to grant on the general budget, and the other on the 1994 discharge which he proposes to refuse on the question of management of the European Development Fund.
We are therefore granting discharge on a budget of almost ECU 60 billion, brushing aside the Court of Auditors' refusal to give a positive DAS due to payment irregularities amounting to ECU 2, 386 million, which is ECU 2.4 billion or 4 % of the budget.
I say this for the benefit of those who listen to us here: ECU 810, 000 or 0.04 % of the EDF.
It has to be said, Mrs Mller, that there are certain points where one has the feeling that it should have been possible, somewhere between 1991 and 1996, to achieve some movement.
Let me say something more on these four points, and firstly on tobacco.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has unanimously approved my draft report on this issue.
I am here to present the Council recommendation, adopted on 11 March and transmitted to the House, that the Commission be granted discharge for the budget for the 1994 financial year.
The reports of the Court of Auditors and the monitoring activities on which they are based provide the basic instruments that permit us to monitor the application of those principles.
I wish also to take this opportunity to thank the Committee on Budgetary Control for the work it does every year in relation to the discharge procedure: that work is done in the interest not only of the European Parliament but the Community as a whole.
In the field of own resources, the Council shares the concerns of the Court of Auditors about the operation of the Community transit scheme in the Member States.
On the issue of spending, the Council fully agrees with the Court on the need to improve the management and monitoring of the common organization of the market in the fruit and vegetable sector and also confirms the importance of reducing structural surpluses and making better use of products withdrawn from the market.
The Council considers it necessary to improve cooperation between the competent national authorities and the Commission services involved in spending activities.
Looking more particularly at the European Regional Development Fund, the Council is calling for uniform and strict application of the Community rules on the award of public contracts and environmental legislation in relation to measures financed with a contribution from the Community budget.
In conclusion, bearing in mind all of the comments made by the Court of Auditors, and after having looked at them in very great detail, the Council has agreed to recommend to the House that it grant the Commission discharge for the implementation of the 1994 budget.
The Council has pointed out that the accounts accurately reflect the revenue and expenditure of the Union, even though the information they contain needs to be improved.
The Court has not identified significant errors concerning the regularity of revenue transactions but has identified errors in payment transactions, as a result of which it unable fully to certify the legality or regularity of all transactions.
That programme must be applied rapidly and in full to reduce errors in payment transactions.
That is what the presidency had to say, on behalf of the Council, on the problems relating to the 1994 budget.
The Council cannot simply sweep its problems under the carpet now, because the scandal has made them quite apparent.
I deplore the fact that we go through this annual pretence, this annual charade, when Parliament has no say whatsoever over the funding of the EDF.
We called witnesses and carpeted individuals, including a key Member of the European Parliament.
I trust that the refusal to grant discharge will speed up the move towards the democratic accountability of the EDF.
I express the view that the Commission should be vigilant and meticulous in supporting these views, about which I believe both the Commission and Parliament are in full agreement.
I shall begin with a word about the authority to grant discharge itself, and about our Committee on Budgetary Control.
We rely mainly on the annual report and the special reports of the Court of Auditors, for which we are grateful to the Court, but also on the position of the Council when it is available in time - as it was in this case.
Detailed discussions between the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Commission have produced reform as regards the clearance of accounts decision, which now completes the discharge already granted for the year in question.
My group therefore backs the recommendation to grant discharge to the Commission in respect of the general budget for 1994, in spite of the shortcomings that have been identified, and subject to the appropriate conditions.
If ever there was an example of budgetary irresponsibility, it is the grandiose edifice currently taking shape in Brussels.
Despite much talk about bringing Europe closer to its citizens and the need to construct a People's Europe, projects such as this building only serve to reinforce the image of an elitist Europe out of touch with ordinary people and their concerns.
Madam President, I have a number of comments on the Wynn report on the discharge for the 1994 financial year.
If a political decision is to be taken on how the rules are to be revised, I think it should be a matter for the Commission, the Council and Parliament together.
My second comment concerns the PHARE programme.
It was built at a cost of about ECU 3 per capita for one year of the people of this European Union.
I hope, like the House of Commons or the Reichstag in Germany, or the Cortes in Spain, that building will be there for our children, our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren, that it will never be bombed or desecrated and that it will be the place in which the people of Europe will find their voice over the generations to come.
I want to underline the fact that it was not at European level but within the Irish Parliament that the first disclosures and demand for clarification on all these abuses occurred.
What is at stake here?
One - Lea Hall in my constituency - has received an unrecoverable subsidy of almost half-a-million ECU and Frickley colliery a subsidy of ECU 294 million, which has not been recovered from the British Government.
Monies have also been paid to pits which were subsequently privatized - two, again, in my constituency: Trentham and Silverdale.
We have seen, for example in the case of fraud in the packaging sector, that this unit has become a vital part of proper financial administration, and obviously it also has an important function in the fight against fraud.
The point has already been made that 80 % of expenditure is managed by the Member States; it is therefore all the more important that the Commission should probe more deeply, because we have heard hair-raising things about the results of checks on the withdrawal of fruit and vegetables from the market.
I hope that the new Member States, too, will have some pertinent suggestions.
I was not made sufficiently aware today of the way in which the Council and the Member States are involved in this whole process.
Almost every speaker referred to the fact that 80 % of the budget is spent in the Member States, but lasting improvement of the way the budget is implemented can only be achieved in conjunction with the Member States, and I believe we must therefore ensure that cooperation with them is improved.
In any event, I have no hesitation at all in supporting the proposal to defer or even refuse discharge in the case of CEDEFOP, but this situation cannot go on indefinitely.
However, the committee reflects only some of the major concerns in this area which we need to discuss.
Madam President, at the outset, I must state that I have particular reservations about Mr Kellett-Bowman's report on CEDEFOP.
It is a fact that CEDEFOP is passing through a time of transition because of its move from Berlin to Thessaloniki following the decision taken at the European Council in Brussels, concerning which anyone is entitled to have reservations.
Madam President, I think the European Commission has an obligation to make better use of CEDEFOP's contribution, as the rapporteur himself also said.
Besides, a long-term programme prepared by CEDEFOP has already been prepared, and this must be given serious attention.
For the present, I call on the rapporteur to delete paragraph 2 of the motion for a resolution, which casts doubt upon CEDEFOP's utility.
I welcome in particular his reference to the TACIS programme and the greater need for commitment to the monitoring of TACIS projects.
There is also a need, as the rapporteur stated, for a better dissemination of the results of the TACIS programme.
TACIS has poured some 600 million into the Russian Federation, for example, in the last five years.
I hope the Commission will ensure that this spirit of transparency is extended to its investigation of any wrongdoing by Michael Emerson and that Parliament is given a full account of any possible misuse of European funding or the granting of consultancies.
The debate today and the vote tomorrow bring to a close the review of the financial activities of the Community in 1994.
The process of external control is a key part of the efforts to improve the effectiveness and the value for money of the Community budgets.
The discharge for the CEDEFOP is postponed.
The particularity of the 1994 discharge procedure is that it has to evaluate the results of a new instrument introduced by the Maastricht Treaty, the 'Statement of Assurance (DAS)' .
The results of the first DAS demonstrate that the examination of individual operations, from the Commission down to the final recipient, provides valuable new information on the functioning of the financial management of the Commission and the Member States.
The Commission will continue to work with the Court of Auditors and outside experts to improve the methodology of DAS.
The main consequences to be drawn from the first DAS are twofold.
Firstly, all efforts will continue to eliminate sources of errors identified in DAS.
The errors attributed to the Commission - mainly formal - have been addressed as part of the first two stages of the Sound and Efficient Management programme (SEM 2000).
The first meeting of the group of personal representatives of the Ministers of Finance of 7 March 1996 was fruitful.
These questions are identified by the 1994 discharge report as the key question for the structural funds.
We hope that in the working group we are going to find a solution.
The discussions in the group of personal representatives confirmed expectations that progress on the questions will be difficult.
A number of Member States took a view opposite to the approach of the Court of Auditors and the European Parliament.
There is, in fact, a built-in contradiction between, on the one hand, ambitious quality objectives and, on the other hand, the political commitment to 'spend it all' by 1999.
The European Council of Madrid has given a strong impetus to increasing quality of spending and examining the possibility of new sanctions.
As far as internal policies are concerned, the 1994 discharge report expresses serious doubts on the transparency of procedures with regard to direct financing and subsidies.
There is little evidence to support this view in the report of the Court of Auditors.
Instead of another horizontal report covering all of category 3, it would however be more effective to focus on individual programmes through ex ante and ex post evaluations for each programme concerned.
The Committee on Budgetary Control proposes not to discharge the Commission.
Furthermore, the Commission has always shared the criticism of Parliament concerning the legal and financial framework of the EDF.
Finally, as you are certainly aware, there are those in the Commission dealing with development policy who fear that the refusal of discharge may make development policy more difficult in future.
We have known the needs there, but I want to say that the Commission has already taken a decision for the 1997 budget that we will not ask new resources outside the enlargement budget.
The Commission will keep Parliament informed of any new developments.
As to the buy-back scheme of milk quotas, the legal base has in the meantime been adopted and the Commission considers this matter closed.
Finally, on the Dutch calves I will transmit that question to Commissioner Fischler.
There was also a question on the ECSC loans to British Coal.
Madam President, there is a very serious conflict here between the Commission and Council that we need to clarify.
There is definitely a recommendation from the Council as regards the Development Fund.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon on Wednesday.
For example, as far as controls on baggage are concerned, Article 124 of the Schengen Agreement, signed in June 1990, merely provides that: ' the number and frequency of checks on goods during movements of travellers at internal borders shall be reduced to the lowest level possible.
As far as controls on baggage are concerned, Article 1 of Regulation No 3925/91 provides that the removal of controls on baggage at internal frontiers is to apply, except for those checks linked to prohibitions or restrictions laid down by the Member States, provided they are compatible with the three Treaties establishing the European Communities.
As the honourable Member is aware, the Commission is taking part in the meetings of the Schengen Executive Committee as an observer.
At this time, in this first year of application of the Schengen accords, it has been observed that their application has, in point of fact, increased the opportunities for control in relation to all issues that threaten the security of citizens.
The application of the Schengen agreement has therefore stimulated cooperation in the field of activities of prevention and control applied by the competent authorities of the various Member States.
It is right to point out that the Member States retain the power to carry out checks at any point in their national territory, provided that those checks are justified, in particular in accordance with Article 36 of the EC Treaty, are proportionate and are not discriminatory.
As the author is not present, Question No 19 lapses.
Question No 20 by Brian Crowley (H-0240/96) Subject: Duty-free shopping Duty-free shopping at airports, on airlines and on car ferries is a voluntary activity on the part of travellers, the profits from which contribute significantly towards the viability of many airports, air and ferry routes.
In addition, the products sold in duty-free outlets throughout the world are dominated by brand names from European Union companies whose competitiveness is assisted by duty-free sales during international travel within the European Union.
It will therefore be difficult for the Commission to consider extending the facilities for duty-free shops, as these are arrangements incompatible with the principles of the internal market.
What is being proposed here by the abolition of the duty-free regulations is a huge loss in employment across the 15 Member States as well as a huge drop in the attraction to travellers of services that they are free to choose for themselves; and if they go outside the EU they can get these services.
I would call on the Commission here and now to postpone implementation of this decision until such time as we have the other essential sectors of the internal market in place, namely the harmonization of excise and VAT regimes.
Duty and tax-free sales to intra-Community travellers at airports, on aircraft or on ferries have been authorized by the Council until 30 June 1999.
On the point now raised by you, namely the link to other aspects of the internal market, let me say without prejudice to the future definitive VAT regime, the freedom to purchase tax-paid goods anywhere in the Community has been one of the fundamental acquis of the internal market since 1 January 1993.
So the relevant event which logically produces the necessity for an end to the dutyfree system is not the future definitive VAT regime but is something which has already been substantially in place since 1 January 1993.
This question gives me the opportunity to refer to the report.
When adopting Directive 81/690, the Commission effectively undertook to submit to the Council a report on the functioning of the system of control by the seller.
This document, which was drawn up in cooperation with the authorities in the Member States, is now being looked at by the Commission's services.
The report deals both with control by the seller and the analysis of the amount of ECU 90 applicable since 1 April 1994 to tax-free intra-Community sales.
When adopting Directive 94/4 the Commission also undertook to draw up, by 31 December 1995, a report by the Council to the European Parliament on this subject.
It is true that the present duty-free system contributes to the financial resources of airports, ferries and so on.
Question No 21 by Wayne David (H-0229/96) Subject: VAT claims What are the procedures involved in claiming back VAT on goods and services purchased across the European continent by long-distance lorry drivers?
The applicant has the right to use the pre-stamped form in any of the official languages of the European Union, whereas the form itself must be completed in the language of the country making the refund.
Problems of that nature will, however, come to an end when we move on to the definitive VAT regime, based on the principle of taxation in the country of origin.
But, given that there is this interim problem and given that enormous difficulties are being caused at the moment, are there no measures at all that the Commission can introduce so that the procedure is made much more straightforward and efficient, albeit in the interim?
Question No 22 by Per Gahrton (H-0256/96) Subject: Europol It is clear following Parliament's consideration of the Nassauer report that a majority of Members would like to see Europol develop into both operational cooperation among police forces and a common EU police force.
The aim of Europol is to improve the opportunities for the competent authorities in the Member States to fight serious forms of international organised crime within the European Union.
The Council will establish provisions formalising this cooperation and ensure that the various functions complement one another.
This cannot be done before the Europol Convention is ratified by the fifteen Member States, however.
Question No 23 by Eva Kjer Hansen (H-0274/96) Subject: Fraud against Community resources On various occasions, the most recent at the hearing of the Committee of Inquiry, the Commission has stated that the most effective way of getting to grips with fraud would be to introduce a common system of sanctions.
The Commission uses all appropriate means in its fight against fraud which damages the Community's economic interests.
The most recent programme of work to combat fraud indicates clearly where the priorities lie.
The Member States have submitted reports on national measures to combat the waste and mismanagement of Community resources.
The convention on the protection of the Community's financial interests was signed in July 1995.
The convention lays down that fraud is a criminal offence.
Within the framework of the current Intergovernmental Conference the Commission has also proposed that the battle against fraud should be incorporated in the first pillar.
However, I would like to ask the Commissioner to confirm that it is an untenable position for us not to have common sanctions in all areas.
I would therefore ask the Commissioner to confirm that what we are trying to achieve is a common system of sanctions in all areas.
May I also ask a question regarding the system of sanctions in relation to the Member States?
We are discussing the question of sanctions in SEM 2000, which means that we have now entered into cooperation and dialogue with the Member States in order, inter alia, to find appropriate forms for sanctions such as those in respect of the Structural Funds.
It is correct that 80 % of EU resources are disbursed to Member States.
In this connection it is those countries with a federal system which present the stumbling block.
Commissioner, do you not think that the greatest problem as regards corruption in the European Union lies in the fact that the individual Member States frequently go to some lengths to deny the Commission the resources it needs to exercise effective control over the various operations?
As the author is not present, Question No 24 lapses.
Question No 25 by Maj Theorin (H-0254/96) Subject: Extension of the common foreign and security policy to common defence In its Opinion on the holding of an Intergovernmental Conference (COM(96)90 final) the Commission believed 'that a proper common foreign and security policy has to extend to common defence.
Mr President, in reply to Mrs Theorin's question, I should like to point out that the Commission's opinion was drawn up for the Intergovernmental Conference and that it constitutes a formal part of the procedure laid down in the Maastricht Treaty.
I would point out to the honourable Member that all the Member States have already agreed that the common foreign and security policy 'shall include all questions related to the security of the Union, including the eventual framing of a common defence policy, which might in time lead to a common defence' , in Article J.4 of the Treaty on European Union.
My question concerns how the Commission envisages the integration of the WEU in the EU when it is a fact that several Member States do not want to be full members of the WEU, nor to participate in a common defence.
The opinion which the Commission produced for the Intergovernmental Conference simply puts forward a number of specific recommendations and alternatives in this field, and I find it rather difficult to anticipate the results of the negotiations which began at the summit in Turin at the end of March.
A very important question, for example, is whether or not we should abandon the right of veto which currently applies.
Firstly, it has been suggested that the way around this particular problem would be to suspend Article 5 of the WEU Treaty and therefore perhaps make it easier to integrate neutral states into a future defence union.
It has been announced that Belarus and Russia will form a union on 2 April.
I expressed our concern on 25 March to the Prime Minister of Belarus during his visit to Brussels, and also during my visit to Minsk at the beginning of November 1995, when I talked to the President's right-hand man, Mr Myashnikovitch.
The Commission attaches the utmost priority to the Brenner rail project.
This memorandum follows a route agreement, including the Brenner base tunnel, reached in June 1994 and it specifies actions to improve the financial and economic viability of the project.
In this context, the Commission has launched a study on the development of Alpine traffic which will constitute an important basis for further in-depth economic and financial studies on the Brenner project.
Of the 1995 allocations to the project, a significant part concerned technical environmental studies on track doubling on the AustriaInn Valley section, the most advanced and, due to capacity problems, the most urgent part of the project.
My question, Commissioner, is as follows.
It would be wrong to say, however, that the Brenner project does not feature in the fourteen priority projects that were agreed at Essen and are the subject of continual attention both by the Member States and by the Commission for the purposes of funding within the powers of the Trans-European Networks transport budget line.
Commissioner, my question concerns the fact that Mr Santer has submitted a plan and put forward ideas for making additional resources available to implement the trans-European networks.
I regret to say that if the honourable Member believes that President Santer and the Commission have the power, to use his phrase, to make available additional resources for TEN, then he is labouring under a very sad and serious misconception.
Recording the concern of the Commission, which I have expressed on many occasions, President Santer quite rightly made it very clear at the beginning of this year that he thought it was now time for ECOFIN to make a positive response to the submissions made by the Commission and to the call made by the heads of government.
What we have done is to take account very directly of the applications made for transport TEN funding support from the Member States, which are now running at six times the resources available to us.
Question No 32 by Florus Wijsenbeek (H-0082/96) Subject: Checks on driving and rest periods: discrimination against foreign lorry drivers in Belgium Is the Commission aware that there is discrimination against foreign lorries when checks on driving and rest periods are carried out?
The Commission recently adopted a report on the application of social legislation in road transport in 1991/92.
The report shows that in Belgium, 65 % of those drivers subjected to checks on driving and rest hours were nationals of other Member States whereas in the Netherlands, for example, this figure is 20 %.
The returns from Luxembourg, for instance, show a situation that is comparable with that of Belgium.
I urge the Commissioner to do something to ensure that Directive 88/599 is correctly applied.
This is the first and foremost task of the Commission - to see to it that Community legislation is correctly applied by all Member States.
I repeat, only in order to emphasize, that there is no evidence of discrimination but that, in conjunction with the Belgian authorities, the Commission is seeking to ensure at all times that there is fair and uniform application of Community rules to prevent any possibility of discrimination against drivers from any country, whatever their company or point of origin.
Question No 33 by Hans Lindqvist (H-0150/96) Subject: The bridge across the resund Construction of the bridge across the resund, between Malm and Copenhagen, has just begun.
Over the period 1992-1994 Danish access routes of the resund fixed link received Community financial support under the transport infrastructure programme, totalling ECU 21 m in the form of direct grants to the Danish authorities.
The support consisted of ECU 10 m for the cofinancing of studies on the resund fixed link itself, where the beneficiary was the resund Consortiet Project Authority and ECU 5 m for studies on the Danish access routes where the beneficiary was the State of Denmark.
The co-finance studies for the resund fixed link in 1995 included design studies, environmental studies, environmental-impact assessment activities and monitoring, as well as traffic forecast studies.
The co-finance studies for the Danish access routes in 1995 included technical design studies, as well as environmental studies and monitoring.
Further financial support is envisaged for the period 1996-1999 since the resund fixed link is a key element in the development of the trans-European transport network.
The figures available to the Commission, based on the 1996 application for trans-European transport co-financing, show that the construction budget has been increased from ECU 1, 837 m to ECU 1, 962 m due to a number of changes and improvements related in particular to environmental projects.
I should like to know whether the Commission or the EU has imposed any environmental requirements in granting the funds for the bridge.
My answer to that last point of the question is absolutely, definitely yes!
So far as the environmental conditions are concerned, the two principal pieces of Community legislation are Directive 85/337 on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment, and Directive 79/409 on the conservation of wild birds.
It is also understood that a Danish environmental, non-governmental organization - the Danish branch of Greenpeace - was recognized in July 1994 as having legal standing to challenge the project on the basis of a deficient environmental-impact assessment.
President Santer has revisited the idea of the so-called Eurobonds.
The honourable Member will know very well, however, that there is very strenuous resistance to such an idea among the Member States and it may not be the first time in history that the Commission in its view and Parliament in its enthusiasm have proved to be more realistic and progressive than the Council of Ministers.
The Community support framework 1994-1999 for Greece, the Community initiative INTERREG II and the Cohesion Fund already co-finance the construction on Community territory of road axes linking Via Egnatia with Albania, Fyrom and Bulgaria, while the Thessaloniki-Efsoni link is already at motorway/expressway standard.
The PHARE programme already co-finances the continuation of some of these axes beyond the European Union border to Durres and to Sofia.
The Commission will of course continue its efforts to utilize all possibilities for further co-financing of these links within existing Community mechanisms and instruments.
I am certain there is not a single project in the whole European Union about which I would not say it is possible to make faster progress.
In the case of this particular project I have to say that, given the complexities relating to it, given the number of interests that are attached to it and given the fact that this is the first time in history that such a development has taken place, I can only express a certain degree of satisfaction with the intense interest being shown and the efforts being made to ensure that this project is benefiting from as rapid progress as possible.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fisheries agreement with Morocco is the most important fisheries agreement concluded by the Community, not only because of its economic value, which is of course considerable, but for its far-reaching social and economic implications.
But before commenting on the content of the agreement and to consequences to be expected from it, I should like, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, to give my sincere thanks to the Commission for its collaboration and the rapidity with which it has continually passed on information throughout the seven months of negotiations - an effort which is if possible all the more praiseworthy bearing in mind the difficulty and the many times things ground to a halt; we trust that such collaboration will set a standard for future actions.
Similarly I take this opportunity to show our satisfaction that, after a long process of dialogue and negotiation between Parliament, the Commission and the Council, interinstitutional cooperation seems to have borne fruit, and, for the first time with an international fisheries agreement, Parliament was consulted pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 228(3) of the Treaty on European Union; that is to say by means of the assent procedure requested so many times by this Assembly.
We hope that that situation will not be an exception and will represent a change in the doctrine hitherto followed by the Council and the Commission as regards the legal bases relating to international fisheries agreements.
Having made these observations I must state, going now into the content of the agreement, that regardless of how each political Group in this Assembly may view the agreement, the fishing opportunities are certainly reduced as compared with the previous agreement, affecting in particular cephalopoda, long line-fishing and certain sectors of small-scale fishing.
And although no renewal clause is expressly envisaged, this House is urging the Commission to take up, at the proper time and well in advance, the necessary contacts and negotiations for a peaceful extension of fishing relations with Morocco, once the period initially envisaged for its validity has expired.
But possibly, Madam Commissioner, it is the best agreement possible.
And so the Committee on Fisheries, after a debate in depth, has agreed to give its assent to the terms negotiated by the Commission.
On the other hand, however, this agreement has shown the growing difficulty in concluding international agreements of this scope.
A policy of half measures and patching up has been applied on many occasions, but the situation of the fisheries sector, as the Commissioner herself has said many times, demands that this problem be faced and that the alternatives necessary for the regions and persons who will be affected as a consequence of the restructuring of the fishing sector should be urgently tackled.
It is clear, Madam Commissioner, that the next multiannual guidance programmes will be very hard to negotiate, but it will have to be done seriously and strictly and not in a spirit of political opportunism.
It will have to be done by providing the financial, economic and, above all, social measures necessary to make acceptable the costs arising from them and, of course, in a context of broad dialogue and in collaboration with all those involved in the industry and in welfare aspects.
Madam Commissioner, in congratulating you today and in asking the House to approve this fisheries agreement, we cannot overlook the fact that we must make a very serious effort to adapt our fleet to the fishing opportunities.
We wish the Commission much success in its fisheries negotiations so that we may continue to maintain the activity of our fleet, but we also wish the Member States to face up resolutely to their obligations to preserve the medium- and long-term viability of their fishing fleets.
But underlying all that, as was also emphasized at the recent plenary sitting on 27 March in Brussels, the urgent need to revise and strengthen the European Union's policy with regard to international fishing agreements.
I also view favourably the fact that for the first time, although belatedly, it has been submitted for the assent of Parliament as we had requested.
But basically, I stress, in view of the experience of what has happened and for institutional and sectoral reasons, a new approach to international agreements is required.
In the case of Morocco, as previously with Canada, there has been a serious lack of foresight and initiative, substantial cuts in fishing and expensive compensation and precedents have been created which will certainly not pass unperceived by other States with which we shall shortly have to negotiate or renegotiate other agreements.
Some of these have already been raised by some of my colleagues, namely the way that international fishing agreements operate, the way they are agreed and the effect they have not just on our own fishing fleets but on the fishing fleets of other nations as well.
The thing which concerns me most is the size of the sum in comparison with the total amount of money which the European Union puts into fisheries and the fact that in terms of cost-effectiveness this agreement costs the equivalent of ECU 250, 000 per vessel per year and something like ECU 16, 000 per person directly employed in the fishing industry.
Mr President, with regard to the fisheries agreement between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco, we ought not to lose sight of overall relations between the two countries and the way they have been developing.
In every international agreement there must be a symmetry which respects and, to the highest degree possible, satisfies the needs of the contracting parties.
The unbalanced nature of this agreement seems obvious to us and in this respect it must be borne in mind that in the global context - and I am not speaking only of fisheries - Morocco has obtained concessions in certain sectors of production characteristic of the south of the European Union which are having a negative effect, creating the risk of seriously damaging our economic and social structures.
The European Parliament has been consulted, and that is something, but we were also consulted too late.
Mr President, as I pointed out earlier in relation to this agreement, the EU needs to learn lessons from the problems that it has posed.
These cutbacks will obviously affect the EU fishermen, especially the Spanish and, to a lesser extent, the French, who are the main beneficiaries of the agreements.
We are basically just exporting our own problem with all its negative consequences for these other countries.
Having said that, there are some positive aspects to this agreement.
I welcome the provision made in the agreement for funding the development of the Moroccan fisheries sector as well as for improved research on fisheries in the region and for better training of fishermen.
As well as that, we really have to realize in the EU that we do not have the right to set up free-for-all fishing in Moroccan waters or in the waters of any other country.
However, the Council's decision to apply the agreement provisionally restricts the part played by Parliament and partly neutralizes this more democratic trend.
I agree therefore with the political proposal of the Committee on Fisheries to make the assent conditional upon an official undertaking on the part of the Commission to inform the European Parliament every year of the state of budgetary and financial implementation of the agreement, and following on from my motion I would add that it would be appropriate for the Commission to present an assessment of its socio-economic impact on the Community regions affected, particularly the peripheral regions.
Nevertheless we shall support this assent in spite of all these reservations and those we brought up at the time concerning the terms of the agreement, since it must be recognized that Morocco has become an important focus in European foreign strategy and in fact this concern has taken the shape of a political dialogue which, in spite of the fisheries tensions and other sectoral conflicts now in the past, we are pursuing by the path of cooperation.
To alleviate the pain the Union undertook at the General Affairs Council of 10 November 1995 to make proposals for a fund to promote ornamental plant products.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, virtually five months after the beginning of the provisional application of the fisheries agreement between the European Union and Morocco, the European Parliament is now giving a favourable opinion on this agreement.
But this is also an excellent opportunity to emphasise three ideas: the benefits which my country, Portugal, will draw from this agreement - since Portugal took advantage from the bilateral negotiations between Portugal and Morocco, the need to look forward already to the post-1999 period and the urgency for introducing a new fisheries policy.
In the fisheries sector proper, negotiations with Morocco in the framework of the European Union have so far been favourable for Portugal.
Portugal now has three times more fishery permits in Morocco than it had in 1995 and its fishery rights are now maintained by a formal legal basis and not merely by a framework of individual licences.
A new common fisheries policy must be a sustainable and responsible one in which international agreements cannot simply involve exporting structural readjustments of the Community fleet.
Mr President, I welcome the Arias Caete report.
Having said that, it would be wrong of me not to draw attention to the future of these fishing agreements.
The Morocco agreement is the most important one.
We must recognise the fact that this agreement before us tonight is going to cost approximately 20 % more than the last one and that we may not have the same fishing opportunities that we had before.
We must recognise the fact that we have ACP agreements and other developing country arrangements.
I believe that we have to be careful in the future, and this may have implications for our Spanish colleagues and their fishermen.
I am only putting that down as a marker because I believe that the cost of fish is going to be an important aspect in future agreements.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think we must welcome the fact that this fisheries agreement between the European Union and Morocco has been reached.
It has certain characteristics which I think will be common in the agreements which may be signed in the future: reduction of fishing quotas for the fleets of Community countries; essential appraisal of resources; the confirmation that there are no surpluses and therefore the need for sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the relevant areas; and, moreover, the growing presence of third countries in future fishing activities close to their coasts.
All that, of course, has appeared in this agreement with Morocco and I think we must welcome the actions of the Commission and of the Commissioner in particular in achieving this agreement which, as the rapporteur rightly said, is perhaps not a good agreement but possibly the best that could be achieved.
I think that determined the conclusion of this agreement and it will be important for an analysis to be made in the European Union as to the way in which future agreements must be negotiated for the good of the European fishing fleets.
Mr President, a cooperation agreement on fisheries has been concluded with Morocco.
It goes without saying that it is not the European Community's business to set the boundaries of a state, but it is its business to agree with its contracting partners over the area of application of the agreements it makes.
This is manifestly the case for the territorial waters of Western Sahara, and no fisheries agreement with Morocco can confer on the European Community the fishing rights in waters which, according to international law, come under the authority of the Saharan Republic.
The Moroccan fishing zones provided for in the agreement should be demarcated in accordance with the rules of international law, particularly with those of the United Nations Conventions on the law of the sea.
I recall that in 1982 the third United Nations conference on the law of the sea, known as the Montego Bay conference, said, and I quote: ' In the case of a territory whose people have not gained full independence or some other form of autonomy recognized by the United Nations, the provisions relating to the rights or interests aimed at in the Convention are to be applied for the benefit of the people of that territory, for the purpose of promoting its prosperity and its development' .
I will oppose - and I give notice now and hope that I will be able to persuade other people to oppose - any future agreements on any subject with Morocco until it removes its military forces and its settlers from Western Sahara and applies the United Nations resolutions which have been there for a long time.
Secondly, I hope that the policy - I am referring to what the previous speaker said - does not apply to waters south of latitude 27.5 or 28 - I am not sure which - so that the waters of Western Sahara are preserved for a future time when Western Sahara can operate its own fishing policy.
Remember the example of Namibia, where there were mainly EU boats operating before the Namibians could settle their own fishing policy.
I support the agreement as well, because at this time it was politically, socially and economically important in many regions in Spain.
I am impressed by the figures that Robin Teverson gave us in relation to the cost per job and per vessel of this agreement.
Because, as James Provan and others said, we cannot build a long-term fisheries policy on this sort of agreement when, obviously, there are many factors that will not be there in ten years' time.
So we should look at the other prospects for helping the peripheral regions in a different way.
First of all, its economic and social contribution to certain European regions and the survival of thousands of families linked to the fisheries sector: in terms of its significance in this field, the cost of 500 million ECUs over four years seems reasonable.
It is the same vision of joint importance which I hope will continue to be considered by politicians not only in Morocco but also in the European Union when we have to renegotiate a fresh agreement in 1999.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although the European Parliament has given up time to intervene in the discussion about the fisheries agreement with Morocco and has even approved various motions for resolutions during the period of negotiations, in particular against the forced inaction of fleets and in favour of compensation for both shipowners and fishermen, this has not prevented the European Parliament with being presented with a fait accompli in the form of a formal consultation more than three months after the agreement was signed.
We are now going to be issuing an opinion five months after the agreement was approved and more than four months after it entered into force.
This situation, Madam Commissioner, cannot be accepted and should not be a practice in the future, as the European Parliament has repeatedly stated and as you well know.
It is not acceptable for us that one thing is given with one hand while cautiously and only four years after the fisheries agreement, something is taken back with the other, in principle during 12 years - but in fact for good - because of the trade agreement.
And it is an agreement which allows us to continue, improve and advance our relations with Morocco.
Mr President, the first assessment we must make is of the agreement itself.
We should all perhaps have liked a different one which would have safeguarded the rights of the 80 vessels which will be left outside the fishing grounds.
However, all negotiations involve concession, balance and approximation of positions.
That act is nothing more or less than one more sign of the spirit of transparency and collaboration with Parliament which the Commission and particularly Commissioner Bonino is advocating.
There is another aspect which is also worth stressing.
The Council understood in its proposal that this agreement has important budgetary implications for the Union.
That possibility constitutes an important recognition of the European Parliament's rights and powers.
Many thanks and congratulations on the agreement, Madam Commissioner.
Like Mr Arias Caete, who spoke for the Committee on Fisheries, I welcome the application of assent procedure on behalf of the Committee on Budgets.
In customary style, the Council, which is unfortunately not represented here just now, agreed on the provisional application of an agreement for the fifth time this year without our being consulted or having the opportunity to deliver our opinion beforehand.
Firstly, we call on the Council to cooperate constructively in the trialogue on the classification of expenditure and in the ad hoc procedure governing expenditure ceilings for international fisheries in order to ensure that we arrive at an interinstitutional agreement which is acceptable to all parties.
We also call on the Council and Commission to reach a modus vivendi with Parliament on the provisional application of agreements.
Finally, Commissioner, we expect a formal undertaking by the Commission to present a report to us every year on the application of agreements and financial protocols, based on a cost-benefit analysis, and to present it before the first reading of the budget.
It will be up to us, over the next four years, to see how we can develop a genuine partnership with the Moroccans because only if the partnership relationship develops well will it be possible to generate the atmosphere needed to renegotiate another agreement.
I have to say here that any further agreement will need to be based essentially on the procedures and proper application of the current agreement and on the type of relationship based on genuine partnership that we are able to establish over the next four years.
I believe that, during the past year, I have tried to keep the House - and particularly the Committee on Fisheries - informed, both officially and unofficially, of all of the fundamental stages in this agreement.
In that connection, I believe that the seminar we shall be holding in Quimper will be of great help in establishing more or less exactly the overall picture of the fisheries agreements, so that we are able better to identify those that are expensive and those that are less expensive.
I therefore think that for all of those reasons, the Quimper meeting is an important factor in providing us all with information.
A further important element in this agreement is that it includes a formal undertaking to reduce the dependence of the Community fishing fleet on Moroccan waters.
That undertaking exists, and I have to inform both Spanish and Portuguese fishermen that a series of meetings has already taken place to enable us to submit, by July, a programme to cut the dependence of the Community fishing fleet on Moroccan waters.
That is a specific undertaking that we have entered into because we take the view that to be 100 % dependent on a third country is not economically sustainable in any sector, including, obviously the fisheries sector.
Having said all of that, and without presuming to have answered all of the questions, I wish just to say that throughout the common fisheries policy, aside from other problems, the 'international agreements' dossier now needs to be reviewed in depth if we are better to organize our future, from very many points of view, including the institutional point of view, bearing in mind that there is a difference depending on whether we are dealing with ACP or other countries.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at noon tomorrow.
Faced with those difficulties, the solutions that appear in the programme are far from clear, in fact they are frequently hesitant and vague.
There is a reluctance to employ the word 'harmonization' because, as you know, Article 129 of the Maastricht Treaty prohibits the harmonization of health systems.
There was substantial agreement within the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: no fewer than 40 amendments were tabled on various problems, including the proposal for a European monitoring agency, adjusting the budgetary appropriation, the objectives to be coordinated with health professionals and the definition of a non-exhaustive list of the sectors in which health indicators need to be defined.
For that reason, the Committee on Budgets takes the view that the proposed funding of ECU 13.8 million over five years, that is less than ECU 5 million a year, falls far short of what is needed to implement an effective and operational monitoring system.
I must point out that, when it came to the recent allocation of funding for the three health programmes, which the rapporteur mentioned, the effect of Parliament's position was to add ECU 10 million to the total amount fixed for the three programmes at the conciliation stage.
In the first place as regards the subject-matter, because only after the real health situation in Europe is known - which will be by putting all the data on a uniform basis, checking their reliability and transmitting them through a computer network - will it be possible to achieve a Community citizens' health monitoring system, to include factors affecting their health, to make comparisons of health in the various Member States and to bolster the Member States' health policies.
Finally I should like to thank the Commission for its special sensitivity to Parliament's view.
And it is true that both the Commission communication and the report constitute important progress and we welcome that.
The first omission is related to the social context in which this report is made: it seems that the health of Europeans is likely to deteriorate for three reasons.
First the increase in unemployment which is becoming structural for young people and women, with all that that involves as regards health, and an increase in the number of people marginalized in Europe - and it ought to have been taken into account in making this communication - all as a product of the restrictions imposed by the neo-liberal policy of Maastricht.
Secondly the difficulty of a health information network working well throughout Europe when we are seeing a re-privatization of medicine and the resultant difficulties that brings for gathering information through the public system.
The WHO has called attention to this and we must therefore improve the situation with regard to our health information.
The second important omission consists in not considering as an important indicator - although it was stressed at Alma Ata in 1978 and in Ottawa in 1982 - that there will not be health for all in the year 2000 unless the whole community takes part in the working of the health system, above all in the operation of the level of basic treatment.
And I think that the recent example of what has happened in the case of mad cows is giving a reason for the need to improve the sum total of information and instruments in order to be able to intervene effectively.
I shall not again rehearse the reasons that have led various States to initiate a number of reforms but, whatever options are adopted by governments in this field, it is clear that one of the essential pre-conditions for taking any decision is the implementation at European level of a programme for assessing the current situation and the probable trends in the population's state of health and in health systems.
This is what the Commission's document proposes and that is the message our rapporteur is conveying with some skill in amending that document.
Parliament intended to propose a fully-fledged European Health Observatory like that set up in other fields.
The majority of the Council preferred not to go beyond simple coordination.
The Commission is therefore proposing to us a rather vague public health monitoring system, but whatever form this new instrument takes, it must be efficient and operational.
In conclusion, I hope that the executive Commission's proposal, even though it is not as elaborate as Parliament would have liked, will be, in agreement with the Council, a first decisive step towards the introduction of the preventive and protective medicine which is our expectation.
The programme was already announced in the Commission's communication on the framework for Community action in the field of public health.
It also responds to several resolutions tabled by Members and by the Council.
The general aim of the programme is to contribute to the establishment of a high-quality policy-oriented monitoring system in order to ensure a high level of health protection as required by Article 129 of the Treaty.
First, the system should help to monitor health and health determinants throughout the Union and permit comparisons with third countries.
The answer is quite simple.
The data that currently exists is neither comprehensive nor comparable.
We therefore also plan a number of activities related to the analysis of this particular data.
We also intend to rely on data from the system for the analysis and the preparation of our annual report on the health requirements in other policies which was initiated last year.
Turning now to the 47 amendments, I can inform you that the Commission is in a position to accept 28 of these amendments either wholly or in part.
We accept fully Amendments Nos 12, 16, 17, 18, 20, 23, 24 and 29.
We accept partially Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 6 to 11, 13, 19, 33 to 40 and 42.
Four of them are included elsewhere, namely Nos 3, 6, 34 and 39.
Our position on some of these amendments deserves some explanation.
I would draw attention to a promise I made at the conciliation meeting in December of 1995 that the Commission would consider the idea of a health observatory very carefully.
With regard to Amendment No 9, we cannot accept the latter part which concerns the support for improved databases in Member States.
For the same reason we cannot accept the latter part of Amendment No 38 concerning the support for analysis of the cost-effectiveness of Member States' health systems.
Mrs Gredler referred to this matter in her contribution.
As regards Amendment No 25, I would like to say that it is not that we do not agree that cooperation should be fostered and developed with all the relevant parties but that we must use a text that is more consistent with the wording of Article 129.
As the House knows, the margin available for additional expenditure under heading 3 of the budget is cut very tight.
At that point in the legislative process, the budgetary authority will have a better appreciation of the final content of the programme and the resources which will be required.
Amendment Nos 2 and 21 which refer to the establishment of targets by Member States are also unacceptable.
Consequently target-setting by Member States is outside the scope of the programme.
While we are on this subject, I would point out that this wording is not acceptable in Amendments Nos 5 and 30 because unnecessarily it limits the proposed activities to those involving only comparable data.
I also hope that in the manifestation of general concern about health monitoring, Parliament will give a favourable opinion to the programme, thus sending a very powerful signal to the Council to proceed with a speedy examination of the opinion and of the Commission's modified proposal.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at noon tomorrow.
Because it affects the elderly, this illness has become and will increasingly become one of the great scourges of our society, particularly in a society like ours here in Europe in which life expectancy has reached levels inconceivable just ten years ago, as a result of better living conditions, greater access to medical care and improvements in that same care.
It is calculated that in the year 2000, at least 4 million of the some 52 million people aged over 65 in Europe will be suffering from Alzheimer's disease: 4 million who will be the responsibility of families which will have - particularly in the more advanced stages of the illness - to meet increasing costs and cope with intolerable physical and psychological distress.
It is estimated that of those aged 85 and over - and we are starting to see many 85 year-olds - one elderly person in 4, that is 25 %, will be suffering from Alzheimer's disease.
The European Community has not ignored the problem: although there has been no specific programme, the commitment for budget line B3-4300 has increased from ECU 2 million to ECU 5 million for 1996 in the context of public health measures.
The very important question I put to the Commission asking how that ECU 5 million is to be used elicited what amounts to a very general answer from Commissioner Flynn.
However, we note that the Commission anticipates attending the important conference to be held in Ireland on 21 and 22 November next.
One important step in that direction will be the programme that we are urging the Commission to provide.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the health card is an issue which has been of concern to the House for more than 15 years.
We consider that a health card would make it possible to prevent serious incidents involving the administration of ineffective or dangerous treatments, particularly in cases of chronic illness, serious illness or allergy.
The purpose of the health card is in fact to facilitate diagnosis, prevent the administration of inappropriate treatment or medication and cut the time spent on administration.
I am therefore asking the Commission to draw up, by 1 January 1997, a draft decision of the Council and Parliament on the establishment, with effect from 1 January 1999, of a European health card.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission presents us with a communication prior, I hope, to a directive on blood transfusion aimed at harmonizing the valuable practice of blood transfusion over the whole European Union and at guaranteeing, in all Member States and for all citizens of the Union, both the safety of blood products and a sufficient quantity of them for everybody.
We are, of course, in agreement with the main points in the communication, but in our report we lay stress on certain aspects that appear to us to be essential.
All these measures, harmonized throughout all Member States, will allow blood products to circulate freely throughout the whole European Union.
The second aim of this communication is to ensure that there are sufficient quantities of blood and blood products to respond to the needs of citizens of the Union.
There are two possible ways of achieving this: either by reducing the quantities required or by increasing the quantities taken.
The second way of ensuring a sufficient supply of blood products is, of course, to increase the quantity of blood collected by making the public aware of the inescapable need for blood donations or simple plasma donations using the newly perfected technique of plasmapheresis.
However, there is at present not enough plasma available in the European Union - not enough plasma, factor 8 and other products - and this forces us to import plasma or other derivatives from non-member countries, particularly the USA.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you allow me, I should like to pick out from the reports being discussed in this joint debate on problems essentially linked to the health of European citizens the Poggiolini report on Alzheimer's, not only because I was also asked to draft an opinion on this subject, issued by the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, but in particular because this disease and other senile deficiencies resulting from higher life-expectancy values is a burning issue and presents given perspectives as a result of the levels of development seen in different countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the two aims being pursued are indeed the restoration and strengthening of confidence in the safety of the transfusion chain and the achievement of self-sufficiency in blood.
But it is worth pausing a little and looking at these common standards.
For the private sector claims that the measures introduced in the name of selfsufficiency in plasma, particularly through the resolution of the European Parliament of 14 September 1993, prevent it marketing these products.
On the same subject, barely a fortnight ago in this very chamber, we had a debate on in vitro diagnostic devices: serological tests.
The monitoring and regulation required provoked a general outcry, precisely in the name of the free movement of goods.
Strict regulation and monitoring would have protected us.
Finally, in connection with the haemovigilance network, a truly harmonized European system should be able to rely on the regulatory framework already established in Directive 89/381.
Mr President, the European Parliament did not wait until the Maastricht Treaty was adopted to place constant emphasis on all public health issues.
I therefore believe that a health card of that nature has finally to be devised, and, on behalf of my group, I urge the Commission to submit as soon as possible a proposal for a decision so that citizens are at last able, if they so desire, to ask for a health card.
As regards the communication on blood, I have to say that since I have been a Member of this House, this is, I believe, the third time we have discussed this issue in the Chamber.
I believe it important - and I ask both the Commission and the Council to support this request - that we set up a body to monitor the collection and safety of blood in Europe, a European body that bears that responsibility towards the citizens of Europe.
In Ireland more than 25, 000 men and women suffer from this disease; approximately 6 % of the total Irish population over 65 years of age and 20 % of those over 80 years of age are victims.
All social life is disrupted and often financial and legal problems ensue.
I believe that the Commission clearly has a role to play in establishing a comprehensive programme of activities to combat the disease and, in particular, to foster research in order to ensure a long-term solution to the problem.
The Commission must put in place, as a matter of some urgency, a comprehensive programme of measures to combat the disease and provide for more resources under its Biomed programme for joint research into the disease.
Regarding research, the Commission also has an important role in coordinating Member State research into the disease and ensuring the optimum results from such research.
Finally, it is important that the European Union give practical recognition to the invaluable work of carers who live each day with the traumatic effects of this disease.
Mr President, I thank the three rapporteurs for their excellent reports.
I do not believe there is enough money available for the fight against Alzheimer's disease, for establishing specialized out-patient facilities or even hospital wards.
My group will not be able to approve the report as a whole if the European Parliament seeks to force this benefit upon people.
To prevent that form of infection it is therefore vital that we pay the greatest attention to the difficulties involved in transfusion.
The number of people over 60 suffering from this disease is growing alarmingly.
This report therefore rightly calls attention to Alzheimer's disease and its consequences and presses for further research, the provision of more information and increased funding by the European Union and the Member States.
At one point he refers in particular to the fact that developing countries are little affected by this illness because life expectancy there is too low.
The crux of this problem naturally lies in the loss of the purpose of this earthly existence.
It tallies that Europe is the continent of the elderly.
Anyone who looks at the figures for old age in all continents notices that Europe will have by far the greatest number of old people in the coming decades.
Our Group cannot accepts Amendments Nos 1 and 3, Mr President, where there is reference to the use of foetuses for research.
I think and hope that Commissioner Flynn is ready, now that we have the new state of technology, to take over this initiative which has been with Parliament for such a terribly long time.
Mr President, I should like to say something about problems of safety in transfusion that should also appear on the agenda of a Council planned by the Irish presidency next autumn.
And all this is because, in the end, there is an ideology of oligarchy: the oligarchy of the technico-industrial complex, of health officials and representatives of the large multinational laboratories (in the case of blood), of European officials, officials of Unilever and Unigate, multinational animal feed companies.
There, ladies and gentlemen, in the final analysis, are the causes of the contaminated blood disaster, the causes of the BSE disaster.
If anything is to be eradicated, it is the European Commission that should be eradicated from the institutions of Europe.
I am particularly pleased to see this report on Alzheimer's come to fruition because it was a motion put down by me some 18 months ago that has led to this report.
As we have heard, there are an estimated 3.5 million people in the European Union with Alzheimer's disease.
It is the most common, chronic, terminal illness among our older people.
In my own country of Scotland, which has a population of five million, there are an estimated 61, 000 people suffering from dementia.
There are between 2, 000 and 3, 000 people in Scotland alone between the ages of 30 and 65 suffering from dementia.
I hope the European Commission will consider using this report as the basis for what could be called 'the first European action plan on dementia' .
We need to do something at the European level to improve training and the quality of standards for the care of the sufferers.
We could also use some of our existing research programmes such as BIOMED to play a greater role in fostering and motivating research in this particular area.
The quest for a European health card is nothing new in the European Parliament; back in 1981 it was on the parliamentary agenda, culminating in the so-called recommendation of the European Community.
Firstly, Parliament has a right of initiative, and I hope that the Commissioner will make use of that to play an active part in this endeavour.
I have tabled two amendments, and therein lie two points of importance to the President as well.
The European Commission's communication on blood safety and self-sufficiency in the European Union represents a considered attempt to restore confidence and to establish a specifically European response to the matter.
Finally, the Commission and Member States should also recognize the significant safety benefits from blood donors who donate frequently, and encourage new and existing donors to donate.
The Maastricht Treaty allows for a European Union role in coordinating national health policies.
The safety of blood products for Europe's citizens must be one of the top priorities in this context.
I hope that the interest in the area of blood safety will help pave the way for a more fully developed European health policy that will allow for a more proactive approach to tackling Europe's pressing health issues.
Each country has its own system, and all of them work more or less effectively.
Therefore, I would like you to look upon the proposal for a health card in the light of the time that we have already spent on this as a Parliament.
At present the European Parliament has 626 Members.
One third of Members are 55 or older.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is to be hoped that within ten years there will be efficacious therapies and medicines to prevent Alzheimer's and similar diseases and if possible to cure them.
In the year 2000 there will be more than 50 million of them in the European Union, so more than one million Alzheimer patients.
Mr President, with these reports we are taking three important steps in the inexorable path towards working together which shows - it is the principle of European Union, historically speaking - that 15 times the effort yields more than 15 times the result because of that added value which comes from sharing problems, setting priorities and tackling problems.
That is a principle which should be recognized by certain Member States which are still sceptical about a joint approach to certain problems as serious or as important as the three which are before the House today.
It is something that will allow easier passage across internal borders and will facilitate freedom of movement and not act as a second passport or a second requirement.
I should like to urge Commissioner Flynn to examine whether this idea of Parliament's to rule out any exertion of pressure is not in fact a sound one.
The Green Group in the European Parliament has tabled an amendment rejecting such research altogether.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, blood transfusion is an important and highly sensitive act, often poorly understood in all its aspects but nevertheless crucial and irreplaceable for health, treatment and hence life.
So I wish at the outset to thank the Commissioner and the Commission for its communication, and the rapporteur, our colleague Christian Cabrol, for the quality of his work.
Harmonization of the rules for the transfusion process, particularly as regards the selection of donors and screening tests, is absolutely indispensable and urgent throughout Europe.
The question of voluntary unpaid blood donation is very familiar to me: I am myself a blood donor.
In conclusion, if tomorrow we are to ensure optimum safety and European selfsufficiency - often a decisive factor in achieving safety - we must act still more quickly and still more firmly.
The communication from the Commission executive and Christian Cabrol's report should help us in this.
The creation of a European health card is a positive idea and one which is in keeping with the project of European construction, which deserves our wholehearted support.
The free circulation of persons cannot be complete as long as a European citizen travelling to another state for work, study or tourism, does not have at his or her disposal a system of health care of quality in keeping with perfectly obvious rights to access.
The Treaty itself commits the European Union to responsibility in ensuring a high level of human health protection.
Indeed, at present, there are technical conditions for the creation of a European health document which can be accepted by all Member States and by the various health system sectors.
The health card which cannot and will never be able to be a new passport, a new hindrance to free circulation, which is a serious contribution against red tape and which will have to respect the principles of the inviolability and security of respective data.
It is already ten years since the first Council resolution in favour of an emergency health card for Europeans, a project which came to nothing.
The progress already made (the Commission has achieved enough work and has enough knowledge for an initiative of this dimension to be given a fillip) and the assessment of experiments resulting from cards which are already in circulation (60 to 70 million) are positive examples which should be grasped at.
Here we are this evening discussing what is mainly a problem which affects the elderly - Alzheimer's and senile dementia.
As has been pointed out, these diseases affect millions of people throughout Europe.
The programme proposed would serve to initiate coherent policies at European level.
It would coordinate measures at national level and act as a catalyst for measures both in the public and private sectors.
We know that many women have to care for these patients and these patients can be very difficult, troublesome and sometimes violent.
The families also suffer because the legal affairs of these people may have been left in limbo.
Mr President, the time it has taken for us seriously to discuss an illness like Alzheimer's disease is a sign of the problem we have in understanding how a change in the population pyramid means that we need to redirect our priorities in both scientific research and the way society is organized.
An increase in average life expectancy cannot be viewed as a problem but as a major achievement of our civilization, but that achievement has to be supported by the appropriate political decisions.
In many parts of Europe there is excellent experience of work on Alzheimer's, but exchanges of information and the development of trans-national initiative remain at a low level.
Mr President, I am pleased to have the opportunity to present the Commission's position on these three important health-related issues.
I am, therefore, particularly happy that your resolution focuses not only on the medical aspects of Alzheimer's disease but also on the loss of cognitive functions and equally on its social impact.
Awareness of the disease, as well as support to family members and their organizations, are some of the priorities that have been set out in your resolution.
In 1993 in its communication on the framework for action in the field of public health, the Commission considered that whereas mental illness could not, on the basis of the criteria developed for selecting areas for Community action and also on account of the limited resources available, be considered as a priority for the immediate future, it should, nevertheless, be kept under consideration.
In 1995 Parliament made a special appropriation of ECU 1 million for actions in the field of Alzheimer's disease.
This year it has added ECU 5 m to the public health budget line.
I share Parliament's concern over the progression of this terrible disease and believe that the funds will be used to enhance the quality of life of those suffering from neuro-degenerative diseases, in particular, Alzheimer's sufferers and their informal carers.
So Parliament's report makes the point forcefully that Alzheimer's disease will become an increasingly big problem for European society.
The accelerated ageing of the European population and the particular needs of Alzheimer's patients will increase demands on health and social services.
The feasibility of introducing such cards in appropriate forms and conditions has been studied by the Commission.
Research on the use of the cards in the health sector is currently a major topic in the context of the telematics application and the G7 information society programmes.
The results have not been particularly encouraging as only a few Member States have begun to use them.
However, a number of Member States have gradually introduced electronic cards in the social security sector where prospects of a more generalized use are more promising.
Moreover, as existing national systems would have to be used in parallel to a Community voluntary system, citizens may be required to carry more than one card.
This is of particular importance in the case of theft, loss or unauthorized use of the card.
I could continue along these lines to illustrate that there is a whole range of very practical considerations which have taxed us, and the Member States in the past, and these must be taken into account when discussing the possibilities for a European health card.
There is a case for practical solutions, including the mutual recognition of national insurance cards in accordance with the recommendation of the Council on 29 September 1989.
In conclusion I should like to stress that the Commission will continue to keep the health cards issue under constant review and will report to the House if there are any developments which may improve the prospects for their generalized introduction.
In its communication on blood safety and self sufficiency, the Commission addressed the duties imposed by Directive 89/381 regarding the preparation of stable, medical products and the ethical considerations regarding self-sufficiency on the basis of voluntary unpaid donations of the source material of all these products.
The problems surrounding blood safety and self-sufficiency that were identified led the Commission to conclude that there was a clear need to formulate a Community blood strategy covering both the source material for medicinal products as well as whole blood and plasma which is used for transfusions.
The main activities which were proposed towards this end were reflected in the Council resolution of 2 June 1995, which encompasses points which were suggested by the Commission in its report at that time.
The Commission intends to pursue these activities in response to the Council invitation and in line with the wishes of Members of the House in this area.
In fact, several have already been addressed.
I would like to assure the House that my services will pay very close attention to what has been said here this evening.
It is my personal intention to seek progress in all three matters on behalf of the Community.
He makes a good point in saying that it is more limited than that described in the Leopardi report.
