Thank you very much, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
Mr President, colleagues on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will know that this is the third attempt on the voice telephony proposals, even before the deadline for liberalization on 1 January 1998.
We have tabled amendments on universal service - so central to these proposals - on consumer protection, and a number of my colleagues have tabled most helpful amendments which strengthen the Commission's proposals, particularly on the rights of consumers' organizations to be consulted about changes.
It is not often widely appreciated, but some of the developments in the field of telecommunications technology can disadvantage certain disabled consumers.
We have put down amendments about the quality of service and about the protection of consumers in rural areas - isolated areas or less populated areas.
I know this has been controversial and not necessarily supported by all political groups in this House.
The field we have chosen is in the field of funding of universal service and that of consumer protection: fairly small but significant moves and for me the most coherent and logical place to start.
It highlighted what an immensely lucrative, important industry this is - in its own right and as an adjunct to so many industries.
I commend the proposal to you and assure the Commissioner and the Council that the Parliament will do all it can to make sure that this measure proceeds at a suitable pace to meet the deadline of 1 January 1998.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the impending liberalization of the telecommunications market offers the European economy a wealth of possibilities and areas of activity with important repercussions for employment policy.
In the existing economic and social circumstances, general access to the network -which really means the affordability of the services - is a sine qua non for equality of opportunity and non-discrimination.
So the nature and extent of the liberalization of the market in this sector must always take due account of the consumer's interests.
That is why there has to be a fair social dialogue, in which consumers and consumer protection organizations have a binding say in the decision processes regarding general controls to ensure fair competition and the necessary price transparency, the setting-up of various discount schemes for private and business users, investigations into suppliers holding a dominant position in the market, and also the continuing development of new systems.
The interest of universal service lies of course in a liberalised market as does also consumer protection.
Hence Amendment No 15 in which that is proposed.
Mr President, time passes quickly, January 1, when the free market for telecommunications services will be introduced, is fast approaching.
I have a certain interest here because I represent perhaps one of the remotest parts of the European Union - the Highlands and Islands of Scotland - 90 islands.
So I hope that this House will support the principle that Imelda Read has so well explained of having a universal service.
With this in mind I support Amendment 10 to Article 3, but Amendment 19 to Article 7(1) is clearly a case of over-regulation.
As regards the options concerning the universal service, I wonder whether the Commission's proposals are not somewhat more realistic, in the short term, than those put forward by Parliament.
It would also be helpful if the Commission could instigate research on internal relations within the Member States concerning the free market and competition in this sector, respect of the regulations and any illicit profit-making or illegal use of sources.
The question which greatly divides us today is whether we should, as of now, make the mobile telephone subject to the same regulation as that envisaged for the fixed telephone.
But there is always a cost, and if you ask those operators to bear additional costs today you are going to slow down the distribution of the product; people who cannot afford to pay for a mobile phone today will never be able to afford it.
It imposed universal service conditions once the results of competition had become established, at a time when a vast majority of the population already had access to quality services at very attractive prices.
We must wait until mobile telephony has acquired a market share in the region of 30 or 40 % - and then impose universal service charges.
It happens very quickly.
Mr President, I can follow on from what my friend Fernand Herman has just said.
I regret that, but, as you all know, the deadline of 1 January next year is putting pressure on us all.
The great question that always confronts us is: what arises automatically from competition and what has to be regulated?
My argument is precisely this: let's just wait and see what competition produces in the way of universal access, which is no longer any kind of financial or other problem for anyone, including the disabled.
I am convinced that there certainly is a continuing need for regulation, especially in the case of positions of market dominance.
It is not true to say that we are simply leaving it unregulated.
For example, personal satellite communications will also enable us to overcome this bottleneck situation whereby some people today are still owners and users of fixed networks.
We talk about unemployment in the European Union.
So we must finance the social policy from the earnings of business.
That is why this WTO resolution was so extremely important for us, and it is a very good thing that other resolutions have followed, so that we have finished up with a sensible regulation.
But, as this is the first reading, I may then give a full report to the rapporteur.
For that reason we are accepting Amendments Nos 2, 3, 10, 13, 14 and 41.
For that reason we are not accepting Amendments Nos 11, 15, 21, 34, 36, 44, 46 and 49.
But I cannot resist saying to Mr Bangemann that operators want to offer free telephone calls to some subscribers for the same reason as banks sometimes offer free banking facilities to students: they see this as a lucrative and profitable sector in due course.
This is the first reading, but a codecision procedure with some complicated amendments and some split voting and at least one important vote of principle on the inclusion of mobiles.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
If the European Parliament approves today the amendments we have tabled, then we shall also be celebrating a victory for at long last, after many years of messing around with directives on licences, the European Union will have a framework for telecommunications licences in the Member States.
First of all the telecom companies must announce well in advance the conditions and form of the licences, whether an individual licence or general authorization.
That was precisely why this directive came up against so many problems in the Council.
Fourthly this kind of licensing system must offer scope for the service providers.
But even with all these welcome developments there are still some serious predicaments in the path of this directive.
But I must say that the cooperation procedure with the Council and Commission has not been satisfactory in my eyes.
Last May we voted in the first reading on this licence directive in the expectation that the Council would determine its view on this directive very quickly.
This process took place in silence, without any public debate, without any democratic accountability and without any information about why Member States took the views that they did.
And by that I mean that I expect that the Council Presidency will pass this directive in the Telecommunications Council on 6 March without any problems.
There are of course other points of concern in this directive.
The step from space travel research projects to the commercial use of satellite communications is of the greatest economic and political importance to Europe.
Satellite communications offer new markets for European industry and so, of course, also create jobs for the future.
Regrettably, however, Europeans have long underestimated this enormous economic and social potential of satellite communications, and so failed to formulate a common policy.
I should like to mention, once again, the WTO Conference in Geneva in November 1995, at which, as far as new systems of frequency distribution and occupation were concerned, the Americans pipped the Europeans at the post.
The European Commission's communication on space travel of December 1996 clearly illustrates how important the promotion of applications and markets in satellite communications is for the purposes of improving Europe's competitiveness.
Which brings me to my report.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy thus approved the common position unanimously, except for a small, logical change in timing.
My colleague Mr Glante is one of the most long-suffering Members of Parliament sitting on these committees, and I must say that it is simply unacceptable for so much time to be wasted before the joint procedure with the Council and Commission eventually produces a result on a subject of this kind.
As proposed by Parliament, the aim now, instead of a selection procedure at EU level, is harmonization in the utilization of frequencies and the approval conditions for satellite services by CEPT.
However, the mandate for CEPT is tied to a clear schedule.
The co-ordination procedure proposed here is an experimental move.
It is a small and select band of us who are involved in this very specialized area.
Perhaps fairly soon in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy we will take the opportunity of asking the Commission what will be the consequences in these various respects if we do not meet this self-imposed deadline.
It is true that these two proposals are key building blocks in meeting that target and I want to say that the Socialist Members of this House will be supporting both these reports.
We all know that the granting of licences and the conditions attached by some Member States to the granting of licences have been unduly restrictive and protectionist and there are cases before the European Court in this respect.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two more interconnected aspects of the great jigsaw of the liberalization of telecommunications are directly associated with these two common positions: the regulation of service licences and coordinated authorizations in the field of satellite personal communications services.
As regards the report on licences, I should like to mention Mr Van Velzen's recommendation that, between now and the year 2000, the various committees for Community telecommunications legislation be consolidated, and I agree with the need, which I feel is implied in the report, for a European regulatory body.
The launching of the information society seems ever closer and more possible.
The work completed by the World Trade Organization on opening telecommunications services as of 1 January 1998 and on the free movement of data-processing products really gives us an idea of a world-wide movement that also involves many countries lying outside the traditional USA/Europe context and projects us forward into the great adventure of the 21st century.
Our task is to provide the Union with the rules that will best serve to increase the competitiveness of the industry involved in telecommunications and audiovisual products and services and also make our society more interconnected, better informed and, therefore, I believe, more cohesive and democratic.
The situation is that market access can be structured on an objective, non-discriminatory and transparent basis.
Bearing in mind that the liberalization of the telecommunications sector is scheduled for January 1998, the adoption of a resolution is of course a matter of great urgency.
It will be important, though, not to lose sight of further technological developments but to continue adjusting the general conditions to suit developments in this field.
Mr President, I should like to remind Commissioner Bangemann of his days as a social liberal, and to remind him too that social policy can look forward, and not just backward.
But we also need to relate this to the detailed debates - the technical debates.
I think many procedures go very smoothly, very quickly, as this report has shown.
TEN telecom consolidation got off to a rather laborious start, but I hope we shall be reaching a compromise very shortly.
This makes it all the more amazing that the Member States have reacted so negatively to the Commission's proposal and have been unable to agree on a procedure to be implemented by the Commission.
I hope that the co-ordination of the selection of service providers and the harmonized use of frequencies, to which the Member States have committed themselves, really will function in practice and will not result in constant, tedious negotiations that will leave Europe even further behind in this area.
If you land on a Council square you have to wait at least three months or move two spaces back.
The question remains: will this Directive allow fragmentation into 15 different approval systems?
The global procedure envisaged by the Directive, which is intended to make it easier to obtain general and individual licences in certain Member States, and the mechanism for the further harmonization of general licences are examples of moves towards greater convergence.
I admit that we need more, and we proposed in this House that the effects of the Directive should be reviewed no later than 1999 and new proposals made.
Now I come to the report by my friend Karsten Hoppenstedt.
Unless political authorities intervene at a very early stage in these processes of technological development and economic exploitation, not always in a regulatory sense but with a view to developing these possibilities, then the process loses its dynamism.
Because when I first spoke about this problem at the Telecommunications Council, not all Ministers were acquainted with the fact that this decision had been made.
We had a conference in Paris, at which the Member States and the industry were represented, and there was a major opening-up of the debate there.
I would like to make that point now, in justice to the Council and the Member States.
I have noted that six airmails are booked in with Mr Böge, the chairman of the BSE Committee of Inquiry.
Of course the Commission will co-operate on this informal committee, meaning that we shall play a part there together with the presidency.
With that in mind, I believe that we should now start by trying to get this confidence-building process in motion.
But it does show the level of interest in the possibility of a European regulatory authority, and it also identifies what possible functions of such an authority might be regarded as the most important by the players in the market.
Perhaps we should run a test and make it available only over the worldwide web, to find out how many Honourable Members really are connected to it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a tract is currently circulating within Parliament calling for demonstrations against the congress to be held by my political party, the French National Front, in Strasbourg at the end of March.
I should simply like to tell honourable Members, Mr President, that our party is a legal party and that the demonstrations it organizes are peaceful demonstrations; that its right of assembly and right to hold its congress derive from French legislation, from democratic principles and from the confidence placed in it by millions of electors, including 26 % in this Alsatian department.
The 26 % of the electorate that support the National Front all respect the freedom of movement of all honourable Members, including those who are totally opposed to their opinions.
So it is quite wrong, Mr President, for an appeal to demonstrate -violently, some would have it - against a meeting of our political party to be circulating within this very Parliament.
Mr von Wogau, the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy is right.
It is a crucial amendment and I hope colleagues here will vote for it.
Then people really will be clear what they are being asked to vote on. (Parliament adopted the draft legislative resolution) Mr President, this vote was on the agenda yesterday, but it was postponed in order that the procedure could be clarified.
The proposal is in two parts.
One changes the timetable so that instead of the original directive expiring in 1996 as it did, it would expire much later because the Commission needs the extra time in order to assess the substances.
The second part relates to the substances themselves and frankly, it is not possible for Parliament to assess that part in the time we have available.
We are also therefore agreed that as long as Parliament votes only on that issue, it cannot be regarded as having given its opinion on the whole original proposal.
The revised text is available but unfortunately only in English because of the time constraints.
In conclusion, subject to whether you want me to read it out or not, I recommend to the House that it votes, first of all, only on the Environment Committee amendment to Article 14 of the Commission proposal and on the revised draft legislative resolution in respect of which no amendments at all have been tabled.
This means that Parliament has not yet been consulted on the actual substance of the proposal, but only on Article 14.
The Council has confirmed that in writing.
Obviously I cannot speak for the Council; I myself do not share these doubts, in view of the letter, but if the Council, contrary to all expectation, should take or wanted to take a general decision, the Commission will withdraw its proposal so as to make that impossible. (Parliament adopted the draft legislative resolution) The Green Group has pointed out that in the Dutch translation of this report, the expression 'sexuele geaardheid' should be considered replaced by the expression 'sexuele voorkeur' .
Mr President, back-door attempts are being made to replace the normal term in Dutch 'seksuele geaardheid' (sexual orientation) with a term which is not usual in Dutch, namely 'seksuele voorkeur' (sexual preference).
Mr President, I have been speaking Dutch for 53 years and Mr Blokland is absolutely right.
Parliament passed a resolution on Algeria in December.
In every text, in the different languages, Amendment No 1, which seeks to add a new paragraph 7, refers to the situation in Sarajevo and Mostar.
So I request this adjournment under Rule 131 of our Rules of Procedure.
Mr Robles Piquer, with all due respect, I do not agree at all with what you have just said.
First, the Council is cautious, true enough.
That is why that motion has been tabled.
Gebhardt report (A4-0003/97) The general system for the recognition of diplomas and other educational qualifications was adopted in 1989 (between 1991 and 1994, 11, 000 people obtained recognition of their diplomas).
However, this system does not cover every situation.
Today's proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive relates exclusively to professions in the fields of trade, industry and craft.
For some years, these professions have been the subject of 35 directives of two types: liberalizing directives to eliminate the various obstacles (such as the nationality condition) to freedom of establishment and the provision of services; and transitional directives to guarantee recognition of acquired experience in the absence of mutual recognition of diplomas.
This underpins the rights of the citizens and helps to promote mobility and the implementation of freedom of movement and, consequently, the reduction of unemployment within the European Union.
The European Parliament wishes the Commission to inform it, and the Council, of the application of the directive in the Member States.
It also wishes to reserve the right to participate in any decision on an amendment to the directive.
The proposal and the Gebhardt report are moves in that direction.
That is why I support them, and I congratulate the rapporteur.
Articles 52 and 57 of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community make provision for freedom of establishment and the free provision of services.
They are, in any event, required to join the professional register in the country in which they intend to pursue their activities and to respect its ethical rules.
In 1989, Directive 89/48/EEC introduced a new horizontal system applicable to all qualifications and diplomas.
Mr President, I am especially keen to support this report today as, like many of my colleagues, I have been angry to learn of well-qualified people from my own constituency who have been denied jobs in other Member States.
It is also important that these new proposals from the Commission allow for a right to take cases to the courts.
Read report (A4-0049/97) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are a few months away from completing the liberalization of the European telecommunications market, and we already have a number of directives on the subject.
Nevertheless, I do have the opportunity today to restate our commitment to the universal telecommunications service in a competitive market.
This concept is quite a novel one, and it is the result of a grim struggle by a majority in the European Parliament.
If, as one might expect, liberalization has beneficial effects for the telecommunications market, there are also some who say that competition will bring positive benefits for the consumer, and we can hope that it will.
But it must also be said that the market is never aware of the imperatives of planning, of equal access to the service for all, and of social justice for underprivileged groups or areas.
That is why I believe that Parliament must send out a very strong signal along these lines.
The undersigned have voted for those points in the Read report which we consider of most benefit to the consumer.
Coordination between national, state telecommunications companies would have provided greater and fairer technical development and rationalisation.
Lindholm report (A4-0046/97) Mr President, I believe this report contains a number of highly dubious provisions.
The distinction which the rapporteur makes between formal freedoms and real freedoms is worryingly reminiscent, to me, of the distinction made by the Marxists in this context, and we know that where there were no formal freedoms there were no real freedoms either.
The second point I would like to challenge relates to the implicit recognition of homosexual marriage.
The principle of equality of opportunity and treatment between men and women is one of the philosophical foundations of our European Parliament.
Our rapporteur has made various proposals regarding that regulation which we can only endorse.
We are very pleased today to learn that Parliament has voted in favour of abolishing discrimination against homosexuals and increasing equality between men and women employees in the EU institutions by proposing concrete changes to the rules of service which are approximately 50 years old.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of the European Parliament's report on the Commission's proposal to change the regulations governing civil servants in EU institutions.
We therefore support the report in as much as it simultaneously provides opportunity for promoting the rights of homosexual men and women in EU institutions and, in the longer term, provides a good starting point for promoting opportunities open to them in the Member States.
Whitehead report (A4-0317/96) Mr President, the protection and defence of consumers, that is, all of us, is one of the cornerstones in the construction and development of the single market and the Treaty on Union.
We have voted in favour of the Whitehead report as we are very anxious to improve consumer protection in the Union.
There are currently considerable shortcomings in this area and we support many of the proposals which have been put forward in the report.
The long term goal must be to improve the standing of environmental and consumer demands on the market.
Marinucci report (A4-0048/97) It is sensible to strengthen consumer rights and interests in the area of financial services, banks and insurance services for example.
This is why I have voted against this report.
There are now two possibilities: either we put the report to the vote this afternoon, immediately after the motion for censure, or - and this is the option both I and my group would prefer - we postpone it until the next part-session in March, since, obviously, this evening's vote would not have the same significance.
Mrs Green, I did not refer to some personal reason of the rapporteur's.
Our transatlantic relations are entering a crucial stage at this time and we are facing many new challenges throughout the world.
Mr Happart, you no longer have the floor.
We shall now proceed to the vote. (Parliament rejected the motion of censure) Madam President, at the risk of delaying the proceedings, I should like to give my explanation of vote - or more accurately, my group's explanation of vote - orally, because the Presidency, yesterday, did not allow me to finish a point of order which explained the majority voting position of the group of the European Radical Alliance.
Today, therefore, I want to make it clear what the position of our group was, and why a majority of us voted in favour of censure.
That was why our group, the Radical Alliance, did not take part in the vote on 19 February.
Otherwise, just to make things clear, if we voted in favour of the censure motion, that decision was in no way directed against the Commission as an institution - quite the contrary.
And if we want public opinion to stop regarding the European Commission as a technical, opaque and irresponsible administrative body, we must give it a political responsibility - a responsibility which is permanent, single and collegiate.
Madam President, I voted in favour of the censure motion because I do not wish to be an accomplice of the Commission in this serious affair.
And, today, the Commission is refusing to safeguard the moral, material and financial interests of the Community and its citizens by taking the necessary steps against a Member State.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against the censure motion.
Some of us felt it was right to vote in favour of immediate censure, but the majority thought that the threat of censure would be a more effective way of exerting pressure to ensure that our recommendations are in fact put into practice - more effective than packing the Commissioners off home when virtually none of them has done anything at all discreditable.
I shared that point of view and supported the joint motion for a resolution, which recommended that procedure in point 7.
My purpose in tabling that motion and voting for it was not particularly to condemn any individual Commissioner but to censure the whole of the Commission, the Commission as a collegiate body, the Commission in its entirety and as a continuing entity, both before and after the changes of 1995.
It was necessary to sanction certain serious irregularities, especially those so ably expounded by my colleague Edouard des Places in his speech on Tuesday. 'Responsible but not guilty' is a formula we reject, and one that I reject personally.
After this unsuccessful motion of censure, this backing down, there will be no more motions of censure.
I regret it because such a vote, apart from sanctioning a Commission which I freely accept was not solely or even principally responsible, would have been a salutary shot across the bows of the institutions and the Member States, a few months away from the IGC, inviting them to question a decision-making system which has displayed its fundamental flaws, bureaucratic opacity, dilution of responsibility, and a system of sanctions which is rigid yet full of holes, making it impossible to reach the guilty parties and forcing us to sanction the whole Commission for the fault of one Member - slaughtering the herd, as it were, because of a single sickly animal.
Madam President, on Tuesday night in this House I made my position clear in a speech on BSE.
I said that Northern Ireland had been sinned against, both by the United Kingdom Government and by the Commission, as well as by the Council of Ministers and Parliament.
Yesterday I voted against the joint resolution on the findings of this special Committee of Inquiry on BSE because I do not believe that any British minister is answerable in law to this Parliament or any of its committees.
On Monday night, as a member of that British Parliament, I voted a censure motion against Mr Douglas Hogg.
Consequently, I could not today vote for the censure motion on the Commission tabled by those who want what I believe to be outrageous measures applied to my country.
That is why I abstained in this vote.
Madam President, I abstained.
Madam President, it has been said that one cannot blame a new Commission for the old Commission's negligence.
As a member of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into BSE, I was able to spend six months studying the main aspects of this affair.
I voted for censure because I am deeply convinced that the United Kingdom bears a considerable responsibility and that the mistakes, failings, errors and dissimulations of the Commission are obvious.
The fact is that the European Union, through the agency of the United Kingdom and the Commission, has failed in a fundamental duty - the duty to protect the health of its citizens.
Of course the British Government and the previous Commission bear the main responsibility, but the report by our Committee of Inquiry showed that the present Commission bore its share of that responsibility.
The fact that other institutions may be at fault cannot exonerate it completely.
I cast this vote despite the esteem in which I hold the Members of the Commission and its President, and a number of senior officials of the Commission.
The motion of censure which I sponsored, and for which I and my colleagues in the Europe of Nations Group then voted, was aimed first and foremost at the Commission because of its irresponsible behaviour in the mad cow crisis.
A responsibility arising not from a single or chance act but, rather, from a consistent pattern of behaviour, observed over a long period and inherent in the very objectives which the Commission has made its own.
Having adopted as a priority objective the establishment of freedom of movement, which it misinterpreted as meaning the abolition of all border controls, it saw a threat to the single market in every suggestion made by a Member State with a view to re-establishing national controls, even going so far as to threaten them with proceedings before the Court of Justice, both in 1990 and in early 1996.
No one can help wondering, after all, by what mysterious reversal the powers of commercial regulation delegated by the Member States to the Commission, essentially for the better protection of the peoples of Europe, have thus been used against those very peoples, to break down their defences for the benefit of shameful financial interests.
But, apart from the institution targeted by this motion of censure, we want to question a complete European system which is being developed against the interests of Europe's peoples.
We condemn a unification which would prohibit any controls at the internal borders and any possibility that an individual country could safeguard the vital interests of its population, or even its own concept of health, security or environmental protection.
We think, on the contrary, that Europe's agricultural objective should be high-quality production, necessarily protected by some form or other of Community preference; that the single market must tolerate the right of nations to differ or to defend themselves, something which in our view is not incompatible with a rational interpretation of free trade; and finally that the European Union, to make good its democratic shortcomings, must be returned to the direct control of its Member States, a task which, from today, should become the priority of the Intergovernmental Conference.
This is a double-barrelled weapon: first, it places the Commission under surveillance and should encourage it to mend its ways in this area, and in others too; secondly, it gives Parliament time to prepare itself to take the plunge, if necessary, and accept its responsibilities.
There are grounds for criticising the Commission's handling of mad cow disease, but the criticism is not so serious as to warrant a vote of no confidence.
A vote of censure against the European Commission is a serious act, and we should admit that it may not be the best way of dealing with this situation.
The fact remains that, today, the situation is so serious, the collective liability so great and the risks to the future so terrible that we cannot allow this day to end without a political show of force.
But today, Thursday, 20 February 1997, confronted with the motion of censure as tabled, we cannot in all conscience sit back and see it receiving no more than a few dozen votes.
I am voting for it in the hope that it will make it possible to stop what still can be stopped, to make good what absolutely must be made good, and to compel all those responsible to be vigilant in the future in order to ensure that no such tragedy occurs again.
The way the BSE epidemic has been handled, especially by the United Kingdom, and its utterly tragic consequences for consumer health require a response from this Parliament that is not just convincing but also responsible, and which will help to guarantee proper protection for citizens in terms of public health.
So Parliament must condemn the British Government strongly and clearly as the great and genuine perpetrator of the BSE crisis; and it must also denounce the Council's culpable silence in the face of the British Government's lack of action and transparency.
The Commission, as an institution, must accept its responsibilities and pay the penalty.
The present Commission has covered up the activities of its predecessor and has not shown the transparency that the Committee of Inquiry had a right to expect.
But there is nothing to stop our governments from reappointing Jacques Santer and those Commissioners who have done nothing wrong.
The Commission's serious responsibility for the way BSE has been handled and for the risks to public health is unequivocally stated in the report of the committee of inquiry.
In view of those statements and given the collegiate nature of the Commission, the principle of the continuity of the institutions and the responsibilities ascribable to the present College of Commissioners, the European Parliament must exercise its duty of control with dignity.
However, it so happens that in the constellation of culprits for this present situation, the current Commission is just the latest and last in line, after the Council, the veterinary committees, the British Government and the previous Commission.
I am against a full motion of censure on the Commission at this stage because I believe that to dismiss the present Commission for the failure of its predecessors would be wrong.
The Council of Ministers was equally responsible for these failures.
It is our good fortune to be better informed than our predecessors.
Recently 15 people died in one Member State from food poisoning as a result of eating contaminated food from one small wholesale establishment.
But our statutory system does not provide for censure against individual Commissioners, and much less so against the Council of Ministers or individual governments.
We cannot plead that in this matter, economic and political interests took precedence over public health, and none of our institutions reacted accordingly.
I am sure that was also the impression made on the many groups of visitors who had the opportunity to follow the debate on the findings of the Committee of Inquiry into bovine spongiform encephalopathy or, more popularly, BSE.
The earlier Commission under J.
The same applies to the question of compensating farmers who have suffered as a result of the BSE crisis.
That is what the families of the victims expect - those who work in the stricken meat industry, and all those who elected us so that we could be vigilant in supervising the activities of the Commission.
I voted in favour of censure because I do not accept the principle of 'responsible but not guilty' .
The BSE story has demonstrated that, when the appointed authority usurps the function of the elected political representatives, when the Commission wields supreme political responsibility in a particular area, it is not effectively protecting the fundamental interests of the European public but is acting as the agent of special interests.
I voted in favour of censure because if, in such a clear-cut case, the European Parliament fails to accept its responsibilities with regard to the Commission and abandons the attempt to control the Commissions's activities rigorously, it no longer has any reasons to exist.
It is time for the Council to get a grip on itself and comply fully with its political responsibilities, preventing any other administrative body from taking its decisions for it.
The fact that the motion of censure was tabled by a large number of Members from all parts of the political spectrum and all parts of Europe shows a growing awareness that the European institutions are in need of radical reform.
The Commission must be put in its place, and the Council must fully accept its political responsibilities: it is now a matter for the IGC to take concrete steps to reflect these essential lessons of the mad cow disease crisis.
The question that confronts us is how democratic control is to be exercised within the Union.
They can only feel consternation as they are bombarded with information on the proven failings of governments and the stratagems adopted in certain quarters - by the British Government and European officials - to conceal the truth or delay its exposure, and so protect national or private interests in a field as vital - literally vital - as human health.
By voting for the censure motion we are casting a vote of confidence in Europe's institutions and declaring our complete awareness of Parliament's role as the protector of the citizens' rights and freedoms.
Madam President, in Zaire we are faced with the result of a lack of coherent and positive action on the part of the European Union and other international powers.
Lack of unity and determination to send in international forces is destabilising the third country in the region of the Great Lakes.
The General Affairs Council of 20 January saw a repetition of the same thing: too little, too late.
Next week the Council must decide on a common approach to an international force.
I understand the criticism from the President-in-Office of Council of the international tribunal in Arusha.
Madam President, this is not the first time we have discussed the appalling situation that exists in Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi.
Obviously, that everything possible should be done to obtain a cease-fire within the framework of a regional conference for peace, security and stability in the region, which could be held under the aegises of the UN and the OAU.
But if holding such a conference requires making use of means other than mere diplomatic initiatives, I believe that is a necessity to which we must face up.
Many people believed that President Mobutu, Mobutu the dictator, might work in favour of stability in the region.
We call, as a matter of urgency, for very strong action to be taken.
On the contrary, it is precisely arms supplies from Europe that have prevented the people from participating in power in those countries and so helped to create this chaos.
Madam President, as the author of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European Radical Alliance on this crisis in the Great Lakes region, I should like to explain why I did not feel I should call upon my group to endorse the compromise reached by the other groups.
I had two reasons.
Nor did I see, as far as our urgent procedure is concerned, what value there was in emphasizing our commitment to the territorial integrity of Zaire.
That is why, when the time comes, I shall also be opposing the amendment proposed to us by our friends in the Liberal Group on the subject of a military intervention force, because I fear that, having regard to the present situation in eastern Zaire, any form of military intervention - even designed to ensure safe passage for humanitarian aid - may seem to be a territorial statement in a conflict which primarily concerns the Zaireans.
I hope, therefore, that the Security Council's resolution, especially through its proposal for a regional conference, will make it possible to find a lasting peaceful solution to benefit the entire Great Lakes region.
It goes without saying that the refugees must be able to return home, that they should do so or find shelter somewhere else, but be able to do so without any pressure.
Madam President, there is now an obvious lack of political and humanitarian interest in what is happening in the Great Lakes region.
Hundreds of thousands of refugees and displaced persons are now at the mercy of geo-political strategies originating from Washington and Paris which are blocking any relief activities in the region.
Europe and France, on the other hand, are giving their support to the dictator Mobutu, who is actually the cause of so many disasters in the region.
It almost seems as though the USA has opted to foster chaos and use those in power in the region to impose its policy, instead of doing what ought to have been done, which is to promote a multinational buffer force that might have enabled the Great Lakes region to move towards the future democratic legitimization of those regimes, the international conference for a regional solution and the economic reconstruction and institutional reform of Rwanda, Burundi and Zaire.
I am referring to the Council of 20 January - noncommitted and unproductive Council which says a great deal about Europe's inability and unwillingness to intervene in the area.
The resolution on which we shall be voting today and which my group supports sounds this cry of alarm and proposes a set of measures that we trust will be ratified by this Parliament.
Madam President, the continuing civil war in eastern Zaire will plunge the population even deeper into their appalling suffering.
There is a need for an action plan for humanitarian aid for southern Africa.
If we have budget cuts here, the money for civilian development will be lacking.
There are even countries like Spain which have paid with the lives of three aid workers for the presence of civilians and the absence of European Union policy in that part of Africa.
There is indignation about what is happening and the lack of intervention, but there is also indignation about the known causes, the conflict over spurious strategies and indeed the continuing de facto support of dictators like Mobutu Sese Seko.
We hope the recently adopted United Nations Security Council resolution will operate in favour of a political solution to the situation and that the conference mentioned in our resolution will finally be called, which also requires the European Union to engage in joint action as demanded in the text.
It understands the concern of the European Parliament to increase awareness of this subject within the international community.
The escalation of this violence could further exacerbate the political problems and widen the scope of the humanitarian crisis in that region.
On behalf of the European Union, the Council presidency has just made a declaration on Zaire, inviting the warring factions to negotiate an immediate ceasefire and facilitate access for the humanitarian organizations to enable them to bring aid to the distressed populations.
That was why my colleague Emma Bonino made representations to the government calling for the international human rights conventions to be respected.
The protection of humanitarian organizations in the countries where they operate is a matter to which the Commission pays the closest attention.
Let me remind you of the recent murders, including the killings of representatives of these humanitarian organizations, especially in Rwanda.
Those murders have had a very powerful and easily understandable impact on the personnel of the humanitarian agencies, many of which have reduced their programmes or are even thinking of withdrawing.
Although the immediate problem today is to find a way of resolving the deteriorating situation in Zaire and Burundi, and although you have rightly emphasized your concerns about this, referring to the problem of the arms traffic and other problems associated with the impossibility of establishing humanitarian aid channels for the present, the ultimate objective of the European Union's efforts must be to find a global solution.
It is up to the international community to bring the warring factions to the negotiating table and find answers that will enable us to resolve this crisis.
That is why the Commission welcomes the recent resolution by the United Nations Security council on 18 February emphasizing the urgent need to protect refugees and displaced persons and to make it easier for humanitarian aid to reach the victims.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Madam President, Commissioner, the situation in Albania is highly explosive.
The dreams of making a fortune of a large part of the population have been shattered and the hard reality of daily life in Albania is making the people extremely bitter.
The government must try in a dialogue with the opposition to find a solution to the current economic and political crisis.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely concerned about the situation in Albania, but I am even more concerned about the consequences it might have and about the European Union's response at a time of such terrible difficulty, which could have serious implications for the country's future economic development.
As members of the European Union, we have a moral and civil duty to give Albania as much help as we can to prevent total destabilization of the country and region.
The Commission should, within the framework of its programmes, provide technical assistance for the reform of the financial and banking sectors, since, as a result of the collapse of the pyramid investment schemes, Albania is now facing a deep financial and economic crisis.
Madam President, Albania has a population of three million, equivalent to one of the smaller regions of the Union.
Here again, we can see that the Union, the Commission and the Member States, too, especially some States such as Italy, have been working on numerous projects but have achieved little.
Madam President, a few years ago I visited Albania, just after it had become independent.
Indeed, going to poor countries, one often sees extensive economic activity on a small scale.
It was always obvious that Albania would encounter serious problems and, of course, this is exactly what has happened.
So in this resolution on Albania we have sought to condemn - as we should condemn - those who have tried to manipulate this situation for their own reward.
Unfortunately, our motion is not quite as balanced as what Mr Titley has said and what I am going to say, but that's what happens, unfortunately, with motions.
Madam President, I, too, should like briefly to express deep concern at the deterioration of the political situation in Albania that has been triggered by the collapse of the pyramid investment schemes, and also at the heavy-handed response of the Albanian Government and police.
The European Union must provide the Albanian Government with the assistance it needs to enable it to restructure the current savings system and introduce appropriate legislative measures to tackle this emergency situation.
They are talking about 30 % of GDP, one billion dollars.
The problem is that Albania, having regard to its past history, has no adequate, or sufficiently sophisticated, legislative and regulatory framework to govern its financial and banking systems.
That is why, since 1992, the PHARE programme has been granting substantial aid to Albania - aid which does indeed extend to the reform of the banking system and, especially, the privatization of a number of state-owned banks.
The situation subsequently improved, and Albania enjoyed a considerable degree of economic success, particularly by complying with the ideas of the International Monetary Fund.
The problem is that a substantial and rapid deterioration took place in 1996, leading the Commission, from the end of October last year, to offer Albania technical assistance in solving the legal problems which were being and are being caused by the control of these so-called pyramid investment funds.
That was why the Commission sent a mission to Tirana on 5 and 6 February - as recently as that - to prepare the PHARE operational programme for 1997.
The Commission is sorry that the Albanian Government has rejected its proposal.
The Commission is suggesting that the Union should first invite all the parties concerned to show restraint and refrain from violence.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
I hope that the President-in-Office of Council will come out clearly on the universality of human rights, for example, which are also to be applied to China.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to try to use my 60 seconds to say something sensible on the subject of what this Human Rights Commission and its 53rd session are about.
As Parliament's rapporteur on the subject of the sexual abuse and exploitation of children, I should like to ask those representatives of the Council and the Member States, and of our Parliament, who are going to attend this conference in Geneva to make this question a central point of debate, alongside the traditional, political debates that are held there: what has gone wrong in a society which has become brutalized to the extent reflected in what we now know of the sexual abuse and exploitation of children?
I believe there are many good reasons for concentrating on China, and not because of the passing of the self-styled Great Architect who unfortunately forgot the fifth and most important modernization, as Wei Jingsheng put it: democracy.
There are 1, 200, 000, 000 living in China outside the rule of democracy, and that applies more especially to millions of Tibetans, Mongols and Uighurs in eastern Turkestan.
For these people, deprived as they are of democracy and liberty, it is an important and urgent matter for the European Union to confront the situation with firmness and not to do as it did last year when, for weeks on end, we witnessed delaying tactics on the part of the European Union - tactics which eventually resulted in a position that was not defended and on which no attempt was made to reach a consensus with the other Member States of the Commission on Human Rights.
The European Union must adopt a strong and unanimous position.
Unless Europe starts to put up a determined fight, that grand design will take a stronger and stronger grip, not just on China but also on many other countries throughout the world.
The European Parliament is more motivated by considerations of democratic policy, and so here too there are occasionally differences.
With the aid of the EU Commission - and I must contradict Mr Dupuis here, to some extent - the Council appears at such conferences as the co-ordinator of the Member States, and last year demonstrated a consistency which is astonishing for our Member States.
Nor should the death of the reforming Chinese politician Deng prevent us from drawing attention to the constant human rights violations in that country, as indeed other Members have done, and that point should not be removed from the Geneva agenda.
This is becoming a key question in more and more of the world's countries as they make the transition from dictatorship to democracy.
We therefore call upon the European Union and the Member States to treat human rights as a really central issue in the structuring of foreign policy and relations between peoples.
I believe the Geneva Conference could be an opportunity to reach at least this major objective, and I think it is right and important that the European Union should coordinate its Member States in this respect and exert pressure, actually at the Geneva Conference, to obtain the moratorium I should like to see.
This is an area in which the United Nations must now take action.
Secondly, Nigeria.
Wole Soyinka, the Nigerian Nobel laureate, was until yesterday a guest of Parliament.
The EU must finally abandon all its misguided diplomatic considerations and make it its primary concern to condemn these human rights violations in its own back yard, especially against the Kurdish people.
Madam President, unfortunately we cannot totally prevent some of our citizens from committing crimes, even such serious crimes as murder.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on this rare occasion when you are not immersed in matters relating to the single currency but have found time to consider human rights, I should like to address you very specifically, as other honourable Members have already done, on the matter of the death penalty and the moratorium which we are asking the Member States to apply and which we should like the Commission to support at the next conference of the Commission on Human Rights, to be held in Geneva.
The revolutionary old guard which was forced to struggle in tough conditions for self determination for China and against foreign influence and attempts to isolate the world's largest country have now gone.
At best, and I know that many take a more pessimistic view, the new generation will be able to realise that no country can play a role of any importance in the year 2000's globalised world if they do not totally respect human rights.
Europeans do not have an awful lot to boast about historically in terms of human rights.
Mr President, The Iranian author Faraj Sarkouhi has been viciously attacked by the authorities in Iran.
Mr President, despite numerous condemnations of flagrant infringements of human rights in Iran by many organizations as well as the European Parliament and efforts made by representatives of the Iranian Government to persuade us that the situation has improved, regrettably this is not the case, as numerous events have demonstrated.
Furthermore, support for Islamic fundamentalist groups involved in terrorism in other countries like Algeria is reported to have been maintained and some 30 opponents of the regime have been killed abroad.
Discrimination against women is also very acute in Iran and we must fully maintain our criticism and take a stand against this.
The policy of critical dialogue has not succeeded in bringing about a change in the Iranian Government's policy despite all the talk of the moderation of Rafsanjani and the mellowing of the regime.
The Bahai, trade union members and women are being threatened by the fundamentalists.
Our wish for the Iranian people is that respect for the international principles of human rights will finally re-establish contact between our peoples.
The European Council stated its position clearly on the anniversary of the fatwa against Salman Rushdie.
We in this Parliament stand up for human rights, freedom of religion and opinion, the rule of law and democracy, and we will ensure that Iran is not in any doubt about that.
Far too many of the regime's political opponents have been killed over the past few years, in various places throughout the world, by the special services of the Iranian security forces.
These security forces continue to threaten Iranian citizens who are living in the Member States and conducting legitimate political activities against the regime.
It seems to me that the situation is very serious and sufficient to require special action that, in my opinion, has unfortunately not yet been taken.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as other Members have already said, the human rights situation in Iran really is worse than it has ever been.
But that criticism is directed not only against those in power in Iran but also against governments within the European Union, and especially against the Federal Republic of Germany.
That criticism is directed against the unqualified commitment to the policy of so-called critical dialogue.
I also think that his situation should be improved but my group cannot support the motion for a resolution in its form before us today.
I would have much preferred this House to spend its energy on a matter in the same region which is so important in relation to human rights.
Mr President, for a long time now Germany, France and Greece have been calling for the extradition of the former SS-officer and war criminal, Alois Brunner.
The visit here this week in Strasbourg of a joint Israeli-Palestinian parliamentary delegation is a sign that business can now be done with both the Palestinians and the Israelis.
But this House must be realistic.
Chad Mr President, I spent the period from 3 to 6 January as a European observer in Chad to witness the holding of the country's first democratic elections.
Immediate extermination without trial seems to be standard practice.
The Prime Minister is aware of the grave concern of this European Parliament.
I welcome the Prime Minister to the European Parliament and I say to him that we are aware of the recent history of Chad and that there has been some progress in human rights, but we are in no way satisfied.
The government of Chad and this European Parliament have a responsibility to cooperate in order to deliver a radical and urgent improvement in basic human rights, to allow Members of the European Parliament in Chad this week to collect further first-hand information and to defer the vote today until March in order that we can make substantial progress.
I appeal to all parties to let us do this, to set a timetable and to take this issue more seriously than simply to adopt the resolution, so that we can make progress in Chad and have a vote, if necessary, in March.
As you know, the Commission is paying the closest attention to the preparations for this next session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
The European Union is particularly active at the United Nations and never misses an opportunity to restate its concerns on this matter.
The question of a resolution on the human rights situation will be debated at the Council of Foreign Affairs Ministers next Monday in Brussels, Mr Dupuis, and I can tell you that a joint approach with the United States is a possibility.
I can assure you, as far as I am concerned at any rate, that I entirely agree with your analysis and with your concerns, and I believe that, at present, there is not a single European State that still applies this penalty.
The European Union has also tabled a draft resolution on children's rights, covering the problems of forced labour, sexual exploitation, children in war zones and street children.
I believe this draft resolution is supported by a majority of the Member States of the European Union.
However, it is my duty to inform you that the Iranian authorities have sent a request to the United Nations special envoy in Iran with a view to obtaining technical assistance from the UN in areas such as penal reform, the training of judges and aid to the NGOs involved in women's affairs.
The European Union therefore strongly condemns these blatant violations of basic rights by Iran.
I recall that Iran has signed the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, and should abide by its undertakings if only for that reason.
That is why the Commission is calling upon the Iranian Government to condemn this action unreservedly and to encourage the body concerned to withdraw its bounty.
Similarly, the Commission is paying close attention to respect for human rights in Israel, the West Bank and Gaza, and these matters regularly appear on the agenda of the bilateral discussions with the Israeli authorities.
The Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement recently concluded between the European Union and Israel is to be ratified shortly.
Within the framework of the political dialogue with Israel that this agreement establishes, the European Union will be better able to exert a positive influence on human rights issues, and especially on the problem of Mr Vanunu's imprisonment.
With regard to Chad, the Commission considers that the transition to a pluralistic regime has brought a significant improvement in respect for political rights in that country.
In particular, firing on offenders is a serious breach of human rights, which are an essential element of the fourth Lomé Convention under which Chad has certain obligations to the European Union.
Furthermore, the Commission is calling upon the Government of Chad to take all necessary steps to ensure significant progress in respect for human rights and the establishment of the rule of law.
Finally, regarding the tropical forests of the Indonesian island of Yamdena, the Commission is paying close attention to this matter, as you know, and to the question of deforestation and its consequences for the local people and the environment.
The Commission has not sent a mission to the area, Mrs Hautala, but it is helping to finance studies that are taking place, because sustainable forest management is the keystone for the Indonesian development cooperation programme being administered by the Commission.
At present, more than ECU 71 million has been earmarked for projects in this area.
The Commission has also embarked on a review of the priorities for the development programme with Indonesia.
After all, the assessment and approval procedures for development projects normally take between 20 and 30 months, and that period, sadly, means that it is not always possible to take into account the damage that may have been caused to the environment.
The vote will take place at 5.30 pm.
Mr President, Carl Bildt, who is chief representative for the EU in the former Yugoslavia, often talks about the need for time and the fact that we must be patient.
I would like therefore, on behalf of the liberal group, to express our concern over what has happened in Mostar: over the fact that acts of violence there have added to the difficulties in the search for a final solution, and that the international police task force are quite obviously not adequately equipped to be able to resolve the situation.
With regard to this latter situation, we would like to conclude by saying that it is important that we maintain the desire for cooperation and mutual understanding between the UN and Europe which was demonstrated in Brcko, and that pay due attention to this in our final decision on the future of Brcko.
Here, at least, we have the Dayton solution to allow the situation to stay as it is for at least one year under Serb control.
Mostar, after all was the city of EU administration, and Mostar shows the strengths and weaknesses of the EU initiatives in former Yugoslavia: the strengths, because there is no doubt that in Mostar we have seen tremendous technical assistance which has helped rebuild it; the weaknesses, because, of course, Mostar has shown the lack of political will by the Council of Ministers to support some of its rhetoric.
It is clear from recent events, most noticeably in Mostar, that things are not working as well as we would like.
We ought to also send out a very clear message that much has been done in Mostar.
For this reason, the Commission and Council should, in my opinion, make it very clear that European aid for reconstruction is dependent on a policy of co-existence, the free and safe return of all refugees to their home towns, irrespective of their ethnic origin, and respect of the new institutions set up as a result of the Dayton Agreement.
I therefore call on the Commission not to sit back and simply watch the rising political tension and to urge the Council to accept its responsibilities and demand full compliance with the Dayton Agreement from all its signatories.
Instead what we have is a situation in which the Agreement is still not being fully implemented and in which nothing is being done to move towards full implementation, resolve the emergency and make the shift from an absence of war to peace.
For these reasons, we are very concerned about what has been happening in the various parts of the former Yugoslavia, and particularly, because they are so symbolic, in Mostar and Brcko.
In particular, I should like to point to the need to reinforce the mandate and increase the capacity of the international police task force, whose action is crucial for any peaceful development of the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Secondly, I would call attention to the fact that Sarajevo is becoming more and more of a Muslim city, making it difficult for non-Muslims to enjoy equal rights there.
Thirdly, I would like to say that the weak attitude of the European Union's contact group regarding the maintenance of Bosnia-Herzegovina as a multiethnic entity, as laid down at Dayton, is to be condemned.
Ladies and gentlemen, while it remains impossible - in Brcko, in Mostar, in the Republika Srpska and in many places in the Muslim-Croat Federation - for refugees really to return, and as long as we are unable to name a day by which the refugees must be allowed back, we shall continue having difficulties.
Well, we can already begin to imagine what kind of decision will be taken in a year's time.
First, may I say that as far as the implementation of the civil aspects of the Dayton and Paris agreements are concerned, the present period is one of consolidation.
The Peace Implementation Conference clearly indicated, at the last ministerial meeting in London, what results were to be achieved during this period.
It should also be recalled, in this context, that many of the refugees come from regions that now form part of the Republika Srpska, and that the presence of war criminals in those regions is obstructing their return.
On the other hand, the central government of Bosnia-Herzegovina is functioning, but important decisions certainly still need to be taken, especially on the economic front, regarding such essential matters as the functioning of the Central Bank or the adoption of a single currency for all the Bosnian areas.
The Commission has drawn the attention of all parties to the fact that the situation in Mostar is crucial for the cohesion of the Federation.
The Commission has stressed the need to do everything possible to prevent the situation from deteriorating.
The authorities in Belgrade must understand that this obstinacy is preventing any progress in their relations with the Union.
Finally, the arbitration decision regarding Brcko has been provisionally adopted.
The European Commission will be assisting this process by launching, within the framework of the reconstruction effort, projects which may help to improve the situation.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
They have already agreed to use Article 235 to establish both the drugs observatory and the European observatory on health and safety at work and we can see no reason why in this particular area there should be any problem whatsoever.
Secondly, the resolution attacks the activities of some of the extreme right-wing parties in the European Unions specifically the Front national in Toulon, Orange and Marignane.
The last time I went to Marseilles to do a press conference on the issue of racism, it took French riot-police with riot-shields and tear gas to allow me to make that press conference due to a demonstration by the same Front national Mr Gollnisch belongs to.
Thirdly, in another large French city, Toulon, the far Right council is stepping up its aggression against freedom of expression and against artistic creativity, showing that, however it may be disguised, the bad always comes to resemble the worst.
Today, by adopting the motion for a resolution tabled by five groups, and our Amendments Nos 1 and 2, the European Parliament can help us to make the French Government withdraw its intention of adopting a law to subject foreigners to incrimination and rejection, an opportunist law, admittedly, but nevertheless the very, very old law of the scapegoat.
Some will help us to avoid allowing their friends to commit a gross political blunder.
But the majority in this House will welcome this opportunity to reassert their humanistic view of European integration, the integration of a Europe built on the values of tolerance and freedom and the principles of universalism - the Europe of enlightenment against the Europe of obscurantism.
Mr President, the purpose of this motion is to demonstrate, with reference to a list of facts which could unfortunately be even longer, that racism today is indeed an actual and growing reality throughout Europe.
Although each country has its own specific national features in this area, the foundations of racism are the same everywhere: in essence, the instinctive and simplistic rejection of those who are different, different in their skin colour or their culture, or alternatively a deep-seated and longstanding social crisis, portrayed as inevitable by succeeding governments which refuse to equip themselves with the resources to master it.
The French Government, which, though protesting, allows attacks on freedom of expression and creativity and allows cultural censorship to operate in Toulon and certain other cities, is violating democracy.
Rap, hip-hop, contemporary creativity in general, all these artistic movements which have been censored or threatened with censor are shot through and enriched with the diversity of the world's cultures, and call upon us to open our hearts and minds to welcome the foreigner in the words of Jacques Prévert: ' Strange strangers, you are part of the city, you are part of its life.' Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Year against Racism is being celebrated everywhere.
The figures on violence are shocking.
On 7 and 8 February alone, a Vietnamese, a Lebanese asylum seeker and two Polish citizens were attacked and very seriously injured in Germany, and a 17-year-old punk was a victim of racist violence in Magdeburg.
The regulation imposed by the Federal German Government is a blatant violation of human rights and must not be allowed to set a new example in Europe!
The deteriorating social situation of Turkish workers is discriminatory against these fellow citizens and breaches the terms of the association agreement.
Thank you very much, Mr Rocard.
In France, in those cities where local government has fallen into the hands of the far Right, this process of standardization has begun.
To combat the advance of these ideas, some have seen fit to occupy the same ground - other honourable Members have referred to this.
But the threshold of what is tolerable is soon crossed, and the vast protest movement in France has just given notice of that to the Government.
Mr Hory, I fear that I do not really see eye to eye with you on this motion for a resolution, because it seems to me to be a masterpiece of mix-and-match.
The basic evil is there: illegal immigration.
My group is amazed that the signatories to this motion, so particular about the rights of the Members of the European Parliament, in claiming, as we all do, the right to amend the texts put before us, should so violently deny the Members of the French Parliament the privilege of exercising those same rights.
The text of the draft Debré law is about to have its second reading in Parliament.
The least appropriate attitude, and I may say the most dangerous, would be to model one's political action on the methods that are resulting in the electoral successes of the extremist parties, for the simple reason that the electorate will eventually, sooner or later, prefer the original to the imitation.
No: action against racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism must adopt a multi-disciplinary approach, appealing to actors from the most varied backgrounds, and in particular from community life, the last resort when all others have demonstrated their inability to get to grips with these problems.
The European Union, for its part, should redouble its efforts to carry through the activities and campaigns already in progress.
I am thinking particularly of joint actions between the Council of Europe and the European Union.
The creation of employment and the promotion of collective structures which allow the development of the individual in coexistence and solidary can provide an example for that.
Mr President, the motion for a resolution before us, allegedly dealing with racism, indulges in a practice that is too common in this House, confusing xenophobia with the legitimate desire of the peoples of Europe to control immigration into their territory.
Now that the majority of checks on individuals at the internal borders have been eliminated, it has been found difficult to keep count of foreigners from third countries leaving when their residents' permits expire, which in turn makes it difficult to know how many are remaining in France illegally.
This second solution seems simpler, but it does require the existence of a minimal police presence at the border.
That is what we fear, and that is why my group has always fought against the European policy of abolishing the internal borders, because we believe, taking it all in all, that the screening effect they provide is ultimately a strong safeguard of freedom.
Be that as it may, I for one have long stopped getting enraged about yet another resolution on the so-called fight against so-called racism and so-called xenophobia.
To give you one example: after the vote on 30 January on the European Year Against Racism the Flemish Christian-Democratic members of parliament told their own electorate that they had admittedly voted in favour of the resolution but that they were really against it.
I come from a country where Hitler collected 43 % of the votes in 1933, and we had no illegal immigration in Germany then!
And as for you, Mr Berthu, your ranks include a whole bunch of people with long criminal records, sitting here pretending to be the crème de la crème of European politics.
As far as combating illegal immigration is concerned, let me remind you that the Council adopted, in September 1996, a recommendation on combating the illegal employment of third-country nationals.
Furthermore, the Commission, in accordance with its medium-term social action plan for 1995-97, is preparing a Green Paper on the problems of illegal working.
The Commission intends to submit a proposal for a convention on admission.
The European Union cannot confine its activities to immigration control.
As you know, many initiatives have already been taken at the instigation of the European Council.
The European Year against Racism is the first example of an agreement between the Community institutions and the Member States with a view to undertaking specific actions to combat racism.
It provides a framework for a campaign to alert the public to the danger represented by racism and to increase the emphasis on positive action intended to combat it.
The creation of a European observatory to monitor racist and xenophobic phenomena, proposed by the Commission in November 1996, will also help to give concrete expression to the Union's commitment to confront the increase in racism.
In terms of criminal law, the Council adopted in 1996 a joint action designed to improve judicial cooperation in connection with racially motivated crimes.
The combined effect of all these initiatives will be to improve the effective safeguarding of human rights and basic freedoms within the Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the role played by the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in the discussion under way on the issues and challenges facing the European Union and its ACP partners over renewal of the framework for cooperation is vital.
In this respect, I should like to emphasize Joint Assembly's essential role and contribution in the discussions launched in 1996 on the issues and challenges represented by renewal of the framework for cooperation which, beyond the year 2000 and in a worldwide context of fundamental change, will need to continue to shape the privileged relations that have united them since the beginning of European integration.
The continuance of these relations, which involve 85 States, is extremely important for Parliament, as this group of countries comprises the majority of the developing countries and includes three-quarters of the poorest countries of the world.
The Union's whole development policy will be on the test bench when we come to define a new convention.
The two debates on this subject, in Windhoek and Luxembourg, showed that members of the Joint Assembly are well aware of the significance of the question of the future shape of relations between the ACP States and the European Union and are ready to argue for continuing development aid.
Discussion on the subject was pursued with the presentation of the Commission's Green Paper and necessarily includes general questions of EU development policy and coordination with bilateral development aid from the Member States.
After the working group on the subject had concluded its deliberations on the situation of refugees in the ACP countries in connection with the policy on humanitarian aid, on 20 March 1996 the Joint Assembly adopted the motion for a resolution on this subject.
The enormous influx of refugees, and the marked rise in their number, mainly due to events in the Great Lakes region, is a challenge to the international community and highlights the need to improve the legal status of refugees and displaced persons and meet their material and psychological needs, through rehabilitation and repatriation, and personal protection.
In view of the appreciable economic benefit but great practical difficulties, the report adopted by the Joint Assembly in Namibia on industrialization of the ACP countries drew attention to ways and means of using human and natural resources in the ACP countries, to achieve added value in the production of industrial goods that would benefit the local population directly by creating jobs, increasing purchasing power and stimulating supply and demand.
For its part, the Joint Assembly has adopted clear decisions on the subject of internal conflicts and serious violations of human rights in some ACP regions.
The many conflicts that still persist and the problem of refugees and displaced persons, and I am again referring to the Great Lakes region, where the situation is particularly difficult - as I have personally witnessed - should spur us to press forward the discussions on the right to intervene on humanitarian grounds and the development aid the international community has the duty to provide, in genuine solidarity with all human beings, so as to guarantee them a decent existence, by taking direct, targeted and coordinated action.
I should also like to express my satisfaction at the steady increase in parliamentary representation in the Joint Assembly, thereby consolidating its authority and legitimacy, and confirming the ACP States' growing commitment to the democratic process.
I also welcome the commitments made under Article 32 of the Fourth Lomé Convention on the democratic legitimacy of this body and, finally, I hope the Joint Assembly will enjoy the greatest possible independence, in terms of separate responsibility for organizing its business, particularly with regard to deciding where to hold its sessions and organizing fact-finding missions and contacts, within the limits of the available budgetary funds.
It is also satisfactory - and the rapporteur mentioned this - that the democratic representation of the ACP countries has undoubtedly improved and we are on the point of implementing genuine measures to ensure this representation, a reflection of the process of democratization which is happily in progress, not without upsets and setbacks, in many of the ACP countries.
There is an interesting mention in the document of the initiative by the ACP Council of Ministers to hold a summit meeting.
The need to adapt our actions, as best we can, to local situations and differences in level between the various partners is very forcibly brought out, especially in the call for a policy which concentrates more on the needs of the most disadvantaged sectors of population.
Our group also approves of the emphasis placed by the rapporteur on the need to retain the preferential schemes benefitting the ACP States in respect of a number of products, especially bananas, sugar and cocoa - schemes which are still valuable instruments in the service of development and ecological equilibrium.
No other body puts representatives of so many countries on an equal footing at all levels, bringing them together to discuss development, democracy and human rights.
Whatever the fate of relations between the ACP States and the European Union, which we are discussing on the basis of the famous Green Paper that has been much mentioned in this debate, the experience of the ACP Joint Assembly should, in my opinion, be treasured as one to be repeated.
The production and exporting of land-mines are to be outlawed.
Another aspect which Mrs Baldi mentions is the free trade area with southern Africa, Article 39.
The essential point, of course, is the future of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly: the concept of parity, the concept of co-operation as a new form of future external policy, and the structuring of the European Union's foreign policy beyond the content of the Green Paper.
After the Green Paper, we must arrange a new form of co-operation with the ACP countries.
I believe we could also expand it to include a few other poorer countries, and that this forms part of the non-military sector of a European Union foreign policy.
Mr President, the Baldi report accurately reflects the hopes and fears expressed during the proceedings of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly during the year 1996.
But it possibly understates the contradictory nature of the various policies pursued by the European Union in the fields of trade and development, a point that is causing great concern to our partners.
Because we believe it to be essential that the development of Africa continues to be recognized as a priority joint interest of the European Union.
We know today that there is more than one case where doubt exists as to the real origin of certain products, especially fishery products, coming from these countries.
I think in particular of Mrs Baldi and Mrs Maij-Weggen, who have presented extremely interesting reports on the question of mines or transport in the ACP countries, which both for the Commission and the participating countries have proved to be of great importance and of considerable impact.
It is the quality of these reports and our commitment to this institution which could bring about more improvements to the Joint Assembly.
For many ACP countries, it is a forum of outstanding democracy and a place where they can see democracy at work.
Many times it is a better example than ten books or a lot of rhetoric.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking my colleagues on the Committee on Development and Cooperation because this report is very much a product of a great deal of work by them.
I would also particularly like to thank the President of Parliament, who has been under some pressure from the professional offices of Parliament about an important paragraph in the motion for a resolution in the report - paragraph 21 - which outlines the whole range of initiatives that the Development Committee intends to take.
The lack of complementarity and coordination between the Union and Member States should not surprise any of us here when we look at the lack of complementarity and coordination and, I have to say, consistency within the European Union itself.
Mr Pronk, the President-in-Office, is one of the most able and experienced Development Ministers in the history of the European Union.
But I have to say that I am not even convinced that Mr Pronk is totally committed to pursuing a policy of coordination within the European Union and I hope that given his ability and influence we can expect both him and the Council of Ministers to behave better.
The poorest people in the world are becoming more numerous and poorer because of unemployment and other problems.
In exactly the same way, some Member States say that we cannot continue our responsibilities in the rest of the world.
It is now time to take on the whole arms industry and arms trade, because six of the permanent members of the Security Council of the United Nations, which includes Britain and France, account for 85 % of the world's arms trade.
I pay tribute to Richard Howitt, my colleague here, for the work that he is doing in Colombia.
I feel our Member States underestimate the concern that there is amongst some of people we represent, some of the poorest people we represent, some of the youngest people we represent - some of them are here tonight.
If we do more in our own communities and work more with the elected Members in the Member States, we can achieve a great deal together.
At a time when there is increased pressure on the public purse in so many of our countries, too many officials in Member State governments see the question as one of competition between the development aid budgets in the European Union and the funds they themselves can disburse within the Member States.
This report comes at a very opportune moment because the informal Council for development cooperation is meeting on 28 February and 1 March in Amsterdam and this is precisely one of the most important subjects of his report.
This is the second time this week that a Dutch minister is obvious by his absence.
Allow me to give you three examples of strange coordination that I myself have come across in practice during my travels.
And in Nepal I saw a complaint from two NGOs who complained that a leprosy project was being offered on such attractive terms that even the regional government was asking for backhanders.
Some view development aid as something given to help really poor countries.
And we all know which countries that applies to.
The Commission has tried to coordinate matters in some countries.
No, what happened is that a number of pilot projects were started in Bangladesh, the Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, Costa Rica and Peru and there they decided to try to coordinate them in the country itself.
In Africa it is as much as 65 %.
If that happens, then the European Council will in my view have done something positive for the Union and for the Member States, but especially for the developing countries.
Because development cooperation has nothing to do with whether we are political opponents or not.
Mr McGowan's report has identified very many weaknesses.
I too could fill an evening's programme with slides on my experience of 27 years in developing countries, on the striking difference between the Union's, then the Community's, development cooperation and the bilateral interests of various European Member States.
The Member States, as I have already said, want their policy on development cooperation to be effective and efficient.
Maastricht II is supposed to introduce institutional reviews, as Article 130 tells us.
Although we are prepared to take on more personnel at the Commission, the budget situation requires economies.
The mega-programme has been adopted by the governments without funds being made available, and those funds have been taken away from development policy.
I represent a country, France, where people are more enthusiastic about bilateral aid than they are elsewhere - partly for historical reasons, perhaps, but definitely because of economic and diplomatic influences.
And I can't help wondering it even more when I attend debates and votes in this House.
Indeed, despite adoption by the Council, in 1992, of a number of resolutions and conclusions on the complementarity, co-ordination and coherence of Community aids and those of its Member States, the results obtained to date, albeit palpable, are manifestly unsatisfactory.
The Commission also goes along with the rapporteur's finding that one of the main reasons for the lack of progress is the lack of interest shown by certain Member States towards strengthening this co-ordination.
We are increasingly oriented towards programmes, towards integrating strategic development in the various countries, together with the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the United Nations, in other words a strategic logic, whereas bilateral aid is nearly always oriented towards projects and not for programmes or whole sectors.
I am sure that, if the European Parliament had to play a fundamental role in discussing the European Development Fund's budgets, some of those aspects of policy co-ordination would play a leading role, not only in reports drafted by some of those members of the European Parliament who are most interested in the subject but by the European Parliament as whole.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the traditional division between humanitarian aid, rehabilitation and development is increasingly seen as artificial, whilst their interconnection is receiving ever greater attention.
The first part is devoted to the humanitarian aid of the European Union and, in particular, the role played by ECHO.
As was suggested even in the original draft of the report - and, on behalf of my group, I am tabling an amendment in this respect - it is vital that we set up a single agency for this type of problem.
The second aspect of coordination is what is known as operational coordination, that is, coordination between non-governmental organizations and the Commission's delegations.
I come now to the second part of the report, the section on linking relief, rehabilitation and development.
In April 1996, the Commission produced a document divided into four sections, the first of which covers ways in which relief measures can take better account of development objectives and requirements.
A third section concerns development actions and the risk of emergencies.
Conflict prevention should be an intrinsic element of policy in this field.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I must first congratulate the rapporteur, who is nevertheless my friend, Raimondo Fassa, for his excellent report, and I must also thank the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee who have favourably received all the suggestions made by this committee.
Pursuing this argument, and here I must take this opportunity to stress the point to Commissioner Pinheiro, the report calls upon the Commission to study the possibility of setting up a European corps consisting of civilian and military units, capable of undertaking operations to keep and re-establish peace.
At a time of capitulation on the matter of entrusting the southern command of NATO to a European, at a time when discussions on the creation of a European pillar within NATO are becoming more and more difficult, at a time when discussions on the integration of the WEU into the European Union institutions are becoming bogged down, at a time when we can look back on the disaster of Operation Turquoise, at a time when the Union has for four months proved incapable of making up its mind to intervene in the Great Lakes region, at a time when there is no specific proposal on the reform of the European Union's common defence and security pillar, it is not unrealistic to think that the Union might demonstrate a minimum of creative imagination and equip itself with a European intervention corps to handle these operations of maintaining and restoring peace.
Indeed, Community humanitarian aid significantly increased between 1990 and 1995, unfortunately as a consequence of the growing number of crises which arose in those years.
Another very good idea would be contributing a European voluntary service, at Community level, for future Community action in the fields of development and humanitarian aid.
Nor should we forget - and the Council unfortunately does so - that there is no between long term means for remedying human suffering than conflict-prevention, and so we must take action as soon as the situation in a country demands it of a preventive nature - diplomatic, economic, media, publicity, etc.
As the rapporteur has just stated, this report starts from a very good Commission document - and I am delighted to say so - on the link between aid, rehabilitation and development, regarding rehabilitation as a central stage so that aid can really serve development.
And I must repeat what the rapporteur rightly said: that there is an increasingly artificial division between Directorates General I, VIII and ECHO, under separate Commissioners, although we realize the Commission structure is maintained for reasons that are not easy to resolve.
Between 1992 and 1995 it virtually doubled, rising most in 1994.
Remember too, that prevention is better than cure, and this Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs has once again received the support of the House for the Council to engage in serious study of the prevention of conflicts.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, we are all commenting on the death of an important leader, Deng Xiaoping, whether or not we agree with his ideas.
For some time now, we have been seeing substantial amounts of funding being transferred from cooperation to humanitarian aid, both within the Member States and in the European Union.
I, therefore, support Mr Fassa's report, which makes a number of proposals for improving the links between humanitarian aid, development aid, rehabilitation and economic restructuring.
I take exception to the section on reform of the common external and security policy, and feel, in general, that points 11 and 12 are somewhat jumbled.
Our group feels that any such link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development must necessarily be achieved by strategic planning that embraces all the political, social and technical aspects of development logic and should encourage the harmonization of action being taken by the European Union, individual Member States and the United Nations.
Madam President, may I begin by expressing my support for the general thrust of this excellent report and the approach adopted by the rapporteur.
Finally, relating to the link between the document and current European Union practices, the Commission's approach to the links between relief, rehabilitation and development appears somewhat theoretical and involves a number of basic assumptions regarding the capacity of the European Union to implement this fairly ambitious approach.
Now, I should like to deal briefly with one or two points.
I also believe that this is an area in which we can implement a little bit of common foreign policy on behalf of the Union, and so I also welcome the opinion of the Foreign Affairs Committee regarding the Peace Corps.
But although a number of European countries have very strict rules governing shipments of weapons to areas of conflict, there are always criminal elements that find ways and means of coming by arms and then supplying those arms to crisis areas and elsewhere.
Another point concerned with aid to disaster areas and sustainable development is, in my view, that where emergency aid is concerned we cannot quibble about any human rights violations - the victims of the disaster come first in this instance.
But in the case of continuing and continuous development work - development aid - we must indeed pose the human rights question, and I regret to say that there is one point on which I must contradict my esteemed colleague, Robles Piquer: not even a degree of prosperity in a country or improved living conditions can justify human rights being trampled underfoot, and I cannot feel any respect for a statesman who has done that, even though we are supposed to speak no ill of the dead.
The report is a very positive step in the process of formalizing an approach which has been marked throughout its development by continuous consultation with a wide range of interested parties.
Another crucial point is the need for better targeting of aid to the people in need.
Furthermore, much humanitarian aid has had to be provided in conflict zones, where the civilian population has been increasingly affected, or even the direct target, of violence.
The Commission clearly recognizes the serious difficulties involved in providing humanitarian aid in these situations.
The awareness of the inherent risks and an on-going analysis of situations prone to crisis, whether due to political or economic reasons, is an important part of this work.
The report brings the issue of conflict prevention to the fore and this is naturally welcomed by the Commission.
Indeed it is our aim to encourage the private sector which we view as the powerhouse to fuel growth in the ACP countries.
Progress in implementing the linking relief, rehabilitation and development approach has been marked by a number of milestones.
Task forces are probably one of the most tangible and pragmatic ways of witnessing intra-Commission cooperation and coordination in practice.
The linking relief, rehabilitation and development is not confined to the Commission.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
