Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 28 January 1999.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of the sitting of Friday, 28 January 1999 have been distributed.
Mr Chichester, as you will appreciate, this is a question that only the Commission can answer, especially as regards the delay.
Thank you, Mr Malangré.
Thank you, Mrs García Arias.
I was here at the hour of our democratic birth in 1979 and I was here for the censure debate, when we came of age.
Applause The House has expressed its sentiments on the question and, pursuant to Rule 108, no debate is necessary.
Mr President, you have just explained that our colleague Carmen Díez de Rivera has resigned from Parliament.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I should like to say that we, too, very much regret that Carmen Díez de Rivera is unable to continue her work in the House.
In 1993 a decision was adopted establishing a monitoring mechanism for the Community's anthropogenic CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions.
It could monitor progress towards the stabilisation of CO2 emissions at 1990 levels by the year 2000 in the Community and it could monitor the fulfilment of the Community's commitments under the United Nations framework convention on climate change which entered into force in 1994.
The Kyoto Protocol adopted in December 1997 established principles and introduced legally-binding targets and timetables for Annex 1 countries to cut their greenhouse gas emissions.
At the same time the Community has signed up to the Kyoto Protocol and has committed itself to a reduction in its emissions of carbon dioxide and a group of other gases of 8 % below 1990 levels between 2008 and 2012, that is 5.2 % in the case of Kyoto Protocol parties as a whole.
In the meantime, of course, the 1996/97 proposal and report have been largely superseded by the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol.
The Council's amendment of Article 8 is arguably so substantial that we ought to consider, in accordance with Rule 62 of our Rules of Procedure, whether this debate should continue at all.
Article 8 provides for a specific regulatory committee.
Secondly, in view of the need for further development of monitoring systems, can the Commission assure us that a new amendment to this directive will be brought forward, and that in particular flexible mechanisms for emissions trading will be covered in this new version?
It is of course because of carbon dioxide, that is CO2 , and other greenhouse gases that, as the experts have it, warming is occurring.
However, I would like to repeat that we believe this system gives us a reliable basis for preparing further legislative action, as without this overview we are really fishing in the dark.
I believe that Europe is really well ahead of other parts of the world in this field.
Monitoring CO2 emissions is very important in ensuring that the commitments given in the Kyoto Protocol are met.
I support the European Commission's proposal to extend the monitoring of emissions beyond the year 2000.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the debate on reducing greenhouse gases is like a never-ending story.
And these are scientific results.
In this context, the amendments to the Hautala report tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection are crucial.
The former Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs and current President of Georgia, Edvard Shevardnadze, has admitted that up to 50 % of methane gas transported escapes into the atmosphere.
Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 in the Fitzsimons report, which delete the words 'as far as possible', are particularly important.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I do not have very much to add to the previous speakers' remarks.
As soon as we have greater clarity on how these flexible arrangements are to operate, we will present a new decision on monitoring which will cover this key aspect of the Protocol, and it is clear that we will continue to be active in this matter.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Reduction of sulphur content of liquid fuels The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0002/99), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the common position adopted by the Council (10577/98 - C4-0564/98-97/0105(SYN)) with a view to adopting a Council Directive relating to a reduction of the sulphur content of certain liquid fuels and amending Directive 93/12/EEC (Rapporteur: Mrs Hautala).
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal concerns the view that emissions that acidify the atmosphere should be reduced to a minimum.
The problem remains, however, that the Council's common position, which is a unanimous compromise, will mean this reduction in the sulphur content of light fuel oil will not take place until the start of 2008, and that can hardly be regarded at this stage as a hugely radical move.
The difference of opinion that still exists between the Council of Ministers and Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, when the common position is examined, lies in the fact that the Council is only prepared to apply a limit to the sulphur content of heavy fuel oil as from the start of 2003.
Now the Committee is suggesting that we should reach a reasonable compromise here too, with an amendment to come into force by the start of the year 2001.
There is a certain aspect of this report that is perhaps sometimes forgotten: Finland, Sweden and Austria, when they joined the Union, gained the right to maintain tighter environmental requirements over a four-year term, which ended at the end of last year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all agree on the objectives we are trying to achieve as regards acidification.
We are all extremely aware of the problems this causes and we can be content with the common position that included most of the amendments that the European Parliament had adopted at first reading.
As far as heavy fuel oils are concerned, some people are questioning the date set by the Council, which is 1 January 2003.
As regards gas oil, the Council provides for two stages in reducing sulphur content.
It also provides for derogations but limits their duration to a five year period from 2008 onwards on the understanding that this derogation period is non-renewable.
We can, I believe, be pleased with the fact that the Council, in its common position, has not covered bunker fuel as this accounts for only 2 % of total sulphur emissions.
Therefore, we must insist that some areas that are particularly sensitive to sulphur emissions from bunker fuel, such as the areas I have just mentioned, be declared special protection areas.
In view of these conditions, the Group of the European People's Party refuses to systematically try to outdo the Council.
Mr President, a dynamic approach to acidifying emissions is required if we are to protect human health, plants and sensitive ecosystems, as well as buildings.
The most effective way of combating acidification is through large furnaces, as these are responsible for 63 % of SO2 emissions in the European Union.
Most of the 27 amendments adopted by Parliament at first reading have already been incorporated into the common position.
However, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 2 and 3.
Amendment No 2 provides for a different upper limit for sulphur content in fuel oil in conjunction with a possible dispensation from the 1 % requirement.
Amendment No 3 seeks to bring forward introduction of the 0.1 % limit for sulphur content in gas oil from the year 2008 to 2004.
In its communication on the common position, the Commission was favourable towards a tightening-up of the requirements for sulphur content in gas oil from the year 2008.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
It is particularly sad that he is not here, because this is an important report which he has worked very hard on over the last few years.
I have only a few remarks to make in relation to it and one very important question to ask the Commissioner, a question which I hope she will be able to answer.
There is a scare in my country, and possibly other countries as well, that the net effect of this legislation would be to make it much more difficult to export used clothing of the types that are collected by charities to countries that have not replied to the Commission's questionnaire on the acceptability of exports of waste to them.
The problem is, as we have understood in the course of the debates as it were, off-stage, on Mr Virgin's report, that used clothing, when collected by organisations belonging to the churches, Oxfam, or whatever, ceases to be a waste once it is sorted and that sorted used clothing does not actually come within the orbit of this directive at all.
My question to the Commissioner - she may not be able to answer now but could perhaps write to us to let us know exactly what her position is - is as follows: is it true, therefore, that there is absolutely nothing flowing from this legislation to prevent charities from our countries exporting quite freely, with no bureaucracy about it, used clothing to those countries - predominantly, I suspect, in Africa - which import them at the moment?
I am sorry to labour this point but it is one which has emerged in what is otherwise a rather technical regulation as a point that people can understand and about which many people are worried.
The final point I wish to make has to do with the addition of a new annex, Annex 5, to Regulation (EC) No 259/93.
Recycling would then help these countries to establish industrial or semi-industrial activities that would, as a result, help them generate income.
Amendment No 2 implies that the shipment of waste on the green list to countries which have not replied to the questionnaire can take place under the procedure for the orange list, which only requires tacit consent from the importing country.
The control procedures which you are now demanding will mean that the shipment is permitted if there is no answer from the importing country within 30 days, in other words you take silence to mean 'yes'.
In its common position, the Council has requested application of the procedure under Article 15 of Council Regulation No 259/93, according to which written consent but also a longer time-limit are required.
Then there are Amendments Nos 3, 5 and 8 dealing with waste which, according to Article 39 of the Fourth Lomé Convention, may not be exported to ACP countries.
These are useful proposals, since recital 9 in the preamble is clear enough and yet another annex with yet another list of waste may give rise to confusion.
The Commission can therefore support these three amendments.
Also, Amendment No 4 is acceptable to the Commission since the wording corresponds to that of Article 17(3) of Council Regulation No 259/93.
Finally, the Commission can support a change in the time-limit for periodic review under Amendment No 6, but cannot agree to consultation of Parliament in this connection, since the Commission considers that the regulation falls within the common commercial policy and that Article 113 forms the only legal basis.
The Commission Regulation of 6 November 1998 involves an amendment to Annex V to the Council Regulation.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Landfill of waste The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0028/99), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the common position adopted by the Council (6919/98 - C4-0539/98-97/0085(SYN)) with a view to adopting a Council Directive on the landfill of waste (Rapporteur: Mrs Jackson).
The landfill directive is one of the most important environmental directives the European Parliament has dealt with in recent years.
It marks the beginning of a major shift in waste management practice in Europe.
Secondly, the directive calls for the establishment of European Union wide standards for proper management of landfills; thirdly, it should result in the discouragement of the transport of waste across frontiers - waste tourism we call it - by removing the disparities between the practices and prices relating to landfill in the 15 Member States so that waste simply searches for the cheapest hole.
What we are saying is that at its maximum this directive should mean that by the latest 2018, all European Union Member States should only be sending to landfill 25 % of their 1995 totals.
We have therefore submitted two amendments to Article No 5(2).
The first would ensure that Parliament is involved in monitoring, over the next 20 years, what progress the directive is actually making.
Our Amendments Nos 14 and 16 represent the committee's concern that there are two important loopholes in the directive.
What I find most disappointing is the Council's attitude to this legislation.
I welcome the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection's support for the polluter pays principle and the proposal for a tax on waste going into the landfill sites.
I believe that this is a very important point which we will have to reflect on again in the future.
However, the stark fact is that over 90 % of municipal waste is disposed of in landfill sites in my country, and four million tonnes of waste is produced each year in the continent of Europe.
Only 8 % of all municipal waste in Ireland is recycled and this figure is simply too low.
The government is presently formulating its national development plan outlining our social and economic investment priorities for the years 2000-2006.
The European Commission and European Parliament certainly want all Member States to take advantage of the cleaner new technologies which are coming on-stream to deal with the problem of waste management.
The implementation of the Waste Management Act of 1995 is also a positive step in the right direction.
Some of the landfill sites that are being closed down pose major problems, so it is essential that these sites also come under the directive.
There have been a number of recent reports - a very important study in The Lancet last year for example - which show that babies born within three kilometres of toxic landfill sites - and potentially all landfill sites - are more likely to suffer birth defects than babies born elsewhere.
Given that they are built with the aid of substantial European financial subsidies - as much as EUR 78 million in this case - there should be checks on where they are located, how they are built and how they are run.
Unfortunately, in the past, in other words between 1991 and 1996, attempts to introduce effective landfill regulations failed.
The Commission proposal is a considerable improvement on the common position rejected in 1995.
It is no longer the case that 50 % of EU territory is excluded from the directive.
A good system of separate collection should make it possible to further reduce the 25 % norm for the dumping of such waste.
I agree with the rapporteur's proposal of imposing a levy on landfill waste.
Mr President, coming as I do from a small country which landfills 99 % of its waste, I am particularly anxious to make a few remarks about this extremely important directive.
The directive allows a 20-year period for countries which landfill more than 80 % of their waste to come into line.
I believe that there are three important points which warrant repetition because they should always be at the forefront of our minds: landfill must be a last resort; all sites must be secure and monitored; and all costs must be covered.
It is easy to state these three requirements, but fulfilling them will be rather more difficult.
Indeed, Amendment No 17 may lead to the rapid adoption of new means of disposal which will mean less sustainability.
However, the studies which have been carried out - and referred to here - on public health and, in particular, the health of children and babies, show that there is an urgent need to take action to resolve this problem.
I welcome Mrs Jackson's report.
However, we should not allow this amendment, if it is adopted, to be a carte blanche for those who want to abuse the directive.
Madam President, I wish to add my voice to those Members who have criticised the Council's common position, which apparently takes no account of the needs of either citizens or the environment.
Let me end by saying that it is important that we approve the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but it is also - and I stress this - necessary to take the steps required to establish a mandatory minimum safety distance from residential areas.
I shall concentrate on the amendments, partly because that is the way we debate these proposals, but also because the amendments are important and worthwhile and because they will make the Council's common position more consistent and the procedures more transparent.
Amendment No 2 calls for a proposal for a new directive on composting, which was raised by Mr Eisma in particular.
I am particularly happy to see that Parliament, in Amendment No 8, is seeking a return to the final target of 25 %, which had been in the Commission proposal.
It is however crucial that the reduction targets for biodegradable waste in Article 5 remain unchanged and legally binding.
The Commission cannot therefore accept Amendments Nos 9 and 10.
The Commission cannot accept these amendments.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 19.
It is the technical committee mentioned in Article 16 of the Commission proposal which has to determine the specifications in the annexes.
I realise that the amendment does not introduce any legally binding minimum distance, as in the third Commission proposal.
As you know, the Council could not accept a binding minimum distance as contained in the Commission proposal and in Amendment No 20.
I will do my utmost to ensure that we get an environmentally responsible directive on the landfill of waste adopted as quickly as possible.
Yes, Madam President, I did also mention that amendment.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
