Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 14 March 1997.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of the sitting of Friday, 14 March have been distributed.
Rule 108 covers the rebuttal of personal remarks made within the Parliament, but not the discussion of a political row which took place outside the Parliament.
Thank you, Mr Balfe.
You know that this was at the initiative of the Quaestors, who tried to find the least inconvenient way possible. (The Minutes were approved) Mr President, on the subject of the agenda and the work of the Conference of Presidents under Rule 28 of the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately Parliament has still not set up a monitoring committee in order to ensure that the requirements of the Committee of Inquiry on BSE are met.
Thank you very much, Mrs Theato.
I hope the Council will take note of that observation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is the moment when social Europe is beginning to grow, thanks to the struggles of the people concerned.
Mr President, last week, the workers at the Renault factory at Vilvoorde gained an important victory.
I have also heard that the Social Affairs Council will be meeting on 15 April.
Very well, Mrs Lindholm.
I believe that this represents substantial progress in our relations with the Commission, and I therefore think that it is very important that this statement - and, as I understand it, this has already been agreed - really can take place at 3 p.m., in other words, right at the beginning of the April II sitting.
Mr von Wogau, in the final draft of the agenda for Wednesday, 23 April there are two Commission communications: one on equality of opportunity between men and women and the other on the broad economic policy guidelines and excessive deficits.
Each will be allocated 45 minutes for questions and answers.
The fact that I am speaking on the subject today, somewhat belatedly, is due to the fact that the report that I prepared for the Commission's annual report was removed from the agenda at the last sitting.
Let me just refer to two of the three points I have in mind, and then ask Mrs Bonino two questions.
Unfortunately, the decision taken by the technical committee on 20 March is not so clear-cut.
And finally, Mrs Bonino, will there be a seventh amendment to the cosmetics directive in the near future?
I know that always in the past the technical committee and its staff have kindly given advance notice; at the time, the sixth amendment, together with my 1993 report, led for the first time to our demanding a ban on animal experiments in the European Union.
As you can imagine, Commissioner, a seventh amendment would take more account of Parliament's wishes, and you would therefore receive the measure of support that you would no doubt like to have.
There is something very curious going on here where the director of the centre said in 1995 that this would be possible by 1998 and yet the Commission has not come up with any proposals.
Mr President, the ban on the marketing of cosmetic products and ingredients which have been tested on animals is due to enter into force on 1 January 1998.
Unfortunately, however, as other speakers have already pointed out, the Commission takes the view that this ban should be postponed for two years.
I hope that the Commissioner's reply will be such that we shall be rather more generously disposed than when we started this debate.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at this affair by the light of day, we can see that the Commission has perfected the art of evading directives or regulations that have already been adopted.
It is neither technically nor ethically justifiable for millions of animals to have to die, in the nastiest possible way, merely so that the cosmetics industry can produce a few more pots of cream, when there are already millions of little pots of cream and such like products.
If it is not possible to prove in vitro that a new ingredient is harmless from the toxicological point of view, then we must simply do without it.
Mr President, at first sight, the ban on animal experiments to test cosmetics or the substances of which they are composed should be a matter of consensus, as each of us is naturally opposed to any act of cruelty to animals.
Most third countries, in fact, require this type of experimentation and our most aggressive competitors - the Americans and Japanese - will have no hesitation in continuing tests on animals in order to place on the market products which they will sell throughout the world, including in our countries.
The real debate lies in determining whether people's right to health can be protected with the alternative methods which now exist.
We can encourage, we can act, we can spend money, but it will be international research which finally comes up with these alternative methods.
As others have pointed out, it is wholly unacceptable that these decisions be taken by technical people.
There is no defence for this when we consider the fact that 40 % of the market in this area is located in Europe, but it is precisely for that reason that we should give a lead in preventing animal experimentation.
Mr President, Commissioner, the purpose of the Roth-Behrendt report is to summarize the progress achieved by the Union in the development, validation and legal acceptance of methods which could replace animal experiments in the cosmetics sector.
The European legislator can legislate in respect of any product in circulation within the Union, but he must follow the dictates of international law, because when European enterprises export to third countries which require animal experimentation for European products, these must conform to the laws of those countries.
Furthermore, the rules endorsed by the European Union at the GATT negotiations do not allow us to prohibit the circulation within Europe of foreign products that have been tested on animals.
To eliminate any such possibility, at least for the time being, the Commission should delay for a few more years the directive prohibiting the marketing of cosmetics that have been tested on animals.
I believe that enough research has been done, and that there are enough alternative methods.
The Commission's annual report for 1995 makes it quite clear, at any rate, that the Commission is totally lacking in commitment when it comes to implementing the restrictions and halting animal experiments in the cosmetics industry.
I have the impression that the problem may be a little more complex than it seems.
But there is another fact I should like to stress - a fact familiar to this Parliament - which is that, as far as experiments on animals are concerned we are talking - as the rapporteur is undoubtedly aware - about 0.03 % of experiments on animals which relate to cosmetics; all other such experiments relate to other products.
The Commission believes that consumer health must be the main consideration: that may be debatable, but that is the Commission's line.
Clearly, as far as the safety of a cosmetic product is concerned, we need to assess the safety not only of the finished product but also of the ingredients that make it up.
Well, for the year 1985, eight Member States - Italy, Greece, Belgium, Ireland, Sweden, Finland, Luxembourg and Germany - declared that no animal tests on cosmetic products had been carried out within their respective territories; six Member States - Greece, the Netherlands, Ireland, Sweden, Finland and Luxembourg - declared that no animal tests on the cosmetic ingredients had been carried out within their respective territories; only three Member States - Austria, France and the United Kingdom - provided figures on the number of animals used, though making it clear that no conclusions could be drawn from those figures and that many uncertainties remained as to their production.
Perhaps the time is coming when we should consider disciplinary proceedings, but I can assure you that every possible means short of that has been pursued in order to obtain these data.
The 1996 progress report is already the subject of consultation by the Commission's services.
That report will clearly show how the work was continued during last year, but that does not alter the fact that the Commission, and everyone else with an interest in the sector, will have to make even greater efforts and gather reliable statistical data, assuming that the Member States a) have such data and b) will provide them.
The first concerns finished products.
As far as ingredients and combinations of ingredients are concerned, the Commission has forwarded to the European Parliament a Commission proposal for a directive concerning the deferment of the date of prohibition to 30 June 2000, with a review of the situation by 1 January 2000.
This proposal for a directive, as you know and as has already been recalled here, received the favourable vote of the Committee on Adaptation to Technical Progress on 20 March, and the procedure for formal approval by the Commission is imminent.
The Commission is thinking of two possible ways of resolving these legal problems.
But this is undoubtedly a legal study, by the Commission, designed to find a solution to a problem which does exist - after all, I do not believe any Member can deny that the problem of the World Trade Organization is a real problem, and one to which appropriate solutions must be found.
I am simply telling you that the Commission is in the process of tackling this problem, which exists, before proposing to Parliament, under the codecision procedure, a draft amendment and draft directive.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner Bonino.
We have for a long time been in agreement with the scientific representatives that this ought to be possible and that it is self-evident.
My last question refers to a point that has been annoying me for some time now, namely GATT.
Mrs Bonino, you are normally so full of fighting spirit.
And all I have done was to give some approaches.
Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner Bonino.
The debate is closed.
The voting will take place tomorrow at noon.
Mr President, on 18 December last the Commission took a decision which we consider disastrous, authorizing the placing on the European market, for all uses and without specific labelling, of thousands of tons of genetically modified maize together with cereal substitutes derived from this maize, which originated in the United States and were then stocked in our ports.
Essentially, this decision seems to us very serious on two accounts.
Our concern is further increased when we see the great haste and lack of thought which prevailed at the decision of 18 December.
Moreover, we are already being told that it will not be possible to apply this labelling to the transgenic products which have already been authorized, or for which the authorization procedure is under way.
Finally, and in any case, neither Member States nor the Commission have the moral right to let a product which poses such risks be distributed on the market, even if it is labelled.
We therefore solemnly ask the Commission to revoke its decision of 18 December, even if this means causing a dispute at the World Trade Organization.
In any event, some day we will have to know where we stand and whether we do or do not have the right to defend ourselves.
Ladies and gentlemen, the market for products obtained through genetic engineering, which is developing very rapidly at a world level, presents two major problems.
The problem of safety, first of all, which is a dual one: food security and environmental security.
Food security consists in making sure that the new, genetically modified products are not harmful to our health and that of our descendants, in other words, that of the human race.
Personally, as a scientist as well as a political representative, I think that purely and simply banning these new products raises the second major question - the competitiveness of the States of the European Union in relation to the competitiveness of third countries.
Because of the dual problem of competitiveness and safety, it is thus important, first of all, to suspend the authorization to import genetically modified products into the European Union, because the national authorities of Member States are not all in agreement and a large majority is even opposed to this.
In conclusion, I would earnestly ask the Commission, on the one hand - I repeat - to ban the importation of genetically modified products and, on the other, to authorize the placing on the market of a certain number of products generated within the European Union with all the necessary guarantees, so as not, finally, to put us in a drastically inferior position compared with third countries.
We therefore, Madam Commissioner, in our motion for a resolution, request a moratorium on these foodstuffs and we think this is the way the Commission must take until rigorous scientific testing shows that there is no problem for human health and the environment.
In December 1996, the Commission, contrary to the opinion of thirteen Member States, authorized the introduction of transgenic maize.
Of course, there is the threat of the World Trade Organization, which is being brandished about as the big policeman of the world of trade, ready to deal severely with us if the European Union does not accept transgenic maize.
But, in doing this, the Commission is taking decisions with no regard for European producers, public health or the protection of consumers because it provides for no labelling of this maize.
The second gene, which is resistant to a powerful herbicide, could lead to an increase in soil pollution and the third, finally, which is resistant to an antibiotic, could be transmitted to bacteria, or to animals, or even to mankind.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of my group to express our concern at the recent decision by the Commission to endorse the placing on the market of genetically-modified maize modified by Ciba-Gigy, now known as Novartis.
Yet I often have the impression that we forget the European citizen and, in this affair, we have been able to see that the European Commission had, yet again, proceeded with a great deal of haste, without referring to that transparency which we all wish for and which is absolutely vital when what is involved is actually a problem as essential as that of food safety.
It is thus important for us to make our positions clear and for us to situate what we must do as regards the protection of the consumer, who absolutely has to know whether he can be sure what he is eating on his plate every day, sure of the quality of the product he is eating.
We have in fact been able to reproach the European Commission with having taken this decision to place American transgenic maize on the European market, a decision which was taken in far too much of a hurry, while a certain number of questions were being raised in the countries of the European Union, and some countries were actually banning the introduction of this American transgenic maize, for the moment, while other countries, like France, were refusing to allow the production of this transgenic maize on their own territory.
I believe, finally, that it would be, for us, the European Parliament, the way to show the citizens of Europe that this Parliament, worthy of the name, is here precisely in order to support them and to make provision for the future of the generations to come.
I believe that it is absolutely essential to be particularly vigilant and prudent, and to think too of our farmers, who are in fact asking us to have a little more confidence in them.
We ought to be particularly careful therefore with this particular type of genetically modified maize.
But whatever views you or I may have about GMOs and the formula adopted - perhaps before you came to Parliament and before I was Commissioner - for the EU's policy in this area, the fact is that we now have GMO products which have to be assessed in accordance with the existing EU regulations, namely directive 90/220/EEC in the version in which it was originally adopted.
Thus on 2 April the Commission adopted a further amendment of directive 90/220/EEC regarding technical information.
With a little willingness to co-operate on the part of the Committee for directive 90/220/EEC, it could very soon - one would hope within the next month or two - become a binding legal requirement that GMO products permitted under directive 90/220/EEC should be labelled.
The new annex 3 cannot of course be applied retrospectively to previous applications or to applications which have been forwarded to the Commission in connection with the rules contained in directive 90/220/EEC.
I believe the Commission's acceptance of my proposal for amendment of annex 3 to directive 90/220/EEC is an important first step and also a very important political signal to Parliament; but first and foremost, of course, it is a signal to consumers and others who have long sought an improvement in the level of information and transparency in this area of GMO products.
Having carefully examined and assessed all the information submitted by Ciba-Geigy and the Member States, on 11 April 1996, the Commission, fulfilling its obligation under the procedures laid down in the directive, provided the Committee for directive 90/220/EEC with a draft resolution to permit the marketing of the maize in question as though it were any other conventional type of maize.
The Council (Environment) was unable to reach a decision on the matter on 25 June 1996, i.e.
The reports, which were submitted on 9 and 13 December, confirmed the earlier view, namely that there were no grounds for believing that the genetically-modified Ciba-Geigy maize would result in harmful effects for health and the environment.
It was on the basis of these reports, and not for financial or other reasons, that the Commission took the decision to allow marketing of the maize in question.
Thus on 18 December the Commission took its decision on the basis of the reports produced by the three scientific committees which, as we already know, were unanimous.
With regard to France's attitude, the Commission can only inform Parliament that on 5 February 1997 France, in accordance with the directive, granted Ciba-Geigy consent to market the Bt maize for use as any other traditional type of maize.
In order that this maize may be cultivated in Member States, however, it is first necessary that it be incorporated into the common lists of plant types, in accordance with Council directive 70/457 which once again has been modified by directive 90/654.
On 14 February 1997 - and this is the last aspect I will deal with here - the Austrian authorities informed the Commission that marketing of the Ciba-Geigy maize had been banned in Austria on the basis of a ruling that came into effect on that same date.
By means of our last decision on the labelling of all GMOs within the area of application of directive 90/220, we have ensured that consumers know what they are getting.
Mr President, we asked for this debate so that we could discuss with the Commissioner the question of what happens next, now that Luxembourg and Austria have declared a ban on imports.
Normally no Member can speak twice on the same subject, but when a Member is a rapporteur, as in the present case, the President can give her the floor a second time.
Mr President, I have listened attentively, Commissioner, to what you have said, and I gather from your very correct and very comprehensive remarks that you, as a person, have taken a great deal of trouble to ensure that the consumers of the European Union are protected and informed.
We can remember perfectly well which Commissioner, in the past, was in favour of labelling or consumer information.
The main reason for our oral questions was not labelling, but first and foremost the conviction that many of us hold, that the approval of this genetically modified maize has happened too soon, and perhaps should not even have happened at all.
And I have to admit, Commissioner, that your remarks have done nothing to remove by own doubts.
We must check whether these scientific committees have in fact, with the criteria approved in this regulation, been able to give what we might call their seal of approval to this report.
It is a question of reassuring all our citizens that the new foodstuff is safe and not harmful to health or the environment.
And you and the Commission are now going to solve everything by labelling everything.
Madam Commissioner, consumers demand labelling, but it does not solve the problem of safety.
Mr President, as always happens when we tackle such complex matters, both Parliament and public opinion end up split down the middle because they are motivated by obviously divergent and often conflicting interests.
After all, in favour of transgenic maize it seems that there are certificates issued unilaterally by the United States; but the issuing bodies should be above suspicion: first the Environmental Protection Agency, then the Ministry for Agriculture, and finally the Food and Drugs Administration, although in this latter case the situation may be less clear in that the institution concerned has just recently been the subject of inquiries and reviews.
After beef, it is prepared to let European consumers run new risks by giving the market and free competition priority over public health.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the serious aspects of this transgenic maize business include the Commission's decision and the institutional aspects it involves.
I know that a Scientific Committee on Genetically Modified Organisms is to be set up, and I know about the proposals made on 2 April and have duly noted them; but I do want to ask Commissioner Bjerregaard specifically: what does the Commission intend to do in view of the decision taken by Austria and Luxembourg to invoke Article 16 of European Union Directive 90/220/EEC, which allows a Member State to suspend the marketing of genetically modified organisms for reasons of public health or environmental protection?
Faced with a decision that has been adopted in opposition to your own approach, but on the basis of very serious scientific documentation - because if those two States have taken a decision like this there must be a reason for it - does the Commission not, possibly, intend to suspend or withdraw that authorization, as the European Parliament wishes?
It is clearly absurd that 13 Member States should wish to ban a postponement, and that two Member States, who later regretted their positions, should be able to push this through.
I believe that we have a duty to take into account the instincts of the people that we represent here.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission, as a collective body, is obliged, under Article 130(r) of the Treaty on European Union, to enforce and implement the principles of precaution and prevention in order to protect the environment and health.
These principles of precaution and prevention did not enter into the debate when the decision to allow genetically modified maize was taken on 18 December, as we can see if we read the Commission minutes, as published in a French newspaper.
Only a few members of the Commission represented the viewpoint of the citizens of Europe, and spoke out in favour of taking health and the environment into account.
The scientific committees have given their expert opinions, and a hearing has also taken place.
I believe that this is particularly important because we know nothing as yet about the long-term effects, such as whether other plants could develop resistance to this crop protection product, or whether there is resistance to antibiotics, because we have not yet had this genetically modified maize for long enough to have carried out a study that might have provided evidence of the long-term effects on human beings, on animals and on the environment.
Three separate scientific committees consulted by the Commission before it authorized the marketing of genetically modified maize reported that there was no basis to prohibit, on safety grounds, the marketing of such maize in Europe.
I agree completely, as indicated in the resolution before us, that public health and food safety must be placed at the top of our agenda.
These are things that we must establish a priori, but let us now turn to the specific case of genetically modified maize.
The Commission is not only under obligation to comply with directive 220.
With regard to the decision-making process it is difficult to argue that a procedure in which the Commission and one Member State can prevail over 13 other Member States is in any sense part of a democratic system.
Mr President, the people of Europe must be completely confused.
The Commission has blocked the novel food regulation, which we in the European Parliament decided on in the spring of last year.
However, I also believe that the fundamentalists are jointly responsible for confusing the public.
Mrs Breyer talks about a full-scale attack on our health.
Before 15 May, in other words before the novel food regulation comes into force, they have to call a meeting of the Scientific Committee on Food, and it must be made clear that provision is being made for comprehensive labelling for all products, so that this mess can finally be cleared up.
In any case, what the Commissioner has said, recalling the decisions made on 2 April, shows that there is awareness and that efforts are being made, even if a little late in the day, to remedy a situation of lasting legal uncertainty.
The resolution contains two important points, one of which is relevant here as relating to aspects which interact with environmentally compatible agriculture.
It was actually in the Commission's communication of June 1994 on the future of biotechnology that it was stressed how the future of the sector would be governed by a policy of risk control, creating a new feeling of confidence among the public.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am in favour of making the debate about the use of genetic technology more objective.
As always, ladies and gentlemen, Austria has provisionally banned the marketing of the product in question, following new scientific findings.
But the fact is that because, on the basis of the new scientific findings, there are two issues in particular that have not yet been finally cleared up, namely the question of the possible transmission of resistance to antibiotics and also the problem of the possible development of resistance to the BT toxin, and because further scientific investigations will be necessary in order to come to a definite conclusion regarding these risks, Austria has imposed this ban.
Two plus two will always equal four.
This means that labelling is clearly needed for those products that contain genetically-modified organisms - some would say, for those products contaminated by genetically-modified organisms.
What I want and what I now demand, is that in future labelling will occur for all genetically-modified organisms used in food products.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to raise four questions which I regard as fundamental in this debate: First: I think that the composition of genetically modified products ought to be stated in more detail, as medicines are today, as are the foodstuffs we all know and eat as a matter of course.
Thirdly: the question of GATT.
In the absence of any precepts it finds what it can in the ISO standards or the Codex alimentarius .
As rapporteur on GATT and the environment I know a little about the relevant legislation and I do not see how it is possible to simply say that GATT is preventing us from taking the precautionary the measures required in this matter.
Mr President, Commissioner, to my mind, traceability and labelling are, clearly, and more than ever, common knowledge and, in any case, topical.
But there is research and research.
Now, competitiveness plus competition, monetarism plus finances - this has nothing to do with health.
Commissioner, I am not with you when you offer guarantees on the unknown: you act as if you were in possession of the infallible truth.
Myself, I think on the contrary that it has understood well that the European Parliament is a House which lacks courage so much that one can impose on it, or even make it take political actions which are all the more important as there is a discrepancy between them and its speeches.
I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that in February, on censorship, the European Parliament was afraid.
Mr President, Commissioner, a lot of things have been said, so let me first of all ask a question.
The possible risks of green genetic engineering have been overestimated, in my country for example, according to the opinion of the Technology Council.
Mr President, unfortunately time will not permit me to go into detail on the many questions that have been raised.
Naturally I agree that this is an IGC issue, but it also has to do with the revision of directive 90/220/EEC.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Article 118 a of the Treaty establishing the European Community stipulates that the Member States must pay particular attention to encouraging improvements in the working environment in order to protect the health and safety of workers.
Overall, occupational cancer still represents a huge challenge and, in human terms, each case of occupational cancer is one case too many.
For the first time, the proposal for a directive lays down limit values for a benzene carcinogen.
Parliament tabled 16 amendments to the original Commission proposal, most of which were taken into account by the Commission in its amended proposal.
Cancer, as the rapporteur has already described, is one of the most serious diseases in the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this directive marks a step forward, especially because for the first time, a limit value is being set for benzene.
I hope, Mr President - and I have also obtained some information on this in my own country from the Council - that you will be able to take the initiative on this matter, and that we shall not be left with just this one directive.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive which is being submitted today for second reading meets, in principle, two objectives.
I think I can say that this objective has been attained.
The second objective consists in setting limit values for occupational exposure to a well-known carcinogen - benzene.
Benzene has, in fact, been known for a very long time as a powerful carcinogen.
The Commission has proposed 1 PPM, in other words, ten times more.
But where things start to get more serious is where, in the initial proposal, it proposed a derogation of 3 PPM for the oil sector.
This was already unacceptable in itself and, at first reading, we rejected this derogation, although we accepted the 1 PPM.
Let met first draw your attention to the political significance of the Council's common position.
In consideration of the fact that the current values in most Member States are much higher than 3 ppm, the time allowed is not so unreasonable.
They clearly overlook the fact that the Commission incorporated six of the proposed amendments: 1, 4, 6, 7, 8 and 10 in the amendment proposal, and these are now before Parliament.
I am thinking here of proposed amendments 3, 4, 5, 8 and 10 in particular.
Regarding biological limits, and here I am referring to proposed amendments 4 and 8, the Commission intends to produce further proposals to establish limits for certain levels in the case of specific carcinogens, where the necessary data is available.
The debate is closed.
