I cannot give an interpretation against what was clearly the will of the House at that moment.
I suggested that, given our insistence that the Commission is more open, there is a very simple way in which we can be in the vanguard of actually demonstrating transparency on this issue, and that is by attaching the declaration of Members' interests to each Member's particular entry on Parliament's website.
That would immediately demonstrate to everybody that we were both transparent and prepared in the public interest to put our record completely publicly on the website.
It takes the view that if Parliament details everything that has been debated in the House, then ultimately of course nothing will be publicised, because the newspapers cannot publicise 30 or 40 different issues.
At the same time, the Rainbow will be available much more quickly so that everyone can read it as soon as possible.
In this winter holiday period, this incident should serve to remind us that the mountains form a specific area which rarely gives the European Union cause for concern.
Mr President, on the subject of Article 47 and natural disasters, such as snow and farmers, I would draw your attention to the fact that yesterday in the Netherlands - a country 325 kilometres long - we had tailbacks totalling 975 kilometres.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report takes as its starting point the undeniable success of the adoption of the single currency after a rigorously applied convergence process.
The achievement of Economic and Monetary Union, with an independent European Central Bank, is a quantum leap for the European Union, leading to the emergence of a genuine supranational political authority with responsibilities in matters of monetary and exchange-rate policies that once belonged to the sovereign States.
However, the institutional establishment of Economic and Monetary Union has been unbalanced, in that the power to centrally manage monetary policy is not matched by any real powers for the Union to effectively coordinate economic policies by means of broad guidelines or any binding multilateral surveillance.
At the same time, the inadequacy of the Union's arrangements for ensuring transparency and democratic accountability in the activity of the European Central Bank has become apparent.
The proposals on Monetary Union are intended to guarantee the independence of the European Central Bank while strengthening its democratic accountability.
The proposals on Economic Union are essentially intended to guarantee effective coordination and coherence between the Union's economic policies and those of the Member States, by means of a set of binding 'policy mix' policies.
The aim will be to use the power conferred by the euro, a monetary unit that may even challenge the supremacy of the dollar, to economically regulate globalisation in such as way as to promote justice and to challenge the hegemony of the USA.
This situation should be viewed in terms of the striking contrast between the US economy which is bursting with health and the languid European economy.
There is not yet sufficient awareness in political circles of the enormous changes that the international financial markets have experienced.
Clearly, the current situation in Europe is unsatisfactory and it must change.
What is particularly important is that we use the successful launch of monetary union in order to reduce the democratic deficit in the European Union.
It really is time for the European Parliament to be given a codecision right that is consistent with the further democratic development of this European Union; that right must apply not just to the annual economic report and the economic policy guidelines but also to the whole procedure for determining the excessive deficit and to the deliberations on the stability plans and convergence programmes.
The European Parliament must not be kept out of this interplay.
I think we must make it clear that this complementary policy of coordination is the key to supporting stability, to making stability a prerequisite, to ensuring that stability is not one aim among many others; it is on this basis that we must pursue a sensible economic policy aimed at growth, progress and employment.
I and my group do not share this belief, and a large majority of us will consequently be voting against the Barros Moura report.
In particular, there is a fundamental structural division in the legal framework and in our institutional procedures between the economic sphere and the social sphere.
In this respect, there is one point in Mr Herman's opinion which I particularly support: the reunification of the procedures for coordinating employment policies with economic policies.
This would be a very important step in the right direction.
This does not involve the budgetary deficit in itself, but rather the financing of development.
Secondly, and more briefly, you are staking everything on the coordination of economic policies.
The role of the European Parliament in debating economic and social policy choices will become essential, in coordination, I hope, with the national parliaments.
This cannot be left, as you propose, to a simple consultation and debate on a single text from the Commission.
Finally, will the relationship between the European Parliament and the European Central Bank involve the Bank's policy being legitimised by Parliament or a political force being established to counterbalance the ECB?
We need a dialogue within a political framework so that the EU policies which serve social and sustainable development objectives will necessarily be involved in monetary policy choices.
It is premature to expect to see an immediate and fully fledged economic and social union after five weeks.
There will be great political consequences from EMU which have very often being underplayed or even denied by its proponents.
Already four EU members are not actually members of Monetary Union and, as enlargement proceeds, other members will join the European Union without taking on the euro.
To try and force people into tax harmonisation in this way will certainly not help achieve that consensus in the United Kingdom.
For that reason also, the reference to a federal style budgetary system was decidedly unhelpful: anybody here who knows anything about British politics knows you must never use the 'f' word in a European context if you are trying to persuade people to get more closely involved in the European Union.
I also believe that the decision of 2 May is of great significance.
As far as Spanish people are concerned, for two centuries 2 May has represented the rebellion against the French.
I think it was Baron Lamfalussy who said that in the process of building a single currency there were more 'ifs' and more conditionals than in the famous poem 'If' by Rudyard Kipling.
Mr Barros Moura outlines the problems we are going to face in the future.
He does this very well in respect of the role of the European Parliament and the new European policies.
On the contrary, the euro is what protects us against old-fashioned social democratic policies of devaluation, deficit and interference in the operation of central banks.
For those of us who come from a country which has lived with fixed exchange rate policies for 17 years, this has been the backbone of the prosperity, stability and employment we have enjoyed during that period.
I think that the European Parliament should be preparing rather more officially for this new revision, with all of us participating in it.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Amsterdam Treaty has been mentioned today, yet this Treaty was not even allowed to mention the institutional consequences of the transition to Economic and Monetary Union.
At first glance, I feel that there are three essential aspects to this issue.
Thirdly, the transition to EMU and the changeover to the euro will force us to adopt qualified majority voting, both in taxation and in the whole social sphere.
They must also be considered in the wider context of the institutional reform needed.
Mr President, the report we are debating is moving towards greater centralisation of the economic and monetary policy of the Union and of the Member States which, in my view, goes beyond the ambitions of the architects of EMU, who of course are not in this Parliament.
It reinforces the institutional expression of a multi-speed Europe and, in the name of a single economic policy, it aims to bestow on ECOFIN characteristics of an economic government and, on the general guidelines of economic policy, a legal substance which will be compulsory for Member States.
The Commission broadly supports many of the proposals and analyses in this report.
And this is the right time given the operating practices of Economic and Monetary Union and the dynamic created by the euro in other European policies and institutions.
This is why we need to coordinate these policies and why the European Councils have for many years been defining the framework for increased coordination of economic policies.
The Amsterdam European Council asked for the broad guidelines to take account of the employment guidelines.
Therefore, the introduction of the euro has clearly encouraged and is encouraging the development of a genuine European economic policy programme.
However, I would remind you that the current Treaty already provides for the adoption of the broad economic policy guidelines by a qualified majority in the Council.
This is a problem which is arising now and which will arise in the future in the light of experience gained.
For its part, the Commission has always been in favour of improving the operation of the broad economic policy guidelines.
We will make more specific, formal proposals on the 1999 broad economic policy guidelines for each Member State this year, and you can expect to receive these in March.
The second point that I must briefly mention concerns the institutional balance.
The Commission is in favour of this and has always supported the possibility of reaching such an agreement.
The euro will also have an impact on certain policies.
I am also thinking of social policy as this House must take part in drawing up the new social contract and in the actions intended to preserve the European social model.
The first is qualified majority voting.
However, the problem with this, as pointed out by Mr Spiers, is the fiscal policy.
The second key issue is the workings of the Commission, the institutions in general, and therefore the Council.
To conclude, I must point out, like your rapporteur, that in my opinion, the euro can now act as a genuine catalyst which Europe can use to become structured, stronger, more developed and enlarged.
Mr President, I must just say something very quickly, not to comment on the debate, but to give Mr Herzog some information.
Is the Commissioner in favour of the euro operating with common goals, or is he in favour of having a binding common economic policy, as proposed in paragraph 10?
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Personally, I would not have any problem with the Council preparing a report on Parliament.
In other sections, less extensive interinstitutional changes and even administrative changes are suggested.
The final key feature of the report is its orientation.
The report is divided into two main sections relating to structures and procedures.
The report recommends a very clear separation between the foreign affairs function, which must be carried out by the foreign ministers, and the general affairs function, which is a coordinating function to be carried out by ministers close to the coordinating authority.
More generally, the report calls on each of us to participate in the logical distribution of roles between the Council and the Commission.
The Commission must be responsible for proposing and implementing in all areas.
Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
I would therefore like to ask the President of Parliament to tell us who is now representing the Council in this debate.
The very functioning of an enlarged European Union will depend on the answers brought to the questions raised in this report.
In both cases a single government was able to hold up proceedings to make the others pay a political price for an eventual concession that was made or a new compromise that had to be found.
That is why the first and most essential reform is a massive extension of qualified majority voting.
Yes, we must look also at the question of the weighting of votes in the Council.
That is why I - and up until now - my group have always been very reticent about the idea of moving towards a system of double majority in the Council.
The Council should have votes representing the states just as Parliament has a more proportional system representing the population of the European Union.
In this report Parliament is fulfilling its traditional role of looking ahead, being a little bit adventurous, but looking to the future: as we did with Spinelli report that preceded the Single Act, the Martin report that preceded Maastricht and the Bourlanges report which preceded Amsterdam.
My own group has problems and will be tabling amendments and requesting split votes on particular points.
I believe that the two reports have something in common: they both concentrate on the future and propose courageous solutions.
Since the accession of the last three Member States the difficulties involved in decision-making have increased.
Our most important task is to defend the principle of integration.
And when we eventually have 25, 26 or 28 Member States, the principle of integration will only be able to be maintained if decisions are taken by qualified majority.
He is from a country that has always opposed this idea and I think it is admirable that he has considered it in his report.
As a result, and because we believe that this is an important report, my group will vote in favour.
The rapporteur also claims that the European Council has become the vanguard of the European Union.
But here too the conservative side of this report gives way to the bolder side, with the suggestion that the European Council should meet, whenever necessary, as the Heads of State and Government, when for decision-making purposes it should adopt the procedures usually followed at normal meetings of Councils of Ministers.
I have already been called a Eurorealist for taking that stance, despite my optimism.
My group therefore regards this report as an excellent starting point.
There is currently a lack of transparency in the European Union due, for the most part, to the dual nature of the Council, which can meet as an executive body and as a legislative body.
This situation poses a problem which could worsen with enlargement in that, in its legislative function, the Council operates more like the Congress of Vienna than a real legislative house.
Therefore, the Council must no longer be a gathering of national executives meeting in secret and deciding virtually everything unanimously.
It must become a second legislative house, just like the European Parliament.
The latter must extend its role of laying down general guidelines and providing political impetus for the Union without becoming a decision-making body.
The bases of this new structure mean extending qualified majority voting in the Council.
This is why my group has tabled two amendments which we would ask the rapporteur to consider.
Mr President, the report before us today was written by the French chairman of the Europe Movement according to the formula: much more Union.
We can replace three out of 87 votes in the Council of Ministers.
The June Movement does not want to reduce democracy.
The EU should not be able to forbid a country from banning pesticides and colourings which cause allergies.
We want an environmental Europe, but not more union and certainly not a new state, so we are voting against the Bourlanges report.
Mr Bourlanges spoke about the rampant deinstitutionalisation of the Council of Ministers and that is exactly right.
He spoke about the European Council as the 'Tour de France broom-wagon'.
I hope that the Commission will also stress this point.
But there everything depends on whether the CFSP finally becomes a real common foreign and security policy.
The Bourlanges report contains a resolution that departs from the norm.
Let me say openly that in my view the significance of some of the details of today's resolution is a rather more illustrative one.
Paragraph 24 of the Bourlanges report contains specific and unambiguous proposals to check this slippery slide.
Mr President, the political testament of Mr Bourlanges, coming just before the end of our mandate, contains some important points.
However, only when the euro is a success and the national parliaments are prepared to provide a good foundation for the Europe of Nations do I believe the time will have come to take major new steps forward.
Nevertheless, European ideas for deepening European institutions and enlargement must be further developed.
At present my group cannot support your report.
Mr President, reforming the Council is probably the most difficult task of all.
I congratulate the rapporteur on his attempts to at least sketch out the broad lines of reform here.
Mr President, the Bourlanges report subscribes to the view that the Council should become a second house representing the Member States and that the Commission should gradually develop into a genuine European executive.
As I explained in the minority opinion attached to the report, the I-EDN Group considers that such a development would be dangerous and that the Council must continue in its role as a central decision-maker, representing the Member States, and as the hierarchical superior of the Commission.
The remedy must involve carefully strengthening the subordinating link by which Brussels serves the Member States.
This link places the Council in a privileged position.
On this essential issue, the Bourlanges report is silent.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur who, in my opinion, has presented us with a magnificent report that offers a forward-looking analysis of the institutions of an enlarged European Union and of issues that the Treaty of Amsterdam obviously failed to resolve.
I think that his report's strongest point is its defence of the Community method at a time when there are clear signs of a return to intergovernmental working in the European Union.
That is why I cannot understand the rapporteur's detailed proposals on the weighting of votes in the Council.
It is obvious that the demographic weight of the different countries should be reflected in their voting power and that a minority of the population should not be able to prevail against the majority.
In the Council, given its governmental role, the original balance between small and large countries should be maintained.
But the Bourlanges report is also an important one.
For it reminds us in good time that the Union is constantly facing two tasks: enlargement and deepening.
The Bourlanges report considers these questions and seeks constructive, forward-looking solutions to them.
I am particularly sceptical about paragraphs 28, 32 and 33 concerning own resources and qualified majority voting.
In essence, the whole way the system operates is changing, especially with the enlargement approaching and after the launch of the euro.
Instead I want to emphasise a point which, in my opinion, emerges from the interpretation of the report.
The future progress of the European Union will largely depend on this balance.
I think the balance is currently being undermined by both the anomalous development of the Council and the weakening of the Commission.
I hope that the PPE Group will also support this amendment and that the Commission, which is represented here in this debate, will be sensitive to this issue and support this move.
At the moment, the ministers responsible for women's rights cannot meet in a formal Council of Ministers.
I therefore believe that by providing for this possibility, we are taking a major step forward in defending the necessary involvement of women in the decision-making process.
The report by Mr Bourlanges proposes undeniable improvements and I must say that, in my view, he also proposes the correct path to be followed in favouring a Community method that renders the traditional, and until now prevalent, intergovernmental method obsolete.
It is truly shameful that the Council of Ministers is not represented here when Europe's elected representatives are debating something that directly concerns both it and all Europeans.
The report contains some conflicting ideas, however, such as paragraphs 35 and 36.
The report by Mr Bourlanges fits perfectly into this context and the vast majority of speakers clearly recognised this.
The report deals with an institutional problem that, to my mind, is essential in defining the future architecture of Europe and, more specifically, that of a Union that hopes to become the instrument that peacefully unites the continent.
I am referring to the European Union's decision-making process in the light of enlargement, an issue that many speakers referred to.
There are two roles here: the fundamental role of the European Parliament and the role of the national parliaments.
This means that both from the point of view of the workings of its various formations and in terms of the participation of the governments, we need to ensure that we can guarantee that its positions in the various bodies are consistent.
I believe that the extension of qualified majority voting does not mean that there will not be certain exceptions.
I would like to end by looking very briefly at two issues.
The second problem relates to transparency.
The Treaty of Amsterdam requires additional efforts in this area on the part of the Union and its institutions.
Transparency and the public's trust in the institutions are an essential condition both for the very existence of the institutional system and to guarantee that it runs smoothly.
And, as Mr Méndez de Vigo very wisely said, we must concentrate on the future and provide courageous solutions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The key aspect of the report is based on the belief that it will not be possible to construct a democratic Europe unless its citizens are recognised not only as being the direct beneficiaries of the integration process, but also - and perhaps, fundamentally - as subjects who actively help to formulate common objectives.
The report sets out three major objectives here: freedom of movement, social rights and European citizenship.
Furthermore, it establishes vital links between the roles of this Parliament and the national parliaments.
In a sense this programme has already begun to form part of our legislation and it is natural that it should become the focal point of the wider vision which inspires this report - the establishment of a European area of political freedom and democracy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every citizen of the European Union should be entitled to live in an area of freedom and democracy.
There is a great deal in the report about social rights, but rather less when it comes to establishing a legal base for them.
Sometimes social rights that are appropriate in one country are inappropriate when translated into another country's social and economic system which is based on a different set of priorities.
Member States have watered down the role and the competence of the European Union's democratic and judicial institutions, notably the European Parliament and the Court of Justice, and also the decision-making procedures for a period of at least five years.
The key points are that the unanimity requirement stands in the way of efficient and rapid action in this field.
The Council must start applying the Community methods in full.
Ultimately the Treaty must also remedy the very bizarre position of the United Kingdom, Denmark and Ireland which have opted out of the new policies, although, in fact, a country like Denmark will apply the policies as they stand but on an intergovernmental basis.
Against this background, the report has now developed these concepts and my group will vote for it.
Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam provides a legal basis for the action necessary to prevent discrimination on the basis of disability, age or gender, among others.
I am happy to see that the Commission has embarked on preparatory measures as a result of Article 13.
So I regret the fact that the report we are debating today treats the subject of security in a rather summary manner and is reduced to a report on democracy and freedom rather than on security.
Mr President, the Amsterdam Treaty is a good starting-point for achieving a more democratic and open EU with freedom of movement and more fundamental rights for our citizens and a stronger social dimension.
The new Treaty opens up a host of new possibilities, but whether or not they are carried out in practice depends, of course, on the political will.
Some decisions still require unanimity and some countries, including Denmark, still have reservations about participating in supranational cooperation, for example in the area of refugees and asylum.
The rapporteur is very concerned about a multi-speed Europe, meaning that countries opt out of some areas of cooperation, or that a group of countries begin to cooperate more closely.
I too can see that this danger exists, but sometimes it is necessary, not least when more countries join in cooperation, to respect the fact that there may be different speeds within that cooperation.
He has produced a very good report but there are a number of points I find it difficult to agree with.
And that is all the democracy we require.
We are in danger of going too far.
This is necessary because the people of Europe can identify with the European Parliament more easily than with the faceless bureaucracy of the Commission.
The democratic deficit in Europe's institutional architecture has naturally made it essential to strengthen a body with the direct legitimacy bestowed by European citizens.
But sometimes this debate has concentrated too much on the relationship between the European institutions, the balance of power and their operational and decision-making procedures.
Mr President, Europe will go no further unless Europeans can feel, experience and desire a Europe that is a genuine area of democracy and freedom.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who has been following the three reports of our three colleagues throughout the morning will be asking themselves what in fact was discussed at Amsterdam about issues such as EU institutions, the democratic deficit, transparency and the rights of European citizens.
Mr President, I wish to begin by complimenting Vice-President Gutiérrez Díaz on his interesting and thought-provoking report.
If the Union and its institutions are to continue to develop and become stronger over the coming years, it is vital that the citizens of each of our countries continue to accept the democratic legitimacy of these institutions.
We are all citizens of democratic countries and, as far as I am aware, the vast majority of the citizens of each of our countries accepts the democratic nature of our national governments.
However, at European level serious questions continue to be raised by many of our citizens concerning democracy and the European institutions.
It is important that the European institutions that are directly accountable to the electorate - in other words, Parliament and the Council of Ministers - should continue to have - and be seen to have - the final decision-making authority on issues of importance to our citizens.
This could be best achieved by first ensuring that the interests and concerns of the citizens of each of our countries are made known at the highest level in the Commission.
Foremost amongst these basic structures was, and still is, the principle that each country should have representation at decision-making level in all the major institutions.
Finally, the Council, the Commission, Parliament and the Court of Justice all have representatives from each Member State at present, a fact which contributes significantly to the legitimacy which these institutions enjoy in each of our countries.
The Commission presented a communication in July 1998 on the creation of a European area of freedom, security and justice.
I fully understand your concerns over certain issues raised by the Treaty and, in particular, the question of how to establish the conditions required for its implementation.
The Treaty of Amsterdam does not precisely define the objectives to be met by the institutions, as Mr Kaklamanis pointed out.
The definition and implementation of these objectives require democratic participation, which, in the long term, should come to mean full participation.
In this context, we must make full use of the role of the Court of Justice in order to assert respect for the law as a condition for creating this area.
I agree with the rapporteur that it will not be possible to build an area of liberty unless we fully respect certain rights inherent in freedom of movement, which are only partly respected at the moment.
I believe that the key here is to go back to the heart of the process of European integration as it was conceived in the 1950s.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Therefore, in February 1995, I invited my political group to visit Guadeloupe in order to see for themselves the reality of the problems that I have just set out, through study days on the European Union's relations with the overseas departments.
It was from this same perspective that in 1996, I fought for and obtained a more generalised debate on the European Union's relations with the UPRs, the OCTs and the ACP countries.
Therefore, following a vote at its meeting of Wednesday, 25 February, the Committee on Development agreed to an own-initiative report on this issue and requested authorisation from the Presidency to draw up the report.
That authorisation was granted by the Presidency at the beginning of July 1998.
As a result, I have the great honour and the very great pleasure of presenting to you today this own-initiative report that summarises the European Union's vertical relations with its overseas partners, but also attempts to summarise the horizontal relations between these different entities.
The hybrid regime for the OCTs, which is somewhere between integration and cooperation, must in no way be a collection of negative elements aimed at curbing, through lack of knowledge or understanding, the good and intelligent relations that must exist between the European Union and the overseas countries and territories.
It was that report that in 1987 report initially raised awareness in the Community institutions of the problems of the overseas departments and ultraperipheral regions and their specific characteristics, and I would also like to thank and congratulate those people for their work.
In reality, we feel that it is absolutely necessary that these neighbouring countries - which are naturally close - should form real regional markets, with a view to achieving sustainable and balanced development.
The European Union must contribute to this by promoting joint ventures, that is, associations between companies from ultraperipheral regions and from neighbouring ACP countries and OCTs in order to develop these regional markets and their exports to the Union or to third countries.
Moreover, we would stress the need to introduce a modulation of the POSEIDOM aid scheme, as although its effectiveness has been proved, certain provisions need to be refined in order to ensure better protection of resources.
Like all my colleagues who were present in the House this morning, I noted with astonishment the Council's absence during the debate on the Bourlanges report on decision-making within the Council in an enlarged Europe.
Under Rule 101, the Council may be present in the Chamber.
Whatever our opinions, we all agree on the importance of this debate and of the ideas it allows us to develop prior to enlargement.
There is a technical problem here, because I believe it would be a good idea to replace the first part of the original version of recital D with the first part of this amendment.
But if the second part of the amendment is not adopted, I would ask that we should vote on the second part of the original version of the recital.
On paragraph 11 Madam President, paragraph 11 poses a linguistic problem in the French language version.
However, I see today that it is still included in the French version.
Parliament adopted the resolution I am voting against this recommendation/common position because I believe it does not adequately address the technical issues involved.
I intend to vote against the proposed draft Council regulation because I believe that the technical details have not been properly or fully investigated.
A lasting peace can be achieved, above all, through a genuine process of reconciliation.
Perhaps a successful civil peace corps might persuade some European activists that it is unfashionable and outdated to earn respect on the world stage through a show of military might.
Read report (A4-0055/99) Through an active and very skilful effort by Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee, Parliament has succeeded in having most of its wishes from the first and second readings put into effect.
Barzanti report (A4-0026/99) I wish to thank the rapporteur for his work on the EU Copyright Directive which is a complex and technical subject of importance to artists in Europe.
The rapporteur has my full support in his appeal for a strong directive, protecting the music industry from piracy on the Internet.
Europe's cultural industries have a great deal to lose if this new directive is not absolutely protective of creative rights and intellectual property.
We would also like to emphasise that, in our view, the Member States should provide for exemptions from the copyright restrictions specified in Articles 2, 3 and 4 in the case of non-commercial use for the benefit of people with disabilities.
Nonetheless, we would have liked to support the report in order to protect the interests of artists and safeguard their rights in connection with the exploitation of their work.
Apart from the aspects which imply a radical change in the way our societies are organised, there are still a number of questions about how our legislation and our legal tools are going to have to change in future in this area.
I would therefore like to congratulate our President, José Maria Gil Robles, and Roberto Barzanti for having responded so rapidly to artists' concerns that their work is too often being used illegally on the Internet.
In my opinion, digital has already won.
If the report is adopted in its current form, without taking into account a number of proposed amendments, it will for example no longer be possible to record radio and TV broadcasts for short-term use for the inmates of care homes, hospitals, prisons and so on.
We believe that a move in this direction, which does not sufficiently take account of the general public's need for and right to free and equal access to information, would be disastrous in terms of social development and democracy.
This is true of the field of taxation, where the Internet is changing basic concepts such as the tax frontier, tax territory and the tax base.
In literary and artistic works, the Europe of Brussels is finally discovering what it has spent 40 years refusing to see with coal, steel, textiles, cars and agricultural products, namely that freedom of movement prevents real protection.
In itself, the draft directive that we have been looking at includes entirely acceptable elements which are designed to protect authors' ethical and financial rights.
But nobody pointed out that Canal+ developed without any competition.
In France the state has a monopoly on broadcasting.
European authors, on the other hand, do not have the same sort of guarantee as in the United States, for example.
The concept of copyright is much more restrictive there than in France, for example.
In order to effectively protect copyright and related rights, a better solution would be an international conference on the subject, where sovereign states could defend their own industries and agree to protect other countries' in accordance with the principle of reciprocity.
In the last few years we have seen open and flexible legislation designed for an increasingly developed world of technology and computers on the one hand, and on the other, old and outdated rules, as in Italy, where the matter is governed by a law going back 60 years.
Article 5 needs rewording to avoid de facto restriction of access to the network for independent operators.
There still needs to be a right of reproduction for scientific and cultural works which are educational rather than commercial, together with a flat rate payment if more than 20 % of the book is reproduced.
This would also make things easier for small craft companies involved in reproduction, and indeed for their clients, almost always university students forced to buy very expensive textbooks even when they only need one chapter, thus feeding an often unregulated lobbyist market obviously speculating on comparative prices.
In other words, two different legal frameworks are being constructed as regards Internet accessibility.
In the United States operators' freedom of access is recognised, while in the European Union, under pressure from the large multinationals and with the pretext of combatting piracy, the scope which authors and independent groups have to express themselves is being reduced.
In dealing with this directive, the Conservative Members of Parliament are working to create a balance between protecting the rights of copyright holders who are threatened by digital developments and safeguarding access to information for individual consumers, especially in connection with television and radio.
For me it is crucial that this balance is secured in the best way possible, so that in future, copyright holders will be assured of payment for the use of their work, without severely limiting the range of information available to ordinary citizens.
Finally, the most important, and perhaps the most intractable problem is that of the distribution of artistic works and, more generally, intellectual property via the Internet, and the possibility of reproducing such works using digital technology.
The Green Group in the European Parliament welcomes the draft directive aimed at revising the protection of copyright and related rights by harmonising it on a Union-wide basis so that it can meet the requirements of digital electronic communication.
That decision was justified not only by the subject matter of the directive.
Authors' rights are the weakest in terms of the requirement of market and industrial freedom and therefore most in need of protection, given that they relate to works that can only be treated as products to a limited extent.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament are voting in favour of the EU setting rules on the minimum taxation of interest income from savings.
The Danish Social Democrats do not see the proposal in any way as a move towards tax harmonisation, but as convincing evidence that the EU can put a stop to the extensive tax speculation in Europe.
The proposal for a Council directive that we are examining today is one of the most important on which we have had to give our opinion in recent years.
We all acknowledge that a guaranteed minimum effective taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments in EU Member States other than the investor's country of residence is an ideal way to prevent harmful tax competition between the Member States.
Apart from helping to reduce the distortions that are still widespread in the internal market, this widening of the tax base will allow Member States, if they so wish, to reduce the excessive costs that burden labour income and sometimes seriously handicap our businesses, subject as they are to international competition in an increasingly global economy.
The proposal for a directive that we are discussing today is certainly not the last word in capital taxation regimes.
On this point I agree entirely with the rapporteur that a great deal remains to be done in order to achieve an ideal capital taxation system and, in particular, that we need the broadest possible discussions on the issue with the EU's major partners in the capital markets: the US, Japan and Switzerland.
The Commission has certainly done some excellent work here.
I am delighted with the amendments introduced by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to the proposal for a directive on taxation of savings, which aims to ensure a minimum of effective taxation of individuals' savings income in the form of interest payments within the Community.
I am particularly delighted that my amendment to reduce the level of withholding tax from 20 % to 15 % has been adopted, for three reasons.
Firstly, too high a rate would harm investment, and therefore also growth and employment.
Secondly, the rate of withholding tax applied in international tax agreements only rarely exceeds 15 %.
From this perspective, choosing a rate of 25 %, as suggested by the French Government, would be an economic error that would run counter to the objective of fighting harmful tax competition.
I voted against the Pérez Royo report on taxation of savings because it is the best way to ensure that savings leave the European Union.
New York and Zurich, which are already rubbing their hands, will be the main beneficiaries of this suicidal relocation operation, Zurich in particular when it comes to European collective investment undertakings within the meaning of the 1985 directive.
Being a poor loser, the Commission has tried to guard against the fiscal dumping that is inherent in free movement by means of its European Code of Conduct, which is in fact only a cartelisation code for tax authorities in order to maintain the oligopoly.
It is against this background that we have the Pérez Royo report on the proposal for a directive of 4 June 1998, which clearly aims to set a ceiling on taxation of savings income in order to counter the Luxembourg tax haven.
But that does not solve the problem of globalisation.
The problem exists for Eurobonds, which may be underwritten by investors outside Europe.
Hence the proposal from Professor Pérez Royo for a multilateral agreement with Japan, Switzerland and the US.
Europe without frontiers overtaxes labour income to make up for not being able to tax capital income.
I voted in favour of this proposal on establishing minimum level of taxation on savings income in the form of interest payments, because of three strongly held convictions: 1.This is a first but important step towards putting an end to the tremendous fiscal injustice in this world whereby multinationals and large volumes of capital use tax havens to escape the tax net, a real scandal, whilst individuals and SMEs are condemned to a tax hell, contributing the bulk of national budgets.
The Stability Pact and the desire for transparency currently prevalent in Europe will in practice lead to fiscal convergence.
Unilateral European Union level action runs the genuine risk of creating an outflow of capital to third countries- for example, Switzerland.
In addition, there will be no benefit to exchequers as the taxable interest payments will be outside the 15 Member States.
The introduction of a unilateral tax regime saw their near total relocation to London.
We recognise that this cannot be expected immediately and must therefore agree with the amendment approved in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in favour of a 15 % rather than a 20 % minimum rate, to less the impact of any harmful competition.
We therefore disagree with the rapporteur, who has just told us that he would be voting for the 20 % figure.
Alongside the Code of Conduct adopted by the Council in an effort to avoid harmful tax competition among Member States, the Commission has presented a text, in the form of a proposal for a directive, that is both premature and immature.
Harmonisation of taxation of savings is just one specific aspect of a harmonisation operation that must encompass a number of other areas, of which company taxation is one of the most important.
The text is immature because all of its components are largely controversial and their effects on the European economy are not known.
The European Commission and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy set out the principles on which agreement could be reached in time: a withholding tax, coexistence, a common rate of withholding tax.
But the practical application of these principles requires more careful consideration and, above all, solutions must first be found to many specific problems: the definition of a realistic minimum rate of withholding tax; coexistence, yes, but without the additional untransparent complications of a system of certificates and reimbursements, paving the way for problems in the system; imprecise definitions of the 'beneficial owner' and the 'paying agent'; potentially negative consequences for the European financial markets if Eurobonds are included in this directive without exemption, and so on.
None of these problems has as yet been resolved and as a result this proposal for a directive can at the very most be considered as a preliminary draft that still requires intensive work.
Some of Parliament's amendments are a step in the right direction, without necessarily touching on the fundamental problems: the rate of the withholding tax has been lowered; the role of certain neighbouring countries, which will be the sole beneficiaries of the directive in its current version, is mentioned; the usefulness of a certain degree of fair tax competition and the subsequent beneficial reduction in fiscal pressure is underlined.
For these reasons I am voting against the Pérez Royo report.
Regarding the report itself, the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations has voted in favour of the amendments spelling out the need to harmonise the basic principles of taxation with OECD members.
If we introduce harmonisation that is limited only to the Member States of the European Union, it is highly probable that we will witness the flight of capital to third countries.
With regard to the minimum rate of taxation of interest paid, our group voted in favour of the amendment by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which lowers this minimum rate to 15 % from the 20 % rate proposed by the Commission; a minimum rate that is too high could result in the flight of capital to third countries.
EMU and the euro demand the harmonisation of fiscal policy within the European Union and the shaping of a single taxation framework for economic activity in all Member States.
We regard as unacceptable and at the same time revealing of the intentions of the EU and EMU the fact that the proposed directive only covers physical persons, when we know that the vast majority of those entitled to hold foreign accounts or cross-border bonds - government or not - are the large institutional investors.
Such a regulation is a harsh blow to employment and growth, as it encourages capital to be kept in banks or to be converted into bonds or other financial products rather than into investments in production.
In this context, it is regrettable that the PPE Group and others are trying to restrict these rights and opportunities.
It is essential to point out at this stage that asylum seekers are covered by existing conventions aimed at protecting them against persecution.
The Irish Government should be bold and courageous enough to bring in an amnesty for existing refugees and asylum seekers in Ireland.
The Irish people must show some compassion on this issue.
The very fact that Ireland is currently experiencing an unprecedented economic boom must mean that we do not forget our humanitarian duty to others.
Immigration in Europe is one of the areas which we have dealt with least during the present parliamentary term and, as a result, the work done in this area is largely superficial.
However, the Amsterdam Treaty which is to be implemented in the near future obliges us to broadly review the current status quo with a view to implementing new immigration measures.
One of the major difficulties will consist in making the distinction between foreign nationals who have already been resident in the European Union for several years, and those who have just arrived.
Hence the importance of new provisions in the Amsterdam Treaty which differentiate - with a considerable degree of humanity - between short-term and long-term residence, and immigration and temporary asylum policy.
European legislation must therefore act as a very strict barrier to foreseeable inflows of persons.
The European Parliament has always ardently defended very strict international rules that can be applied in practice.
I therefore approve the second Lehne report because it takes into consideration the realities of the world today without being too liberal and causing harm to our own nationals, but leaving the door open to integration that is controlled in terms of the number of immigrants and in terms of time.
Immigration must not constitute an obstacle to European cooperation programmes, but for all that we cannot refuse positive immigration, nor can we reject agreements with third countries.
Today the Danish Social Democrats voted in favour of a report concerning uniform rules for the admission of third-country nationals to the Member States.
In Denmark, there has been a halt on immigration since 1974.
We have some very tough rules on immigration for the purpose of paid employment.
The draft Convention on rules for the admission of third-country nationals to the Member States of the Union is quite obviously responding to a need: to try to introduce minimum conditions for the crossing of EU external borders in order to avoid wide gaps allowing immigrants to enter a Member State and then move throughout the whole of Europe.
In fact, Article 42 provides that the Council shall unanimously decide on any amendments to the Convention, which might seem logical given that the text will have been adopted unanimously.
In fact, the proper rule which should be laid down is that when a text has been adopted unanimously, the failure of one Member State to give its support - by requesting that it be revised - must automatically lead to improvements being made to it.
It could be raised tomorrow in relation to the Convention on rules for the admission of third-country nationals, for example, if a signatory country requests amendments to the rules on family reunification.
Nor is there anything extraordinary about this question: no text can remain unchanged forever, and it is normal to provide the means to make changes to it in the future.
Moreover, an additional problem arises in the Convention we are dealing with today: if a country which had not managed to successfully renegotiate a text wanted to be withdrawn by democratic means from part of or all of the text, it would be difficult to see how this would be possible when - as provided for by the Amsterdam Treaty - it would not have the right to re-establish unilaterally certain checks at its internal borders.
The report has undoubtedly been produced within the context of the ratification of the draft Amsterdam Treaty.
It establishes a provisional regulation, the Commission having already undertaken to submit a fresh proposal - in the form of a directive - as soon as the amendments agreed in the Amsterdam Treaty enter into force.
However, in the explanatory statement of the proposal for a Council Act, the Commission considers that current economic factors and the situation on the labour market make it impossible to do away with selective admission policies formulated by the Member States for the purposes of paid employment or independent economic activity.
The generations of this century have been paying too high a price for this since 1917 for us to transform the European Union of tomorrow into a vast Yugoslavia in the name of false generosity.
In fact, the Geneva Convention of 28 July 1951, signed by all the Member States of the Union, provides for this status to be granted to individuals persecuted in their country of origin on grounds of race, religion, nationality, membership of a social group or political opinion; the European Parliament thinks this is too restrictive.
The proposal which the European Parliament is making with regard to this complementary status seems to me to be completely typical of how it usually acts.
It is announced that the new status will grant rights, without taking the trouble to say which ones and merely giving the impression that they will not be subject to a time-limit.
No attempt is made to ascertain how many new refugees there will be as a result - directly or indirectly - nor how much all of this will cost the taxpayer.
Madam President, I am making this explanation of vote not only on my own behalf but also on behalf of the Spanish delegation in the Group of the European People's Party.
We agree with the rapporteur and the majority of this House about the objectives involved.
Today the Danish Social Democrats voted in favour of a report on the need to adopt common rules in addition to the Geneva Convention.
The first step towards a common refugee policy was taken with the adoption of the Geneva Convention.
The Member States should have a uniform interpretation of how these people can be assured of proper protection.
However, the European Union cannot refuse these persons entry into its territory.
The June Movement is going to vote for the Lindeperg report to show our willingness to accept refugees.
The Lindeperg report is more humane than the policy which the civil servants and justice ministers are planning.
We do not want any supranational cooperation in this area because refugee policy is improved if the people have the opportunity to endorse it.
I cannot endorse the Lindeperg report, because I do not think that asylum policy should be a matter for the EU.
At the same time, I could well imagine that an EU agreement on a different definition of refugees would not be seen as an addition to the Geneva Convention, but as a step towards depriving the Geneva Convention of its substance, so that many more people could be turned away - with a clear conscience - at the EU's external borders.
As a result, the number of asylum-seekers has fallen dramatically, despite the fact that there has been no improvement in the human rights situation in the world.
A more repressive asylum policy has led to an increase in the number of illegal immigrants.
On the other hand, I agree with him that women should have their own refugee status as stated in paragraph 15 of the report.
It is the duty of all the Member States to increase their share of the responsibility for accepting refugees, especially those countries with lower refugee quotas than Germany, for example, which is very responsible in that respect.
Everybody knows that just a few percent of asylum seekers in Europe can justifiably invoke the recognised international conventions on asylum.
If the hundreds of thousands of asylum cheaters who arrive every year to benefit from social security in our Member States were systematically and effectively sent back over the borders, then there would be no asylum problem at all in Europe.
There are only two possible approaches here: either you play at being Santa Claus and say 'all foreigners are welcome in Europe and can be supported by us', or you must apply the existing agreements to the letter, in which the case the asylum cheaters must be sent back to their own countries: not just because they put the whole asylum system at risk and thus harm genuine asylum seekers, but also because in Europe itself there are many poor and underprivileged to whom we first owe an obligation before we can take all the suffering of the world on our shoulders.
The negotiations on the individual components of the Agenda, which we have been conducting intensively since the Commission submitted its legislative proposals eleven months ago and at full stretch since the beginning of the year, have now reached a crucial phase.
I am glad that at this stage I can now discuss Agenda 2000 with you in detail.
By the time of the General Affairs Council and Agriculture Council in just under a fortnight's time we will have had a first run-through of all the major components of the global compromise to be reached by the Council bodies and Councils.
This first consideration of the key questions, under the aegis of the General Affairs Council, the Economic and Financial Affairs Council and the Agriculture Council, has already proved fairly successful in terms of reaching compromises and consensus on some aspects.
The Heads of State and Government will assess the progress made to date, especially the results we hope to see from the Agriculture Council on 22 and 23 February, at their informal summit in Bonn on 26 February.
Immediately after the Bonn summit we will, after all, have to start tying up the package that the Heads of State and Government are to finish negotiating on and bring to a political conclusion at the end of March and during April, under the responsibility of the General Affairs Council as the coordinating body.
For the rest, you could regard the fact that Chancellor Schröder has moved the special summit from Brussels to Bonn as a sign of our strong commitment to bringing the negotiations to a successful conclusion.
The German Presidency will do its utmost to achieve that successful conclusion.
Each Member State must have its appropriate say on the final result, but at the same time each must make its contribution to achieving that result.
If a few months after the entry into force of monetary union, and indeed only a few weeks before the June elections to the European Parliament, we disappointed people's hopes that we would prove capable of action, the consequences would be very serious.
If the European Union, which since the beginning of this year has become a new financial market with global influence and global responsibility, cannot also resolutely assume the corresponding political responsibility - on the basis also of the Amsterdam Treaty - then too Europe would be the loser.
Meanwhile it is generally realised that, unlike the case of the earlier Delors I and Delors II packages, this time it will not be possible to reach a compromise in the end by making extra funds available.
One basic condition for the success of the negotiations as a whole is that the Heads of State and Government decided in Vienna to include all the components of the Agenda in the discussion and only to seek a solution in the form of an overall package.
This applies in particular to the reform of the Structural Funds, where consensus has now been reached on major issues.
On other important questions, such as strict adherence to the 75 % criterion for Objective 1 areas and reserving some two thirds of funds for Objective 1, the discussions have already produced clear majorities.
Here you must not forget that under the Austrian Presidency broad political agreement was already reached on the pre-accession instruments that are so important to enlargement policy.
We attach the utmost importance to this dialogue at political level as a means of concluding the Agenda successfully and on schedule.
The informal consultation forms part of our endeavour to provide Parliament with comprehensive information at all times, as reflected in our debate today and our offer to hold an exchange of views on Agenda 2000 at any time in an informal political trialogue.
Likewise, is the presidency prepared to promote this priority in the Council.
In some applicant countries public opinion is becoming progressively less positive towards membership of the European Union.
Over recent weeks Parliament has voted on the main points of Agenda 2000.
If my calculations are correct we are planning to spend considerably more than what I read at present in newspaper reports on the Agenda 2000 negotiations.
If my knowledge of the rules is correct 314 votes are needed, and when I saw the voting pattern on the main points here in Parliament we seemed to be very divided.
Mr President-in-Office, you have just said that there would be neither winners nor losers in the general agreement that you hope to develop between now and the Berlin summit.
If my information is correct, there will also be many tractors on 22 February in Brussels and these will come from all over the European Union.
The common agricultural policy is the European Union's main common policy.
The Commission's proposals are going to bring a drop in prices that will not be fully compensated, but if my information is correct, the Council would favour more moderate reductions in prices but with a reduction in compensatory aid.
I would therefore like you to explain how, when agricultural revenue fell by almost 4 % throughout the European Union in 1998, you will ensure that there are no losers among farmers when the final package is presented.
Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that we obviously all agree that reaching agreement on such an important matter as this should not be put off indefinitely.
But I would also say that a good agreement is better than agreement at any price, we should not seek just any agreement but rather a good one, especially since it will remain in force for seven years.
I should therefore like to ask the Council how it can reconcile this situation with the fundamental principle of economic and social cohesion enshrined in the Treaties.
Turning to the regional aspect, I understand that yesterday in Bonn the President-in-Office met my party leader, David Trimble, First Minister Designate from the Northern Ireland Assembly.
Mr President, the meeting of the ECOFIN Council of 8 February marked the collapse of negotiations on Agenda 2000.
Firstly, are you working on the basis of the Commission's proposal or on the information provided by the Austrian Presidency?
Secondly, given that the Union's main objectives are to strengthen the euro and create employment, what resources are being set aside for these in the financial perspective?
Thirdly, as regards the fair distribution of payments, how are you going to remedy the fact that under the agricultural policy, 20 % of farmers receive 80 %of the funds?
If you were to continue at this rate, Mr President-in-Office - and I do not want to level criticism at you personally or at the German Presidency - you are not going to be able to stick to the timetable that you yourself have set.
It is clear that, unlike the Council, the European Parliament after painstaking debate has been able to adopt coherent positions on the issues arising under Agenda 2000.
Secondly, we said that exactly, and not approximately, two thirds of Objective 1 resources should be made available, and that we must stick to the criteria defined by the Commission for including regions under Objective 1, one of which states that only those regions with a per capita GDP which is less than 75 % of Community GDP can be included.
Proposals for a smaller reserve of 4 % with national top-ups are a move in the right direction.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I do not know if the Presidency-in-Office is fully aware of the fact that large sectors of European public opinion currently think of Agenda 2000 as a threat rather than as a necessity or an opportunity.
There is no doubt that we need an agreement that not only guarantees but also develops the principle of social and economic cohesion, together with the relevant instruments.
We also need to have a proper debate not so much on how to reduce those instruments, but on how to increase the contributions from all the Member States fairly.
Mr President, I have two questions for the Council.
The first concerns the pre-accession aids.
Mr President-in-Office, we discovered yesterday evening that we agree to a very wide extent on the pre-accession funds.
Let me also say a few words on the Structural Funds.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioners, the President-in-Office said that the choice of Berlin as the seat of the European Council is a symbol of how important the Presidency believes it is to bring Agenda 2000 to a conclusion in time to allow this Parliament to complete its legislative procedures before the European elections.
He pointed out that the final agreement should not have any winners or losers and that Europe must be the only winner.
But he also said that at this stage there will be no additional budgetary resources, and he stressed, in particular, that the budgetary burden should be more fairly distributed.
I would therefore like to ask the German Presidency the following question: when is the Presidency going to put forward truly balanced proposals for a compromise in which all the Member States will participate, with each country naturally prepared to make allowances that might enable us to reach an agreement when necessary?
You said that the main priority was Agenda 2000 and ensuring that it reached a conclusion on time, while, at the same time, you said that you hoped for our cooperation.
The financial perspective forms part of the Interinstitutional Agreement and, by its very definition, the Interinstitutional Agreement is an agreement between institutions.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, except for the fact that you once used the term Agriculture Council you have actually succeeded in speaking for 10 minutes without even once really mentioning the reform of agricultural policy; as the agricultural spokesman for my group I do feel a little hurt.
Let me ask you quite plainly: if this 75 % of aid is removed again, then as I see it that will lead to a spectacular increase in the net contributor position of some states.
I would be grateful if a little more could be said about this issue, at least in relation to Agenda 2000, since it does after all have something to do with agricultural policy.
Mr President, we already had an opportunity yesterday to exchange views with the presidency of the Council on Parliament's demands in relation to the Social Fund.
Yet I would like to formally ask you again today whether the German Presidency of the Council is also prepared, where necessary, to actually firmly support these demands in the Council, namely the demands that in future 15 % of Social Fund money is allocated to preventive labour market policies and specific aid measures for women, that people who are already marginalised socially are given an opportunity to work through the Social Fund, that the Member States assume obligations in all five intervention areas and that the target groups are designated centrally, and finally that in future 1 % of Social Fund resources for global subsidies is earmarked for local projects.
You said that you believe that solidarity is a key ingredient of the European Union.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I hope that you will reply to three questions.
Do I have 83 minutes' speaking time?
Nor has the German Presidency made any compromise proposal at all at this stage.
One Member of this Parliament referred to public opinion in the Member States.
I am well aware of public opinion in Spain.
Let me confirm quite specifically that one of the objectives of Agenda 2000 - and we treat it as such - is to concentrate available European resources more emphatically on the objective of combating unemployment.
I do not believe that the question of dates is really important at this moment.
Neither the Council nor Parliament, nor the Commission, nor the applicant states ever fixed a date.
Agenda 2000 also establishes the preconditions for enlargement.
A large majority of Member States are convinced that agricultural policy must also play its part in achieving the overall result, which is to say it must also be reformed, firstly in relation to compatibility with the WTO competition rules and, secondly, in relation to the financing of the European Union after enlargement.
Since the specific question was asked, let me also say quite clearly that the objective of a European agricultural policy cannot and must not be to jeopardise or even destroy farming.
In cooperation between the presidency and Parliament we opted for a procedure that is now gathering momentum rapidly.
However, I must admit that some Member States take this more seriously than others.
The debate is closed.
As a Member of Parliament who has sat through this question-and-answer session, I find it particularly unsatisfactory that, after a lot of statements, the President-in-Office has, in the end, such a short period of time in which to answer about 83 questions.
Situation in Kosovo The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the situation in Kosovo.
Moreover, progress reports on this kind of negotiations can be very misleading, for the truth is that nothing is agreed until everything is agreed.
He is now conducting the negotiations in Rambouillet together with his American colleague Mr Hill and his Russian colleague Mr Mayorski.
That is a great challenge and one in which Mr Petritsch deserves our full support.
Incidentally, the fact that the negotiations are being conducted jointly by an American, a Russian and a European shows that the European Union has now acquired a certain ability to act in the field of foreign policy too.
The European Union reacted to the conflict in Kosovo at an early stage.
Since spring last year it has gradually established a differentiated system of sanctions in response to the brutal use of force by the Serbian security forces.
At the same time it has allocated a substantial volume of humanitarian aid, amounting of over ECU 45 million in 1998 alone.
Our political objective was always the same: far-reaching self-government for Kosovo together with maintenance of the territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and effective protection of all minority rights.
At its last meeting on 25 January 1999 the General Affairs Council again confirmed the European Union's position.
Two: in this context the European Union supports the political solution proposed by the Contact Group, which forms the basis of the negotiations in Rambouillet.
That applies also and in particular to reconstruction.
I want to thank Mr González for his willingness to continue with this difficult job.
The European Union offers its support to that end.
Mr President, naturally the European Commission is also pleased that the parties have acted in response to the urgent call to begin peace negotiations in Rambouillet.
As you will know, Foreign Ministers Robin Cook and Hubert Védrine regularly attend in order to help keep the momentum of the negotiations going.
The European Commission is also represented in Rambouillet and is contributing to negotiations on the economic and reconstruction aspects of the draft agreement.
The aim will be to appraise the results to date and to discuss what points require extra effort or attention.
For its part, the European Commission is making the necessary preparations for its contribution to the process of reconstruction following a possible agreement.
The Commission is planning to hold an international donors conference shortly after a peace agreement is reached.
But of course neither this nor reconstruction are possible until there is an agreement and a clear will by the parties involved to live together in peace.
Given this necessary conditionality, the actual reconstruction work can of course only begin when the security situation in the field permits.
It is encouraging to see the growing consensus among the Member States and other countries to support a possible agreement with an international force on the spot.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, on behalf of my group I certainly support the statements by both the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commissioner.
Some people, here in this House too, wanted us to use force sooner; but that would have been wrong.
The President-in-Office of the Council named names.
In that sense I fully endorse the statements by the President-in-Office and the Commissioner.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my dear Mr Verheugen, we did nothing about Kosovo in the early days.
Our group also supports the Rambouillet negotiations.
He does not and cannot want a solution to the Kosovo conflict forced upon him by the West.
And then his political mediocrity and incompetence would very soon become apparent.
The European Union has a duty to take a clear stand in support of democracy and democrats.
Europe also has a responsibility to ensure that all the countries and self-governing areas in the Balkans have democratic systems, and that the people understand both the obligations and duties inherent in democracy.
Everyone would be delighted if the talks in Rambouillet made progress in this direction.
Secondly, if NATO is going to carry out military operations, the international High Representative should clearly be European, as is the case in Bosnia where excellent results have been achieved.
Mr President, history teaches us that it is hard to tell who is good or bad or cruel or kind in the Balkans.
The complex Balkan question has its roots deep in time, in the history of these people, and in their traditions and cultures.
In turn, Europe can and must contribute to economic development in the region and become, both for the Serbian people and for the people of Kosovo, a reference point for a peaceful and balanced Federation.
The talks in Rambouillet are a final attempt to arrive at a workable solution without military action by NATO.
In order to prevent the Rambouillet talks from playing into the hands of the KLA, it has quite rightly been made clear to the Kosovo Albanians that the only way of having a NATO peacekeeping force in the area is for them to make genuine efforts to reach complete agreement with the Serbs on interim autonomy for Kosovo within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
We therefore also call on the European Union and its Member States to play a clear and active role in ending this conflict.
We should like to express our support for the action of the British and French Governments and also express our appreciation for the efforts of the German Presidency.
Mr President, I have to say by way of prologue how refreshing it is to hear a government minister admit he does not know any more about a situation than we do.
Secondly, as the Socialist Group has always demanded, we have managed to keep the Contact Group together and, indeed, have now got Russia actively engaged in pursuing peace.
Of course the background of the NATO military threat has been absolutely essential, as we in the Socialist Group have always insisted.
We must be clear that we are ready at literally 24 hours' notice to carry out the threats that NATO has made to bomb Yugoslavia if it is not prepared to reach appropriate conclusions in the negotiations.
We have to look forward to a system of government that would allow the Balkans finally to be at peace, enabling economic reconstruction to go ahead and prosperity to be built for the future.
All the speeches we have heard have been interesting, but it is difficult for us to speak at a stage which is quite properly secret, as you said, Mr President.
That was the only way to create the necessary political, legal and military conditions for this initiative.
I could also make a few comments on the difficulties in the Security Council, on the need to gain Russia's support; but most of that has already been addressed.
I am not talking about military intervention against the will of the warring parties.
What we are seeking is an agreement now in Rambouillet, which would initially be a three-year interim agreement.
I said this morning during the discussions I held with the Council of Europe on behalf of the presidency and I repeat it again: the situation we are facing is a confrontation between two different concepts of Europe.
This Chamber here represents the Europe of the 21st century, the Europe of integration, of peace, of democracy, of human rights and therefore also, in the final analysis, of man's prosperity and personal welfare.
The Europe we see before us in Kosovo, in Bosnia and sadly also in other parts of Europe remains imprisoned in the atavistic attitudes of the 19th century.
It is certainly a very long-term prospect.
But even the longest journey requires a first step.
If I have a complaint to make against the Council, I will do so, and you are now representing the Council for six months.
Mr President, speaking as an Italian, and since you referred to the countries involved in the problems of the Balkans, I just want to say that, as well as France, Germany and the United Kingdom, Austria and Italy are also involved and they are crucial countries in the area.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11 a.m.
In today's debate we are looking at an issue that is important for the development of territories which are very diverse in terms of legal status and levels of development, but which at least share a geographic location.
Overseas countries and territories, ACP countries and ultraperipheral regions do in fact differ and the Union has rightly established a range of instruments for them.
The full involvement of all interested parties in the consultation and decision-making process is very important.
The aim of encouraging the commercial integration of UPRs, OCTs and ACP countries is undoubtedly laudable, but its implementation must respect the special position of the ACP countries and take place in the context of the definition of new, broader rules linked to the new post-Lomé Convention, the new GSP, the CAP reform and the WTO rules.
As I said a moment ago, this report affirms the natural desire of the ultraperipheral regions and the overseas countries and territories to establish regional partnerships.
In the time I have available, I would like to mention just one of these: the establishment of devolved units of the Commission in the ultraperipheral regions and the establishment of offices or contact points in the overseas countries and territories.
Mr President, the committee adopted this report by a large majority and I think it is the result of lengthy discussions.
It points out that there are three different kinds of subregions, which must be consulted, must be involved in the decision-making; and here I believe the reference to new ACP negotiations is important.
They highlighted the lack of legal precision, the economic inconsistency and the social injustice of the situation created in the OCTs by the European Union.
Mayotte, for example, is not part of the European Union, but it votes in European elections.
We are also told about economic development through local production, but Mayotte - which is already at a disadvantage due to its limited market, the fact that it is an island and the cost of labour - is penalised by the rule of non-reciprocity of the preferential arrangements granted to the ACP countries in its region.
Mr President, the June Movement can only applaud the fact that the Committee on Development has taken the initiative to produce a report investigating the connections between the Overseas Countries and Territories, the ACP States in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific, and the ultraperipheral regions of the European Union.
It is important that the projects supported by the EU in these areas are coordinated, and that the EU takes more account of them in its own policies.
It is a mark of his realism, his wisdom, and also what I would call a healthy empiricism, and these are all qualities that, in general, are rarely evident in this House.
In principle, we cannot accept the risk of a drift towards the progressive assimilation of our overseas departments and territories into the ACP countries.
For us, and I would like to clarify this for the French people that we represent, our overseas departments, our overseas territories - Réunion, Mayotte, the West Indies, New Caledonia, Polynesia and Guyana - are French territory just as much as our departments in Metropolitan France.
For example, unemployment is very high in Réunion and in the West Indies.
It does not try to define the status of those regions of the European Union that are outside the European continent.
Their status has already been defined.
The ACP countries are independent and are sovereign states.
The proposals in the Aldo report are aimed at establishing a relationship, and this is of particular importance for the region where Mr Aldo himself lives, the Caribbean.
The geographical distribution there rather affects the situation and the status of each of the regions.
The Commission could therefore use some of the points and proposals made by Mr Aldo as a basis for specific proposals that would allow both the ultraperipheral regions and the overseas countries and territories to play a serious role in its work to support development aid in the rest of the world.
Mr President, the debate on the report by Blaise Aldo has the merit of being politically expedient.
Mr President, the Committee on Development and Cooperation welcomed this own-initiative report on relations between the overseas countries and territories, the ACP countries and the ultraperipheral regions of the European Union.
Mr Aldo has shown us that we had a duty towards these regions.
Despite our trade agreements and our specific programmes, we had never succeeded in holding a global discussion on the future of these regions and on their relations with the ACP countries.
I naturally support the rapporteur's proposal to maintain the current trade arrangements, in other words, free access for products from the OCTs, under conditions that would not harm the interests of the ACP countries.
To conclude, I believe that the Commission should pay a great deal of attention to the Aldo report, so that this document might result in specific proposals.
The rapporteur, whom I congratulate on his work, pointed out in his explanatory statement that developments in these regions, in the OCTs, are not particularly positive, in spite of favourable conditions.
Mr President, I too would like to stress the importance of the Blaise Aldo report, for which I thank him.
On our side there is the airport, while the French side is European territory.
Finally, Mr President, I believe that we must also look at the treatment of the Overseas Territories in relation to the Overseas Departments.
The possibility of a new tripartite regional set-up - with closer economic, social and political links between overseas countries and territories, the ACP countries and the ultraperipheral regions of the European Union - could not have come at a better moment.
In 1997 state aid and private credits in the OECD countries earmarked for cooperation fell by 41 billion dollars, to 324 billion, the lowest level for a decade.
By the same token, we also support, overall, the very diverse range of proposals and ideas contained in the draft legislative resolution in this report.
The European Union should set up delegations in those regions with decentralised powers to coordinate support actions as part of the regional cooperation debated here today.
Now, in parallel with the negotiations for the Fifth Lomé Convention, which opened on 30 September 1998 between the European Union and the ACP group, and the ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty, the future of the ultraperipheral regions and overseas countries and territories will begin to be considered.
I am very honoured to replace him in the debate on this matter, as the Commission welcomes the work that has been done by your Committee on Development and Cooperation, thanks, in particular, to its dynamic rapporteur, Mr Aldo.
It often goes very far in asserting certain concepts that have yet to be realised.
Examples of these are the decision to do away with the unanimous procedure governing the association of the OCTs, Article 136 of the Treaty, or the establishment of free trade areas in the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean, involving ACP countries, overseas territories and overseas departments.
The Commission, for its part, has also entered into extensive discussions on the 20 OCTs.
The results of this will be submitted to Parliament, through its Committee on Development and Cooperation at its meeting in April.
The Commission plans to consult local leaders on the results of its discussions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Parliament has been called upon to give its opinion on the joint plan, approved by the Conciliation Committee, for a directive on coffee and chicory extracts.
The political and technical obstacles, as well as the differences in opinion between the institutions - the Council, the Commission and Parliament - have, in my view, been overcome to the complete satisfaction of Parliament.
Indeed, after a Council common position in which Parliament's three amendments were rejected due to an unfavourable opinion from the Commission, Parliament then confirmed the amendments at second reading.
The purpose is, in fact, to prevent any confusion for consumers and unfair competition for producers.
At technical meetings and in a tri-partite meeting between the Council, the Commission, Ken Collins, chairman of the Committee on the Environment, and myself, it became apparent that the disagreement was not a political one, and was based more on methodology than on substance.
This recital announces a Commission initiative, to be introduced before 1 July 2000, that aims to introduce a range of nominal weights for coffee and chicory products in horizontal directive 80/232 on weight ranges.
Parliament's aim is thus clearly achieved by a different method, but what matters is that we achieve the same result.
Secondly, paragraph 1 of the annex to the directive includes a clear reference to the methods of analysis of the carbohydrate content which allows the use of the most modern methods, but without making the text rigid by limiting it to a particular method.
I will conclude by saying that the political balance of this conciliation is, in my opinion, entirely satisfactory.
I therefore call on the House to support this report.
Mr President, I should first like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work on a subject which he has presented so clearly.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B4-0020/99).
In this connection, let me draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that the question of concentrations between undertakings comes under the Community's competition law, specifically in this case Council Regulation (EEC) No 4064/89 of 21 December 1989 on the control of concentrations between undertakings.
Responsibility for applying that regulation lies with the Commission.
Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his response.
I would like to think that when a report comes from the Commission the Council will address that issue.
The population has declined in some 210 of the 280 municipalities in Sweden, mainly in inland central and northern Sweden.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Lindqvist's question.
As for aspects related to the reform of the common agricultural policy, during the deliberations on the Agenda 2000 proposals the Council envisages formulating a European agricultural model that will have to be further developed in the future, namely the model of a multi-functional, sustainable, competitive agriculture that exists throughout the Community, which means also in regions that have the kind of specific problems to which you refer in your question.
The Council acknowledges that rural development policy has a fundamental role to play in endeavouring to make use of every means of preserving viable rural structures throughout the European Union.
Under EU regional policy Sweden currently receives structural aid for its least populated regions.
As is also provided in the second recital of Protocol No 6 of the Swedish Act of Accession, these rules are currently being reviewed in the context of the Commission's proposals on reforming the Structural Funds.
For the period from 2000 to 2006 the Commission proposes continuing the fund aid for Objective 6 regions under Objective 1.
It proposes that the existing Objective 6 be retained and the aid measures continued.
This will be decided on in the context of the global package of Agenda 2000, on which I reported to you during this afternoon's debate.
Today's demonstration by French farmers in support of their livelihood and their very survival provides a graphic example of the situation in this part of Europe.
I must add, however, that the deliberations to date show that a broad majority within the Council is in favour of an extremely strict application of the 75 % criterion for Objective 1 regions.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mrs Oddy's question.
The same applies to the question of fleshing out the European Union's human rights policy.
The Council would refer you to the declaration published on 10 December 1998 on the occasion of the 50th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which was subsequently confirmed by the European Council.
On 25 January 1999 the General Affairs Council confirmed this.
The follow-up to the operative proposals in the declaration of 10 December 1998 forms an important part of the presidency's work programme.
The work programme also gives high priority to the endeavours to gain recognition of the EU's positions on human rights policy in relation to specific countries and issues in the framework of the United Nations.
I should like to know whether a common list of military equipment is adopted in that code, how many licences have been refused and what progress the Council and Member States are making in this area?
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
Mr Verheugen has offered to respond to you in writing.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Provan's question.
The Commission and the Council therefore entirely share the concerns expressed in the European Parliament's resolution of 19 November 1998 and the concerns voiced by Mr Provan.
Russia has the highest rate of imprisonment in the world, 1 % of the total population.
In many penal institutions up to 10 % of inmates are infected.
I am concerned about tuberculosis and I am glad to know that the Council is making a major proportion of the funding available to that end, because it could be a serious problem.
Regarding the other aspects of agricultural products that might be going to the Russian people at the present time, I believe that part of the programme is going to allow the food aid that is sent there to be sold on the local market at existing market prices.
Mr Provan, you have addressed a very grave problem and one which the Council in fact considered at length during a very serious debate.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Dimitrakopoulos's question.
That decision sent out an important signal about reducing the excessive number of weapons in Cyprus and the European Union hopes both sides will take further steps in that direction.
The Council believes this can promote progress towards a just and lasting solution to the Cyprus conflict.
As you know, the European Union's political strategy here is to start the accession negotiations with Cyprus, in the hope that they can act as a catalyst to help resolve the political problem and in the end indeed resolve it.
These measures follow on from the initial steps taken by the Clinton Administration in March 1998.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Salafranca's question.
The Council welcomes the new measures taken by the US Government.
But even if they reflect a more flexible attitude on the part of the US towards Cuba, the Council regrets that the American embargo on Cuba remains in place.
The Council still believes it right to seek a dialogue with Cuba, as we stated in the common position of December 1969, and to support a process of peaceful transition to a pluralist democracy, together with respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and sustained economic recovery in Cuba.
The EU still regards the implementation of the agreements of the EU-USA London summit of 18 May 1998 as a priority.
I personally think it should happen at the time of the EU-USA summit in June this year at the latest.
But this course of events you have just described ought also to be considered at the EU-USA summit in June at the latest.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
Questions Nos 8, 9 and 10 will not be taken because the subject to which they refer is included on the agenda of this part-session.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Seppänen's question.
The Council hopes the revised list can enter into force on 1 April 1999.
Was I right in thinking that you said the trade in cryptographical goods has become less restricted, and do you think that this licensing arrangement for trade in cryptographical goods is generally in line with WTO regulations?
Mr President, yes Mr Seppänen, you understood me correctly.
And that was precisely the aim of the EU Member States, namely to prevent cryptographical restrictions from being entrenched in these new rules.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
Mr President, Mr Rübig, I am genuinely sorry I cannot answer this very specialised question offhand.
Question No 12 by Nuala Ahern (H-0017/99) Subject: Harmonisation of the OSPAR Agreement to stop further radioactive pollution by nuclear plants of the seas surrounding the EU What action will be taken by the Council to ensure Europe-wide harmonisation of the agreement to stop further radioactive pollution by nuclear plants of the seas surrounding the European Union, in particular Sellafield and La Hague, drawn up at the meeting of the ministerial working group of the OSPAR Convention on the protection of the seas held in Dublin last month?
The contracting parties agreed to report by autumn 1999 on the measures they had respectively planned to reduce discharges, emissions and losses of radioactive material.
At the same time the Council would specifically remind him that the nuclear plant he referred to is subject to the Community's legal provisions relating to health protection, in particular Directive 96/29/Euratom, which lays down stricter standards for the protection of workers and the general public against ionising radiation.
I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he thinks that fuel reprocessing at Sellafield can possibly be compatible with the commitment to reduce emissions to zero, or virtually nil as he puts it?
I note what he says about the intensive bilateral negotiations currently taking place between Germany and the UK and, indeed, I believe France over emissions.
The current talks between the German and UK Governments on Sellafield have nothing to do with the decisions OSPAR took in Lisbon.
Mr Hyland, obviously I cannot provide a timetable of this kind because the Council is not currently considering the question of bringing nuclear technology in Europe to an end or the question of when the reprocessing technology will come to an end in Europe.
That is a matter for deliberation in the Council.
I have a very brief question on the issue of Sellafield.
Perhaps the President-in-Office could comment on these remarks from the deputy chief executive of the Radiological Protection Institute of Ireland printed in The Irish Times .
Mr President, I cannot comment on that quotation because the Council has not considered this matter.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Andersson's question.
As the author is not present, Question No 15 lapses.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Papayannakis's question.
So my question is: on what is the Council focusing in this area in order to adopt a common approach on these two issues?
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Malone's question.
The Council's concern in this regard is also reflected in the new Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty, one of the aims of which is to prevent discrimination on the basis of disability.
They are in use in London.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Hyland's question.
On 6 June 1996 the Commission submitted a proposal for a decision on a first multiannual programme to promote European tourism.
I am sure the President's heart is in the right place when it comes to promoting rural tourism.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 20 to 24 and 27 lapse.
Therefore, under the Rules, you cannot deputise for him.
Bearing in mind that such statements are completely in keeping with Turkish views and are contrary to UN Security Council resolutions, including the most recent, resolutions 1217 and 1218, will the Council say in what manner it will respond to these provocative remarks, which cultivate a climate of tolerance, enabling the Turkish side to advance unacceptable positions which contravene all notion of international legality and law and undermine efforts to bring about a just and viable solution to the Cyprus problem?
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Theonas's question.
The presidency has information to the effect that Sir David Hannay's statements were misunderstood and that the British Government has now clarified the matter.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Kaklamanis's question.
This shows contempt for the European Parliament and our intelligence.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
The EU reaffirmed this commitment and took note of the decision in question and of the New Agenda Resolution at the European Council in Cardiff on 15-16 June 1998, thus expressing its position.
The German Presidency attaches the utmost importance to strengthening the non-proliferation system, to ensuring that the provisions are respected, that the commitments contained in the treaty are fulfilled and that the non-proliferation system can be maintained and further developed in future too.
As you yourself just described, there are still differences of opinion on this subject among the Member States of the European Union; that also applies to the New Agenda Resolution tabled by Ireland, Sweden and a number of other states in the First Committee of the United Nations General Assembly.
As the author is not present, Question No 31 lapses.
Questions Nos 32 and 33 will not be taken, as the subject to which they refer is included on the agenda of this part-session.
Question No 34 by Patricia McKenna (H-0088/99) Subject: US breaching UN Conventions What opinion does the Council have of, and how does it intend to react to, plans by the US Administration to deploy anti-ballistic missiles, in breach of the 1972 Anti-ballistic Missile Treaty , and to the fact that the US Administration is developing, and is likely to deploy, weather-modification weapons in breach of the 1977 ENMOD Convention (Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques)?
Neither the European Union nor any its Member States are parties to the ABM Treaty.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 35 to 37 lapse.
Mr Verheugen, I must once again ask you if you would be kind enough to answer Question No 28.
For this reason the Council cannot give its views on the report.
But I have been informed, Mr Killilea, that you have addressed a similar question to the Commission.
Mr President, thank you for allowing my question and thanks to the President-in-Office for his answer, even though he has stated that it is a non-answer.
I received another non-answer from the Commission.
European taxpayers' money was given to the Bord Iascaigh Mhara to do this research.
Mr Killilea, since I too have experience of the lengthy procedures in this House I fully understand your problem.
The Council cannot take the initiative to discuss a report by an Irish authority or to take a position when the report has not even been submitted to it.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
Water policy The next item is the report (A4-0261/98) by Mr White, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal and amended proposals for a Council Directive establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy (COM(97)0049 - C4-0192/97, COM(97)0614 - C4-0120/98 and COM(98)0076 - C4-0121/98-97/0067(SYN)).
Mr President, I am very glad to be able to present my report on the water framework directive for this first reading.
In 1995 Mr Collins chaired Parliament's hearing on water policy that gave birth to the water framework directive.
The first report on Europe's environment - the so-called Dobris assessment - sets out the problems in a clear manner and last year saw the publication of another assessment by the Environment Agency.
Comparison of the two reports shows that progress still has to be made.
Moreover, despite the numerous international agreements and many statements of good intent, the implementation of Union water legislation remains poor.
The Commission is to be congratulated on its response in providing detailed annexes and basic definitions missing from the original.
Before Parliament today there are 12 compromise amendments dealing with important issues where, in the spirit of the Amsterdam Treaty yet to be ratified, I am pleased to present the results of a recent trialogue between myself, the Commission and the Council.
These compromise amendments show a new willingness to move towards the Environment Committee's position on wetlands, public participation, marine monitoring and underground gas storage.
At the same time, my amendments seek to create a water policy framework which is both practical and ambitious.
Mr President, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development calls on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as the committee responsible, to incorporate the following conclusions in its report.
Firstly, the Agriculture Committee stresses that farmers use water for the benefit of consumers in general and that they are the first to be concerned about obtaining good water in order to ensure quality agricultural production.
Finally, as a Portuguese national, I must stress the importance of establishing more stringent rules for the management of cross-border water basins in order to ensure basic quality levels and rates of flow of the water in these international rivers.
Mr President, the primary purpose of the framework directive on Community action on water policy is to ensure that every citizen has a right to good quality water, both as something that sustains life and as something that exists in the environment.
The Commission wanted to present us with a communication - at the time I was the rapporteur and together we ensured that we would achieve this result today, in face of the rapid-fire decisions the Council wanted to take.
The object of the directive is not, as many of my colleagues believe, especially Austrians, that we want to regulate the ownership of water.
Quite the contrary: we want to protect the quality of water; that is the purpose of the directive.
Unfortunately, the directive on a framework for Community action in the field of water policy does not define Europe-wide quality standards and emission standards, at least not the way the Council and the Commission formulate it although that is certainly what Parliament wants to do.
This cannot after all be a matter for individual, national policy-making; we need European standards, not hundreds of them but perhaps 40 or 50.
I believe the Rhine, the Rhone, the Mosel need these European standards if we are to make any progress here in the future.
The enormous gulf between the substance of that agreement and what Parliament wanted, reflected in over 200 amendments, forced Parliament and the Council to the highly unusual step of informal consultation, something which is not yet provided for in the European Treaties, though it may well be in future.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his tremendous work.
These proposals are very welcome indeed because they attempt to establish an integrated approach to water management and protection, which are very important.
Mr President, in discussing the water framework directive tonight, we are unfortunately talking not about water protection but about a piecemeal policy.
I also hope that we will reach agreement tomorrow on setting limit values for radioactivity, as we did in the case of the drinking water directive ...
In our opinion, this is the appropriate path to follow so as to ensure that our water policy is an effective instrument for European social and territorial cohesion.
Mr President, I would like to point out the differences that exist in some respects between the position of the Spanish Socialists and that of our political group.
We fully support the idea of a framework directive for the Community's water policy and we very much welcome the proposal for a directive.
The issue of water in countries with sufficient rain cannot be dealt with in the same way as it is in other countries, such as my own, where water is a very scarce commodity.
Mr President, I fully agree with the speech just made by my colleague Mr Aparicio.
I cannot support many of the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment in this case as they are unreasonable.
We should restrict this to consultation with the Commission, on the initiative of the Member States, if a problem arises so that it can resolve it and act as arbitrator, as it always does.
However, I would like to look at two issues that are the product of neo-liberal fundamentalism and the democratic deficit in the European Union.
Mr President, the framework directive that we are discussing today and voting on tomorrow will be a breakthrough in the European management of water quality and quantity.
The water framework directive is the only correct response to our hitherto fragmentary, inefficient and inadequate policy on water quality and the total absence of a policy on water quantity.
We struggle with water on a daily basis in the Netherlands - in the polders, the delta where the Meuse, the Rhine and the Scheldt flow into the sea.
Firstly, I support a water policy which promotes the rational use of water by encouraging rational control of its demand and discouraging irrational increases in its supply.
Mr President, this directive had a difficult birth.
I expect the German Presidency to scrutinise Parliament's work carefully, otherwise there could be a bad surprise in store for it at the second reading in the European Parliament, in the form of rejection.
Let me point out again that I am particularly concerned with Amendment No 77 and do not accept the compromise amendment.
What is happening with the draft directive on ecological water quality?
Mr President, the ample supply of good quality water is a basic need of the Community.
Each Member State, however, must, as a nation, become involved in improving the water quality of its own rivers, in developing and implementing action to save water, and in protecting its groundwater.
The idea of a common water policy should be made a reality through measures to protect areas of water that are shared by neighbouring countries and those affecting different states.
I will try not to repeat what has already been said by my Spanish and Portuguese colleagues and will talk about something that is not contained in this report.
As has been emphasised, Parliament has taken the reform of water policy very seriously, and I would like to take this opportunity to praise the substantial and very positive influence which Parliament has had both with regard to starting the reform and developing it further.
The Commission's proposal on the treatment of dangerous substances and Annex V on ecological status are largely based on Parliament's constructive involvement.
We can in principle accept 85 of the 122 amendments in full or in part.
We therefore intend to accept the principle behind Amendments Nos 6, 19, 47 and 83 and in Article 1 of the proposal of introducing a reference to elimination as a final goal.
The other amendments on this subject, i.e.
As far as openness and involving the public are concerned, the discussions between the Council and Parliament have been particularly productive.
The Commission can fully endorse the rapporteur's compromise amendment, which reflects the agreements reached concerning public inquiries or consultation, and both the Council's and the Commission's reporting.
The Commission is also able to accept in principle Amendments Nos 87 and 88, which call for a timetable for the Commission to introduce controls for priority substances.
The Commission accepts in principle Amendments 34 and 122 concerning the inclusion of radioactivity in the proposal, although they may require some rewording.
With regard to charges, which have featured strongly in the debate here this evening, a more complete integration of environmental and resource costs is essential, but the problem needs to be looked at more closely.
Amendments Nos 67, 68 and 69 therefore cannot be accepted at the moment.
Parliament has played a significant role, and the constructive approach which has been expressed in the discussions provides the basis for a good working atmosphere at future negotiations.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
I have tried in this report to strike the right balance between the protection of public health, the environment, the rights of the consumer and the needs of that developing industry which has so much to give if we allow it to do so in the right way.
First of all, we have introduced in the text an additional obligation on Member States in the Commission to adopt the precautionary principle and ensure that we avoid any adverse effects on human health and the environment whenever a GMO of whatever kind is released into the environment.
In that situation we have a right to consult an ethical committee.
The Commission proposes seven years.
Mr President, scientific knowledge is very often shaky when it comes to almost all issues of general environmental interest.
But I believe we will manage to agree on many points during the vote tomorrow.
We want safety for man and the environment, but we do not want more red tape.
But the Committee on the Environment is moving in the right direction here.
One important point we are discussing again tonight is the question of socio-economic criteria.
If we make authorisation conditional on socio-economic criteria, we will be taken for a ride at the WTO.
The PPE Group's decision at the final vote will depend on whether the disputed points, which we have also raised in committee, are properly clarified and agreed.
I hope we will all be able to vote for the report tomorrow and thereby send out a good signal for biotechnology in Europe.
Mr President, the report we are now debating is one of the more sensitive ones before Parliament.
Like other groups, the Liberal Group is divided in its attitude towards both the Commission proposal and the amendments.
I personally belong to the group which supports the Commission's seven-year rule but not the simplified procedure, although a simplified procedure could become a possibility if we considered a renewal of the marketing authorisation for the products, in other words extending the seven years.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, genetically modified organisms can be regarded as the latest food scare.
Mr President, since 1990, when the current directive was adopted, the situation involving GMOs and their release has changed significantly.
The directive must therefore be adapted to this new situation.
This example shows that our debate on GMOs must look at more than just the long-term effects on consumer health and safety.
Mr President, there is a proverb from the Ladin hills, not far from your own home area, that goes Qui va prudan', va sicur' e lontan' .
I do not have the time to go into every individual point so I will only comment on a few that I regard as most important.
It is also most important to ensure that genetically modified products and organisms can be identified, to make it easier to recover them and also to assess the risk.
I hope Members will endorse the Environment Committee's proposals at the vote tomorrow, so that we can present the Council with a proposal that takes account of what this Parliament stands for, namely concern for the citizens of Europe.
Mr President, we cannot forget that this proposal amends a previous proposal and that the Member States and the Commission itself therefore already have a great deal of experience with it.
I therefore clearly support the main points of the Commission's balanced proposal, although I will vote against many of the amendments that have been tabled.
Mr President, I welcome very much the tightening that this new directive represents.
Mr President, thank you for the opportunity to make a brief contribution to this debate.
Taking all these factors into account, the Community issued Commission Directive 90/220/EEC, which was implemented for the first time in 1991.
It offers us the opportunity to combat far more effectively catastrophes on a global scale which all types of polluting activity inflicts on the environment.
Mr President, I welcome the Bowe report and congratulate the rapporteur, who has put an enormous amount of work into this.
It is obviously very important that we put in place legislation that the people of Europe will have confidence in.
This is a defect of the debate that scientists still have to put right in the public arena.
I agree with Mr Liese that the seven-year authorisation period is unsatisfactorily arbitrary.
We have done so several times, and each time we have created more clarity in the area, and now we have come to the legislation.
As has been pointed out during the debate this evening, the directive currently before us seeks to make the decision-making process more efficient and more transparent, while at the same time ensuring a high level of protection for health and the environment.
In line with the precautionary principle in the field of health and the environment, the Commission's proposal aims firstly to toughen up the risk assessment to be carried out before authorisation for the release of GMOs is given and, secondly, to improve the chances of identifying and monitoring GMOs so that the competent authorities can react immediately and appropriately in the event of acute risk.
In many cases, we shall be able to use the ideas behind Parliament's amendments.
However, the Commission will word these amendments a little differently, and we would also like to position them slightly differently so that they fit in better with the rest of the text.
The Commission therefore cannot accept those amendments which change the balance and weaken the safety net which is built into the proposal, including the principle that authorisation is to be for a limited period.
On the strength of this principle, all new information will be taken into account and it will be possible to amend the requirements in accordance with the latest knowledge.
We saw it as a balance between the normal lifetime of a genetically modified product, the monitoring system we have proposed, and the need for the administrative procedures for this directive to be clear, practical and founded on science, in accordance with the precautionary principle.
The proposal therefore requires clear labelling of all genetically modified organisms which are placed on the market.
If there are any doubts, the labelling must state that the product 'may contain genetically modified organisms'.
Therefore the Commission is unable to accept Amendments Nos 37, 67 and 76.
Another important question is the liability of the Member States in connection with decisions on product approval.
Here the Commission has proposed to change the committee procedure to give more influence to the Council.
The participation of the European Parliament in the committee procedure will now take place in accordance with the modus vivendi agreement and will, I believe, be formalised in a decision on the new committee procedure.
The Commission therefore cannot accept at this stage Amendment No 55, which is aimed at making alterations to committee procedure 3b.
Amendments Nos 36 and 80 strengthen the connection between this directive and product legislation, and so ensure that the whole framework legislation on biotechnology involves an extensive environmental risk assessment.
However, the Commission cannot accept the removal or any alteration of Article 5, as proposed in Amendments Nos 2, 22 and 98.
The question of liability in Amendments Nos 7, 56 and 95 is currently being considered in the Commission, which intends to publish a white paper on liability.
We cannot accept Amendments Nos 19, 21 and 51, which are aimed at regulating the import and export of genetically modified organisms.
These amendments would pre-empt the final wording of the Protocol on Biosafety which is currently under discussion.
I would also like to draw attention to Amendments Nos 27, 29 and 32 on public inquiries or consultation in connection with trial releases.
The Commission is able to accept these amendments in principle, but we would like to see them reworded so that they ensure agreement with the Århus Convention on public participation in the decision-making process.
Amendment Nos 6 and 54 are acceptable in principle because they confirm that the Council and the European Parliament can request the Commission to consult with the Ethics Committee on general ethical problems in connection with the release of genetically modified organisms.
Finally, I would like to emphasise that, apart from the question of the fixed-period authorisation, the amendments which the Commission has accepted in full, in part or in principle have resulted in a clear improvement of the quality of the proposal.
In my view, the amendments make the Commission's text clearer and sharper, and will therefore create a sensible and feasible framework for achieving the high level of safety we all wish to see for the release of GMOs into the environment.
Six years have passed since the Green Paper.
Where, I ask myself, is the own responsibility of industry and science?
She said that because we are in favour of an optional time-limit that means we regard people as guinea-pigs.
That really is absurd.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The object of this directive is to ensure that in future vehicles that have reached the end of their life can only be deregistered on production of a certificate of destruction, which may sound very good at first, but which is in my view rather difficult to achieve, in some Member States at least.
Article 6 concerns the treatment of end-of-life vehicles.
The Commissioner reverted to a rather fuddy-duddy approach and opted for no costs for the last owner and/or user.
We are now deciding on the labelling to go with this packaging regulation - the rapporteur is sitting behind me.
The Commission has proposed values and parameters which, in my view, are very tough.
I would stick to the Commission's principle and propose a combined committee made up of Directorates-General III and XII, which would make a critical, scientifically sound proposal after three years on whether these tough rules need to be maintained and implemented.
But if PVC is dangerous, then all this junk should be banned in a horizontal directive and not stigmatised in an individual secondary directive.
Instructions from above are always a second best.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are aiming at two major objectives with this directive.
The question is: how do we achieve that?
Surely that cannot be our waste-disposal policy!
Mr President, the proposed directive under discussion is particularly important and concerns all of us as users of motor vehicles.
On the other hand, I totally agree with Amendment No 34 tabled by Mr Lange.
In my opinion, it is essential to make a clear distinction between old and new vehicles that will receive type approval before and after 2005 respectively.
Finally, it is essential to carry out a risk assessment of the materials and substances included in Annex II.
The first concerns so-called 'historic' vehicles.
We therefore fully support Amendment No 1 tabled by the rapporteur.
We will also support Amendment No 54 which rightly stipulates that the free recovery of vehicles will not be backdated.
Mr President, this proposal for a directive is a stroke of luck for the environment, since assigning responsibility to the manufacturer was long overdue and it was also high time waste prevention applied to the motor vehicle sector too.
I hope that tomorrow Members will also stand by their amendment on banning PVC from the year 2005.
PVC has a wide range of applications, but its disposal creates environmental problems.
Every time that PVC is involved in a proposal for a directive, we are told that this problem in particular cannot be looked at on its own or vertically, but that we should look at it globally and horizontally, and that the Commission will do the thinking for us.
On Amendment No 42 I would say it is a positive sign for environmental agreements because with many agreements on end-of-life vehicles in Europe compliance tends to be concentrated on just a few articles.
On Amendment No 44: in my view the technical annex is too detailed and also contains provisions that make no sense.
The Committee on the Environment has proposed 45 amendments, and with a further 16 there is a total of 61.
There are also some amendments which dilute the Commission's proposal and reduce the level of environmental protection.
Here I am thinking in particular of topics such as producer responsibility, recovery targets, and the scope and implementation of the proposal.
Here I shall comment on two aspects in particular.
The first aspect, which relates to Amendments Nos 9, 14 and the second part of 17, concerns veteran vehicles.
We have also considered this, and we think that these vehicles should only be exempt from Articles 4 and 7 of the proposal.
Then there are the heavy metals and PVC.
In its proposal, the Commission has chosen to require that some of the heavy metals should be removed from the vehicles before they are reused, and I see that the Committee on the Environment is in favour of a clear phasing-out of such heavy metals and a list of derogations which can be amended through the committee procedure.
Here the Commission accepts Amendments Nos 24, 28 and 29 which clarify the text, but we cannot accept Amendments Nos 26 and 27.
As far as recycling, reuse and recovery of end-of-life vehicles is concerned, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 34, because it would remove the short-term recovery target.
We cannot accept Amendments Nos 49 and 50, which would make it difficult to monitor whether the quantified targets have been reached, but we can accept Amendments Nos 57 and 58.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The US not only wants European markets to be open to products from the United States; they must also be open in the way that the United States dictates.
Thank you, Mrs Sierra González, and thank you for keeping to your speaking time.
But it does not have the right to take unilateral measures against its trade partners and to issue sanctions, such as in this case the absurd 100 % duties on products from EU Member States.
My group fully supports the Commission's position.
With regard to the banana dispute, the crisis affecting the relations between the European Union, its Member States, its ACP partners and the United States illustrates the ambiguities of the EU's trade policy.
The fact remains that we are faced with a situation in which the United States has unilaterally decided to publish a list of European products which it intends to sanction by raising customs duties to 100 % if the EU does not amend its new banana import regime.
The founders of the WTO manoeuvred themselves into this position because world trade is not being regulated according to the principle of sustainable development, consumer protection and social protection.
It is also entirely unacceptable for US policy to give in to the pressure from Chiquita and others.
But that should not prevent us from insisting again and again that the WTO rules must be respected and that we cannot accept the US attacks.
I would also draw Sir Leon Brittan's attention to the debate we have just held on the Bowe report.
In fact, WTO procedures make this an obligatory step before any sanctions can be authorised.
This procedure is now under way and panel reports are due by 12 April.
Meanwhile, the US has continued to press for authorisation to take retaliatory measures by 3 March.
There has been a major debate on this, in which almost all the WTO members who spoke supported our position that there cannot be authorisation of retaliation in the absence of a WTO ruling on the conformity of the regime.
This brings me to the second question: what would we do if the Americans go ahead with sanctions on 3 March?
Mr President, we support the Commission view that the unilateral action by the United States is illegal as it is outrageous and totally irresponsible.
By these vindictive actions, the United States has prejudiced, not only their own reputation, but also the future of the transatlantic partnership.
The points we make in the resolution of the Committee on External Economic Relations are very clear.
We demand that the European Union fulfill its obligations to our ACP trade partners and we expect the Commission to achieve that objective within the WTO framework.
Then we should try to meet each other halfway and say, let us not just accept solution 1 or 2, let us also try solution 3, 4, 5, 10 or 15 and go on until we find a solution that everyone can accept; and these solutions must be worked out at a high official level.
Mr President, because two or three major American companies control the banana production of the Latin American countries, the United States, which does not itself produce any bananas at all, is relentlessly maintaining its offensive against the Community import regime.
On 28 January, the US ambassador to the European Union stressed that the banana dispute was a minor issue compared to the potential scope of the hormonised meat and GMO issues.
The motion for a resolution tabled jointly by my group and the Green Group condemns the threats of American sanctions.
It urges the Commission to stand firm in the face of this new offensive so that we can continue to protect the interests of Community and ACP producers.
The initial problem is that although, during the final round in Marrakesh on the World Trade Organisation constitution, we insisted that the dispute settlement procedure be included, what we wanted was to combat American unilateralism.
Now, however, Section 301 of US external trade law is coming back to haunt us.
Mr President, during the last part-session in Brussels, we discussed the banana issue with regard to the financial assistance to be granted to ACP countries suffering from reduced production.
We must lend our full political support to the Commission's continued firm position on this dispute, as clearly indicated in Paragraph 3 of the motion for a resolution which follows on from the oral questions tabled.
Commissioner, this offensive must be stopped in its tracks.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I come from an ultraperipheral banana-producing region of the European Union, I wish to protest in the strongest terms and indicate my deep anger at the retaliatory stance taken by the United States of America in the latest dispute over the Community banana import regime.
Mr President, may I first of all say that those who have spoken in the latter part of the debate have pointed out that the action taken by the United States is not only action taken against parts of the Caribbean countries, but also against parts of the European Union which are very dependent on bananas.
First of all we will respond in the WTO by taking a case against the Americans, as we have begun to do.
I hope it does not come to that but the European Union is ready to defend its interests against anybody, including the United States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
