I will simply add that this process of self-destruction is becoming more and more unhealthy and dangerous.
Ms McKenna, you will receive the letter in a few hours.
The report of the Court of Auditors states that 69 % of the members of the Committee on Social and Economic Affairs are alleged to have committed irregularities with travel expenses, not the European Parliament.
Thirdly, Madam President, I think that we all know that the Court of Auditors is also investigating the travel expenses of this House.
Thank you, Mr De Vries.
I think that it is the duty of this House to realize that what is going on here is that the public perception of this House has to be taken into account, that we have to support any investigation, and even Members of this House have called for an independent investigation on what is going on.
The cost of the new building is unjustifiable.
If there really are people involved, they must be cited, but here, you are making unsubstantiated accusations, and you are passing on the content of this letter to the newspapers.
We are at the heart of something very serious taking place in this Parliament.
I do not think we can prolong this debate.
Madam President, I would like to thank you and the Bureau for the swift action that you have taken in relation to this matter in inviting Patricia McKenna, as a Member of this House, to produce the evidence to substantiate the case that she alleged yesterday in an Irish newspaper.
Madam President, on a point of order.
I want to rise, on behalf of my group, to support that request.
It is important that we deal with this before urgencies and objections because there are at present only four items on the urgency agenda.
Madam President, on this matter, I believe that a statement from the Commission would be welcome, but above all, we need a statement from the Council, as the Council has responsibility for the CFSP, not the Commission.
I do not believe the Council will be present tomorrow.
Madam President, please allow me to object to this procedure.
The proposal put forward has, it appears, come from two major groups who last week refused to accept a specific point on Iraq being put on the agenda.
Indeed, only the President can make a proposal during the sitting itself.
Let us have a political debate on Iraq, and let us vote, and let everyone declare where their responsibilities lie with regard to this crisis.
Mr Dell'Alba, in reality, we are all fundamentally in agreement about having a debate on the question, which is indeed a topical subject of major importance.
I shall put my proposal to the vote. (Parliament approved the President's proposal) Topical and urgent debate Pursuant to Rule 47, I have received objections in writing giving reasons for the objections to the agenda for tomorrow morning's debate on topical and urgent subjects of special importance.
Before subject I Madam President, I would like to speak on the subject of Togo.
In fact, we all know that...
Madam President, this debate is the final act in a long process which began last June, when Parliament appointed Mr Tsatsos and I co-rapporteurs for the report on the Amsterdam Treaty.
Seventeen parliamentary committees, the representatives of the national parliaments - with whom we held a meeting last October - non-governmental organizations, and, especially, the Committee on Institutional Affairs have taken part in this process.
I believe that any assessment of the Amsterdam Treaty must be made from two points of view.
And the political circumstances of last June were not as favourable as they could have been.
And its content cannot be evaluated in relation to the expectations that existed, or even in relation to whatever aspirations Parliament may have had.
And, in this regard, from the very beginning, Mr Tsatsos and I wished to send a clear political message: the Amsterdam Treaty represents substantial progress for the process of European integration.
These advances are summarized in former article F, in which there are new points on the fundamental rights of European citizens and the affirmation that the Union is a Community based on the rule of law in which the principles of liberty, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are paramount.
All this is positive, but, in the field of foreign policy, the most important thing is political will.
Perhaps far less progress was made in the field of security and defence than we would have wished, but we have to make use of what there is.
At our last COSAC meeting - which took place just a few days ago, in Luxembourg - the responses of the representatives of the national parliaments were extremely positive.
And if we - the Commission, the European Parliament and the national parliaments - succeed in drawing up a joint text, that text could be put on the table at the Intergovernmental Conference and serve as the basis for the final agreement to be adopted by the Member States' governments.
What it wishes to do is contribute to resolving a problem that is currently outstanding in the European Union.
I do not wish to address those who are going to vote against, because they will always oppose the progress of Europe.
Rather, I wish to address those who are good Europeans, who have always been in the vanguard of European integration, but who are currently tempted to abstain or vote against because they believe that the Amsterdam Treaty is inadequate.
I would therefore urge all those who have always wanted to take Europe forward, who have always been in the vanguard of European integration, to reflect on this and join in building that road.
In this respect we have stressed the pragmatic and decisive influence that the European Parliament has had on the content of the new treaty.
The people of Europe must be informed of the reasons why the European Parliament considers the albeit qualified ratification, but the ratification nevertheless, of the treaty, to be a historic duty.
On this point the report underlines the crucial steps that have contributed to the European issue without, however, suppressing omissions and errors.
Our first objective was to put before you a consensus view on Europe.
In the Amsterdam Treaty the issue of unemployment is of primary importance for the European Parliament.
Of course, as rapporteurs, we know that what has been agreed does not constitute a political reality just because it has been agreed.
I shall now come to the historical perspective, which my co-rapporteur, Mr Méndez de Vigo, has already given a thorough account of.
The basis of a new revision procedure that we are proposing will be the initiative of the European Parliament, of national governments, and of the European Commission alike.
With our proposal, however, the ability of the national governments to pass legislation will be fully exploited and, at the same time, the cooperation of national parliaments will place the issue of Europe at the centre of national political debate, which is something that we have sought for years, but without success.
Madam President, my colleague, Mr Méndez de Vigo, and I have aspired to push for a new role for the European Parliament, a role it will share with national parliaments and which will justify its place as the vehicle and the champion of a new democratic idea in Europe.
In terms of the common foreign and security policy, this treaty does not give us as much as we would want, and certainly not as much as Europe needs.
I echo what Mr Tsatsos has just said about working with national parliaments.
I believe there is much that this Parliament could do, but we will only be able to do it if we build on the quality and the consistency of our own comments on foreign policy.
We can welcome the inclusion of the Petersberg Tasks in the treaty, while regretting the delay in the architectural restructuring of our defence in terms of the involvement of Western European Union with the European Union.
To echo Mr Méndez de Vigo, this is a road worth travelling even if it is a road that we still travel largely in hope.
Madam President, in its opinion annexed to this report, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development makes a negative assessment of the Amsterdam Treaty, specifying the inadequacies of the draft treaty's agricultural provisions and making clear its disappointment.
The co-rapporteurs and Parliament have produced an excellent piece of work which will enhance the value of this problematic treaty.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it was easy for the Committee on Budgets to examine the Treaty of Amsterdam, as nothing came out of the treaty which met the expectations raised by and commitments entered into by the governments themselves when they signed the agreement on institutional affairs in 1993.
This is in my view an important point of the Tsatsos report, which reflects the concerns of the Committee on Budgets on this point.
We demanded the introduction of a common foreign trade policy, including commerce, trade, services and capital transactions, intellectual property, investments, freedom of establishment and competition.
I personally am of the opinion that the European Parliament has achieved a lot.
In conclusion I would like to say that for the European Parliament the demand that we adapt to new challenges will be the most important point on the agenda.
I make a personal appeal to both rapporteurs to consult article 216 of the treaty, which states that this Parliament does not have the right to determine the location of its own seat.
When in 1999 the fifth elections of the European Parliament take place, we will be able to establish - once the Treaty of Amsterdam has been ratified, I hope - that no parliament has acquired as many powers in such a short time, 20 years, as the European Parliament.
The Legal Commission considers the Treaty of Amsterdam to be not a half glass of water, but a full glass of Mouton Rothschild.
We are very pleased with the Treaty of Amsterdam, and we also believe that we have the powers which we should have, and that is the Legal Commission's most important point, Madam President, to make even better use of them than we have done up until now.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I believe that the Treaty of Amsterdam is a success, and that it offers new opportunities for a social Europe.
Whether the treaty will succeed will depend primarily, however, on the way the Member States and European institutions implement it.
In other words, not EMU, but SMU.
The inclusion of social protocol means social dialogue now forms part of the treaty.
A second important improvement is the inclusion of the employment chapter in the new treaty.
Madam President, what matters now is that what we have achieved in social and employment policy is actively implemented.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I would first like to say that I believe that the Amsterdam Treaty has positive aspects and represents a victory for Europe, progress for Europe.
Nevertheless, I consider that this draft treaty represents a positive step forward as far as the European Union's regional policy is concerned.
Madam President, in the field of education and culture, the Amsterdam Treaty does not meet the expectations that it raised.
The problem is how to convince those who reason only in terms of growth rates and economic criteria.
Finally, notwithstanding all the above, since we agree with the view expressed by both the rapporteurs that, despite all its problems, the Amsterdam Treaty is a step in the right direction, we declare ourselves in favour of the ratification of the treaty.
The Schengen Agreement is a source of imponderables, and the new treaty fundamentally changes the constitutional order of the European Union because it massively strengthens the position of the executive over that of the legislature.
Hence I invite you to read through the unanimously approved report of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs because in the report of the Committee on Institutional Affairs there is not one line from it.
Parliament could conduct itself ad absurdum in this way.
This attitude does nothing for our credibility.
Madam President, the Amsterdam Treaty could not make friends with Blue Europe.
Even forty years after signing the Treaty of Rome, only legal scholars and other experts in Community law are likely to find the fishing policy in the treaty creating the European Community, and then to find it hidden, in fact, once in article 38 and a second time in annex II, chapter 3 between edible slaughtered waste, birds' eggs and natural honey.
Hence, this coming Friday, for example, we will be debating four international agreements at the part-session here, yet despite this - contrary to our demands at the Intergovernmental Conference - only the consultation procedure will be used.
Madam President, the Committee on Women's Rights is convinced that the draft Treaty of Amsterdam represents a step forward politically, since it codifies the principle of non-discrimination according to sex as a fundamental principle of Community law, and quotes equality of the sexes as one of the objectives of the Treaty on European Union.
It should especially be congratulated on its promotion of equality between men and women in Community posts and on recognizing the importance of mainstreaming and active equal opportunity policies in all Community actions.
The Committee on Women's Rights also considers that the distinction it makes between employment and the wider concept of work shows that it has attempted to include all aspects of women's activities, in addition to paid employment.
It appeals to the Commission, and especially Commissioner Oreja, to aim its information campaigns in favour of ratification in all Member States specifically at women, thus raising levels of awareness of what they have to gain under the proposed treaty.
Finally, the Committee on Women's Rights calls for a conference, to be organized jointly by the Commission and the Parliament, to inform and mobilize the greatest possible number of women on elected bodies and NGOs in all Member States to campaign for the ratification of the treaty.
Madam President, the Treaty of Amsterdam contains significant advances on issues relating to fundamental rights, non-discrimination, freedom of movement and citizenship and also guarantees of those rights through control by legal institutions and the right of petition itself.
The treaty takes some positive steps towards meeting the specific interests and aspirations of its citizens.
The institutional strategy we are now proposing, especially regarding a new method of reviewing Treaties, less intergovernmental and closer to the processes by which they are created, through more effective intervention by the European Parliament and, I might add, national parliaments, deserves my full support.
Nor can I approve of the recommended strategy of making enlargement conditional upon those institutional reforms, taking the peoples of the candidate countries as hostages in the power- struggle strategies of the existing Member States.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft treaty rightly involves extending joint decision-making to the European Parliament.
This is to be welcomed from a democratic point of view.
As with monetary union, there should also have been instruments coordinating economic policies better.
That is why the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy believes it to be especially important that we still manage to arrive at a European strategy for cooperation and coordination in the interim.
This will very much require the involvement of the European Parliament, and we will need to insist that article 103 is given concrete form, if need be by interinstitutional agreement by the time the treaty is next amended.
Even if the Amsterdam Treaty, fortunately, has not involved any retrograde steps in economic policy, we nevertheless have to say that the key policy areas of business, employment, and fiscal and monetary policy lack bite.
Madam President, the Socialist Group will today vote in favour of the Amsterdam Treaty and urge national parliaments and, where appropriate, through referendums, the people of the Union to vote in favour.
For my group there have always been two priorities with regard to this treaty change: firstly, that it must meet the needs and aspirations and the hopes of the people of the Union more appropriately; and, secondly, it must prepare the Union for enlargement.
That is not just our view in this Parliament, it is also the view of the Commission, it is also the stated view of several Member States of the European Union.
We should be clear as well about the advantages which this treaty brings and the significant progress it makes in reconnecting Europe with its people.
Let us be glad of the employment title which I hope will be given its first basic framework this very week at the Luxembourg Special Summit on employment.
Let us be glad about the steps forward on equal opportunities, the environment, public health, consumer protection.
Some argue that the public are gravely disappointed about the Amsterdam Treaty.
Some argue that the deafening silence on the treaty since June demonstrates it is a non-event.
I hope that the people of the Union will see the treaty as yes, institutionally modest, needing change before enlargement, but largely dealing in a serious though undramatic way with their major concerns.
The search for jobs, the coherence of our society, the protection of our planet, the extension of citizens' rights, openness and democracy - my group votes for that agenda.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their erudite report which has united this House.
This has mainly to do with the fact that the efficiency needed to increase the size of the Union by 5, 10 or 11 Member States is lacking as a result of not extending the principle of the qualified majority vote far enough.
If the Ecofin Council says there should be no competition in taxes, then it is correct.
We should not only press for these institutional reforms at the next intergovernmental conference to be held prior to the next enlargement, but instead we should make it a priority that those legal and domestic policy areas which have become Community responsibility are given over to majority voting or codecision five years into the treaty.
We should look to the arrangement that, in future, Parliament enjoys codecision in those areas of the first pillar in which the Council decides with a majority.
And I consider this a major breakthrough for the rights of Parliament.
The only exception is agriculture and fisheries policy, both in legislation and budgetary policy, and this will need to be revised in the next round, so as to achieve parity in this area.
This will lead to a politicizing of this organization and will also affect the future relationship of Parliament and Commission in a particular way.
The inclusion of the social chapter and the employment chapter in the overall treaty gives the social dimension to this European Union.
If I bear the planning unit in mind and see how it is talked about in certain Member States, that it is only a COREPER body in which the countries are represented by one person, then that is not progress.
On the other hand, the European Parliament should be congratulated for what it has achieved in the application and simplification of the codecision procedure, the inclusion in the treaty of a chapter relating to employment policy, the acceptance by the Community of Schengen, and the early application of the reinforced cooperation procedure, itself now recognized by the treaty.
Our wish was that this strengthened cooperation procedure should not in the future be used in an over-restrictive manner following the unwarranted exercise of the right of veto granted the Member States.
We must also have successfully reunify Europe, which necessarily means proclaiming new solidarities, not only in economic and cohesion policies, but also in common defence policy.
Neither in the field of internal affairs or of justice, nor in the area of reinforced cooperation, which is itself also subject to veto, is there any more cause for optimism.
Ladies and gentlemen, the attitude adopted this afternoon by the majority of Parliament of acquiescing to this draft, which is virtually unanimously considered inadequate, will be no more honourable than a possible alternative strategy, consisting of postponing our vote until after the European Council of Luxembourg, and asking that Council to make a clear announcement of its intentions on the future of Europe.
If we had done that, we would have applied point 19 of the Méndez de Vigo and Tsatsos resolution, and Parliament would have exercised its rights and that would have been true politics.
Madam President, I wish to pay tribute to the good job done by the two excellent rapporteurs, Mr Méndez de Vigo and Mr Tsatsos.
I should therefore briefly like to set out my group's position on the Amsterdam Treaty, then on the report.
The report, which is technically very good, plays up the positive aspects and plays down the negative aspects of the draft treaty, although I recognize that it contains significant criticisms.
Madam President, I believe that by voting on this resolution, the European Parliament is going to add a new chapter to its story of conformity with the governments and its refusal to carry out a role of political initiative in the process of constructing Europe.
In fact, we are voting to give our governments a headline: "European Parliament says yes to Treaty of Amsterdam' , or "Important new stage in construction of Europe' .
We all know that the truth lies elsewhere, all of us in this Chamber know that the Treaty of Amsterdam cannot achieve any of the objectives the governments had set themselves.
We know that the European Union will not control the impact of the enlargement and monetary union will be at risk, without a change in the balance and operation of its institutions.
On the Committee on Institutional Affairs, some of us have tried to suggest a more political, less conformist road for Parliament, more in keeping with a logic of Parliamentary independence.
Not only has this request been dropped, but the inclusion of a somewhat diluted political content in the form of lukewarm calls to the governments has had to overcome unusual hostility and a surprising closing by the rapporteurs, not to mention the hard resistance to any change, particularly from the German delegations of the two largest groups that have guided the relevant groups in the noble undertaking to make a clean sweep of any political ambition held by the European Parliament.
We have thus witnessed the incomprehensible failure of traditionally unshakable positions held by Parliament, in a realistic logic whereby any initiative the governments do not like should not even be attempted.
In this framework of attacking the independence of the role of Parliament, the political fragility of the Tsatsos and Méndez de Vigo resolution is no surprise.
It is an ambiguous text, with no political view of the future of Europe other than a request to the governments to implement the treaty properly, with no careful assessment of the Amsterdam appraisals.
Most unfortunately, I have to observe that the work of the rapporteurs was from the very outset conditioned by the final message which they wished to get across, at no matter what cost, and even if getting that message across meant passing over the immense shortfalls in this treaty.
I myself remain convinced that a more critical approach to the treaty was not incompatible with the call for ratification by national parliaments, which we support.
However, we do not find in the report this determination to ensure that the Parliament wields its full influence.
I appeal to the political intelligence of the two rapporteurs to improve this result somewhat, by accepting a number of amendments.
I remain convinced, like Mrs Spaak and Mrs Aglietta, that it would be preferable to come back with an opinion on the treaty at the beginning of 1998, which would enable us to exert some pressure on the Luxembourg summit, and give an opinion when the full facts were available to us.
The rapporteurs have not agreed with this point of view.
I ask them at least - and we raise a call in this direction - to accept one of the amendments, whose aim is to reinforce paragraph 4 of the resolution.
The blame for this is not insufficient extension of powers of codecision with the European Parliament, as we occasionally hear, for codecision with the European Parliament could only be fully democratic if there were a single European people.
However, not only is this not the case, there is even reason to doubt that there exists among the peoples of Europe the wish - alleged - to integrate in the strongest sense of the word, that is, the merger to which the European parliament attaches so much importance.
Under such conditions, the approach of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which increases the number of cases where codecision or majority voting in the Council takes place, which reduces the role of national parliaments and affirms the superiority of Community law, even when derived, over national constitutions, appears totally artificial and quite out of touch with real society.
That is why, for the good of the peoples of Europe, we are refusing to ratify this illegitimate treaty, and as regards France, we shall demand a referendum.
Madam President, there are many things in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The Union has set itself all its objectives, in the economic, monetary, social, defence, public liberty, criminal, civil law and even immigration fields, because here too we are introducing Community approaches, based on article 235, the joker in the pack of Community articles, which gives the European Commission the ability to indefinitely extend its powers.
Parliament, which can set the conditions whereby its own Members can exercise their mandate.
All we need now is a European Edgar Hoover and national witch hunts.
In the event of serious and persistent violation of democracy, a state can be deprived of its voting rights.
Even the Soviet constitution introduced by Stalin in 1936 provided for the right of secession!
Wherever you look, the Yugoslavia of Sarajevo, the Nigeria of the Ibos, the United States in 1860 and the Soviet Union, there is no exception to the rule.
This is a substantial document, which places the Treaty of Amsterdam in its historic context, and underscores the considerable progress made with respect to the three pillars.
I would like above all to note the generally positive turn of the draft, which is in the spirit of the resolution approved by vote of the European Parliament the day after the meeting of the European Council on 16 and 17 June in Amsterdam.
The Committee on Institutional Affairs indeed recognizes the major advances of the treaty signed on 2 October in Amsterdam, even if some things remain to be done, in particular, with a view to the forthcoming enlargement.
The draft resolution accompanying the report opens with a recommendation to the Member States to ratify the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Allow me to emphasize the political importance of the recommendation made by the European Parliament, which is the institution representing the peoples of the Member States united in the Community, and two members of whom participated in the work of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Of course, as the European Parliament has emphasized, this new stage in the process of European integration will only produce tangible results if a clear political will arises in favour of a common approach within the Union.
Any alternative method - and there are some - will not obviate the need to confront the real problem of ratification by national parliaments.
The Treaty of Amsterdam will help us, as it provides a response to the multiple challenges confronting the European Union.
Indeed we must also and above all work to reduce unemployment in Europe, reinforce instruments combatting organized crime and the plague of drugtaking, ward off the threats to public health.
I entirely share the considerations of the draft resolution, according to which advances in European integration must be assessed in the light of the progress of the Union, not only as a common market, but also as a system of values, and in the light of the improvement in the quality of life that such advance makes possible.
I note with pleasure that the Committee on Institutional Affairs acknowledges the progress made in this respect by the draft treaty, for the purpose of developing Union policies in the interests of the citizens.
With 18 million people workless today in the Union, the new treaty had an obligation to make the promotion of a high level of employment one of the objectives of the Union and to define an European strategy in favour of employment, while allowing Member States to define their own national policies with regard to employment.
Joint action at the Union level aims more at elaborating a strategy for the coordination of policies of employment, which include the adoption of guidelines for employment, along the lines of the mechanisms already in force for the economic policies of the Community and the Member States.
I need not emphasize the importance that the Presidency of the Council attaches to the effective and rapid implementation at Union level of instruments combating unemployment and promoting employment in Europe.
This Extraordinary European Council will specifically deal with clearly identified proposals in the field of guidelines for employment, as expressed in quantifiable and verifiable objectives.
Furthermore, the insertion into the treaty instituting the European Community of the agreement on social policy will provide for the creation of a single market in social and labour affairs, contributing to the development of a consistent policy at the Community level and, I emphasize this, with respect to applicant countries.
Inspired by the same considerations of concern for the citizens, the Treaty of Amsterdam substantially reinforces provisions relating to the protection of public health, enforcing high standards of quality, and the protection of citizens as consumers and inhabitants of an environment which must remain clean.
Freedom to circulate within a border-free area should not nevertheless reduce the security of persons living in the Union.
The concrete improvements provided by the Treaty of Amsterdam in the field of foreign policy and common security, which the Committee on Institutional Affairs recognizes, should of course be assessed in the light of experience.
Unanimous voting will remain the rule for PESC, but in those cases where the Council can come up with common positions, or launch common actions, the scope for qualified majority voting has been enlarged in article J-13.
Simply, by way of a parenthesis, I would like to remind you that the European Parliament has never formulated precise proposals with regard to the composition of the Commission, nor with regard to the weighting of votes within the Council.
The reinforcement of the powers of the European Parliament, by codecision and the extension of the competencies of the Court of Justice and of the Court of Auditors, have not been sufficiently emphasized.
The same applies to the new procedure for reinforced cooperation or flexibility, laid down in the treaty.
The results of Amsterdam have clearly shown that public institutional reforms are necessary prior to the forthcoming enlargement.
This is the very direction of the protocol on the institutions annexed to the treaty.
It is clear that both the Council and the European Council examine with interest any contribution that the Commission and the European Parliament would like to make to the debate, to ensure that such reforms can be carried out under the best possible conditions, without slowing up the process of Union enlargement.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would, as I draw to a close, like to warmly welcome the resolution of the European Parliament to intensify contact with the national parliaments.
Such a decision is supportive of debate in the member countries, with a view to enabling rapid ratification of the treaty.
You are well aware, ladies and gentlemen, that throughout the Intergovernmental Conference I engaged in deliberations with, and shared the disappointments and hopes of, Parliament and the Committee on Institutional Affairs.
No more than two months would go by without me attending a meeting of the Committee on Institutional Affairs to listen to the views of the different political groups and parliamentarians, as well as to set out the Commission's position on the various issues.
And you are also well aware that on the very day that the European Council's meeting in Amsterdam ended - at twenty to four in the morning - I left immediately for Brussels and met with you at ten in the morning to convey to you my response to the draft treaty, with the tiredness that is natural after an 18-hour meeting, and perhaps with the haste that is inevitable at moments like that.
Firstly, we shall have to create the institutional conditions necessary for enlargement.
Secondly, we shall have to adapt the political institutions to a Union that will have a single currency whose stability will be constitutionally guaranteed, so to speak, by the European Central Bank.
It is also recommends convening a new Intergovernmental Conference as soon as possible after the year 2000 with a view to carrying out a comprehensive review of the provisions of the treaties on the composition and functioning of the institutions.
The 1994 "modus vivendi' agreement cannot go on for ever.
I also wish to tell the House that I am personally convinced that it is necessary to initiate a debate on the method of revising the treaties.
Clearly, as the President-in-Office said a moment ago, we are restricted by article N: the amendment of any article of the treaties, not just article N, requires unanimity.
Naturally, Parliament, the Commission, the Council and the Member States' governments will be the main players in this debate, along with the national parliaments and civil society.
I believe that we must revive that idea, with the European Parliament fulfilling its role completely - and it can do so much more successfully with the powers conferred on it by the Amsterdam Treaty - but also ensuring a dialogue with the national parliaments, like the one that the European Parliament is conducting.
And it is therefore worthwhile drawing attention to the quality of the proposals submitted to us by civil society.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the Méndez de Vigo/Tsatsos report, the European Parliament has today sent an important political message to the Member States to ratify the Amsterdam Treaty.
There is no doubt that it was only the change from Conservative to Labour government in Britain and France that made a social policy without opt-out and an employment chapter at all possible.
Third, where the environment is concerned, sustained development has been taken up as a treaty objective and the ecological goal for all Community policies implemented in the treaty.
Fifth, foreign policy through the creation of an identifiable figure in the form of the Secretary-General of the Council, strengthening of the structures through the setting-up of an analysis and planning unit, and a new troika formula including the EU Commissioner.
The European Parliament has come out in favour of a tree as the symbol of a growing community and not for three rigid pillars.
I also say this following the discussions with the national parliaments we have heard here.
The European Union today is on the threshold of making some of the most important decisions in its nigh-on fifty-year-old history of integration - treaty reform in 1997, entry negotiations in 1998, euro currency in 1999 and a new financial framework from the year 2000.
We need to turn Europe into more of an open process, where controversy is debated, and help bring about greater involvement of those who have been elected for this purpose in their own countries, that is to both the national parliaments and the European Parliament, In this way the resolutions needed are not lost in a long night beset with internal problems or the institutional reforms do not fail on the pretext of those who wish to hold the new democracies in central and eastern Europe hostage for their national interests.
There were three problems that needed to be settled.
Then deepening the Union, that is, the implementation of institutional measures giving strength and vigour to the policies proclaimed in Maastricht, but which had remained dead letters since.
The diplomats have failed, it is now down to the citizens to take up the challenge, while respecting article N, I agree, but this provides for plenty of flexibility.
This is the essential contribution of this report.
I recognize immediately that their work has not been easy, because they have had to live with two opposing sentiments: whether or not to vote in favour of the draft treaty.
The same rapporteurs also say, and rightly in my opinion, that this Chamber does not make the great political decisions of the European Union, once again leaving the problem of the democratic deficit, which is not unfounded, unresolved.
In the general interests of the Union, which should always act with the citizens' consent, the political legitimization of the great choices cannot exclude the assumption of more direct responsibility by the European Parliament which, among other things, having received the mandate, should give the citizens a direct answer.
But our rapporteurs too, like us, will have assessed the impact of a possible negative vote cast by this Chamber, not only on the citizens but also with regard to the important objectives we have raised with the new treaty.
Our vote is certainly not binding in legal terms; it is, however, a political vote and Parliament, aware of the role assigned to it by the Treaties, has the duty to remain in its own field, which we consider inadequate and insufficient in relation to the objectives aimed at.
This consistent approach which we find in the document drawn up by the Committee on Institutional Affairs fails, in our opinion, in the final paragraph of point 12, which relates to the seat of the European Parliament.
I would like to conclude this speech by recalling at least the passage in the Méndez de Vigo and Tsatsos report which, in point 19, calls for politics to have a more incisive and important role in the future treaty reforms, with more direct involvement of the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
The new treaty is supposed to be a superfluous measure, or just a tiny step forward, and it would hardly matter if it was ratified or not.
I can imagine that the gap is regarded with great satisfaction by all those who want neither intensification, nor enlargement.
Mr President, within the framework of the Treaty of Amsterdam, governments were mandated to rethink the Union on the eve of enlargement.
They have not democratized these institutions, even if under the pressure of opinion and due to the European Parliament, some partial advances are there in the draft.
The rapporteurs are asking the Council to enter into a more authentic process of institutional reform, from 1998 onwards.
Our Parliament would be stronger and more courageous if it were to recommend that the national authorities did not ratify the draft in its current state, all the while governments had not got back to work on it and solved the problems raised.
The euro cannot succeed without a cultural and democratic change within the Union.
We need to make the Council responsible, be more deliberate about our policies, establish powers of initiative and control by the citizens, consult the actors in civil society - and all this is urgent.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, whether the ominous, much cited glass of water is half full or half empty can only be gauged by the thirst of the person looking at it.
That is the only opportunity, the only power and the only duty this House has.
Amsterdam has already decided on the failure of the national governments.
That is why Maastricht was a missed opportunity on this issue as well, and Europe is too dear to us to say yes to this report.
Perhaps that is better than having a living democracy without a written constitution anyway.
And the other 14 countries in the EU are getting a new constitution, a new basic law, this little bagatelle in fact, which will replace this little bagatelle, the Danish Constitution.
It is a constitution which does include fundamental rights and social rights, but they are spread around the treaty.
But the basic principle is that the fundamental rights of the Member States in the national constitutions are being exported, and with them the practice of the Commission on Human Rights and the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, to the Court of Justice in Luxembourg and to the Union's authorities, which shall act in unison.
The small steps taken in the improvement in the structural requirements of the European democracy will never manage to make good the deficit we have reported for years which we have been fighting since the Treaty of Maastricht.
The current institutional structure is no longer able to govern the unification process appropriately.
The failure to execute the institutional reforms causes a fortiori a slowdown in the decisions on the expansion of the Union.
The opinion held by the Alleanza Nazionale for years is confirmed, in that, failing a reformed institutional framework, failing a political union, any new accession increases the state of operational and decision-making inadequacy of the European Union.
A real development in the social policy only took place during the period of economic development and the growth in production in our countries in the '60s and '70s, which means that, with no expansion of the economy and with no increase in the GDP, the social policy remains a protocol of good intentions.
At the October sitting, during the debate on the state of the Union, we said that Amsterdam was a big disappointment; today we would like to add that it was a lost opportunity.
Mr President, the new treaty has just been signed by the Union's Ministers of Foreign Affairs and is today undergoing its final examination by the European institutions.
But on attaining its majority today the text of the Treaty of Amsterdam goes to each of the States of the Union to be subjected to the risks of debate and national public opinion and, subsequently and consequently, to acceptance or rejection by the citizens of Europe.
From our point of view there must always be a balance between stability and reform.
Mr President, the Treaty of Amsterdam has been received with little enthusiasm by the public.
And in the social sphere a step forward has been made, but we will have to see at the employment summit this weekend whether the content will prove to be positive or not.
Sadly far too little has been achieved in the area of internal security and in foreign and international security policy.
And it should not be attempted in the usual way, through the IGC, in the usual European way through proposals from the European Commission, through advice from Parliament, and on that basis there will be a result.
The European Union will become a mess if we implement the enlargement before these institutional problems have been solved.
Mr President, in the spring of next year there will be a referendum in Ireland to decide whether or not to ratify the Amsterdam Treaty.
During the course of the debate leading up to the referendum vote together with my colleagues in the Fianna Fáil political party, I will be campaigning enthusiastically for a strong 'yes' vote.
I hope that the Irish people will once again give a strong endorsement for my country's continued participation in the European Union as they have done on each of the three previous occasions when a European referendum has been held in Ireland.
I had expected that the Members of the European Parliament would be given an opportunity to cast a vote on the changes to the treaty being introduced following the Amsterdam Summit.
If this had been the case, I would have voted in favour of endorsing the new treaty.
The document tabled by the Committee on Institutional Affairs should have confined itself to a simple recommendation to vote for or against the Amsterdam Treaty.
The Committee on Institutional Affairs' report contains many elements with which I am in total agreement.
It is not necessary, for example, for this text to complain about the policies which are not in the new treaty.
This issue was discussed at length prior to the Amsterdam Summit and, in my view, the correct position was taken by the Heads of State and of Government to maintain the present practice whereby each country has the right to nominate a Commissioner.
The present system whereby the Commission operates the CAP on a day-to-day basis subject to the overall supervision of the Council of Ministers has been satisfactory and should be maintained.
For this reason and for the reasons I have already referred to, I propose to abstain on the final vote on this report while at the same time, firmly recording my support for the Amsterdam Treaty.
I want to insert the words 'after the Kyoto conference' following the opening phrase which says 'Calls on the European Union' to convert the Commission's recent communication into a binding commitment in order to give substance to our commitment.
Unfortunately the services have made a mistake in Amendment No 41: the word 'anglaise' in the original French text has been translated into 'British' .
I understand that this is important but we cannot hold a linguistic discussion at this point.
We shall therefore as is the usual practice ensure that all languages correspond to the English version. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, I wanted to make a point of order because I wish to congratulate you on your patience on taking us through this vote.
However, I have to say that in committee we had 275 amendments to this report and we managed to bring it through with virtually no amendments.
I am disappointed with the I-EDN Group which chose to table amendments and ask for split votes, thus taking up valuable time in this House.
We need to guarantee a universal postal service and, within the necessary framework of the liberalization of this market, determine which services should be reserved to universal service providers, and which should be the unreserved fields, open to competition.
The decision for liberalization in direct mail services and cross-border mail has been deferred to 1 January 2000, when the Council and Parliament will have to decide on whether to pursue liberalization in this sector.
The new provisions should guarantee consumers better quality services and more competitive tariffs, without calling into question the universal service and the public administrations which provide for it.
My group objects strongly to the procedure being followed at present.
First of all the Commission submitted a proposal that anticipated far more liberalization than was present in the text which is we are now waiting to vote upon.
Everyone from the political groups and institutions knew that the liberal group had these objections.
Fontaine report (A4-0337/97) Once again, the European Parliament has demonstrated its inability to understand the problems of the smaller countries.
However, this objective cannot be met if a Member State has no right to check the knowledge of advocates in the national law.
Hence, the constitutional and administrative law is essentially of Belgian inspiration, whereas civil and commercial law are influenced by France and Belgium.
Another difficulty resides in the fact that the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is a trilingual country.
Luxembourg citizens do not understand why this situation should be changed by a directive, and this is the reason why I shall vote against the new report.
I wish on the one hand to congratulate Nicole Fontaine for the excellent work that she has carried out on the subject of this proposed directive, examined under the codecision procedure.
On the other hand, there is reason to congratulate ourselves on there being a common position, which was precisely the wish of our parliament in the first reading.
Indeed, the amendments made by the Council of Ministers do not go back on the spirit that the European Parliament wished to give to the directive, and that is the reason why I voted in the favour of the decision approving the common position.
The examination of this text by the European Commission, the Council, and the Parliament shows that the three institutions can, with calm deliberation, implement the principles of negotiation, which prevail in community legislative procedures, and end up with a highly satisfactory result.
I am all the more pleased with this good result, as the draft is of major importance, insofar as it contributes to the effective introduction of the European Union, and more particularly, to a concretization of the principles of free circulation and freedom of establishment.
Dell'Alba report (A4-0345/97) I voted yes to the report.
Jöns report (A4-0352/97) With this explanation of vote we would like to emphasize the fact that in the final vote we supported the report.
It is therefore vital that the European Parliament supports the agreement in its opinion.
Among other things we believe the report contains criticisms which cannot be regarded as entirely factually accurate.
We also think that the criticism of articles 3 and 4 in the agreement on social policy, as it is presented in paragraphs 12 and 16, is unwarranted.
We believe, on the contrary, that the role of European partners in drawing up rules for the labour market are of great significance for the development of a European social model.
We are also sceptical in principle about the idea that the parties in the labour market should be liable to report to the Commission, as stated in paragraph 21, in an area which falls under EU law.
In spite of these objections, there was never any doubt that we would support the report in the final vote.
The agreement on part-time work is an important step forward for the establishment of a social dialogue at the European level.
We should instead allow the agreement to remain in force without changing it, out of respect for the social partners' negotiations.
We are also concerned about the wording of paragraphs 17 and 19 of the report.
The rise in the number of those working part time is especially marked in certain countries, such as the Netherlands and Great Britain, where part time work accounts for 25 % of the whole.
The framework agreement between the European social partners has set out as its first objective the recognition of the principle of non-discrimination between part time and full time workers.
This should contribute to improving the conditions of employment of part time workers and give them better conditions of service.
This lack of clarity leaves the door open to differences in interpretation and, above all, the possibility of too many derogations for ill or undefined 'objective reasons' .
I am delighted that the report of the Committee on Social Affairs has also deplored these discriminatory derogations.
While it provides some assured conditions of service, albeit limited and subject to derogation, to part time workers, it encourages flexibility in working hours in the context of the development of part time working.
From this point of view, it is part of the approach of the Commission in the run-up to the European Council of Luxemburg on employment.
Our group is opposed to this approach, which aims at greater labour market flexibility in a manner which exclusively favours the interests of companies.
To develop employment and improve the conditions of life and work of the employees, our group proposes that the reduction of working hours be one of the central themes of the European Summit on employment, and so give European employees the strong signal that they expect.
A decision on 21 November in Luxembourg to open up the prospects of reduction in working hours could also mark a new start in building Europe and a move towards a Europe of progress, peace and security, which would make social progress and employment the motors of a new form of development.
The outline agreement signed by our social partners subscribes to some of the objectives to which our group attributes great importance.
Even those aspects of the agreement that can be considered positive do not extend to other forms of work which until recently were considered unorthodox.
I am backing adoption of this agreement as reached between employers and trade unions in June this year.
But we should support the social partners in their gradual development of policies which can benefit our fellow citizens at their places of work.
The text on which we are today to give our opinion is part of this set of measures.
Finally, we also know that some countries, particularly the least wealthy, will be adversely affected by this safety code.
Knowing the difficulty of a technical report of this kind, I would like to congratulate our colleague Mr Gonzalez Triviño on his serious work.
I am a supporter of the conclusions and the features of this directive, which deals with the safety of non-Community aircraft.
More transparency will contribute to giving citizens more confidence in those who take decisions.
Junker report (A4-0318/97) I have voted yes to the report because it is important for decisions in an EU context to be based on a perspective of the role of the sexes and equal opportunity.
The Commission's proposal should be received positively.
In developing countries it is often the other way round, and we cannot change that.
Women should be included in all aspects of development cooperation and in all EU policies which have to do with developing countries.
The Commission's general mainstreaming approach could be part of this strategy, if the principle is carried out in practice and does not remain empty words.
In evaluating development assistance we should also use genderclassified statistics throughout.
Nor is any priority given to staff in the area.
At the moment there is one person in DG IB and two people in DG VII, of which one is an expert on temporary loan.
My group will vote wholeheartedly in favour of this report and hopes that the Commission will implement these amendments.
Of course it is also right to ask that this money be coordinated with that already committed to Ireland and Northern Ireland by the EU's structural policies.
This practical gesture from the EU to continue its funding support for economic and social development inside Northern Ireland and in its relations with the Republic is welcome news.
My colleague John Hume has spoken eloquently in the past of the example this city of Strasbourg has set as a place of reconciliation between old enemies.
Linkohr report (A4-0343/97) and Kyoto conference Mr President, I did not vote for the Linkohr report.
The report from our colleague Rolf Linkohr is at once determined, comprehensive, serious and of high quality.
Not long ago, we voted in a resolution whose aim was to reinforce mechanisms of surveillance over CO2 and other gases.
For my part, I believe that we should ceaselessly work to preserve our environment and the quality of our air.
Emissions of greenhouse gases, especially carbon dioxide, have increased by 3.4 % in the United States, but this does not deter the Clinton Administration's incomprehensible attitude towards the conference or the disappointing cuts announced by Japan.
The EU delegation is going to the conference with a positive approach and the mandate of the Fifteen to seek the inclusion in the new protocol of the target of reducing emissions of greenhouse gases by 15 % by 2010 compared with 1990, with a reduction of 7.5 % by 2005.
The climate conference in Kyoto should be a starting point for being able to limit world emissions of greenhouse gases.
Mr Linkohr deserves praise for his report on the energy dimension of climatic change.
Technical advances in recent years have greatly improved the efficiency of sustainable sources of energy, and instead of supporting and giving so much money to the European nuclear power industry, as the Community notoriously does, we should reinforce efforts to promote sustainable sources of energy.
Nor can I support the rapporteur's proposal to introduce an energy tax at the EU level.
BSE Mr President, while welcoming the debate yesterday on BSE and the subsequent resolution, this House should not forget the human price of past negligence.
Twenty-one people have died of the new variant of CJD, the human form of BSE, in Britain since 1995.
As a member of the Committee of Inquiry into BSE, and the Temporary Committee to follow up the Recommendations of the European Parliament relating to BSE, I would like to draw your attention to a particular point in the dossier, at a time when fifteen months of work are now being completed with the vote on the Böge report.
Now, this long and painstaking work has enabled us to set up a new strategy at the European level to guarantee our citizens food safety at all stages of the food chain, from animal feed to the table.
The conference on food safety and consumer safety which will be held twelve months hence will be one more opportunity to continue with this very strict monitoring.
This should be an opportunity for the European Parliament once again to meet the expectations of the European population in the fields of health and food fields.
The threat of a censure motion demonstrated how effective our control over the Executive can be.
I also share the opinion of the rapporteur, when he says that he is delighted at the effort undertaken by the European Commission, which has an obligation every six months to give us a regular and ongoing report.
This is progress in the right direction, even though there is still a long way to go.
It is therefore clear that, once again, the Commission is giving the concern for free circulation of products a higher priority on the internal market than consumer health.
However, I do not want to insinuate that the Commission has done nothing in this field.
But the move to regulations is hampered by three contradictory factors.
In the future, when taking national measures of protection in the fields of health or environment, and when making derogations to Community rules (and therefore to the rule of free circulation in particular), Member States will need to make a request under very restrictive conditions, where the Commission enjoys full latitude in its assessment.
Third contradiction: while trying to use Community regulation to ward off the danger of other epidemics in the future, the Commission is continuing to water the seed bed in which such epidemics can grow, by proposing a framework for an ultra-productivist agriculture, based on the lowest prices in the world market, in its Agenda 2000 programme.
I voted in favour of the Committee of Inquiry report on BSE because of the important balance that the report reflected between reminding us of the disastrous history of BSE in Britain, under the last Conservative Government, and the measures that are now being taken by the new Labour Government and by the Commission to ensure the health and safety of the public in food and agricultural policy from now on.
The Commission has recently put forward a proposal which would include primary agricultural products within the scope of the existing EU product liability directive (85/374/EEC).
This study is the type of work this new EU office should be completing and I call on the EU to commission such a study/report immediately.
I call on the present Irish Government to speed up the process to get this agency up and running by passing a bill in the Dáil establishing its powers.
The Fianna Fáil party during the recent general election stated that it would scrap this body.
Consumers will not have confidence in such a scenario.
Everyone, or nearly everyone, now agrees on this basic principle.
The first is that, under the procedure in force, the Group of the European Radical Alliance was involved neither with the work of the monitoring committee, nor with the drafting of the common proposal within that committee, so failing the most elementary rules of democracy.
The second and probably the most important reason is that the draft is a reflection of a soft and quite politically correct compromise, which is no honour to this House.
The third reason is that we profoundly regret that the Parliament has not pursued its ambitions to their full extent, and is unable today to go beyond the analysis contained in the Böge report and to draw the true political and institutional conclusions which must be drawn.
Even so, I would wish to remind the House that we are otherwise delighted at the actions and initiatives already undertaken by the European Commission in order to introduce a European Community food safety policy and we exhort it to continue that action.
The Commission has effectively taken a series of decisions in line with the recommendation of the Parliament.
As part of the same logic as that adopted in 1992, the resolution may well lead to further intensification of farming, which may adversely affect the environment and product quality.
Measures of a totally different scope should be taken, both in terms of CAP reform and for the circulation of goods, which should take more into account both the environment and consumer health.
The temporary monitoring committee, which took over from the committee of enquiry, has just completed its work, and its conclusions are damning as far as the Commission is concerned.
In this field, our Parliament has a legitimate role to play.
We can but regret that 118 members only have supported this proposal, which was put forward in this Parliament last spring by Philippe de Villiers, in a call for a vote in favour of censuring the Commission, in the wake of the very serious failings which were brought to light by our Parliament's commission of enquiry.
This is the reason why, in the person of our colleague, Édouard des Places, we have stated that we would be paying the greatest attention to monitoring this dossier and that we would hold the Commission responsible at the plenary session of November 1998, by putting forward a new motion of censure, if it has not before then undertaken the indispensable reforms.
Vigilance in our control will be of benefit to all, and will once again enable our Parliament to act both legitimately and effectively in a field which is really part of its competency.
The reality is quite different.
The report proposed by our colleague at the very least, reveals much cultural diversity in Europe.
The introduction of a minimum system for participation of workers is a difficult matter.
Differences in the field of relationships are substantial.
This is not the place to draw up a list and to distribute good and bad marks to each of Member States, at least at this stage.
Ultraliberalism crushes democracy.
The European Parliamentary Labour Party expressed its opposition to elements of the Menrad report on the Davignon Conclusions concerning European systems of worker involvement.
Paragraph 24 emphasizes the importance of monetary union for employment.
The recent inclusion of a section on employment in the Treaty of Amsterdam represents an important basis for the construction of a coordinated strategy between Member States to achieve a high level of employment.
The Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores are privileged regions for the promotion of local employment initiatives, particularly in the fields of tourism, the environment, crafts and atypical work.
I completely agree with him when he emphasizes that growth is a necessary, but no longer sufficient, condition for job creation in Europe.
Success by our enterprises will also depend on the increased coordination of budget policies, but also on fiscal policy at the European level, whose purpose is so far as possible to prevent distortions in competition arising from discriminatory fiscal measures.
I subscribe to the need to move from passive to active measures in the labour market, to promote the spirit of initiative and to fight against loss of worker motivation, which is also an explanation for our high rates of unemployment.
The report does not go sufficiently onto the offensive with regard to the urgency of a European growth policy, growth through recovery of investment, by providing substantial European funding to launch a programme for major works, as proposed by the Commission in 1993, and still not implemented, growth by supporting recovery in consumption, the Achilles heel of our countries, by revising our tax system and by supporting wages policies.
Nothing will be possible without redistributing the wealth of capital towards labour, without European taxation of capital movements, without reducing VAT on essential products, in certain job-creating sectors or in sectors with a future.
Finally, the report does not sufficiently or vigorously affirm our determination to stop the current social deregulation.
Europe requires real social convergence, such as the European principle of a guaranteed minimum wage, fixing the legal working hours at 35 for the year 2000, reduction in maximum working time, etc.
The recent lorry drivers' conflict in France highlights the risk of social dumping, of an open market, without commonly accepted social and labour relations standards.
If the Luxembourg Summit does not take decisions and put them immediately into force in favour of employment, for a minimum regulatory framework, and for a pact for economic recovery, Europe will not accept an automatic move to the euro.
For monetary union without a reinforced political Europe, without social Europe becoming a reality, means that we labour under a major risk for the future: we shall have a diluted Europe, which is powerless when faced with unemployment, and far from the aspirations of the people.
That is why I have voted against this amendment to maintain a cohesion fund in contrast to the majority of my group.
However, our agreement on these points should not make us forget that we refuse the rampant federalism which is characteristic of this report.
Yes, we refuse any unacceptable slide towards a single European government, as is currently being prepared for under the economic approach.
And we similarly reject any propaganda in that direction.
Furthermore, the present report demonstrates as clearly as could be wished a concern to encourage cooperation with regional and local authorities in order to cut the ground from under the feet of the nations.
The only real interlocutors of European institutions in our view must remain the Member States, whose wishes are the fountainhead of the legitimacy of those institutions.
On the other hand, the financial proposals in the report leave the disagreeable impression that the intention is to give everyone a little bit of something to keep them happy, hence a glaring contradiction with the declared determination of fighting against piecemeal interventions.
No more funding for the cohesion funds, etc.
Now we understand why the budgetary framework of Agenda 2000 was not bold enough in the eyes of the report.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations believes that common policies and structural policies should be kept separate, and would appreciate the Community concentrating its financial effort on common policies for cohesion, such as the CAP, and the PCP.
In the immediate, you will understand why, for all these reasons, our group cannot vote otherwise than against this report.
The report is very full.
Above all we do not believe at all that the common currency is going to have beneficial effects on all regions in the EU.
Nor do we believe, as paragraph 14 of the report states, that a liberalization of the transport and telecommunications sectors will automatically bring advantages for consumers and companies.
It is regrettable that the report did not touch on this topic.
With this explanation of vote we would like to stress the importance of maintaining aid in the area currently covered by objective 6 aid even after a change in the structural funds.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, economic and social cohesion by definition translates into a desire for solidarity going out from the richer countries to the poorer countries.
However, the excellent report of our colleague discloses shortfalls in this field, serious shortfalls in the perspective of Agenda 2000.
While, in ten years, revenue disparities between the Member States have certainly been reduced, regional disparities have remained virtually unchanged.
Worse still, unemployment has risen from 17 % to 22 % in the poorest regions!
The Agenda 2000 shows some ways ahead, which must be the subject of reflection with the relevant actors.
In recent years, the objective of economic and social cohesion has been pursued with good planning and a certain political will, favouring a continuous development of the European regions.
The success of the economic and social cohesion policy should be examined not only in the light of the infrastructures constructed, but also in the light of the economic convergences, the development of human resources and productivity, and the employment statistics.
Moreover, when the new countries become full members of the EU, there will be an even greater difference in development within it than at present, which is already considerable, jeopardizing economic and social cohesion.
For that reason, there should be closer cooperation between MEPs, governments, European Commissioners and representatives of local authorities, with greater involvement of the regions and local partners, so as to considerably increase the efficacy of the policy of economic and social cohesion.
Beating the challenge of cohesion means enabling a new concept of solidarity and intra-Community unity to triumph, thanks to which the EU will not sink to the ranks of a vast free trade area.
I share the fundamental preoccupations of our colleague.
The report is frank and well-constructed in its content.
In a word, this is good work.
I fully agree with the concern to harmonize levels of technology in the various regions.
I hope that this aspect will be supported by the European Parliament and by the Commission.
The general philosophy of the report is good: it is necessary to reaffirm the vocation of the European Union for structural adjustment of the regions and the Member States.
If some regions are left to fall behind, there is a risk of fragmentation, which would be detrimental to the future.
We should not lose sight of this idea, and of the necessity of this point of view, when we come to the study of the reform of the structural funds.
The first three-yearly report on economic and social cohesion threw light on the persistence of considerable disparities between the fifteen countries of the European Union, this being so in spite of the acknowledged efficiency of the structural policies undertaken for a number of years.
The report also emphasized the lack of coordination which may exist between the various Community policies with regard to the objective of cohesion.
Furthermore, there is a special reference to the islands of the Aegean in paragraph 52, where the Commission calls for immediate measures to be taken on behalf of their inhabitants.
Neither the declarations of good intentions which were shown in this report, nor calls for social cohesion, can hide the terrible social reality.
The economic policy of savage competition and of the opening of our markets enforced upon us by the Commission, the unceasing flow of immigration from outside Europe and the exorbitant social security charges which weigh down on labour are plunging our country into a crisis of employment and into an enormous social crisis.
You propose continuing down the same track, bolstering up the same policy, ever more generously financing the same actions.
We need another policy and another Europe, in order to set up Community preference, in order to protect our markets from social dumping and from immigrationcolonization, and to re-establish security in our cities, free tax payers from tax slavery, and guarantee a true family policy.
A reduction in the number of objective areas in the structural funds is justified, but under no circumstances should it be at the cost of the aid itself as such.
To merge objective 3 and objective 4 in order to concentrate solely on re-education and training appears panicky.
Mr President, I really would like to admit to our two rapporteurs that the Treaty of Amsterdam has brought benefits and developments in its wake.
That is the historic failure of the governments, not Europe, but the governments.
What we are now faced with, and what I really fear, is a very difficult dilemma, that on the one hand the political situation could develop in such a way that the institutions will not get to be reformed and that, on the other, enlargement will be postponed, or even declared to be impossible, in view of the lack of institutional reform.
The reason for us getting into these difficulties still lies in the fact that in reality there is no consensus about the aim of European integration.
We need to show commitment to bolster support for the political union publicly, in our own countries, because this is not just a central responsibility, but also the crucial point, if we want to move forward with European integration.
Mr President, like the majority of my group, I am going to vote no to the report in question and advise the Member States against ratifying the Amsterdam Treaty.
The border controls which it was then said would remain are now going to be banned, the right of veto which we were to have in the area of foreign policy is now to be severely limited, new steps are being taken towards a common defence which it was said would not become a reality, supranationality is increasing and the influence of small states is being reduced, while the European Parliament is being given increased power.
There is a demand that the European Parliament should have a right of assent in future treaty changes.
If the Member States are no longer able to decide the development of the treaty themselves, they will also have lost control over the direction in which the Union is going.
In this way enlargement is being taken 'hostage' , but there is nothing to say that an enlargement would be more successful if the dominance of the large states in the EU were increased further by giving them more votes on the Council of Ministers.
Mr President, Mr Méndez de Vigo and Mr Tsatsos have done a lot of work on this report, which we are grateful for.
Mr President, unlike many colleagues, I have no intention of criticizing the Treaty of Amsterdam.
This is probably the optimum compromise that Member State, in the current state of their willingness to integrate, could achieve.
We did so because these questions raised the problem of relationships of strength between the Member States, and because they affected the very existence of those Member States.
There should be no illusion, in some major states, about the possibility, for example, of there being a Commission restricted to ten members, with representation of all the major states, but only a few smaller ones.
I may therefore be in agreement with the demands contained in the report of our two colleagues at the institutional level.
I would nevertheless have to add that these demands worry me a little, in so far as they are both precise and vague at one and the same time.
Here you really feel that every word is worth its weight in gold.
In conclusion therefore, Mr President, while we are in agreement on the equality of all Member States, my understanding is that any form of directorate by the major states should be rejected, and that the Union should remain a democratic whole in which each Member State should have the means to get its voice heard, and to participate in Community power.
The Amsterdam Treaty could be regarded as the agreement of the many little steps, most of which must be described as positive.
The shadow cast by the transition into the third phase of economic and monetary union and the euro did not permit new leaps forward.
They also contributed to transparency, to a more social and a more community-oriented Europe, which is making a greater effort to move closer to its citizens and to simplify its decision-making procedures, to a more democratic Europe with a stronger role for the European Parliament and with the balance between large and small States essentially unchanged.
In spite of its weaknesses, Mr President, the treaty is worthy of ratification, and the representatives of the governments of the fifteen Member States, during their meeting with our committee, although driven by different motivations, came to the same findings.
The crucial question now is what the next step is going to be.
The intergovernmental system for the revision of Treaties has reached its limits and the rapporteurs suggest a different approach, with a Commission proposal and political dialogue with national parliaments.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every time we have discussed Europe here in the European Parliament or elsewhere, we have been concerned to know where we are going and, above all, where we want to go.
The fundamental principles of humanism, with its inherent prosperity and quality of life, the unyielding defence of democracy and transparency in our institutions and participation by all the citizens of the various Member States in the building of Europe are the great values which will enable us to strengthen and, furthermore, to keep fresh in our memory the original foundations of the European Union.
Furthermore, the report defends the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
In my opinion this report fails to raise the question of representative power in Europe.
And that is a question worth raising, and I shall always be willing to raise it.
The enlargement with the new democracies in the East is our generation's historic opportunity to secure peace, democracy and prosperity for future generations in Europe.
It is far more important than the question of to what extent the treaty could have been better on certain points.
These three countries of course have the right to have their opinion and to promote it, but, and this is the crux of the matter, if Parliament goes in and stops the enlargement, and if the twelve countries do not fall in line with the three countries, history will condemn this Parliament.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, vote against the last part of paragraph 15 and against a some words in the introduction to paragraph 16.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the rapporteur for this excellent report.
In changing the number of members in Parliament we must also remember that the small states, too, need parliamentary representation, as the most important principle of the Union is solidarity.
Moreover, as the European Parliament, we have to direct the examination of the national parliaments, because it would be very serious if the national parliaments failed to approve the treaty at the confirmation stage.
What was not done in Amsterdam for political reasons, which we can readily guess, should be done first, before any concrete expansion; what was not done can be justified by being impossible technically, time-wise and politically in Amsterdam, but can never become a mental reservation for not achieving expansion or, on the contrary, for using expansion to make the powers of the political union less effective and empty.
As the European Parliament, we should state clearly that expansion and the birth of monetary union and the objective of a greater integration of the European Union seek the completion of the institutional reform that only began in Amsterdam.
On the other hand, I am pleased about paragraph 20 about a continued and strengthened cooperation with the national parliaments, and I would like to urge the Committee on Institutional Affairs to go further with this with regard to creating a vision of the future cooperation in Europe.
The Amsterdam Treaty is not perfect, because we human beings are not perfect.
Mr President, the Amsterdam Treaty clearly falls short of the aspirations of this Parliament, as has been pointed out by many speakers in this debate.
But the choice facing us today is not between the Amsterdam Treaty and an ideal treaty that we would have wanted.
And, in my view, that is the most significant thing about this draft treaty: its ambivalence.
Those who have accorded maximum priority to the institutional pillar have condemned its inadequacies - and I agree with them.
Whilst this considered approach is important, the most significant thing is that this report is set within three complementary perspectives: Firstly, the perspective of the past, since the Amsterdam Treaty already belongs in the past.
The rapporteurs firmly understood - and, in my view, have clearly expressed in the explanatory statement - what the European Union has been, what it is, what it can be in the light of the possibilities offered by the draft treaty, and, above all, what it should be.
And, in this regard, there are two possible approaches: continuing to argue about how many angels will fit on the head of a pin - whether the Amsterdam Treaty is good or bad, that is - which will change absolutely nothing; or ratifying and implementing this treaty, and working to change and improve a situation with which we are not satisfied.
Now, if we are not mistaken, Agenda 2000 is no longer than Amsterdam.
And the extension of the first enlargement to include five countries is measured by the same standard.
But what we have done here is a step in the right direction; a strengthening of the codecision procedure of the European Parliament and the democratic legitimacy of the President of the Commission.
The path to real Europeanization lies along the Commission/Parliament axis and it can make contact with its citizens again through the democratization of the Union.
The questions of the number of commissioners and the weighting of votes on the Council are simultaneously insufficient to resolve the problems of transition to a new enlarged Europe and too much to alter the whole European construction model, without sufficient debate or the express consent of the electors, as though it were being brought in surreptitiously by the back door.
Until the single currency comes in we have time to think about real institutional reform.
Institutional reform could only take that principal place in a framework in which the codecision procedure of the European Parliament also played a part in the revision of the treaties.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we already said last June, the results of Amsterdam are not satisfactory.
Whatever our assessment of the Treaty of Amsterdam, institutional reform is still ahead of us.
Our parliament has said and proclaims this louder now.
Governments have responded.
Europe is on the verge of great challenges which are going to require a strong legal cooperation.
A shared right of initiative between the Member States and the Commission is needed during a transition period.
From the perspective of enlargement, the transition period of five years before a new decision on qualified majority voting can be taken is risky.
Mr President, my congratulations to the rapporteurs for their report.
The Treaty of Amsterdam is very modest and for that we can be glad.
The employment chapter, the anti-discrimination clauses, the new protocol on animal welfare, the UK's opt-in to the social chapter are all of relevance to citizens.
I would like to have seen some reform of articles 38 to 43 on agricultural policy which clearly are extremely outdated.
Mr President, I thank my colleagues for this report, which seems to me a very good one, as it is, in my view, the political expression of what the Parliament as a whole believes.
Firstly, much has been said here about citizens.
It is true that whenever we hold one of these meetings, at least in my political framework, the citizens reject the Treaty of Amsterdam, and reject the Treaty of Maastricht.
I think the question was already settled in July.
The European political project is one of enlargement.
If we do not manage our own reforms first, and achieve democracy and efficiency, we will be faced with enormous difficulties, which will mean that our citizens become even more reticent than they already are with regard to Europe.
Let us allow the citizens to speak out more clearly, and let us give more power to the European Parliament.
Mr President, Commissioner Oreja, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Amsterdam is the European Union's visiting card to introduce it to its citizens.
To achieve this the Treaty on European Union must fulfil three objectives: it must be an effective basis to enable the European Community to meet the challenges of the information society, the knowledge society, which is what the society of the Third Millennium will be; it must give high priority to people; and it must be clear and legible.
The Parliament will show a responsible attitude by adopting a clearly critical but constructive position as regards the results of Amsterdam - as suggested by the rapporteur, who has shown great flexibility in including countless suggestions, and even criticisms, some from within his own group, in the final text.
There can be no institutional reform without a radical change in the method of revising the treaty and, above all, of the intergovernmental rationale which has held sway up to now, and thus without the total involvement of the Parliament and parliaments; that also is obvious.
And, finally, I live in hope of seeing the Council moving closer to the Parliament's position as regards the urgency of establishing a new method for the next revision, and also of seeing a reference to culture in the preamble to the treaty and the addition of a specific article on language policy, in view of the importance of that question to every citizen.
We are always discussing the reforms of the Commission, the number of members in this Parliament, but we never discuss the Council.
On the other hand, the Treaty of Amsterdam is being fought by the main opponents of the European Union, who either do not want a common Europe at all or only want a very loose confederation of states, a superior free trade zone of nation states, who can say no to everything.
The previous method of treaty review is out of date.
If we conduct the next review according to these rules, then it will be successful, and then the next treaty will not only fail to prevent enlargement, but actually promote it.
My final point: Mr President, how are things to proceed from here?
We did nothing for Europe, and I saved my home country.' That is why Parliament, which represents the higher interests, must play a greater role in future.
In this respect I would like to thank the rapporteurs Mr Tsatsos and Mr Méndez de Vigo for their excellent report as a starting point for new reform, which must express more strength and more desire for a common ground.
Mr President, let me first establish that the Amsterdam Treaty is a much better treaty in our view than the Maastricht Treaty.
The Amsterdam Treaty places emphasis on what we in Denmark have called our important issues, but they are also important issues for many others.
However, I would like to say that we have some difficulties with the report on the Amsterdam Treaty on some points.
We think it is very regrettable that people should want to put obstacles in the way of enlargement by demanding that all institutional reforms should be in place before enlargement begins.
The wording in the report sends the wrong signals to the Member States about Denmark's involvement in the Schengen cooperation, and we will therefore have to vote against that.
That is why we will vote in favour of the report in the final vote.
I wish to say that this latest stage of European integration sees the third significant treaty change in over a decade.
A further major advance in this treaty is in the area of a more effective and coherent foreign policy.
This involves streamlining decision-making procedures with a limited provision for qualified majority voting while preserving a national veto whenever vital interests are at stake.
For Irish nationals this is very important, and it is important to realize under this heading that there is no threat here to Irish neutrality.
This week, three important events with a European dimension are taking place: this debate in the European Parliament; the special Employment Summit in Luxembourg; and - a situation which affects Europe, although Europe is not playing a major role in it - the conflict between Iraq and the United States, or Iraq and the United Nations.
Within the capitalist system, Europe was endowed with an economic model based on an indicative plan for private enterprise, a binding plan for the public sector, and provision for social security.
I am now calling for a consensus to establish a European model.
When this model exists, and when Europe defines its position in a world which is no longer bipolar, or under the hegemony of single power, but multipolar, the entire European project will be easier, and the revision of the treaties will be easier.
As far as the technical revision of the treaties is concerned, it is logical for us to focus on our tasks, but we must also call on Europe to maintain its international and socio-economic models, since, otherwise, we shall be engaging in mere formalities.
European reform, European action, the European position must be viewed in relation to the need to enhance Europe's image on the world stage as a socioeconomic and international political model.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, as the institutional debate on the Europe of the euro gradually deepens, we find that Amsterdam could not have been anything other than what it was.
Only when the institutional consequences of monetary unification have been specified will it be possible to outline the overall institutional framework of the European Union, not on account of virtuous automatism of monetary unification, creating political institutions, but the need to finally take into account, with all the information available, what has been the real and disturbing Maastricht revolution, that is the design of a Union that is always a union, but no longer a union of equals but rather a union of different people.
The government of differences is therefore the great challenge faced by the Union for it to remain a Union.
The deepening of the substantial dimension of Union citizenship is basically the most important institutional contribution this treaty could give and has given, as all other aspects have been brought to a compulsory standstill.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place this evening at 5.30 p.m.
As you know, the new transatlantic agenda signed after the summit between the European Union and the United States of America, which was held in Madrid on 3 December 1995, along with the joint European Union - United States action plan, which was associated with it, have given a new focal point and orientation to all aspects of partnership between the European Union and the United States.
The new transatlantic agenda, as our American friends call it, has encouraged both parties to enlarge and intensify their cooperation in many fields of common interest.
Not only do they emphasize the global reinforcement of relations between the European Union and the United States, but they contribute to advancing the implementation of the NTA, and are an opportunity for overall re-examination of the European Union - United States relationship, and for debating specific matters of common interest.
The president of the European Council and myself are awaiting with interest this forthcoming summit, which will take place, as you know, in Washington on 5 December, following the summit between the European Union and Canada, held the day before.
Preparations for this summit are well advanced, and the President of the Commission and the American representatives will meet tomorrow in the top level group established between the European Union and the United States to make an assessment of the current state of implementation of the new transatlantic agenda, and to examine some of the main questions that we face today.
Thirdly, we can also, at least I hope so, officially announce initiatives such as the Transatlantic Information Exchange System, the digital library and transatlantic dialogue on civil society.
As regards the European Union and United States programme in favour of democracy and civil society, announced at the Hague summit, we hope that we can confirm the names of those who will have seats on the judges' college.
In the last two years, we have reached a number of substantial, concrete results.
Hence, in the field of foreign policy, the two parties have reinforced their cooperation on key questions, including the promotion of peace, stability, and reconciliation in the Balkans, in the Middle East and in Central Africa.
The membership of Euratom, on 17 September, in the organization for energy development of the Korean peninsula, alongside the United States, Japan, and South Korea, illustrates our joint willingness to reinforce efforts undertaken in the field of nonproliferation.
As regards the field of humanitarian aid to development, we have improved our coordination in response to the needs of societies torn by war.
We are also collaborating in the promotion of democracy and the reinforcement of civil society.
The European Union and the United States are working together to meet the challenges raised at the global level.
As part of our cooperation in the field of the fight against narcotics, at the Hague summit we signed an agreement on chemical precursors, in order to combat the misappropriation of chemicals for production of illicit drugs.
We are working together in the Caribbean region, and hope to extend our cooperation to the Andes region.
In spite of divergences between the European Union and the United States on the timetable for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, we are reflecting on the ways and means to cooperate at the Kyoto conference on climate change, which is due to be held in December.
Some important results have been achieved, as regards the multilateral agenda on trade and on efforts to create a new transatlantic market.
As part of the WTO, the European Union and the United States have made a common effort to finalize the agreement on information technologies and the agreement on basic telecommunications services, which together will make it possible to liberalize some thousand billion dollars' worth of international trade in goods and services.
Within the framework of the OECD, joint efforts have contributed to the adoption of major decisions in the field of fighting corruption in international commercial transactions.
A fundamental aspect of the NTA is the development of links between peoples.
On the other hand, a transatlantic conference entitled 'Building a bridge across the Atlantic' was held in May in Washington, and brought together experts in civil society, education, youth and culture, in electronic trade and parliamentary links, from both sides of the Atlantic.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the NTA is a dynamic process which the two parties are constantly stimulating into new movement, by continually updating priorities and reviewing new targets.
However, it must be admitted that it is not the solution to all our problems.
The relationship is the most important bilateral economic relationship in the world.
The annual value of trade in goods and services in 1996 exceeded ECU 360 billion.
European companies are the largest investors in 41 United States' states and the second largest in the rest.
One in twelve American factory workers is employed by European firms, and American companies employ three million workers in Europe.
When we agreed two years ago to launch the new transatlantic agenda, both sides saw the importance of having a comprehensive framework in which we could promote our cooperation in the very wide range of fields it covers.
In the new transatlantic agenda we set four main priority areas for cooperation: promoting peace, stability, democracy and development; responding to global challenges; expanding world trade and closer economic relations; and building people-to-people bridges.
And I agree with you which is why I did not ask you to wind up before the 20 minutes - double the time of the Council.
I do not know if everyone sees it like that, especially in the United States of America, or else Helms-Burton or D'Amato might perhaps be viewed differently, and then things might perhaps be viewed differently at McDonnell-Douglas and Boeing, and British Airways and American Airlines, too.
It is not acceptable that Europe should be putting a lot of money in this area, to no avail, because America is exerting too little pressure here to really bring about a peace process through the appropriate attitude of Israel.
One last point in view of the time: fast-track negotiations, talks in the USA, failure and the consequences.
In this sense it is an important assignment to conduct these talks with the United States of America, at this summit and beyond.
However, it is important to stress why this summit in particular has its importance.
It will not be simply through lack of interest but through lack of priority in dealing with the transatlantic relationship that all these issues that we have heard enumerated today could go further down our list of priorities and not get the attention they need in six or twelve months' time.
Attached to this, it is rather evident to us in the political field that all the issues under discussion between the administrations also have their political context.
Increasingly economic issues, whether sanctions or the building up of a new transatlantic market-place, will require this House and the US Congress to be involved in some way, whether in the shaping of regulations or the stimulus of finance or whatever else is necessary to ensure that this new transatlantic agenda is successful.
I would like to ask three questions of the Council and the Commission in terms of this summit meeting.
Firstly, will the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission, when they both go to the summit, ensure there is a long-term perspective built into the summit conclusions so that we know we are working together on both sides of the Atlantic to shape a longer term transatlantic partnership?
Lastly, would the Commissioner like to say a little bit more on the new transatlantic market-place which I know he stressed is an important concept?
Mr President, Commissioner, colleagues, the new transatlantic agenda, agreed in December 1995 in Madrid, underlines and confirms the joint efforts of the European Union and the United States to extend and deepen their relationship.
The liberal group is therefore pleased with the success of the Transatlantic Business Dialogue.
In this framework, many trade barriers have been demolished since November 1995.
On behalf of my group I also call on the Commissioner to implement this Parliament's resolutions on the trade disagreements with the United States.
The EU-USA summit in the Hague was very successful and for the first time emphasized the importance of the relationship between citizens on both sides of the ocean.
In addition, the signing of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation signifies a milestone within the new transatlantic agenda.
I would finally like to ask Commissioner Brittan whether he can advise Parliament on the summit with Canada which will take place on the fourth of December.
There is no doubt that negotiations at the Washington summit or wherever else have to proceed whenever dissent emerges as a substantial obstacle to the transatlantic agenda and dialogue.
Since 11 April there have been seven or eight rounds of negotiation between the European Union and the United States; on the European side naturally some satisfaction has been expressed in that Title IV and the suspension of the United States sanctions have spared some but not all European companies, while, by the way, hitting hard firms outside Europe.
In other words, Helms-Burton is operative.
May we suggest that the time has come to fix a deadline - let us say 31 December - and then go for the only option available, recourse to the WTO panel.
We would like very much to have a clear-cut opinion from the Commission on the matter of a deadline concerning negotiation, on Helms-Burton or, for that matter, the D'Amato Act.
And right at the top of the list of priorities of the two largest economic blocs in the world should not be the kowtowing to company interests, but rather political guidance in the direction of world peace, socially and ecologically sustainable regulation of the global economy, and equal participation of all countries, especially the weaker ones.
The EU should also remind its friends of its homework in Kyoto and Ottawa, where in December the international agreement banning land mines is to be adopted.
Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Commissioner, it goes without saying, and hence I shall not take up further time on this point, that our group is perfectly aware of the extreme importance of the relationships between the European Union and the United States of America, and that we wish for them to be reinforced within the framework of the new transatlantic agenda.
This new balance will clearly require a change in the over-domineering attitude of the Americans.
In truth, in the commercial field, matters are exactly as in the political and foreign policy field.
Success requires uniting our forces, in pursuit of a clearly identified objective, with terms of negotiation jointly agreed and with converging actions of the Member States and the Commission.
Shortfalls in this field, or even the absence of such policies, will have perceptible effects, not only in the field of foreign policy as such, in Yugoslavia, the Middle East, Africa, or elsewhere, but also in the commercial field.
Mr President, transatlantic dialogue will only be truly fruitful and the meeting of 5 December will only be a truly useful stage in this dialogue, if both make moves towards the settlement of a series of major legal and commercial disputes, which today oppose the European Union and the United States of America.
However, it is essential for the European Union to stifle perverse practises such as these at birth, for if not, we risk proliferation in the future.
The path chosen by the Commission at the time of the Uruguay-Round was to make European countries pay a high price, in counterpart to the United States renunciation of unilateral practices.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was not surprised when I heard the Council and the Commission.
But even so, I was astonished not to hear a single word about the asymmetry in the relationships between Europe and the United States at present.
Not a word about the scandalous cartel between Boeing and McDonell-Douglas.
But the result of all that, is that we now have an American superpower, which is colonizing the whole world.
We expected just a little resistance from Europe, in the face of this unilateral process.
Mr President, may I say I welcome Sir Leon's remarks on the WTO.
This debate does raise a very important question of what we feel is a very dangerous emerging democratic deficit in the new global world order which, to some extent, this transatlantic dialogue can offset.
I was moved to make these remarks by Sir Leon's use of the expression 'diversion of attention' when talking of Congress's attitude to Helms-Burton.
Politicians can play an important role as intermediaries, but it is important that non-elected politicians, as you choose to be nowadays Sir Leon, are aware that it is a two-way process.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and Sir Leon Brittan for their report and the insight they have given us.
Good relations between Europe and the United States have provided for freedom, peace, more human rights, stability and prosperity over the last decades.
It is precisely the decision in regard to Helms-Burton, the inability of the American President to push fast-track through in Congress, which shows that things will only work if we can bring this together at a political level that also includes the American Congress.
In this way it can be made clear that the common interest is greater than the individual interests which are asserted at times.
Mr Commissioner, I should first like to thank you for answering a number of questions which could not be answered yesterday for lack of time.
I believe that a superpower like the United States will be far more impressed by sincerity and the vigorous defence of principles - principles, which, as you can see, all the Members of this Parliament are calling on you to uphold.
Mrs González Alvarez, I will make the same comment to you: that your group should take more than a minute.
Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office and Sir Leon Brittan not only for their excellent presentations this afternoon but for the real commitment that has been shown by the Commission and the Council to deepening the relationship with the United States of America.
The fact is that the relationship between Europe and the United States is the most important relationship that exists on this planet.
We have to look at new ways: people-to-people links, education establishments, diplomats, politicians and trade negotiators working more closely to try to make the Congress understand that this relationship between Europe and the United States is so important for our mutual future.
That is why I hope when the transatlantic summit meeting takes place in a few weeks' time, that rather than being just a thin audit of what has gone on in the past it pushes the agenda further forward, in particular on electronic commerce, fighting crime and fighting organized crime and drug trafficking in the third pillar areas.
That is why I hope that in the context of the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, the Committee on External Economic Relations, the delegation for relations with the United States, we will look very carefully over the next month or two months at ways of talking to the Congress, of deepening that relationship, in particular with the new Congressmen and Congresswomen who simply do not have a grasp of the international relations that exist between Europe and the United States.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming summit between the European Union and the United States is perhaps a decisive and definitive opportunity to test whether or not the European Union has its own voice, and whether or not it has institutions whose actions are governed by the will to defend Community political and economic interests.
All this is very sensible.
We need to ensure that we are included in future in all the arrangements you come to and in all forms of agreement you make, including the issue of the transatlantic market-place - and that we are included by means of the codecision procedure.
I think we can come to a sensible form of cooperation in this area too!
There is a general assumption that we want to maintain and improve relationships at all levels in the United States - the administration and the Congress.
I welcome the very full introduction to the debate from Sir Leon Brittan.
There have been some highly controversial competition issues in recent months in our relationship with the United States - Boeing and McDonnell-Douglas being one, Guinness and Grand Met being another, and KPMG and Ernst &amp; Young being potentially another.
Sir Leon mentioned the need for closer cooperation between regulatory authorities but I would respectfully suggest that competition is a rather different matter.
Mr President, relations between the European Union and the United States must be set in the political sphere, but in today's world of globalization, politics are inseparable from economics, and I should therefore like to refer to a number of trade issues.
Mr President, straight away I would like to express my gratitude to all those who actively participated in this debate.
I think we all agree in recognizing that transatlantic dialogue is extremely important, not only out of technical and commercial considerations, but also because the foreign trade and direct foreign investment figures testify to very major economic ties between the European Union and the United States of America.
As regards the results obtained to date, I think it can be said, although there are some areas requiring improvement, that the overall assessment is broadly positive, particularly as transatlantic dialogue got underway some two years ago only.
I think it is perfectly unacceptable, and Europe should say as much loud and clear at the summit.
And since we are talking about critical dialogue, I think that the placing on the agenda of a debate on these two laws provides clear proof that the European Union intends to defend its commercial interests vigorously.
Others have already mentioned partnership between equals.
For my part, I would say that we are perhaps midway between a partnership between equals, and that European monetary union will be a key element in achieving that equality of partnership.
I think that the fears that are now being expressed in certain quarters of the United States - the American Congress and the corporate sector - show that the completion of economic and monetary union is essential for the commercial and economic policies of the European Union at world level.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say a word about our policy as part of the WTO.
If we are able to show the same cohesiveness as for other dossiers, for example, telecommunications services, the meeting at the ministerial level of the WTO on 11 December in Geneva will be a great success for the European Union.
This should prompt us to reflect on how to reinforce or even change procedures in the settlement of disputes.
But I would say that the system currently in force, even if it is not always satisfactory at the multilateral level, is far better suited to the defence of commercial interests than the unilateralism practised earlier by the Americans.
Having said that, this extremely important political dialogue, at the Presidency and Commission level, which takes place every two years, deserves to be pushed on to completion.
On this point, I believe that all those in this House who have pleaded in favour of a more active role in this Parliament in the political dialogue with members of the American Congress are right.
Indeed, I believe that there is a role not only for the Commission, and for the Council, but also for the Parliament.
Mr President, in my speech I specified that the agenda for this summit with the United States made room for discussions on negotiations on peace in the Middle East.
Mr President, I have no time to say more.
I find the Presidency's appearance in this House prior to every summit an interesting idea.
If you are negotiating, it is only worth negotiating if there is any sign of progress.
That is part of the new transatlantic agenda.
Sir Leon, your contribution to this debate has been extremely interesting.
We have accepted 8 motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37, paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
The debate is closed.
Votes Mr President, there were four problems to be solved if the reform of the European Union envisaged by the Maastricht Treaty was to become a reality: the elimination of the constitutional democratic deficit of a Union from above and of a Europe of the intergovernmental conference; the elimination of the institutional deficit of a Union without legal personality, of dualism, the pillar-and-space structure lacking any single competence to act in the matter of peace and legal policy; the elimination of the legal framework deficit in the confusion of Union, Community and international law; and finally the elimination of the paralyzing lack of clarity as to how future integration and enlargement measures should be carried out to finally overcome the East-West divide in Europe.
In view of the failure of the Intergovernmental Conference it is not so vital whether this House recommends accepting the Amsterdam Treaty or not.
Rather, what is central is whether the European Parliament limits itself to being a proud co-mover of partial institutional reforms or whether it finally rouses itself to become the leading voice in a constitutional process, the heart and nerves of the next crucial steps towards integration! (Applause from the Green Group) Mr President, I voted against the report because I did not wish to be party to a utilization of the European Parliament by national parties and national governments, which not only serves to undermine the sovereignty of the European Parliament, but equally the sovereignty of the national parliaments themselves, because these are the bodies that have the decisive word at the moment in the ratification process.
Precisely because this is the case it only works if we say that, in the ratification process for Amsterdam, we need to ensure that the next intergovernmental conference takes place with the European Parliament enjoying codecision.
Europol is a good example of how the protection by law of citizens is in danger when governments are disinclined to give either the European Parliament or national assemblies sufficient powers of democratic supervision.
Mr President, I voted on the resolution on the two reports without any illusions.
Without illusions because of course Amsterdam was a failure, in that we are saying yes to enlargement without yet having the institutional means to achieve that enlargement.
And the paradox of this situation is due to the fact that we are now saying yes to a failure so as to avoid saying no to Europe.
You will see that the debate on ratification of the treaty will turn into a debate opposing those in favour of and those against Europe.
In particular, we know that our constituents would welcome the UK opt-in to the Social Chapter, the provision for Europe-wide legislation against discrimination and the new protocol on animal welfare.
However, we have some reservations about the final report and while we have kept our separate votes to a minimum, nevertheless we have voted against five parts: the first indent of paragraph 8 on border controls; the first indent to paragraph 9 on a common defence policy; the second indent of paragraph 12 extending codecision to fiscal policy; the fourth indent to paragraph 12 giving the Union and the Community a single legal personality; and, the third indent of paragraph 16, restricting unanimity to constitutional areas.
After having indicated the paragraphs on which we have a dissenting view, partly through voting and partly through this explanation of vote, we voted for the report in the final vote.
A survey recently undertaken by the Commission itself across Europe, showed that 8 % of those questioned only were favourable to a European superstate, 40 % were in favour of cooperation without loss of national sovereignty, and 38 % were in favour of cooperation accompanied by jointly pooled competencies in limited fields, and finally 14 % were for strict national independence without cooperation.
People say that the federal construction, once completed, will be more effective than the Europe of the nations.
The Danish Social Democrats have voted yes to the report on the Amsterdam Treaty today.
However, the report on the Amsterdam Treaty is problematical in some areas.
It was therefore necessary to vote against some paragraphs in the report.
In our view it is very regrettable that the European Parliament wants to try to put obstacles in the path of enlargement by demanding that all institutional reforms should be in place before enlargement begins.
It has therefore been necessary for us to vote against these paragraphs.
Denmark participates in Schengen at an intergovernmental level, while both Ireland and the UK are totally outside the cooperation.
The European Parliament is generally regarded as the big winner in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
A large number of the European Parliament's wishes have not been granted, but the majority of this Parliament is sufficiently pragmatic to recommend to Member States that they ratify the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Yet I cannot but interpret the new treaty which extends the powers of the Union in areas such as employment, social affairs, internal security, and defence, and which strengthens communal procedures, as a step in the direction of a European political union.
This ambition has been superseded, in view of the future enlargement of the Union to an even more heterogeneous bond of 20 of maybe even more Member States.
The extension of the powers of the European Parliament is in our view not the best solution to the democratic deficit in European decision-making, after all.
Although the European Parliament fulfils a useful role in some areas, the national parliaments need to remain the main focus to their citizens.
As is the case for all compromises, the Treaty of Amsterdam leaves those who, like myself, are passionately interested in Europe and European construction, and have been for a score or more years, somewhat dissatisfied.
Despite the fact the Alleanza Nazionale has made strong criticisms of the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Conference and later of the final draft of the Treaty of Amsterdam on several occasions, we have decided, owing to a sense of responsibility, to vote in favour of the report drawn up by the Committee on Institutional Affairs, as we have found that some of our negative positions on the treaty and some of our proposals to strengthen the pillars of the foreign and defence policy have proved essential for the Union to become a real political community of European States and peoples.
Our vote in favour is therefore further confirmation of the vocation and political choice of the Italian Right, with the primary objective of creating a real political Europe.
I regret that the resolution presented by the Committee on Institutional Affairs by the Parliament has not taken up the conclusions of the legal committee relating to the re-numbering of the treaty.
The decision to re-number all of the articles in the treaty appears to me to be regrettable in two respects.
Irish voters will have the opportunity to ratify the Amsterdam Treaty in a referendum due to be held in March of next year.
In particular I welcome the progress that has been made in the social area, especially with regard to employment, equal opportunities and anti-discrimination measures.
But the European Parliament, in my view, now has a duty to make its critical assessment in accordance with the positions that it maintained throughout the Intergovernmental Conference.
I am voting against this report, because the Treaty of Amsterdam does not allow for the establishment of a true political pillar providing for the balanced completion of the monetary aspect of European Union.
The Maastricht treaty wagered it would make moves towards a single currency on the basis of rigorous (actually, far too rigorous) economic convergence criteria, but that it would also consolidate political integration by providing for institutional reform for the purposes of improving the efficiency, democratic operations and role of the European Parliament.
The IGC should also make it possible to develop European policy in social and labour relationships, fields which are critical to our peoples.
This situation is all the more serious as our destiny is increasingly conditioned by the decisions taken by an independent European central bank, without there being any government with decision-making powers in the economic field over the major areas of choice affecting economic growth, European competitiveness, and employment.
Hence, Europe is increasingly becoming an extensive financial and economic area which escapes all regulation or democratic control.
While the report proposes further institutional reform, prior to any enlargement, the European Parliament has not moved to a position where it can make this an effective and absolute condition.
We have not achieved a situation where the Parliament can weigh with its influence on the future summit on employment at Luxembourg, and hence, in practice, move social Europe onwards.
While the introduction of a reference to social affairs and employment in the new treaty is positive, the way this is formulated is ambiguous, as the treaty simply makes reference to the coordination of policies of employment, which remain national.
In brief, once again, Europe has postponed political reinforcement, and has left the social question in abeyance, while monetarism and liberal dogma is enforced upon us in the form of constrictive criteria.
The losers are the Council of Ministers and the national parliaments.
Giving the European Parliament a right of assent for treaty amendments must be rejected.
The basis for every society which wants to guarantee people jobs, a good education, a good environment, social justice and solidarity with the people of poor countries, is that its political system is popular and democratically legitimate.
We have voted no to the report.
I wish to state that I have voted in favour of the Vigo report and in favour of the Amsterdam Treaty.
What is most regrettable, Mr President, is that we must go through the whole process of ratification for what is a very small measure of progress.
It will be difficult in Ireland, where a referendum is required, to generate enthusiasm for the Amsterdam Treaty.
It means that if we enlarge the Community then from that day on not only present Member States can prevent important decisions but even Slovenia or Estonia will be able to apply a veto and block important decisions in a whole range of Community policies.
The bigger the number of states the greater the danger of a crisis occurring.
It is important that 70 % of all legislation will be by codecision between Parliament and the Council.
All Member States have accepted the creation of a political union in ratifying the existing treaties, and that political union cannot be complete without the development of common defence arrangements.
That is why I believe that I am representing the view of the vast majority of Irish people when I say I support the common defence policies because I believe that it is not the will of the Irish people that they should have all the benefits of membership while refusing to accept responsibility for security and defence.
But I also agree with the Committee that at the meeting of the European Council in Amsterdam people should have gone further in their endeavours to reach agreement on reforms of the EU's institutions which are essential if the enlargement with the countries of central and eastern europe is to have a satisfactory outcome.
I am therefore voting yes to the report, even though I am opposed to the report's proposal to make the European Parliament's ratification of future treaty amendments obligatory, as well as being an opponent of any attempt to change the principle that the governments of the Member States adopt amendments to the EU Treaty by unanimity.
Treaty of Amsterdam, Amendment No 13: Text does not conform to the principle of Austrian neutrality.
There are four such criteria.
Bypassing national democracy, basing itself on individuals, against the peoples and Member States.
Systematic communitarization in all fields, which itself raises so many obstacles on the path of the necessary enlargement.
In spite of the fact that the European Parliament has institutionally guaranteed right of participation, nor any power of ratification, it is called on to give its opinion on what they call the Treaty of Amsterdam.
This treaty, which President Juncker said it would be difficult to ratify, and which Jacques Delors did not correct the Maastricht errors enough, has in just a short space of time become a good treaty, one acceptable to all.
When you remember that for more than two years, preparations for the intergovernmental conference in all European countries mobilized the best minds in the governments, parliaments, political parties, and other organizations, we are forced now to the conclusion that all these proposals and reactions have been a waste of time.
How can we explain to our citizens that those with the most influence, in other words, our Heads of State and of Government, were able to get together on matters as important as the introduction of the euro and enlargement, but were unable to do so on themes regarded as rather minor, such as the composition of the Commission prior to the first wave of new members, or the weighting of votes in the Council of Ministers, or again, the use of majority voting.
The bets laid on the future of Europe have only partially paid off, and in spite of all that, we've said yes to a treaty which does ducks the reforms essential to the proper operation of an enlarged European Union.
With the greatest respect to our Heads of State, and to our ministers, I must say that I have difficulties accepting an agreement which leaves open practically all the questions essential to the proper functioning of European institutions, an agreement which does not say how the re-casting of regional aid and the new agricultural policy will actually take place.
I also believe that the Treaty of Amsterdam might have helped public opinion better understand how Europe was to be built, and bring it closer to the construction of a Europe of citizens.
If, after all these criticisms, I am still prepared to vote in favour of this treaty, it is because the treaty confers a little bit more power on the European Parliament, thanks to which it will better play its role as a driving force in European construction.
Despite the well-known improvements achieved by the Treaty of Amsterdam in the promotion of equality between women and men in Community assignments, and with the recognition of the importance of mainstreaming and active equal opportunities policies in all Community actions, through the amendment of article 3, I find it regrettable that article 118 places the European Parliament in a weaker position - as regards the fields of social security and the social protection of workers - than that of article 119 and that it makes it difficult to take decisions in favour of women because it demands unanimity on the Council.
I consider that the enlarged role given to the Parliament in the process of adopting measures under article 119, and also the re-wording of article 119 to provide means of positive action, are encouraging.
I therefore find it regrettable that none of the articles in Part III of the treaty explicitly defines measures designed to establish equality of rights between men and women in all aspects of life in principle and reality, and recommend that the Union be given a mandate next time the treaty is revised to carry out an express survey of all the fields in which sexual discrimination exists and follow up the political green light which has already been given in the present draft treaty, with regard to equality of opportunities and mainstreaming.
Finally, I consider that before the next revision of the treaty the following points need to be developed: article 119 should be extended in such a way as to provide a legal basis for equality between men and women which clearly goes beyond the field of employment; -article 6-A should be re-worded to give direct effect to the prohibition of sex-based discrimination, or at least to give the Parliament a greater role in determining the measures to be taken pursuant to that article; -the implications of including equality between women and men in articles 2 and 3 should be clarified from the legal point of view.
I voted against the resolution on the Treaty of Amsterdam, as I agree with it to a large extent.
Unlike the majority in this Parliament I take the criticism of the treaty seriously.
The most important part of the treaty review, preparing the Union for enlargement, was likewise not achieved.
The least the European Parliament could have done, was to defer its judgment on Amsterdam, and to put the government leaders under pressure to force them to adopt a new treaty review before the millennium, at the summit on enlargement in December.
Yes, we will obtain more power in the main pillar.
The idea of parliamentary control on foreign policy has perhaps been buried for good.
Neither the European Parliament nor the national parliaments look like they might have a grip on what will be concocted in the Council's fortress in Brussels.
With the Amsterdam Treaty the EU is taking a big step in the direction of federalism.
The report from the Committee on Institutional Affairs contains little that is new and, in my opinion, is of little value.
Question Time (Council) The next item is Question Time to the Council (B4-0901/97).
Faced with the situation in Algeria, words fail us.
It encourages those authorities to make the Algerian political process as open and as far reaching as possible.
Algeria is an important partner of the Union.
The Union is ready to continue its cooperation with Algeria.
The Council's concern is to avoid any gesture such as might compromise the objective pursued, which is to create a climate of confidence favourable to the re-establishment of internal peace and the institution of democracy, while ensuring consistency of action within the European Union.
We believe that, rather than fixing our position in a political declaration, it would be more effective to undertake direct and discreet dialogue with the Algerian authorities.
It is in this spirit that the first meeting between the presidency and the Algerian Minister of Foreign Affairs will take place in Luxembourg on Wednesday, 26 November, and - if I am rightly informed - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Algeria will come to testify for the European Parliament.
I believe that despite the difficulties, it is possible to take forward the peace process in Algeria.
And when we tackle this immediate objective, we shall realize that the peace process is inseparable from the fight against corruption.
I would like to briefly recall, Mr President, what was said in this House during the September session, as to the role which should also be played by the European Parliament when seeking a peaceful solution to the situation in Algeria.
Thank you, Mr Wohlfart, but allow me to detain you within the scope of this question, as I have received two requests to put supplementaries.
I would like to ask the following question of the representative of the Council: do you really believe it is possible to reach honest democratization by eliminating those who represent the majority of the people?
On behalf of the Council, I would first of all like to join in with the Presidency in congratulating the honourable Member who wears his age so well and, as I remember the hours of questions which we were involved in together, late into the night, some six years ago, I must say that the honourable Member has lost absolutely nothing of his verve.
In the second instance, I fully understand your sympathy for the two neighbouring countries of Tunisia and Morocco, especially as we already answered a similar question, among others that you raised some months ago.
You wish to prompt those two countries into giving a good example, as they are already doing.
It is also known that the Algerian government has actively opposed attempts by international organizations to enter the country and investigate the facts.
Poos, our Minister of Foreign Affairs, is with regard to this dossier, I can guarantee that this aspect of things will certainly be raised at the meeting with the Algerian Minister of Foreign Affairs.
In this context, the elimination, recycling, or re-use of radioactive substances or matter containing radioactive substances require prior authorization.
Furthermore, the directive contains no provisions requiring mixing radioactive waste with other waste to bring down the levels of radioactivity to comply with standards.
As regards the circulation of radioactive waste, the Council would like to remind this House that directive 92/3 Euratom relating to the oversight and control of the transfer of radioactive waste between Member States, and on entry to and exit from the Community, lays down a strict monitoring regime.
Transfers between Member States can only take place on the basis of prior approval of the competent authorities in the recipient Member State.
In more general terms, the Council specified in the resolution adopted on 19 December 1994 relating to radioactive waste management, that it believed that it was the responsibility of every Member State to see to it that radioactive waste produced on its territory was managed in an appropriate fashion.
I hope it will be possible to convey that answer to those in my country who are concerned that shipments of radioactive waste are going to increase.
I believe that my interpretation of this is correct, but if it is the case that this is also wrong and that the Council is right, I would also be pleased to convey that message to my country, Sweden.
I would also say that this was the principle which was very vigorously defended by Sweden at the time of its membership negotiations, because it wanted to avoid pollution of its territory with nuclear waste.
In this context it is worthwhile remembering that Sweden on the one hand, and the Community on the other hand, made a request to annex to the final membership agreement the following declaration: as regards the terminal portion in the cycle of nuclear fuel, it is the responsibility of each Member State to define its own policy.
I have two supplementary questions.
As regards the first part of the question, I have no further information.
Question No 3 by Patricia McKenna (H-0787/97) Subject: Mass arrests at the Amsterdam Summit A recent report from the Coalition for a Different Europe estimates that at least 700 peaceful demonstrators were arrested during the Amsterdam Summit in June.
Civil liberties groups throughout the EU have criticized the Dutch Police authorities for sanctioning the mass arrests of demonstrators.
The Council has never discussed the problem raised by the honourable Member in her question.
Regarding the Minister's response, it is quite clear that the Council is playing a role here, in that it is agreeing on the Europol Convention.
Member States throughout the European Union are seeking agreement on policing throughout Europe and the Europol Convention.
Furthermore, when making reference to Europol, in my opinion we are speaking about several things.
But I would like also to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that if reference is made to Europol, we should not lose sight of the fact that, as things now stand, ratification took place yesterday, for two Member States only.
This right will be respected.
On our side, we are going to make the necessary arrangements to ensure that this demonstration can take place in a calm and dignified manner.
Question No 4 by Per Gahrton (H-0794/97) Subject: Strategy for relations with China The visit to the USA by President Jiang Zemin of China raises the question of the West's future strategy for its relations with the world's most populous country.
All countries in the European Union share the determination and objective of achieving a significant improvement in human rights in China.
The question of human rights is on the agenda of the regular meetings between the European Union and China.
Dialogue on the human rights between the European Union and China was first launched, I remind you, in 1994.
Before the Luxembourg presidency, two meetings took place at the beginning of 1995 and at the beginning of 1996.
Under our presidency, the first meeting took place at the end of October in Luxembourg, and the second meeting was scheduled for the beginning of December in Peking.
This dialogue will enable us to examine all questions of interest to the two parties.
Mr President, in this context, I must point out that China announced that it had signed the international pact on economic, social and cultural rights, and that work leading up to the signature of the international pact relating to civil rights and politics is continuing.
The case of Mr Wei Jingsheng had been regularly raised by the European Union, and recently in Luxembourg itself.
The strategy which the European Union may well adopt is one of continuous dialogue at all levels, a dialogue which will make it possible to progress on a step by step basis.
I think this is a policy which will for some years still give us somewhat less than we have a right to expect.
But I persist in believing - and I say this as a personal view - that the comments made by the President in the United States are still of interest, as there is a degree of openness.
We should perhaps let a little time go by, as you know, in Asia, patience is a great art.
But as the European Union already has a number of special envoys in place to defend the position of the European Union as a negotiator or mediator in various parts of the world and, given the political, economic, and cultural importance of a country such as China, but also the interest that we all have in the promotion of human rights and democratization, I believe that the suggestion merits our support, and at all events, I intend to present it at the time of a forthcoming General Affairs Council.
Sweden is one of the few practically salmonella-free countries in Europe.
The Council, for its part, has taken all the measures possible in this respect, and I would like to refer you to the directives which are currently in force.
This in my opinion should be of the utmost priority, alongside other rules whose purpose is to avoid the introduction into intracommunity trade of items adversely affecting the rules governing the internal market.
Mr Wohlfart, Mr Cars, you are establishing a dialogue outside the framework of the Rules.
I am extremely flexible in the Chair, but I would ask you to allow me to conduct the sitting so that I can at least justify the emolument that I receive for being here.
If I understood the reasons for this question, the countries are known, and I would say that if you had a suspicion, I think that controls at point of destination, by sampling, are always possible.
The question of controls and subsequent protection of the consumer, and in this case protection of human life, is part of the Commission's remit.
I said that if the authorities of a member country, in this case Sweden, had a suspicion, in this instance, they could set up controls.
Trust me, I fully understand the scale of the problem raised here, because by the number of supplementary questions, I can see that it is a matter of grave concern in your countries.
If the Commission, which gave an undertaking to carry out its homework on this, during the health council which was held in September this year, draws conclusions which are quite possibly those which you are coming to now, I believe it is the Commission's duty to accept its responsibilities, and out of concern for consumer health, to propose to the Council adequate and effective protection measures.
First, the Council is fully conscious of the untoward consequences that road barricades had in France in 1996 on the free circulation of goods and persons in Europe.
The Council remains convinced that, now as then, negotiation is the best way to cope with these and similar situations.
I would also like to point out to the honourable Member that the Council took note of the actions undertaken by the Commission, which had responsibility for overseeing respect for free circulation within the single market, in regard to the French authorities and the authorities of the other Member States, for the purposes of facilitating a resolution of the conflict, of mitigating the effects of the barriers, and finally accelerating procedures for compensation for damage, if any, suffered.
I am glad that the President-in-Office understands the great hardship this has caused a number of companies.
Firstly, I would like to say that with a view to a solution to this strike, the COREPER at its meeting of 5 November last, looked at the possibility of calling an extraordinary Transport Council.
Fortunately the tripartite negotiations in France made it possible to solve the problem, out in the field.
But the questions which have been raised by earlier road blocks, involving the need to guarantee transit corridors and accelerate compensation procedures, have already been raised at the Council of Ministers of Transport, and in the General Affairs Council.
The conclusion is that we must establish that the Member State in question is responsible by means of Community law.
We are fully aware of the problem, of the fact that in my opinion there is not only a problem of free circulation, but also a number of connected problems of compensation and other issues.
I think it is now down to the Commission to draw the consequences of this failure to comply with free circulation and its untoward effects, because in fact, the owner of the premises, in my view and in this instance, is the Commission itself.
The Council resolution of 20 June 1995 on minimum guarantees for asylum procedures lists in detail the guaranteed rights which apply to the processing of asylum requests.
As regards the rights of asylum seekers in matters of appeals and reassessments, reference should be made to paragraph 4 of the resolution, which deals with reassessments.
First, it is specified in paragraph 8, in the event of a negative decision against the asylum seeker, there should be a possible appeal to a tribunal or an appraisal organization which will make an independent decision on individual cases.
I would also like to refer to paragraphs 15 and 16 of this same resolution which deals with the information given to the applicant regarding the decision, the reasons for the rejection, the possibility of reassessment of the decision and the deadlines applicable, and finally the availability of time to make an appeal.
As regards paragraph 17, this paragraph lays down general principles allowing the applicant to stay in the territory so long as no decision has been taken regarding appeal and allowing the asylum seeker to make an appeal to the independent organizations mentioned in paragraph 8, and then be granted authorization, due to the special circumstances of his or her case, for temporary residence on the territory of a Member State, when the legislation of that state authorizes an exception to the general principle.
With regard to manifestly groundless requests for asylum, I refer to paragraph 19 of the resolution which specifies that the Member States may, by derogation to the principle stated in paragraph 8, deny the right of appeal against the rejection of an application if, on a prior basis, instead of and in lieu of such procedure, an independent organization distinct from the authority examining the case, has confirmed the decision for rejection of the application..
Finally, with regard to requests for asylum made at borders, I would refer you to paragraphs 23 and 24 of the resolution which guarantees that, first, any asylum seeker arriving at a border has the possibility of lodging an application for asylum, and that if a special procedure is applied for the purposes of undertaking an examination before the decision relating to entry, if the application is manifestly without foundation, no measure for deportation should be taken while the special procedure is underway, and finally that, if entry is refused and there is a derogation to the general principle of the suspensory effect of the appeals procedure, there must be a guarantee that the decision for refusal of entry is taken by a minister or by a comparable central authority, and that sufficient additional safeguard measures, such as the prior examination by another central authority, should provide an assurance that the decision taken is a just one.
The Schengen cooperation involves a more restrictive asylum policy for Sweden, which means more applicants are going to get a negative answer and be refused.
Therefore it is important for us to have certain fundamental rights truly guaranteed.
In fact, I see no objection to providing supplementary information to the honourable Member in writing.
I would simply add some words, as Schengen has been mentioned.
On 4 November, the political committee recommended that the question of kidnapping of children should be put on the agenda for political dialogue with the 27 countries concerned.
On 31 October, seven Mauritanian nationals were arrested at the Bamako airport in Mauritania, when they were attempting to embark on a flight to the United Arab Emirates with nine children aged less than five years.
The international combat against trafficking in children is conducted by the United Nations, who have designated a special rapporteur on the question of the sale of children.
I would also like, in this context, to point out that every year the European Union actively participates in drafting a United Nations resolution condemning trafficking in children and child labour, and calls on Member States to put an end to such practices.
Finally, the European Union has made a commitment in favour of democracy and the protection of human rights.
Indeed, article 5 of the first Lomé Convention explicitly states that the policies of the European Union in the field of cooperation and development are closely bound up with the respect for and the exercise of fundamental human rights and liberties.
As signatories of Lomé IV, all countries cited by the honourable Member have declared their profound attachment to human dignity and human rights.
The labour camp in Lagos that I mention in the question was actually known by local residents as a slave dump or children market.
A report by Anti-Slavery International found that 95 % of the child domestics were girls.
Although we have article 5 in the Lomé Convention, what will you do specifically to enact it in response to the countries that I have referred to in the question?
I believe that she has the necessary authority to ensure that the voice of the United Nations is heard, and to remind the signatory countries of the various international conventions on human rights of their responsibilities, which I would say are elementary.
Furthermore, as regards signatory countries of the Lomé Convention, it is on the one hand absolutely necessary for the European Union as such to denounce these occurrences most vigorously, and that it should say so to the relevant Member States who are signatories to the Lomé Convention.
I shall nevertheless be free, during the Development Council which will be held a week on Friday in Brussels, under questions relating to the humanitarian situation in the Great Lakes region, to add an extra point to our discussions on child labour, which you have described in terms which cannot but make us profoundly sad.
However, my question is addressed to the Council, which I consider should be in a position to inform the European Parliament on the reception suffered by this recommendation at the hands of the Member States and on the progress of this recommendation.
I must limit my assessment to the specific case of Luxembourg, because I know the interest that was raised by this initiative and by the recommendation of the Council, on 10 December last.
Our government is conscious of the importance of the subject, given that, at the time of ministerial reshuffling, two years ago, we included as one of our political priorities the promotion of the role of women in Luxembourg society, by setting up a ministry for the advancement of women.
As regards other countries, political consciousness is increasingly being awakened, and advances are being made.
As the time allotted to Question Time to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 11 to 23 will receive written answers.
As the rapporteur to the European Parliament on this matter I really appreciate this.
With the action plan for the single market as proposed in Amsterdam the Commission intends to make a decisive improvement in the way the European single market operates by 1 January 1999.
Please excuse the terminology - the Commissioner would probably call it the single market - but I believe the thing that matters is the content of what we are talking about.
The way towards this European national market is being completed in three stages.
The first stage was the creation of the customs union in 1968, the main feature of which was the common external customs tariff.
We envisage that the third and final stage - the creation of the European national market - will be achieved by July 2002, when the euro will be the sole legal tender in almost all the member countries of the European Union.
A whole series of barriers is still preventing the four basic freedoms from actually being achieved.
I know that - at least in a few member countries - this will not be an easy decision to take in political terms.
Another task is the move from the current, wholly inadequate transitional system to a definitive value added tax system which must be based on the country-of-origin principle.
They require special attention to ensure that they are able to make their contribution to job creation.
The main focus in the telecommunications sector must be satellite communications and I am of the opinion that we in the European Parliament ought to draw our own conclusions from this in terms of the budget.
An essential instrument of industrial policy is the standardization of technical barriers to trade which are still impeding the free movement of goods.
The procedure for referring to technical standards must therefore be applied in a consistent manner and the standardization process must be tightened up and improved.
However, the move towards a single currency also calls for a common economic policy which should be formed in accordance with the guiding principle of any socially and environmentally-oriented market economy.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has examined this report and has given a highly favourable opinion on the work carried out, both by the Committee and by the rapporteur, whom I congratulate.
This also confirms the request made to the Commission on 11 December last year within the scope of the resolution on the Commission's programme of work for 1997, to take a decision whereby the Executive undertakes to apply to the Court of Justice for pecuniary sanctions to be imposed if a Member State has not taken the measures connected with the application of a Court judgment within a year, particularly in the sectors relating to the domestic market and the environment.
The Committee on Legal Affairs is also asking the Commission and the Council and Member States to eliminate once and for all, in accordance with the provisions of the treaty, the frontier controls that are still obstructing the freedom of movement of persons and also reinforce all the measures permitting a larger number of European citizens to make use of the freedom of movement.
Finally, it confirmed how the objects of a better environmental protection and a braver consumer protection require a more marked action at Community level, as established in the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the Commission's communication relating to the impact and efficacy of the single market.
With these comments, the Committee on Legal Affairs expresses a favourable opinion on this action plan for the domestic market.
And so I congratulate both Commissioner Monti and the rapporteur, Mr von Wogau.
The internal market, ladies and gentlemen, does not exist in all areas yet, and that costs European business, large and small, year after year, a great deal of money.
In particular the absence of an internal market for energy in which the right of free choice for business and the consumer is respected in the power and gas sector, is a significant obstacle.
The last point I would like to draw to your attention is the importance of a European market for information services.
The European Union will only be able to derive full benefit from the development in the worldwide electronics trade if this is based on multilateral instead of bilateral agreements.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a supporter of a free market economy it is a rare pleasure for me to present the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for my colleague and committed supporter of social policy Thomas Mann.
In the opinion of the committee, the Commission has a key role to play in creating the social policy to develop a forward-looking economic and social community as a model for improving the European single market.
The more clearly social aspects are built into it, the less room there is for doubt as to whether the model of success for the social market economy can actually be implemented at European level.
However, it also believes that a minimum of universal services must be maintained and that each round of job cuts should be cushioned with job-creating measures to make it socially acceptable.
In preparing my statement on the report on single markets for the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs I particularly stressed the importance of exploiting technology in border control and the relay of information in order to increase the effectiveness of the single market being, as it were, invisibly monitored.
But despite the intention in the Delors White Paper it is obvious that in reality no shift from tax on labour to other sources is taking place; quite the reverse.
The Commission's recommendation in this direction must indeed be supported, as the von Wogau report states.
After all, the fact that it does not operate very well yet, does not yet function as a true domestic market, is one of the major reasons why the European business community is lagging behind in its competitive position, and why economic growth in Europe is too slow.
Of course, a great deal needs to happen at European level.
But I would also like to ask the Member States to pay attention to this problem.
In addition to necessary new regulation, the Commission should concentrate on the improvement of the implementation, enforcement and simplification of European regulation.
The Commission and Member States will have to agree a new time schedule.
I know that the Commissioner aims to have this ready in 1999, but I think that is a bit of a fantasy when considering the fiscal dossier.
If we do not succeed in completing the internal market, further integration will automatically fail to materialize.
Mr President, I wish to congratulate Karl von Wogau on his report.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party supports him in his conclusions and, indeed, feels that he has carried out a very comprehensive assessment of the problems with the single market and the challenges which face us.
Indeed, they have even passed measures which detract from the acquis of the single market.
It seems sometimes that the Commission lacks the courage of its convictions and its powers as guardian of the treaties to pursue cases of non-compliance with sufficient determination.
However, compliance with transitional VAT and Intrastat systems is costly.
The UK Government claims that this is a distance-selling transaction, like the man-in-black case.
Mr President, it is an indisputable fact that from 1993 to the Amsterdam summit last June, the construction of the single market has indeed made great strides.
This same philosophy is expressed in the report under debate, which pinpoints the immediate and specific objectives on which, according to the rapporteur, the action programme should concentrate its attention.
However, the issue which does not preoccupy the European Council, the European Commission nor the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy at all is the account of the consequences of the single market on the working people and citizens in the peripheral and weaker countries of the Union and on the economies of these countries.
If such a basic report existed, before moving to adopt a policy to speed up the further development of the internal market, we would discover that the single market and the economic policy that accompanies it are responsible to a very large extent for the tragic position to which the more than 20 million unemployed, the 21 million people with part-time work, the 14 million citizens of Europe who work with short-term contracts, the 10 million and more who do some form of atypical work, are reduced to.
Mr President, I very much fear that the insistence on speeding up this policy, the promotion of certain recommendations such as the acceleration of economic and monetary union, the strict adherence to the stability pact, the transfer of funding sources for social protection from work to taxes on the environment and energy, the application of VAT in the country of origin, will worsen the already well-known consequences of the single market and will add tens of millions of people to the ranks of the unemployed.
I hope we will be able to offer the Commissioner our support for this to be ended according to schedule.
We nevertheless wish to emphasize here the urgency of a more determined momentum in one of the fields raised by the action plan, that of taxation.
In either case, the Commission would do well in our view to study such a common approach for the reallocation of taxation powers among the Member States, so ensuring that there is complete tax neutrality in the field of trans-border investments.
The Commission, furthermore, insisted on the need to achieve a common system of VAT, based on the principle of goods of origin.
We can but agree with this objective, but we have to note that this is nothing new, and that the mention of the 2002 deadline is an admission, if not of failure, at least of substantial delay with regard to the initial timetable.
The programme is placed in the context of globalization of the economy, the eastward enlargement of the European Union and the fight against unemployment.
The strength of this proposal is at the same time its weakness.
I advocate that the programme focuses above all on the first action point: an improvement in regulation, fewer laws, transparent procedures and more effective enforcement.
Mr President, it is absolutely essential to dismantle swiftly the many and varied barriers to a properly functioning single market which still remain.
However, I cannot subscribe to the opinion expressed in Section 12 - although it is outside the scope of the report, it is mentioned in it - that the single currency is an essential part of the European national market.
When monetary union takes place on 1 January 1999, there will still be many areas, clearly illustrated in this report, where the single market will not have matured into a national market.
I am rather of the opinion that to ensure a stable and healthy monetary union essential elements of the national market should be implemented before it begins and that the monetary union represents the culmination of the single market.
I am thinking in particular of taxation, standards and the underlying social and environmental situation.
Mr President, the Delors 1992 programme for the single market was an inspiration for all Europe to embark upon Europe's big idea to get its people back to work.
Commissioner Monti's recent analysis of the market provides evidence that the single market is working.
Up to 900, 000 new jobs in the European Union are attributable to the functioning of the single European market.
And now the Commission's action plan suggests how we can finish the job and move into the 'super league' of job creation.
It is not quite true to say, as recital (c) of the von Wogau report suggests, that Europe's single market remains a jigsaw of 15 separate national markets.
Reinforcing such revolutionary transborder investment in the TENs is to secure the principle of a comprehensive and universal service concept in respect of Europe's public services.
Simplifying and clarifying the legislative framework should also be our holy grail, provided that such pruning exposes even better the underlying principles of strengthening the productive social and environmental framework in which Europe's businesses can thrive and prosper.
Delivering a single market for the benefit of all citizens is an excellent chapter in the action plan.
Europe's 120 million children must be particularly protected when the four freedoms of movement - people, goods, capital and services - range across Europe, for they are the inheritors of this market which, fashioned to the needs of all our citizens, will carry Europe dynamic, prosperous and 'job-full' into the realms of the next century.
Mr President, the final stage for the completion of a European single market relates to the introduction of economic and monetary union within the European Union.
Notwithstanding the fact that Britain will not be joining a single European currency at the first stage the benefits of economic and monetary union for Ireland far outweigh any negatives.
The principal benefit of a single European currency for Ireland is the prospect of a lower trend in interest rates.
Indeed, in Ireland recently we have created 130, 000 jobs by our participation in the European activity.
A study carried out in Ireland recently came out with the fact that the impact of EMU on tourism, retailing, agriculture, manufacturing industry and financial services was excellent.
It concluded that EMU participation by Ireland would yield a net benefit for the Irish economy in these sectors.
However at present Ireland meets all the convergence criteria laid down in the Maastricht Treaty, full qualification for EMU in terms of inflation and general government deficit etc.
The Irish people have nothing to fear from joining up to the euro on 1 January 1999.
Mr President, colleagues, I also support the action programme for the internal market and the von Wogau report.
I would like to use my one minute, Mr Commissioner, to raise one point, which I know is close to both our hearts, and that is the issue of pensions and supplementary pensions in Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, because of the Green Paper I am not convinces that this matter arising will be sorted out satisfactorily in this House, as we are still seeing some resistance to any liberalization on this point, particularly on the part the socialists.
I think that there is a job for this Parliament, to implement the internal market in this area, too.
The second comment I would like to make is that the single market may be generally advantageous for the European Union, but is not of equal advantage for all countries or for all regions of the European Union.
As a result, from the moment we apply a programme until 2002, we must at the same time adhere to the programme of cohesion and support for the less developed regions of the European Union until 2002 and not have hesitations and back-tracking in that area.
The third point I would like to stress is that the single market means the abolition of internal borders, but it also means the strengthening of the external borders of the European Union and I very much fear that such a charting of these borders does not exist bearing in mind the various problems that arise, at least in the eastern sector.
As a result, a single market must move forward in parallel with the resolution of the political problems of the European Union.
In conclusion, like the rapporteur, I agree with the completion of the great market and the single currency, and I want to emphasize that they are, in my view, an absolutely necessarily complement to a political Europe, a Europe endowed with solid institutions, a social Europe, a Europe resolutely combating unemployment, laisser-aller, speculative relocation of companies offshore, a Europe in favour of sustainable growth and of public services for the common good.
Without these urgent complements, the great market, no matter how necessary, will not extract our Europe from unemployment or deep anxiety of our citizens.
Might I ask the Commissioner whether there will not be a Cecchini Report, because having some quantified targets always provides a measure of motivation?
Because, with the single currency, I am afraid that any difference in taxation will cause distortions in the market which might penalize the objective to be attained.
I entirely agree: it is impossible to prevent distortions in competition with tax havens inside the European Union itself.
Mr President, it has been said this evening that the single market needs new impetus.
The action plan proves it: it is a specific instrument which, unlike the Cecchini plan, does not propose quantitative objectives on final results but, more pragmatically, more incisively, objectives of timing on the implementation of means of actually establishing the single market - this is the very specific inspiration of the action plan - a single market which, as everyone has stressed, is an important condition for growth, employment and the proper functioning of economic and monetary union.
Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity of this discussion on the von Wogau report to outline briefly this evening the steps taken forward so far, which the Commission will report to the European Council next month.
You are aware that the action plan involves four strategic objectives, the first being the effective application of the Community regulations.
I am pleased to say that the action plan is proving that it works: in fact, it established several deadlines, such as 1 October for the Member States to draw up a schedule for the transposition of Directives not yet transposed and a specific indication of the designated coordination centres, contact points, things that are apparently obscure but essential for the single market to work.
Somebody nicknamed this device a "scareboard' , overdoing it in my opinion, but I think it has a certain effectiveness.
As we want to be ambitious in specific measures, not ambitious in the large number of objectives, we took another step towards the single market yesterday, when the Commission adopted a draft regulation, based on article 235 of the treaty which, if approved by the Council, and I hope that Parliament will not fail to support it, will provide the Commission with a clear means of facing the serious obstacles to the freedom of movement of goods.
A similar mechanism will be applied to that used with regard to state aid, that is, a decision that will enable the Commission to direct an executive decision at the Member States in the space of a few days, in the event of actions or inactions resulting in obstacles to freedom of movement, a decision that will constitute a document of execution, on whose basis injured parties will be able to see the national courts recognize the right to compensation for losses sustained by the Member State responsible.
Here too, we are trying to construct the specific means of establishing that policy, just as we did in March this year, with the draft directive for the Community framework on the taxation of energy; just as we have been doing in recent weeks with the package against harmful tax competition, and with this logical package we hope, for the first time in the history of European integration, but I do not know whether we will succeed, to interest different States in making developments, thus overcoming the main difficulty deriving from the rule of unanimity.
Believe me, it is very easy to list objectives, but it is very difficult, in a political context you are familiar with, to achieve them: we are working precisely on the means of achieving these objectives.
One important objective is that of the common VAT system, which some of you pointed out.
I will conclude on taxation by saying, Mr Theonas and Mr Castagnède, that I too am convinced that, if we manage to make a clear possibility for taxation in Europe, we will establish an absolutely essential condition for having a European social model and a European economic and not just a monetary policy.
Discussion with the citizens, Mr Florio, is certainly, by definition, always insufficient; however, the "Citizens of Europe' Citizens First operation, conducted with the support of this Parliament, is perhaps the first major specific experiment: as you know, over a million citizens have made contact with this operation, by telephone and via the Internet.
Mr President, this subject is very important and felt by all a great deal.
It is very encouraging, for the Commission and for me personally, to hear how the European Parliament is maintaining and encouraging our action in a field in which we can never be entirely satisfied.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow 12 noon.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we have just been discussing, since 1987 the single market has been one of the basic elements of European integration.
In the construction sector this matter was dealt with in the constructionproducts directive of 21 December 1988.
Unlike other sectors of industry and other product groups, trade in many construction products and construction projects is only sensible and economically viable over short and medium distances owing to the high transport costs involved.
This means that according to this directive Member States may only permit those products the use of which enables the main requirements of the directive concerning the construction work to be adhered to.
Harmonization in the construction industry is therefore necessary because it will ease the mobility of professionals, tradesmen and building contractors, making it possible for them to undertake projects in other Member States.
We have just been discussing the single market.
With an annual turnover of almost ECU 700 billion and a 10 % share of the European Union's gross national product, the construction industry employs a total of 27 million people either directly or indirectly - 13 million directly and 14 million indirectly - in Europe.
All of this takes place in small and medium-sized enterprises, 1.8 million enterprises in all, of which 97 % employ fewer than 20 workers.
The main responsibility for the laggardly implementation of the construction-products directive does not lie with the Commission, and I should like to make this clear, but first and foremost with the Member States who thus far have not shown sufficient willingness to compromise and have wanted to implement their own regulations to an excessive degree.
By mid-1997, 8 years after the directive was adopted, specifications had been laid down and standardization mandates worked out for only 17 product families.
Now three levels are required, as mentioned in the report.
I wholeheartedly endorse the Commission's stance in this regard.
However, it will be necessary not only to observe the development but actively to shape it.
It is not necessarily the Commission's fault but what we are clearly saying to the Commission here tonight - and again in the vote tomorrow - is that it has our support to push the Member States to make progress, because it is simply not acceptable that this directive has been in force for the best part of ten years and nothing has really been achieved.
An example is a brick manufacturer in my area which makes, surprise, surprise, an awful lot of bricks and wants to sell them freely around the European marketplace, but finds that instead of having one set of red tape to understand and one set of standards to come to terms with it has 13, 14, 15 different sets of standards to apply before it can sell its products.
I accept that is not necessarily one hundred percent relevant to what we are doing here today but I can tell you that if that company had the opportunities to export freely around the single market, then it might get an awful lot bigger and employ a lot more people in my part of the industrial West Midlands, which would be very good for our local economy and for the people working for that company.
Really, as I say, this is a report we here in Parliament can all get behind; we are here to give the Commission support and encouragement to tackle the Member State governments, because, ultimately, if we have that progress then we will move a lot closer to having a completed single market and the sort of action plan we talked about earlier on will get that much closer to being fulfilled.
Mr President, a period of almost ten years has passed before we have genuinely started trying to implement a construction- products directive.
Exactly a year ago the SLIM report was published.
I think the aim for harmonization is that there should also be an internal market for construction products.
The construction industry has a right to clarity and simplicity after all those years.
Mr President, the Green Group would like to emphasize that construction materials have a major effect on the environment and, for this reason, we have submitted a whole list of amendments.
We think we need a high-level risk assessment process for all new materials.
When we talk about standardization we should generally be thinking about the type of reorganization of the standards system we in Europe are striving for.
In fact, I must congratulate him, on behalf of the Commission, because the content of the report confirms the analysis made by the Commission in this sector.
Previously, the Commission had reached the conclusion that the implementation of this Directive comes up against considerable difficulties at a practical level.
The report reinforces the Commission's opinion, as it contains an analysis, which we share, of the work still be to undertaken in the field of standardization of construction products.
Following the work carried out by all the parties concerned, by the Commission in the SLIM context, by the Member States and by the standardization authorities, the preparation of the harmonized standards is coming along well and tangible results are expected in 1998.
Although it is certainly true, it does not take into account the fact that the standardization process will have considerable repercussions on many other sectors as well as on the environment: social policy, economic policy, safety and competition.
With regard to Amendments Nos 7 and 9, I wish to draw attention to the fact that the Commission is already following an active policy of financing the consumer and environmental associations, so as to enable them to take part in the standardization work.
To conclude, Mr President, I can say that the Commission will be able to accept the suggestions contained in Amendments Nos 1, 2, 12 and 13.
Mr Commissioner, I only wanted to repeat the question: is a reorganization of the standards system in Europe being considered?
Mr Rübig, could you clarify your question a little further?
Deadlines are too long and we quite simply have to ensure that our standardization systems are more market-oriented and operate with shorter deadlines.
My question is whether the Commission intends to introduce reforms in this area.
This subject has not been discussed in the perspective outlined by you, Mr Rübig.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, in stating the title of this report, you have already partly explained the content, or rather the object, of the Fiscalis programme.
The object is naturally to enable the different systems to operate better and to co-exist better by means of this knowledge and, therefore, to allow the market to operate in a more satisfactory manner and the taxation systems to produce a more balanced and more satisfactory revenue for the States, contributing towards the battle against fraud and evasion.
In the previous debate, we heard how, for example, the current VAT system is one of the aspects of greatest concern from this point of view.
Tomorrow, as already mentioned, the Extraordinary Summit opens in Luxembourg on the subject of employment: to be able to handle the revenue from other sources better will, ceteris paribus, allow us to reduce taxation on employment and therefore to support employment, from this point of view.
The possibility of bringing academic experts and also consultants and representatives of taxpayers, particularly small and medium-sized businesses, into the seminar activities to be implemented by Fiscalis has been provided for, for example.
It has been suggested, for example, that the experience drawn by the participants from this training and exchange can also be used by the European Commission to provide teaching aimed at further improving its action in favour of ever closer forms of coordination with a view to the harmonization of the taxation systems.
The programme should enter into force on 1 January 1998.
In view of the very tight deadlines, the Committee on Economic Affairs and its rapporteur have already made informal contact with the European Commission and with representatives of Council so as to ensure reciprocal approval of the amendments.
The Committee on Economic Affairs has approved fifteen amendments which are more or less of the same type as I mentioned in my speech.
Mr President, I think the extension of the Fiscalis programme, and particularly most of the amendments suggested by Mr Secchi, deserve our support.
Furthermore, the effectiveness of the actions is also improved, with better use of existing resources, such as that proposed for article 6 (Amendment No 12), not confined to 'a common core of training for officials' with the establishment of 'a cooperation network of the national organizations, academies or schools, and the officials responsible for training' .
If there were no specific proposal to amend the existing wording, I would have some reservations about the suggestion in Recital 10 (Amendment No 3), concerning the need for 'a Community academy for indirect taxation officials' , because I fear that a single structure of that kind might lower the profile of that cooperation which is possible and desirable at national level.
In the fourth proposal, the exchange of ideas referred to in new Recital 9 (and also in Amendment No 2) should in fact be provided for and commended, since it may lead to the improvement of existing legal instruments and the extension of exchanges of information in general, which is restricted to VAT in Recital 7 (Amendment No 1).
It is especially necessary to involve ourselves in the training of a wide range of economic agents when moving from VAT to taxation in the country of origin, with a reduction in interventions by government officials at the cost of a higher degree of participation by citizens and greater responsibility being placed on them.
This, furthermore, is a commendable trend in modern tax law, which also has implications for other forms of tax.
The Liberal Group supports it and we support the broad sweep of the Budget Committee's amendments.
We know that to be workable the proposed origin system requires much closer cooperation and coordination between authorities of Member States.
We suspect that its timetable is very optimistic and that the full implementation of the work programme may need longer.
The interpretation of the Sixth Directive by Member States, often to the benefit of their national treasuries, is no less than scandalous.
The Member States and the Union have an interest in a well-organized exchange of information to improve fraud control.
More than half of the large sum for this programme has been earmarked for communication and information exchange systems.
The programme is strongly directed towards the new VAT system.
The Member States are very divided about the clearing methods.
This seems in conflict with the aim that this programme should lead to tax reductions.
Efficiency through education, that is the motto for the tax system in the single market.
We know, for example, that various double taxation procedures are causing enormous problems in the European Union.
In this case a good training course for civil servants may be a major prerequisite for the smooth functioning of the single market.
If civil servants had sufficient technical knowledge of the tax system this would be another firm foundation on which to build the harmonization of taxation.
In particular, the improvement of language knowledge and also the training schemes available in this area, for instance Mattheus, is extremely important in order to have an efficient tax administration system in future.
I should like to take the opportunity to remind you and the Council representatives of the importance of the Fiscalis programme for the internal market.
The regular operation of the VAT and excise systems depends to an ever greater extent on intense cooperation between the national tax authorities.
These authorities encounter ever greater difficulties in facing the challenges raised by the complex business of the multinationals and by the intricate international frauds committed by the extensive organized crime racket individually.
Fiscalis constitutes the Community contribution to this committing but necessary task.
Finally, the coordinated training actions of the Member States, which are essential for creating the necessary attitude for cooperation in the national officials.
The Commission will have to take all possible measures to ensure that the Council takes the Parliamentary amendments into consideration in full in reaching its common position.
As it is broadly recognized that the Fiscalis programme should be adopted quickly, I hope the Council will reach a common position that is acceptable to Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, given that, as an eminent lawyer and a Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, this is a subject with which you are familiar, I hope that you at least will be able to follow me.
The directive was proposed seven years ago.
However, it seems as if twenty years has gone by since the Commission first submitted the draft directive.
The directive was presented as a sort of annex to the general directive on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, which was adopted without problems: the procedure ended in agreement between the Council and Parliament, without the need for conciliation.
With regard to the directive on data protection in the telecommunications sector, however, there was such an enormous difference between the proposal submitted by the Commission in 1990 and that submitted six years later by the Council and the Commission, that I raised the possibility in the Committee on Legal Affairs of asking to be consulted again.
More specifically, I believe that talking about subsidiarity in relation to the telecommunications sector is utter nonsense, for if there is a field in which there is no place for subsidiarity, it is the field of telecommunications - almost by definition.
The Council accepted Parliament's amendments in this regard, so that the word subsidiarity no longer appears in the directive.
However, it seems that things are so complicated in the telecommunications field that the reverse is actually the case.
Their individual rights and needs have priority and must be protected at all times.
The history of the Directive concerning the protection of personal data and privacy in the context of telecommunications has shown this once more.
It gives data protection in the context of telecommunications a similar importance to the protection of health for which the European Parliament has set particularly tough standards in many areas of our lives.
And, in this frontier territory, in which the speed of technological change - in particular, the introduction of the integrated services digital network, interactive television and video-on-demand - is creating enormous tensions in society, the extent to which building a genuine European society depends on our ability to resolve such problems is made clear.
On the second reading Parliament approved the proposal with 13 amendments, including an amendment saying it should cost nothing to have an ex-directory telephone number.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many conflicting interests had to be reconciled here.
The wording of the common position in this respect, which was very vague and would have resulted in inconsistent practice throughout the European Union, has been improved.
Third, going beyond protecting the basic rights of natural persons, the compromise now also takes better care of the justified interests of legal entities.
The compromise reached places on record the Union's political will to create a uniform European standard for the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the context of telecommunications, in particular ISDN and digital mobile networks.
He seems to specialize in technical, difficult reports but always does it very well.
This report covers two main issues: (1) data protection and, (2) new technology.
Data protection is an important principle for civil liberties.
This means that all kinds of information is now much more quickly accessible and far more information can be held on computers than could have been kept in manual records and can be accessed much more quickly.
This poses new problems.
The European Parliament has played an important role in all stages of the procedure, protecting the directive effectively.
As has been recalled, the history of the directive goes back more than seven years and the European Parliament has always played a crucial role in keeping it in the topics to be dealt with, even at times when others thought the subject could be left to subsidiarity.
The technological progress and market developments have highlighted the need for a Community means of protecting personal data and protecting private life in the telecommunications sector, a need that is now broadly recognized.
The directive represents a key issue in the legal framework for the liberalized internal telecommunications market; the minimum package of regulations for consumer protection will help create a climate of trust in the information society.
One further point I would like to make is the interest of the third countries in the Community approach to the treatment of personal data and the protection of private life.
This interest of third countries is considerable; it will be important to ensure not only the correct national application of the directive as from October 1998 but also an adequate level of protection in the global telecommunications market.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The Commission's proposal to amend the interconnection directive meets the European Parliament's position in the most important points, as expressed in its resolution of 17 July 1997, and of which I had the honour to be rapporteur.
The proposal will not only lead to an improvement in the quality of service, it will also encourage competition in the market, which means prices will decrease.
The second amendment, Mr President, concerns carrier preselection, which means that the consumer can choose which operator he or she uses, especially for long-distance calls.
The Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs has adopted one amendment which offers Member States in which outdated analogues systems are still in being used the opportunity to request postponement of the introduction of carrier preselection, as long as they can demonstrate that the introduction of this would lead to an excessive burden on certain organizations or groups of organizations.
The ITU has recently assigned 3-8-8 for the European Union, and on 1 January 1999 the European Commission will start testing a series of numbers, and I would like to ask the Commission to inform the European Parliament about the results of these tests as soon as possible.
Following on, Mr President, I would like to say something about the emergency number 112.
Mr President, my group is delighted to agree with the Commission's proposal on number portability and carrier preselection, and the amendment agreed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
The fact that there is that question mark, at least in my view, is the reason for the amendment which allows derogations for individual Member States where an excessive burden would be imposed on certain organizations or classes of organizations or - and this is important - where there would be a detrimental impact on the development of competition and choice for consumers.
Member States would have to demonstrate this excessive burden or detrimental impact on consumers before that derogation could apply.
This is not part of the text, Commissioner, but I would like to indicate that I as an individual Member would like to ask a question of the Commission perhaps twelve months from this day so that you could report to us the number of Member States who have asked for derogations, the reasons for those derogations.
I commend the report to you and am particularly grateful to the rapporteur for his acceptance of the amendment drafted originally by me.
Entirely new business opportunities are available in this sector and I believe this is of great significance for our future as well as for employment.
We do not always agree, but when we do, I believe it should be mentioned.
Ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss liberalization or the completion of the internal market, crucial to our business community, and therefore to employment, this House is usually divided into a left wing and a right wing block.
I therefore join the rapporteur in welcoming the broad support for this directive in this Parliament, and the Council - membership of which is still, unfortunately, two-thirds socialist - is also unanimous in its acceptance.
The draft directive drawn up by the Commission in October 1987 answers Parliament's resolution adopted in July 1997, in which the Commission was asked to draw up a draft directive as soon as possible to introduce number portability and carrier pre-selection by 1 January 2000.
The number portability of operators and carrier pre-selection with the possibility of change before any call are two essential tools for an effective consumer choice and for real competition.
The Commission is pleased to have the support of the European Parliament and can accept Amendment No 1 which permits a certain flexibility, in each individual case, and when there are objective difficulties on the date of introducing carrier pre-selection.
The Commission is actively involved in setting up the field trial for the European telephony numbering space on the basis of 388.
Together with the European Telecommunications Office, the national regulators and the operators concerned, we will develop a plan for this pilot ISDN, which should be operational by 1 January 1999.
I understand that you would like to go home, but I asked the Commissioner a question; namely how does the he think he will be able to check whether this number portability and carrier preselection on the basis of reciprocity is to be introduced simultaneously in all Member States.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can answer you at least in part.
