While some months ago many members of the public believed that this was a problem only for computer companies, it is now very clear that the issue of the millennium bug will affect all citizens in every aspect of their lives.
In some countries - my own included - several thousand experts have been appointed to go round and help the small business community to identify whether a small business will be affected.
I would be very grateful if the Commissioner could explain to us this morning whether there is any surveillance programme to identify whether all 15 Member States are providing expertise to help in advising the small business community on how the millennium bug could affect them.
As far as European Union legislation is concerned, there is a body of legislation dealing with liability for defective services, product safety and other liability legislation.
For example, are the Interior Ministers discussing whether or not there needs to be a contingency plan for 1 January 2000?
This is not just a European Union problem but could have very serious implications, in particular in very sensitive sectors such as the energy sector, unless we make proper preparations.
In my own country, estimates are that the millennium bug problems could cost up to 2 % of GDP.
The most worrying of all is nuclear safety and we know that there are problems in Central and Eastern Europe and possibly elsewhere.
Business awareness is a problem for the reasons I have outlined and its effects on economic performance.
The situation could be far worse than they could possibly imagine.
In terms of liability in the case of failure, consumers should be protected.
The first is the problem of 'chain reactions'.
We all know that you cannot solve the millennium problem at local, regional or national level alone, you have to look too at the EU dimension as a whole.
The second point is liability.
Above all, I find the situation in Russia and a number of Central and Eastern European countries alarming.
The total cost of resolving the Russian millennium problem is put at USD 100 million.
But I am sure that Commissioner Bangemann will tell us that the Commission is well advanced with its planning.
Mr President, if computers jump from '99' to '00' on 1 January next, no one knows exactly what the consequences will be.
The millennium problem brings us unequivocally up against the limitations of human knowledge and ability.
It is strange that the year 2000 computer problem should exist at all.
The European Parliament is quite rightly addressing the possible problems the year 2000 will cause, the so-called 'Y2K' problem.
We need to give top priority to eliminating any risk to the population of Europe, since Europe's taxpayers have after all provided a lot of money for nuclear safety in Eastern Europe and Russia.
I would like to thank Alan Donnelly for spelling out in his report exactly what our responsibility is and where efforts can still be made over the next few months.
From the outset, we involved the Member States and international authorities such as the Atomic Energy Commission in Vienna in our discussions.
Nevertheless, we are working with all those concerned to try to establish exactly what they can do and what we have to do to ensure that the various infrastructure sectors carry on operating smoothly.
For example, someone asked whether Parliament will continue to operate after the year 2000.
Someone else asked what we are doing about our own computer systems.
Mr President, I asked if you would be willing to tell the House what preparations the European Parliament is making to deal with the millennium problem.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 11 a.m.
The most important aspect of the Community's activities in the area of health and safety at work is legislation and its application.
Whereas in 1996 the Member States had transposed 74 % of the directives on health and safety at work into their national legislation, that figure has now risen to 95 %.
The report contains specific demands for a total ban on asbestos, an extension of the cancer directive, a call for directives on physical factors, scaffolding and minimum requirements in the transport sector, as well as a proposal to protect those who work outdoors.
In its interim report, the Commission proposes four main priorities for the period 1998-2000: firstly, more effective legislation; secondly, preparation for enlargement; thirdly, stronger links with the issue of employability; and, fourthly, the risks arising from changes in working conditions.
I would also draw attention to the issue of violence, which is a growing problem in the service sector.
Amendment No 2 I approve as an addition to paragraph 15 in the report.
To explain what I mean, the Committee on Women's Rights has pointed out, in the opinion it has drafted, that women comprise only 10 % of the employers and 20 % of the employees on the advisory committees, and it has urged that the proportion of women be increased.
The asbestos issue is not just about cleaning up buildings, which is what is happening at present, it is also about banning the use of asbestos at work, in the home and in buildings in general.
There are so many people dying each year or becoming sick and injured that we need to do everything we can to ensure that the activities of the European Union are focused in such a way that reduction is given priority.
The social partners play an important role in this committee, and she is seeking to restrict the social partners' right to appoint their representatives.
I would also like to see attention being given to an area in which European legislation is still nowhere near as good as it might be, namely the need for proper consideration of organic mental syndrome.
Last year, Parliament approved the amended directive on the protection of workers against exposure to chemical substances at work, and this contains a number of provisions which are very important for the prevention of OMS.
My country decided last year already to introduce mandatory substitution for a large number of chemical agents as of the year 2000.
Lastly, I should be grateful for some answers from the Commissioner to questions which I put some time ago at a special hearing in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
The European Court of Justice has already ruled that Member States must take account of OMS and set up systems of compensation.
With regard to Directive 92/57, we raised questions about its transposition and application which were unfortunately very opportune as they referred to serious accidents at civil shipyards in Portugal in October 1994 and March 1995, whereas the Portuguese Government did not transpose the directive until July 1995.
The interim report is a more political report as it relates to the Community Programme for two periods: 1996-1998 and 1998-2000.
However, the problems arise when rules are adopted instead under provisions relating to the internal market, because then a majority decision taken in a secret committee or a closed Council of Ministers meeting can put the Folketing in the dunce's corner and abolish a law, even when it has been adopted unanimously in the Folketing.
Now Danish workers have to handle substances which both the World Health Organisation and the Danish authorities regard as carcinogenic, because the Commission will not present a proposal and because 62 out of 87 votes in the EU cannot be found to prohibit them.
The present rate of transposition of the directives into national legislation is looking very positive, in that it rose from 70 % in 1996 to 96 % last year.
It is important that the EU and the European Parliament pursue an active and progressive policy in this area.
The first priority is to make EU safety and health legislation more effective.
The Member States have already made considerable efforts in that direction, and 95 % of Community instruments have now been fully transposed.
A second priority is the work of preparing for enlargement of the European Union.
There is a need for training, information and technical know-how, as you say in your motion for a resolution, and it serves no one's interest to have poor working conditions used as a means of competition in the internal market.
Measures to improve health and safety at work can make a significant contribution to these activities.
The European Commission will place greater emphasis on identifying the consequences of these changes and will ensure that these matters are addressed in future health and safety policy.
You rightly stress in your report that the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty will greatly strengthen the role of the European Parliament and the social partners.
Lastly, the ban on asbestos has been mentioned several times and by several different speakers.
Thank you, Mr van den Broek.
The debate is closed.
VOTES Mr President, on behalf of the Liberal Group, I request that the Heinisch report be referred back to committee, in view of the delicate political climate currently surrounding our relations with the Republic of Turkey.
In effect, Turkey, which only has a tiny section of its territory on the European continent is not a European nation, neither through its history nor its civilisation.
What is more, this House already stated that it was in favour of this in a resolution in September 1998, while the Luxembourg European Council of December 1997 confirmed that Turkey was eligible to become a member of the European Union.
HADEP, the predominantly Kurdish party which intends to take part in the Turkish elections on 18 April, is currently awaiting a decision from the Constitutional Court on whether it is to be banned from doing so.
The EU should send a delegation to Turkey to monitor developments in the trial of Abdullah Öcalan; an international conference should also be organised to initiate a dialogue for peace in Turkey.
Bazin recommendation for second reading (A4-0033/99) Insurance statistics show that car theft is a major problem in the EU Member States.
The proposed directive is therefore a valuable and necessary initiative on the part of the Commission, providing for a uniform set of minimum indications and information codes on vehicle registration certificates in the EU.
The 119 million students and 4 million teachers in the European Union hope to see this programme continue, a programme that has allowed half a million students to study in another country.
The Commission supported us by adopting, in full or in part, 34 of the 54 amendments tabled at first reading.
Rothley report (A4-0037/99) We do not think it falls within Parliament's remit to submit a proposal in this area.
But the grace period, which is a feature of American and Japanese patent law for example, gives an advantage to these countries in relation to the EU in an area which has great importance for the development of firms and the creation of new jobs.
For the reasons given above, we voted against the report in the final vote.
Grossetête report (A4-0053/99) As my colleague Mr Souchet highlighted in his speech, our group voted in favour of all the amendments tabled to this report, except for Amendments Nos 12, 13 and 15 by the Committee on the Environment.
Packaging such as cardboard or wood is useful in the incineration process for household waste.
In some Member States, heavy and restrictive eco-tax systems have been implemented and are restricting access to their market for products from other Member States.
Schnellhardt report (A4-0003/99) Mr President, I should like to explain why I voted the way I did, because I have been accused of voting in favour of wine and ignoring the beer produced in my constituency.
I deliberately voted in favour of wine, because I happen to believe that wine is one of the most fundamental elements of our civilisation.
If this vote had been a final one, which fortunately is not the case, a directive such as this would be completely unenforceable.
Given these conditions, the report should have been referred back to committee.
The Commission is on the same side as the 206 Members who voted against the report, and that reassures me.
Our group voted against the legislative proposal and against the amended proposal for a regulation.
The vote in this House displays two major flaws.
The effects of the alcohol in wine and in such premixes are therefore totally different as these premixes are consumed on empty stomachs during evenings out.
But in my country, the government is, at the same time, in favour of producing cigarettes, and for every packet sold pockets 75 % tax.
We must ensure that the tobacco industry in the European Union continues to exist, particularly as we are aware that our national producers only cover 20 % of manufacturing needs.
The biggest problem being faced by the tobacco industry in the UK is smuggling, particularly of handrolling tobacco from Belgium and France.
I am therefore pleased that the rapporteur addresses this matter in his report.
Detention of Abdullah Öcalan (B4-0223/99) Mr President, I deliberately voted against everything in this resolution because I disagreed with it for the simple reason that it elevates and honours a terrorist who has thousands of victims on his conscience, yet at the same time the President of the European Parliament - not you, but someone else - refused to allow us to discuss the issue of the Albanians in Kosovo, thousands of whom have been murdered by the Serbs, and postponed the debate indefinitely.
That was why I deliberately voted against the entire resolution, because it was extremely inappropriate.
We therefore cannot allow this guarantee to be abandoned, particularly when no assurance is given in the draft agreement concluded by Commissioner Deus Pinheiro that South Africa will stop using the port and sherry denominations after the lengthy transition periods have expired, during which South Africa would be able to export, for example, to important markets like the USA.
The agreement on trade and cooperation with South Africa deserves our full support as it aims to develop relations between the European Union and the major economic and social area of South Africa, an area which represents one of the great hopes for the future of humanity.
This is an issue which must be enshrined in the text of the agreement or in an annexed declaration.
There can be no doubt about the political importance for South Africa and its democratic regime of concluding a cooperation agreement with the European Union.
Grosch report (A4-0032/99) It is with a certain satisfaction that I welcome the work by our colleague Mathieu Grosch, as he has accurately addressed the social issues in the transport industry, and particularly the crucial matter of working time.
Working hours and social legislation in the transport industry should be dealt with through agreements between the partners in the labour market and, if that is not possible, through legislation at national level.
The Commission could use the opportunity of the debate on extending the working time directive in the transport sector to revise the working week downwards.
In particular, we deplore the lack of measures on the part of the Commission to address the issue of the undermining of working conditions and wage agreements through national legislation to enable companies to increase their profits in the light of increased competition.
Instead of taking measures to improve legislation in the Member States, the Commission, through its proposal to amend the regulation on cabotage, is taking away from the recipient state the power to determine its own staffing arrangements.
Gallagher report (A4-0018/99) I have voted in favour of Amendments Nos 6 and 20, calling on the Commission to propose that the 12-mile limit should be extended to 24 miles in the proposals which it is required to submit by 31 December 2001 at the latest.
There is no common fisheries policy in the EU because the regions are always overlooked.
That means good management in terms of control regimes and scientific data.
However, the quality of his work and the relevance of his proposals encouraged the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations to support his report.
Donnelly report (A4-0014/99) I am pleased to welcome the report by our colleague Alan Donnelly.
I therefore endorse the Commission's many initiatives in the year 2000 area, including the launching of cooperation across national borders and discussions of the problem in the Council and with all the relevant contacts in industry and the Member States.
I therefore support EU efforts to ensure that Europe - and the world as a whole - are ready to swat the millennium bug.
