I should like to remind the House that Rule 14 states that Parliament shall elect the president, not that the entry into office of our future president is to be the result of any nomination or appointment.
Madam President, I refer to page 16 of the English version of the Minutes concerning the vote on my report yesterday.
It states that the vote was 11 for and 184 against.
My question was simply whether yesterday's vote was valid or not, and if it was not valid, what we were basing ourselves on to invalidate what had already been debated and voted on. (Parliament approved the Minutes) Agenda Madam President, in view of the heavy agenda and the fact that Commissioner Bonino is not with us, I can propose that we vote on the three reports (Kofoed, Izquierdo Rojo and Souchet) without debate, under Rule 99 of the Rules of Procedure, but that there should be a Commission statement on these points in January on the Thursday morning.
However, I would point out that I have been waiting, along with other colleagues, since the middle of yesterday afternoon for a precious one minute of speaking time on those very important issues.
If anyone wishes to speak against that proposal, I shall give him the floor.
Madam President, on behalf of the Green Group, I should like to say that I do not agree with this proposal, because I feel that these are some of the most important documents for the future planning of fisheries in Europe and that it is therefore impossible to express the various positions that have emerged in committee and have been stated in this House.
I shall therefore put Mr Arias Cañete's proposal to the vote.
We will vote on these reports without debate, quite simply because we cannot conduct this debate on fisheries in the time available.
Madam President, this incident with Mr Gallagher is worth noting.
Madam President, on behalf of the Socialist Group I want to mention that yesterday we had an incident which has not been resolved and was one of the reasons for the delay in yesterday's work.
This was the violation of Rule 117 on the right to vote, by virtue of which Members vote individually and personally.
Votes Madam President, Mrs Bonino would have liked to say yesterday what I am going to say today, on her behalf, in this House.
In view of the state of progress of the proposal, which is to be examined, in particular, at the Fisheries Council on 20 December, the Commission prefers not to reply immediately to this request.
So I think this Commission's position is basically the same as ours and we will be able to debate this or any other proposal with composure in January.
The oral amendment I am proposing would clarify the concept of 'geographical position' in paragraph 2 of article 3.
The Commission proposals for a 40 % reduction in the fishing effort on sensitive stocks has achieved the remarkable result of attracting the complete opposition of the fishing industry, the national governments, and we are now adding the opposition groups on the Fisheries Committee.
The Commission talks, but does it listen?
We are frequently told that 40 % of all fish caught are thrown back into the sea - dead!
In this sense, we support a reduction in fishing capacity, which is justified not only for biological reasons, but also as a factor in improving the viability of the activity, the profitability of enterprises, and, finally, the competitiveness of the sector.
The last balance sheet drawn up by the Commission is utterly discouraging: of a total of thirteen Member States, only four are complying with the assigned objectives for adapting their fleets.
Finally, it is important that the Commission tone down article 5 of its proposal, in the way the European Parliament has done, because management and conservation of resources outside Community waters is not in the power of the European Union and the fleets that fish external resources are subject to competition from other factors, like commercial, economic and even political interests, which play a major role in the adaptation of fishing capacity for this type of Community fleet.
Hence my vote to reject the report outright.
It was equally necessary for Parliament to throw out the technical measures proposals (Izquierdo Rojo report) and for similar reasons to Kofoed.
I am very pleased that Parliament has followed suit.
As far back as 1991 the European Commission estimated, in a report to this Parliament on fishery resources, that European Union fishing grounds could yield an extra 2, 500 million pounds worth of fish annually if the resource was managed properly.
This means that the fish yield in any one year could be 50 % more than it actually is.
In my view a 30 % increase would be required to establish an enforceable programme acceptable to the fishing industry.
This restructuring plan must take account of specific national and regional features, such as the wide diversity of fishing activities in my own country.
There is, in particular, a need to reduce the size of the fleet in the individual maritime areas and to reduce the size of the individual vessel categories which can ensure the sustainability of fishing activities.
Nor do we support the Fisheries Committee's decision to reject the legislative proposal concerning the regulation laying down certain technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources (Izquierdo Rojo report).
Souchet report (A4-0366/96) Parliament is being asked to consider a proposal for a Council Regulation for the introduction of a satellite position monitoring system for Community fishing vessels, as part of the monitoring system applicable to the Common Fisheries Policy, and a proposal for a timetable for the various stages of implementation of the new provision.
Pilot projects of sufficient duration, benefiting from Community financing, enable 350 vessels to experiment with the various systems and test their reliability.
It is important that fishermen, already hard pressed by market constraints which the CFP does little to help them confront, should not feel that the implementation of this new system is an additional financial burden on them - they must be able to perceive it as financially neutral.3.Our committee also felt it essential to raise the threshold for the application of the new provision, in order to make it serve a genuine purpose by preventing it from applying to small inshore fishing boats, which put to sea for very short periods, and also in order to harmonize the provisions on the fishing effort in all the Community regulations.
We therefore adopted a threshold of 20 metres (20 metres between perpendiculars or 18 metres overall), instead of 15 as envisaged in the Commission's proposal.4.We also felt it useful to focus the satellite surveillance of the fishing effort primarily on 'sensitive' species, which are often overfished, as is the case with hake in certain areas, and so to include vessels which fish for sensitive species in the first phase of application of the new system.
In the same spirit, we have proposed that no discrimination should be allowed between vessels operating in the same fishing grounds.7.Regarding the date of application of the new Regulation, our committee has proposed that it should be put back to 1 January 1999 for the five categories of vessel listed in Article 1 of the legislative proposal and to 1 January 2000 for other Community fishing vessels exceeding 20 metres in length (18 metres overall).
The Commission has put forward a costly proposal for a satellite monitoring system.
The Committee on Fisheries and the European Parliament have decided not to try to get the Commission to listen to reason.
Banotti report (A4-0391/96) Without wishing to play down the importance of other rights, I should like in connection with this report to deal with the right to work of those of our fellow-citizens who are disabled.
And the level of unemployment in the European Union is 11 %.
Paragraphs 6, 8, 17 and 27 of the motion for a resolution clearly pursue that aim.
Point A of the preamble and points 4 and 8 were proposed, through me, by Portuguese NGOs which thus were able to take part in the drafting of the report.
The fact that there are about 37 million disabled people in the European Union, about 10 % of its population, must prompt us to give very careful consideration to the problems that arise.
Treating the rights of disabled people as a problem in civil rights is a sound approach to providing substance to non-discriminatory measures, and I have no doubt that, in this area as in others, the European Union must lead the way.
I pay tribute to the rapporteur for her excellent work.
And that is a cause which we can never do enough to serve.
I should like to discuss a second aspect of this proposal which we consider to be important, namely the question of reducing controls within the European Union.
Thirdly, however, I should like to point out that this is also a question of special regional features.
In this Parliament we have always held the view that we should take account - and I say this in all seriousness - of the special regional features of the different EU Member States.
It is extremely unsatisfactory, in parliamentary terms, to find ourselves so late in the year and with so little time to consider this matter, to be bounced into a position which, in effect, represents a fait accompli .
I hope that the negotiations to be held with Sweden in the year 2000 will result in a system of exceptions extending beyond this date, which according to the agreement now reached should also benefit Finland and Denmark.
Since the exemptions concern a fundamental right of European citizens, these provisions have been time-limited, although the wording of Article 26 is not clear and there is some disagreement as to the correct interpretation of the deadline.
As a result of this, we have proposed an extension of the deadline beyond 31 December 1996, together with - and this is very important - a gradual liberalization, a gradual phasing-out, of current restrictions.
The debate is closed.
The Commission and Council have therefore initiated a number of measures to protect consumers, to restore confidence in beef and veal and to support the market.
The Commission was asked to find the ECU 500 million in the agricultural budget.
The committee has, however, asked the Commission to withdraw its current proposals and submit instead, as soon as possible, a proposal relating solely to financing in 1997.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has made this request because it is not prepared for the time being to give the Council a blank cheque, as it were, for decisions on financing these measures in 1998 by delivering an opinion on the current Commission proposals.
The Commission will submit a new proposal to us, and then we shall consider how the CAP should evolve.
The European Parliament's Committee on Budgets, however, rightly declared in due course that it was irresponsible to vote in favour of the 'beef and veal' measures but to refuse any arrangements for financing them.
I therefore welcome the proposal before us today.
Now, ' Madman II' begins with the discovery, at the back of a drawer, of ECU 500 million.
There will, incidentally, be ECU 117 million for France.
It is a problem of identifying the people responsible and holding them liable.
They are fantastically keen-sighted, able to see from 40 metres away whether another Member is voting once or twice or three times.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I am sure you know, and as has indeed already been mentioned, at its meeting of 28-30 October in Luxembourg, the Council agreed on a package of emergency measures for the beef and veal sector.
In view of the continuing problems, in the context of this package additional direct income support for producers or the beef and veal market amounting to ECU 500 million was considered to be warranted.
Hence the proposal provides for an additional support package of ECU 500 million for the beef and veal sector.
Each Member State will receive its share of the 500 million package in accordance with a distribution key which has also already been agreed in Luxembourg.
It is being left up to the Member States to decide whether to use their share of the aid to support producers' incomes or in a more concentrated way, to support the beef and veal sector in general.
The debate is closed.
On the balance between these three sources depend the future of the market and the destiny of many producing regions, but that balance is lacking.
The oversupply of the Community market with bananas from the dollar zone has caused prices to collapse, the main sufferers being Community and ACP bananas, pressurized by two main factors: higher production costs and a weaker commercial organization.
What we are seeing today, then, is an unequal struggle between a coalition of two big multinationals, aiming to monopolize the world market of which they already control 80 %, having previously monopolized the American market and invaded the European market to the extent of 70 %.
A market organization cannot attach priority to financial interests when such objectives are at stake.
If we accept an increase in the quota - an increase as high as 3 million tonnes has actually been proposed - or change the present split it would amount to delivering the European market into the hands of the American multinationals and so sealing the doom of Community production.
Before the common organization of the market in bananas was introduced on 1 July 1993, the market of the then twelve Member States was partitioned.
This situation was incompatible with the introduction of the single market.
The accession of the three new Member States, all of which imported bananas from the dollar zone, was reflected by an increase in the quota by 350, 000 tonnes to allow for those countries' internal consumption.
This situation cannot continue, because it is seriously disrupting the economic equilibrium of the European regions of the French West Indies, and also of several ACP States whose social equilibrium depends primarily on the banana business.
They also expect category B import licences to be maintained at the level of 30 %, to enable them to retain their presence in the Community market as a whole, and they hope that the tariff quota assigned to third countries will help to restore equilibrium to the market.
Madam President, after 14 months we are again debating a proposal to modify the COM for bananas.
In reality, the arguments put forward in October 1995 remain valid.
Madam President, this European Community that we belong to is a little more complex than it might seem to be at first sight.
But although the majority of the European population is found in what might be called central Europe or the European nucleus, the European Union also has certain regions which are a bit further away - the ultraperipheral regions - and I think Community solidarity requires that we also show support for these regions.
So the regulation on the common organization of the banana market is not an arbitrary regulation but is aimed at achieving equilibrium between producers in the ultraperipheral regional and producers in the rest of the Community.
Any change in the established statute would greatly endanger the position of Community producers and producers in ACP countries with which we maintain relations.
So the Socialist Group joins previous speakers in supporting the report from the Committee on Agriculture, and opposes any increase in the quotas and any other change which could endanger the current system for regulating the banana sector.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already spoken a number of times here in Parliament on the subject of the organization of the market in bananas, and perhaps I have sometimes conveyed my views rather forcefully.
I am pleased to be able to speak today, for the first time, on behalf of my Group, the Group of the European People's Party, and to be able to submit a proposal for a compromise which will make itself felt in the vote.
This position is not so far-fetched, since it has also been adopted by a number of national delegations in the Council of Ministers.
The other extreme position finds expression in Amendment No 6, put forward by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, namely that the tariff quota be retained.
The PPE Group will vote against Amendment No 6, and the colleagues with whom I introduced Amendments Nos 10 and 11 will withdraw both these amendments.
However we do not seem to have a reply to the increase in domestic consumption through a real policy of promoting internal production which could be possible and there is no proposal to increase the incomes of Community producers who are also poor and experiencing great difficulties, although those Community producers are, for the most part, from ultra-peripheral regions from which I should like to pick out, for example, the French Overseas Territories, the Canaries and Madeira.
The proposals for a regulation that we have from the Commission are prejudicial against Community producers and ACP countries and overlook the principle of Community preference.
The amendments to the Santini report seek to avoid this prejudice but still do not manage in our opinion to defend in full the interests of the Community banana.
In the Commission proposal the so-called dollar bananas are granted 70 % (previously 66 %) and the bananas from the other group of countries 26 % (previously 30 %).
Mr President, speaking for myself, of course, but also speaking on behalf of my colleague Professor Castagnède, who is the greatest specialist in the banana market, I should like to express our firm rejection of the proposals made to us by the Commission and our equally firm support for the proposals submitted by our rapporteur.
Let me remind the House of the principles on which the common organization of the market in bananas was based.
And finally, but only finally, the GATT rules, the WTO rules as they are now, which apply to third country producers.
I cannot help wondering whether those principles are even being respected in the quotas that apply today: 850, 000 tonnes for European production, 850, 000 tonnes for the ACP and 2, 200, 000 tonnes for the reduced rights quota.
It proposes to increase the reduced rights quota to 2, 550, 000 tonnes, plus a few, and within that quota to change the share-out between the Community ACP producers on the one hand and the third countries on the other.
I think we must reject these proposals categorically, bearing in mind that the debate relates to two conceptions of our European Union.
That is why we will unconditionally support the position of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
The case of the common organization of the market in bananas is perhaps the most typical example.
The attempt to increase out of all proportion the import quotas for third-country bananas, thus depressing the market and making production in the Community and ACP States definitively uneconomic, is unacceptable.
The Commission has never been prepared to recognize any 'force majeure' concerning the crisis in banana production in Somalia, caused by the country's well-known troubles, and yet it has reserved more favourable treatment for other traditional producers in the ACP States.
We need, therefore, to provide producers and operators trading in ACP bananas with security, by fully consolidating their quotas and allowing supplies to be brought in from other countries until such time as normal production conditions are fully restored - as in the case of Somalia.
The current banana COM was the fruit of one of the toughest rounds of negotiations in the Union's history.
The COM was intended to strike a balance on three levels: guaranteeing access, at reasonable prices, to the Union market, for traditional suppliers, without jeopardising the reserve fro up and coming producers; -guaranteeing priority access to ACP producers in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Lomé Conventions; -guaranteeing Union producers income support to offset their higher production costs and guarantee them arrangements to make them more competitive.After so many disputes and difficulties, with so many political compromises, the Commission has now come along and for some unknown reason decided to destroy that balance, by increasing the banana/dollar quota by 4 % and reducing the ACP quota by the same amount.
The enlargement of the European Union by three new states does not justify, in any way, a 16 % increase in the quota nor should it shift the way in which the quota is shared out.
The amendments approved in the Committee on Agriculture sought to reestablish that very balance.
Mr President, as someone from a Community region where bananas are grown, namely Madeira, I cannot but disagree with the Commission's proposal aimed at changing Regulation (EEC) 404/93, establishing a banana COM, since it fails to take account of the interests of Community banana producers or those of ACP countries which have had persistent surpluses recently, given the high level of the annual quota.
This is in fact the third time in 18 months that Parliament has been asked to deliver its opinion on an amendment to the common organization of the market in bananas.
For technical reasons, the draft regulation contains several points which had already been proposed in 1995.
One of these is the increase in the tariff quota to take account of the accession of the new Member States, which was accepted by Parliament in June 1995.
Amendments Nos 10 and 11 are therefore just as unacceptable as Amendment No 6.
This adjustment takes account of the supply structure of the three new Member States, which had previously imported neither Community bananas nor ACP bananas.
The reduction in the tariff quota share for market participants who import Community and ACP bananas from 30 % to 26 % is simply an arithmetical operation and means that the absolute number of licences for Category B operators will not be reduced.
Amendments Nos 2, 4, 5, 8 and 9 envisage special provisions for cases in which importers suffer losses owing to crisis situations in exporting ACP States.
Secondly, the Commission has proposed measures for cases in which the import of ACP bananas is disrupted for reasons of force majeure, to ensure both that the market continues to be supplied adequately and that market participants affected are compensated.
With regard to the particular situation in Somalia, let us not forget that it would be possible to consider temporarily reassigning the traditional quantities not imported.
Amendments Nos 2, 4, 5, 8 and 9 overlap with existing proposals.
Now I come to Amendments Nos 3 and 12, which relate to production under environmentally and socially responsible conditions.
I know that Parliament sees this as an important issue, and I shall keep it informed of future developments.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I wish to announce that before the final vote on the legislative resolution I shall ask for the report to be referred back to committee, since I assume that Amendment No 7 will be carried and the Commission has declared that it will not accept Amendment No 7, unless it declares after the vote, when the amendment has been carried, that it will accept it after all.
Mr President, in view of the Commissioner's refusal to accept the amendments, I wish to support the motion for referral back to committee.
After approval of the Commission proposal: Mr President, under Rule 129 of our Rules of Procedure and on behalf of my Group I request that the report be referred back to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Mr President, this is the same situation as we had in October 1995, when Parliament voted the way that it has and the Commissioner rejected the amendments Parliament had voted for by a majority.
Mr Liese has the floor to speak against the request for referral back to committee.
The Community Regulation instituting the COM in bananas takes account of the commitments entered into previously by the European Union (Community preference, preferential access for ACP bananas, GATT rules applicable to third countries).
It is preposterous that the price of bananas has increased by 20 % in Sweden since we joined the EU.
A case of solidarity and economic and social cohesion well expressed through the principle of Community preference, a principle we would like to see extended, especially in relation to high quality crops, farming crops or not, in the ultra-peripheral regions of the European Union.
We think that it is fair not to go along with the Commission proposal and to share out the import quota granted to third countries in accordance with Regulation (EEC 404/93, with a 30 % share for operators marketing Community bananas and/or importing additional ACP bananas (category B operators) since there is no justification in reducing their share of the market.
Community structural assistance for Ireland The next item is the debate on the report (A4-0284/96) by Mr G.
Mr President, firstly I should like to express my gratitude to the members of the Committee on Regional Policy for their cooperation in producing this report.
I would like to thank all those who participated in the excellent hearing we had on this subject on 7 May.
Both CSFs confirm the efforts that have been made to pursuing economic and social development in order to attain the Community average and to meet the conditions for participating in EMU.
Employment rose by almost 2 % per annum and the balance of payments which was marginally in deficit in 1989, was in surplus by 8 % of GNP in 1995.
I cannot stress enough the imperative necessity both at national and Community level to make more effective inroads on unemployment, particularly long-term unemployment, during this period.
We must strengthen interventions from both the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund.
I would like to see much stronger financial support for social infrastructure measures which would open up new education, training and employment opportunities for women, in particular for disadvantaged women.
In view of the strong presence of foreign interests in Ireland, we must improve the capacity of the domestic market.
In this context development and competitiveness of the small and medium-sized enterprises is essential.
My report also underlines the fact that it is crucial for Ireland's economic and social future to develop and diversify its agricultural sector, hence the importance of the LEADER II programme; modernize the fisheries section and aquaculture to restore their opportunities for development; create new opportunities for the development and diversification of a year-round high-quality tourist industry; and apply the principle of long-term environmentally acceptable development.
For my part there is no doubt that they must retain unemployment as one of the priority criteria.
This is why I consider that the road the Irish government is going down here is the right one, and I should like to encourage the Irish government to continue down this road, particularly given the fact that over 20 % of young people in Ireland drop out of school and are then usually unable to obtain a job or a training place later.
Women account for under 2 % of apprenticeship training places, and in all honesty it is a joke that a mere 0.4 % of Social Fund appropriations are earmarked for special measures to promote equal opportunities for women.
After all, there is good reason why 20 % of the Social Fund resources available for horizontal use should be allocated to a preventive labour-market policy, and despite everything Ireland is still a long way from putting this into effect.
Our GDP per capita has increased from 64 % of the EU average in 1983 to 87 % last year.
The labour force is growing steadily and unemployment is at last beginning to fall, down from almost 16 % in 1993 to actually just over 11 % this year.
There is a bit of confusion about the figures in the reports, but the statistics have come from different areas - but 11 % is my understanding now.
Structural funding in Ireland, however, will not come to a sudden halt at the end of 1999.
Now there are huge areas of deprivation in Dublin, pockets of deprivation that I have often spoken about here - I think you are all familiar with my worry over Dublin.
We must strive to ensure that the structural funds continue to play an important part in achieving the economic and social cohesion which the Treaty underlines.
Even in the present situation, where Ireland is considered as a single region, there are some parts of the country that are far healthier and much more competitive than others.
I stress and make no apologies for stressing that the counties of Donegal, Cavan, Monaghan, Sligo, Leitrim, Roscommon, Mayo and Galway - all of which are in my Euro-constituency - still remain amongst the most handicapped.
It is therefore vital that Community structural fund aid continues in these regions after 1999, when the present programme ends.
The economic survival of many parts of my constituency will depend on such a subdivision.
As the Commissioner appreciates, as we move towards the achievement of economic and monetary union with medium-term convergence programmes, stability programmes and so on, it is important that the Commission as a college when it deals with the evolution of regional policy and cohesion policy into the future should, at the earliest stage and without waiting for all the details of the financial perspective and the size of the budget into the year 2000 and beyond, at least delineate the general lines of thinking early enough for states like Ireland, with a major net inflow, to incorporate this into their whole convergence process.
That, in fact, would not get over, in my view, the problem of one state, one region but it would still be a more realistic basis for assessment, and objectively that would hold versus other states.
Finally, in respect of the mid-term review, there is an extraordinarily high level of long-term unemployment persisting in the Republic of Ireland, along with a high level of social exclusion.
They need a special focus, especially through the structural funds, as a key ingredient for the future.
It is correct to say - and I am glad my colleague has mentioned it - that economic and monetary union will be the counterpart to the structural funds, and Ireland is always described to us as the country setting an example in terms of the trend towards EMU.
But if we look at the other side of the coin, which reveals 20 % unemployment and 30 % youth unemployment, of which 49 % are long-term unemployed, then we have to ask ourselves just what this trend involves.
On the other hand, however, Ireland also has the courage to expound a national plan for sustainable regional development, which provides an extremely important basis for deploying the structural funds and offers an opportunity to make genuinely effective use of them.
We know that Ireland has a great deal of experience, indeed that it already has over 15 years' experience of local employment initiatives, and it would be good if further advances could be achieved in this field.
Over the past few years, Ireland has enjoyed a higher rate of economic growth than any other Member State of the European Union, with its per capita GDP rising from 64 % of the Community average in 1983 to 90 % in 1995.
It is encouraging to note that positive development has also been reflected in significant reductions in Ireland's high unemployment rate.
The Collins report is timely, having been produced during the mid-term review, and will certainly make a major contribution.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, colleagues, the implementation of the programme with which we are concerned here, namely the programme of cross-border cooperation between the Community and countries of Central and Eastern Europe in 1994, has been one of the Commission's successes.
This programme was given a budget of ECU 150 million, and thanks to cofinancing a total of ECU 350 million was available, all of which was used to good purpose.
On the one hand, to stabilize border regions, to boost economic development in them and to reduce disparities and, on the other - and this aspect is just as important, if not more so - to facilitate the integration process in the Central and Eastern European states; for we must never forget that we need them as much as they need us.
I have already mentioned this in the debate on the Christodoulou report.
Here I am thinking in particular of the new German Länder , for the effects of 40 years of socialism in practice were devastating, and we are now having enormous difficulty in dealing with them.
The second point I wish to make is that we should completely abandon the principle of giving everyone a slice of the cake and instead use financial resources in a targeted way, in other words inject financial aid where it is specifically needed.
Mr President, the opinion of the Committee on External Economic Relations on the 1994 programme of cross-border cooperation we are dealing with, highlights the fact that this cooperation has proved to be an especially useful instrument in terms of the pre-accession strategy for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
For the sake of greater effectiveness in the future, we should also consider making the programmes multi-annual and intensifying the measures to promote cooperation in training, especially business training, and the transfer of technology and marketing skills to small and medium-sized firms, given that they represent an irreplaceable factor in the economic development of these countries.
Thank you very much, Mr Habsburg-Lothringen.
The problem is how to find the right means.
The request to continue the INTERREG programme through a new INTERREG III responds to a need within the CCEE's current pre-accession strategy of cross-border cooperation.
The measures established in 1994 in the fields of energy, the infrastructure and the environment must continue and they ought to be extended to include other areas such as the economy, education, exchange of technology and a vastly extended social and political cooperation, with a broadening of the PHARE and other programmes.
I have, therefore, tabled an amendment which proposes that we should at least try to link the ERDF 10 Regulation with PHARE's micro-programme in model projects, and this needs a very rapid decision.
But in view of the report and the committee's conclusions, we clearly need to increase the funding for the measures of inter-regional cooperation between CCEE and EU regions.
Mr President, we must strengthen and boost programmes along these lines, like INTERREG, PHARE and especially ECOS/OUVERTURE.
However, we must be demanding with ourselves and strictly control the results of these measures so as to avoid the serious mistakes which have been made in some cases, and, of course, attempts to defraud.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is very significant that in this last sitting of the year we are voting on three reports covering the future enlargement to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe: the Christodoulou report on the financing of the enlargement, the Rehder report on agricultural relations with the CCEEs, and the Schröder report on cross-border cooperation between the Community and the CCEEs.
The Schröder report analyses cross-border cooperation during 1994, the year of transition.
The balance is positive, given that, of the ECU 150 million intended to finance structural measures, almost all the resources were committed.
Mr President, I wish to congratulate Mr Schröder on his excellent report, since he attaches particular importance to the Euro-regions.
And were it not for his obsession with austerity and his insistence that the enlargement does not have to mean an increase in costs for the European Union, I would venture to call it magnificent.
Despite the difficult circumstances, the PHARE programme on cross-border cooperation, which is entering its fourth year of activity, was successfully, though provisionally, launched in early 1994.
During the first six months of that year, the main aim was to inform and convince the central authorities of the Central European countries of the importance and usefulness of this new programme, which was to facilitate various forms of regional cooperation on the European Union's external borders, in preparation for future accession.
As you can see, Mr President, things are moving in precisely the direction Mr Habsburg indicated.
So - a transnational approach for the Baltic region; consolidation of common structures for identifying and monitoring projects; diversification of measures and projects, moving from the hard type, that is, infrastructures in the transport and environment sectors, to the soft type, that is, economic development, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, socio-cultural cooperation; geographic expansion, following the enlargement of the European Union as of 1 January 1995, which brought in new eligible countries - Hungary and Slovakia - and new regions; and finally, as an innovative step, greater involvement of regional and local participants.
In the contexts I have described, the action planned by the Commission for the second six-month period will be focused mainly on improving and accelerating the implementation of programmes and projects, especially by further decentralizing responsibility, within the limits set by the PHARE regulation; involving local participants more closely in planning, implementation and monitoring, by, for example, expanding the LACE network; promoting initiatives to establish small-scale networking among local authorities; ECOS/OUVERTURE, an instrument for small projects in the Baltic region, etc; launching new initiatives to complement the PHARE/INTERREG programme on cross-border cooperation for borders between Central European countries or between Central European countries and the CIS States, in order to prevent the emergence of further regional imbalances.
These initiatives became operational in 1996.
The debate is closed.
It is a proposal which will enable our Member States to be much more flexible in their application of the set-aside rules.
On Christmas Day I will be eating an organically-reared turkey, grown and matured in my own constituency - in fact the turkey in question is about to meet his maker this afternoon.
But the day after Christmas Day - Boxing Day, as we call it in Britain - I do not know what it is called elsewhere in the European Union - we shall sit round our family table and we will eat a nice piece of British beef.
Mr President, the structural imbalances detected in the systems for basic areas and regionalization plans for the various Member States led the November 1995 Agriculture Council to adopt an agreement by which the Commission was charged with drawing up and presenting, in January 1996, a proposal amending Council Regulation 1765/92, in order to make the sanctions system more flexible.
The Group of the European People's Party does not support Amendments Nos 2 and 4 because we think the Commission's text has greater technical rigour.
The objectives of this amendment are simple.
It should be recalled that equity is the fundamental principle of any economic organization.
In conclusion, Mr President, I hope that Amendment No 4 will be adopted by this House, in the interests of European agricultural policy but, most of all, in the interests of the farmers themselves.
It is appropriate not to discriminate between the Member States and to allow offsetting between base areas, whether they be regional or whether they be national.
In conclusion, this amendment enables discrimination between Member States to be avoided, discrimination between those which have opted for regional base areas and those which have opted for national base areas.
In this case the compensation exceeds the share of the budget allocated to Spain, resulting in a reduction in the compensation payments for all Spanish producers in the 1997 harvest.
With regard to Amendment No 4, I can only emphasize that this would favour intensive crops such as maize and irrigated crops and, instead of keeping production under control, this would cause it to increase.
In addition, the proposed system would lead to further complications in a regime which is already very complex.
The debate is closed.
To begin with, this report states the position of the European Parliament on a proposal for a regulation amending the co-financing criteria to help the Member States establish an integrated management and control system for certain Community aid schemes.
The request reached us in April, four months after the deadline for the system to be operational, in principle, in all the Member States.
And that is hardly advisable, ladies and gentlemen, when we are talking about a system intended to control half the EAGGF agricultural expenditure, which represents about ECU 18, 000 million per year.
In 1994 Parliament itself had already asked the Commission for a report on the operation of the integrated aid system.
The Committee on Budgetary Control and this rapporteur decided to accept as sufficient the promises made in a letter from Commissioner Fischler that by 31 December this year, that is, a year later than should have been the case in theory, all the Member States except the three new ones would have this system up and running.
However, by the time this report reached the November part-session for approval, the Court of Auditors had stated in its annual report that it would be difficult to get the system operational in all fifteen Member States during 1997.
That is why one of the Amendments, No 2, calls for a general cut in monthly payments in advance to Member States where the integrated system is not in operation, as from 1 January 1997.
The Council itself provided for and backed this measure in its Decision of 31 October 1994.
On top of that, the Court of Auditors has severely criticized the Member States and the Commission, pointing out that neither the Commission nor the Council have ensured strict monitoring of statements of costs in relation to these co-financed systems.
Finally, I thank Commissioner Fischler for being here and I would like to hear him explain to this vast but attentive emptiness the grounds on which his representative gave guarantees to the Committee on Budgetary Control that there would be more efficient monitoring from now on.
If the Commissioner can really guarantee that this control will be seriously monitored, we will at least have had a very useful sitting.
With regard to Amendments Nos 2 and 5, in the Commission's view a failure to implement certain parts of the Integrated System should be examined in the context of the relevant budget discipline and the regulations covering balancing of accounts.
With regard to Amendment No 3, I can confirm that the Commission has drafted a proposal for the introduction of a system for the identification and registration of cattle.
This makes Amendment No 3 superfluous, but I can assure Parliament that the content of the proposed regulation is very much in line with the recommendations made.
In any case it would be premature to draw up a report on the definitive implementation of the system before the middle of 1997, since it will be impossible to assess gaps in implementation in the three new Member States until the end of 1997 or 1998 at the earliest.
Mr President, I just want to repeat that the rapporteur maintains all his amendments, especially the rejection of Amendment No 2.
Thank you very much, Mr Garriga Polledo.
The debate is closed.
Since the beginning of this year, more than 70 people have been driven from their homes in western Mostar.
Recently there have again been even more of them.
Many fear that the situation will deteriorate further when Sir Martin Garrod comes to the end of his term as the EU's special representative in the city just before Christmas.
The European Union has spent almost ECU 150 million on Mostar during these two and a half years.
Whether the local politicians on both sides in Mostar will build on this head start in the common interest, or whether they will throw it all away again, is now largely in their own hands.
As Mrs Müller has pointed out one of the problems was that Member States sent people off to Mostar without regard for whether they could do the job that was needed.
We should also be drawing attention to Article J.3 of the Maastricht Treaty which says once a common action has been agreed unanimously in the Council of Ministers, it is possible to use qualified majority voting to carry out that joint action.
I will finish by making reference to a famous book in Spanish which you will be familiar with, written by somebody quite closely connected to the man who may next be President of the European Parliament.
I would say to you in relation to Mostar that political reconstruction was not possible and it will not be possible until we identify very clearly who should do what, when they should do it and how they should do it.
If I may, I should like to continue in German, and to begin by telling Mr Titley that I am actually glad this debate on Mostar is being held today, as the last debate this year, as I hope it will serve as a sign for the future, in terms of the tasks we must continue to undertake and the goals we must achieve in the former Yugoslavia in the next few years.
Thank you very much, Mr Habsburg-Lothringen.
So I want to welcome your participation and I feel sure that your views will be a valuable addition to our debates.
The Commission greatly appreciates the fact that both the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control, and the European Court of Auditors have taken an early, active and, I would add, supportive interest in this first major CFSP joint action of the European Union.
Recommendation No 14 encourages the Commission to propose new joint actions in the former Yugoslavia, in particular for the return of refugees and support for independent media.
The debate is closed.
This report by the Court of Auditors is thus politically heavily loaded and Parliament cannot allow that to happen in future.
Thank you very much, Mrs van Bladel.
So I am going to admit that when something goes wrong in this Parliament it is because the Presidents make a mess of the good work done by the Presidency's officers.
