This was an issue which Ken Stewart fought long and hard for in his years in this Parliament and he would be most pleased that the Commission is investigating this.
Ken would be pleased.
Thank you very much Mr Hallam.
Thank you very much Mr Vallvé.
Thank you very much Mr Sichrovsky.
Forced labour is one of the grounds for withdrawing preferences mentioned in Article 9 of the regulation.
From what Commissioner Marín has said, the Council seems certain to adopt the proposal unanimously on 24 March.
The European Union must take much of the responsibility in order to achieve any success in the New York Conference.
This decision may be made subject to conditions designed to guarantee a minimum level of production in the areas in question and respect for the ecological balance.
Unfortunately, some of those in the trade adopted a somewhat demagogic stance.
I regret that because, in view of trends in the production and consumption of wine products in the European Union, there is clearly a structural surplus for the 1996/97 wine year of around 15 million hectolitres.
The abandonment premiums as defined by Regulation 1442/88 involved permanent abandonment and caused extreme inflexibility, which renders the measure less effective.
The new system proposes temporary abandonment for a period of 12 years, with a premium of 40 % of the permanent abandonment premium, and the abandonment may be the subject of a transfer as referred to in Article 7(2), second subparagraph, of Regulation 822/87, or replanting within a period of eight years after grubbingup.
These measures could both improve the transfer of enterprises, inter alia by enabling young wine-growers to become established more easily, and at the same time help enterprises to respond to developments in their market.
In the particular case of wines subject to Article 36, it is important to consider the value of this procedure.
Permanent abandonment entails an irreversible loss of economic potential.
That, Madam President, is what I wanted to say about this report.
For example, my country, Germany, was given only 50 ha for the permanent abandonment of wine-growing areas.
Major problems arise simply from the question of how this small area is to be distributed among the 13 wine-growing regions.
The structural surpluses in the EU still amount to about 15 million hectolitres.
Wine production is an economic factor in Europe.
Finally, vineyard areas can be reduced by permanent abandonment, the main instrument used by the Commission and the only one that receives 100 % financing.
However, wine production can also be reduced, for example, by diversifying the outlets for grape products: we have grape juice or its derivatives, for example, or grape sugar although this is still a marginal method.
Getting back to the idea of reducing production through quality, we need to realize that by 2010, 5 % of European consumption will come from biological farming - including wine.
Thus, in my own region of Alsace, thanks to a strict quality policy, yields have fallen over twenty years from 120-130 litres per hectare to about 60 hectolitres for the best growths.
By the combined implementation of strict quality policies, therefore, the wine-growers have succeeded in maintaining their incomes while reducing production volumes, without abandonment, and while increasing their export markets.
As far as I am concerned, I still reject a general policy - a suicidal policy for Europe's wine-growers - designed to control production by permanent abandonment with all its familiar effects on the countryside in wine-growing areas, on soil erosion, on the abandonment of the land resulting in economic decline, rural exodus and youth unemployment, not to mention the lost means of production for the world market.
Any such policy is in total conflict with the desire for integrated rural development and the protection of the land, and it conflicts, too, with the idea of regional economic development which, as we know, relies essentially on agricultural resources such as vine and wine products.
On this basis, the Group of the European Radical Alliance obviously supports the report by our colleague Mr Martin.
The immediate measures are those proposed by the Commission for the 1996, 1997 and 1998 wine years, but they are merely a stopgap.
This is why our group studied the second part of the report, on the improvement of the grubbing-up procedure, with the greatest interest.
The fact that it is to be implemented by the Member States, and that difficulties may arise in the process, is quite right.
Madam President, guaranteeing European Investment Bank loans in third countries has long been a concern of the Committee on Budgets.
At the European Councils in Cannes and Madrid it was concluded that the European Union would extend the lending and borrowing activities of the Community to third countries.
The proposal that has now come from the Commission, instead of renewing specific mandates to those parts of the world that are mentioned in the title (Latin America, Asia, South Africa and the Mediterranean), is seeking to renew the loans together globally, under a single mandate; and also, simultaneously, to make the expiry dates coincide with the period covered by the financial perspective while reducing the guarantee to the European Investment Bank to 65 %.
The reduction of the guarantee will, we believe, lead to an increase in the global amount of the loans available, thus increasing the potential risk to be borne by the European Union budget.
The responsibility of the European Investment Bank is increased because the risk that default payments are more than 65 % is close to zero.
At the same time, the Budget Committee is commending to the House the somewhat more political, less technical amendments that have been adopted by the appropriate committee to give an opinion - the Committee on External Economic Relations.
The uses and instrument of the European Union's co-operation policy means that the guarantees which the Community gives the European Investment Bank for external loans should be shared out in a balanced way among the different regions.
The need for the European Investment Bank to step up its activity to finance exemplary transfrontier projects between countries in the Mediterranean Basin and the lack of appropriate infrastructures in the areas of transport and telecommunications are one of the main obstacles to development of external and interregional trade as well as regional co-operation in general.
The need for the assessment of the functioning of the new guarantee system to include an assessment of its economic and social impact on beneficiary countries is a vital element which will allow these countries to accelerate their economic development and guarantee the most effective possible use of resources and guarantees under the Community budget.
In the Commission document it was possible to note a timetable for loans from 1997 to 1999 in which Asia and Latin America were the only regions in which the volume of guaranteed loans remained capped to the level of 300 million ECU.
Two types of practice would be possible: either each country in question would be assessed in advance and a decision taken for that individual country on what proportion of the EIB's risk in the country was political in origin; or each financing decision should have an assessment annexed to it concerning the division of the risk between political and economic factors.
Therefore in my opinion the concept of political risk should be agreed upon in such a way that, in the event of a default, the damage would be divided in advance into political and economic risk.
The motion for a resolution emphasizes the need for any cooperation in advanced sectors of science and technology with the emerging economies to be organized within a framework of equal rights and responsibilities so as to permit genuinely reciprocal benefits, taking account in particular of the protection of intellectual property and the safeguarding of employment.
The European Union is host today to less than 10 % of the population of young researchers from Asia active in western research laboratories, the great majority being concentrated in the United States.
If you look at the density of vehicles we are up at 500 per 100, 000 population and when you look at the countries that we are talking about in this report you need a magnifying glass to try and work out what the vehicle density is.
The subjects that have been highlighted by the Commission for attention in the agro-industry area, in health, in communications technology, non-nuclear energy and biotechnology are all very relevant to this explosion and we very warmly welcome the way in which the Commission has put this together.
The social and environmental issues that affect each country also have to be taken into account.
It is extremely important, for the future position of the European Union in a global world market, that the Commission and the European Parliament should recognize the special position of the so-called emerging economies of the world, in other words, those countries that can no longer be classed as developing countries, but at the same time cannot be regarded as real industrial countries.
The same applies, to a lesser extent, in the case of some Member States of the European Union.
However, it is high time that the Commission, too, aimed its policy in these countries more towards those sectors that are already developed, and sought to achieve European participation in the state-of-the-art technology markets in these countries.
One of the specific objectives of that framework programme is cooperation with non-member countries and international organizations in the field of research and technological development within the so-called INCO Programme.
The under-20 age group will decline, while the number of people aged over 65 will increase considerably.
These developments will have a major impact on policies such as social security and pensions, employment, health care, regional policy and agriculture.
We must put aside the idea that it is not worth training people over 40, particularly with an ageing workforce and in an increasingly computerized society where lifelong learning is a key factor in determining competitive positions in Europe.
I have included an amendment from the PPE Group on this point, and I would draw your attention once again to the report by the Committee on Women's Rights.
If Europe wishes to maintain its position on the world market and its social model, then we must stop running away from reality.
Obviously, in this debate we will have to look at central subjects such as the cost of employment, the possible increase in retirement age, the conditions for early retirement, private pension systems and the cost of social security in general.
On these aspects, the rapporteur would like the Commission to launch a debate on the future of old age pensions in Europe and to draw up a list of creative solutions and new methods for funding systems.
Enabling women to take part in working life will actually contribute to economic growth, but I would not like to conclude without recalling the great service which women do to their families and all of those women who help their working spouses despite the fact that they do not figure in the statistics and that the European Union has only been dealing with their situation since 1986.
If the European Union really wants a good working population it will have to count on the potential of women.
If we look at the changes in the active working population, the number of young working people is decreasing while the older group of working people aged between 40 and 65 is increasing.
Mr President, I too, on behalf of my group, would like warmly to congratulate the rapporteur on this exceptionally interesting report.
This is the second report on the demographic situation in the European Union with 1995 as its reference year.
Mr President, demography is and must be the basis of all representations of society.
Participation in the labour market, social security and pension, health care and regional asymmetries are, it almost seems needless to say, indelibly marked by a predictable demographic evolution.
Mr President, the sole merit of this report is that it calls attention to the disastrous demographic situation in the European Union.
If European couples are having fewer children, the reason, quite obviously, is that they regard the future as very uncertain, and that the Member States of the European Union grant no financial incentive, or not enough, to those planning large families.
And in conclusion, Mr President, I must say, and say again, that it will be impossible to create employment in Europe while we continue to let ourselves be overrun by every conceivable product manufactured outside our borders, in countries where the cost of labour is 40 or 50 times less than it is here.
The family must be at the centre of our concerns and our actions.
The growth in human population in prehistory is the consequence of changes which took place in the palaeolithic age; growth during the Middle Ages is also a consequence of changes which took place, and the same is true of the beginning of the industrial revolution.
At this moment in time if the population is actually diminishing in Europe and having problems, then this is due to our economic model and should send out a clear message to our people: there are too many people and too many young people and at the same time there is no possibility for demography to advance.
I, too, want to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report on the Commission's second annual report on the demographic situation in the European Union.
Recent figures show that the population could increase by up to 10 % over the next 10-15 years.
Of course, our birth rate has fallen remarkably since about 1980, but we still have one of the highest proportions of young people in our population.
The rapporteur correctly identifies the major demographic challenges that we face here in the European Union and that we will have to meet in the future.
Of course the Commission must now immediately initiate the debate on the future of old age pensions in Europe and work out new ways of financing these systems.
In those regions of Europe where the traditional family still plays an important role, the changes in the national economy resulting from the shift in the population age structure are much less noticeable and more easily coped with than in those regions, and above all in large conurbations, in which the destruction of the family has already reached an advanced stage.
This is necessary simply because of the fact that experts always, by definition, take too narrow an approach, whether they are pensions experts, experts in employment law, experts on social measures, health care or elderly people.
We all of us have these discussions in our own Member States, discussions about the future of the pensions system.
It has nothing to do with intelligence, by the way - if I may say so to those of our speakers who are on the extreme right - but in future it will have much broader connotations.
Yes, Mrs van Dijk, I admit it: I agree with you on this point.
But these adjustments will not take us very far.
The Commission, moreover, explains in its own report that in order to compensate for the global financial burdens caused by aging it will be necessary to achieve an increase in productivity far beyond anything that has been achieved in the past - an improbable hypothesis, since aging itself, by increasing the average age of the working population, is liable to reduce productivity.
Such a policy has, in fact, reached a total dead end in many European countries, and certainly in France, for shortsighted budgetary reasons but also for other reasons that we hear less about, perhaps because they illustrate too graphically the vicious circle in which we are locked.
Today, according to statistics recently published in France, 70 % of families with more than six children are foreign, as are 50 % of families with five children.
The Report on the Demographic Situation in the European Union is sensible and helpful, because it expresses the essential aspects of development in the Community, and offers everyone the opportunity to understand the effects of individual projects on a specific area.
As the number of elderly people in EU countries grows in relation to the working population, a policy aimed at economic growth will become increasingly important.
Thank you Mr Ford.
