Thank you, Mrs Hawlicek.
Thank you, Mr Wolf.
VOTES Madam President, may I suggest that we postpone the vote on the legislative resolution, in line with our practice on other reports on agriculture and also because the Commission failed to keep the promise it gave in Strasbourg and did not make its position on the reports available to us until last night.
Parliament decided to postpone the vote and the matter was deemed to have been referred back to committee Madam President, I should like to clear up one more point concerning the vote on Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf's report.
I should like to propose, and I would ask my colleagues to agree to this, that we postpone this final vote pursuant to Rule 60(2), in other words when we come to the legislative resolution.
Before the vote on the draft legislative resolution I put to the vote the rapporteur's proposal that the vote on the draft legislative resolution should be postponed.
Parliament decided to postpone the vote and the matter was deemed to have been referred back to committee Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to my mind we are in something of a quandary here.
I have the feeling that, because we need 314 votes, there ought to be rather more Members present for this vote.
The fact is, though, that we were given the common position of the Council on 5 November.
We shall now vote on the proposal to postpone the vote until February.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the Mulder report, because this represents the first official mention in a European Parliament decision of the principle of cofinancing.
It is feasible and would make better sense for a proportion of these funds - 25 % or even 50 % - to be provided by the regions and the states themselves as their contribution to financing agriculture.
Well-defined measures are needed in order to meet the vitally important environmental goals, as well as to promote rural and regional industrial development.
It must be the aim of all Europeans to ensure peace and stability in our continent.
Consumers have been paying too much for their food bills, taxpayers have been paying too much for their tax bills, and hard-pressed small farmers and hill farmers have not received the support they need.
The reform of the common agricultural policy is a precondition for enlargement, which we think is one of the most important steps taken by the European Community in our time.
It must be the aim of all Europeans to ensure peace and stability in our continent.
The Swedish Social Democrats believe that investment in rural development is both right and necessary.
Garot report (A4-0494/98) We should like to use this explanation of vote to point out that the Swedish Social Democrats believe that the Member States should make up their own minds on whether to grant premiums for heifers under the suckler cow scheme up to a ceiling of 20 %, which in the case of Sweden would mean that the ceiling for male bovine animals should revert to its original level.
It must be the aim of all Europeans to ensure peace and stability in our continent.
The removal of this type of production would in fact weaken areas which are already suffering from major desertification.
As for lowering the price by 30 %, this is unacceptable.
This 30 % reduction will therefore not be any help in gaining market shares, but it will weaken the sector as well as considerably reducing the incomes of a category of farmers that already earn the least.
To conclude, what is being proposed today is a major reduction in the price of beef, for which there will only be partial compensation, and from 2003 onwards we will be told that in order to fulfill our international obligations we must reduce compensatory aid.
Basically we agree with the rapporteur that a 30 % cut in the guaranteed prices for beef and veal is particularly severe.
Current EU guaranteed prices would be disastrous for those countries and a serious obstacle to their accession.
Lowering guaranteed prices to world market level is going too far, in our view.
In our view, the intervention price for butter and skimmed milk powder should be reduced to the world market level, meaning a cut of 30 % instead of the proposed 15 %.
This is because the report only seeks to reduce price intervention by 10 %, whereas the Commission is proposing 15 %.
It must be the aim of all Europeans to ensure peace and stability in our continent.
Moreover, more than 90 % of European milk production is consumed on the European market, so why does the Commission reject the system of 'double price, double quota' that is used in some countries such as Canada?
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations will vote against the Commission's proposal, as in the milk sector there is nothing to justify a reform of the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products.
We support the first part of the report, which backs the Commission proposal to reduce the intervention price for cereals by 30 %.
It must be the aim of all Europeans to ensure peace and stability in our continent.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations deplores this and stresses its interest in this sector, which could allow considerable advances to be made in environmental terms (renewable energy sources, bio-fuels, etc).
As a result of the ban on animal meal feed for cattle following the BSE problem, the European Union's level of self sufficiency has fallen from 20 % to 10 %.
If we apply the reform as proposed, European maize production will be dramatically reduced.
Mulder, Graefe zu Baringdorf, Garot, Goepel and Fantuzzi reports We have decided that, in the main, we will support the Commission's proposals in the vote on the agricultural part of Agenda 2000.
The Commission's proposal to cut intervention prices as a means of restructuring is being thwarted by the requirement that full compensation should be paid through direct support, and that new support measures or other forms of market intervention should be introduced.
We should have prevented the attempted submission to the WTO and rejected further price reductions which will generate further falls in agricultural income - which in Portugal has already fallen by 13 % in each of the last two years - without full and total compensation.
I also agree that the rural development measures under Objective 1 and the Community Initiatives should be included in the guidance section.
I also agree with the need to ensure national financing of income support measures for farmers, thus strengthening the principle of subsidiarity in aid.
For the above reasons, we are unable to support the following amendments tabled by the committee: Nos 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 15, 17 and 20.
In order to improve animal protection, it is essential that systems of rearing should take account of scientific studies in order to avoid impeding the natural behaviour patterns of the animals.
We supported some of the amendments, since they contained improvements in this area, but we voted against the report as a whole.
We think that in the longer term, production should be switched to other systems which take more account of the environment and animal welfare.
Hermange report (A4-0004/99) At the close of the 20th century, does the family still have a role to play in our European societies?
The regular heated debates in our national parliaments, regional institutions and in the media leave us in no doubt about this.
Sociologists and demographers all agree that it is the family that binds together a social system.
Given this state of affairs, the European Union must act through its own institutions and through the governments of the Member States in order to put forward these arguments: there cannot be a balanced society without active support for the family.
Political leaders need to have the courage to remind parents that, whatever their marital status or their personal relationships, in having children they have committed themselves to maintaining a minimal level of dialogue without which their offspring will be left to their own devices.
We are sympathetic towards much of what is contained in the report as regards the treatment of children in the Union Member States.
The Council of Europe and the UN are already organising conferences on the situation of children at which the EU Member States are represented.
We shall therefore abstain on the points where we think such action is appropriate, and we shall vote against the report when it comes to the final vote.
It would have been helpful if this aspect had been dealt with in the report.
The report presented by our colleague Mrs Hardstaff highlights this problem and its complexity very well.
Titley report (A4-0482/98) Global disarmament should be the overarching goal of any policy on security.
It is stated in paragraph 3 that a European arms policy is an essential element in strengthening the European security and defence identity within NATO.
As regards Article 223 of the EC Treaty, armaments cannot be viewed in the same light as other goods and traded freely; on the contrary, they should be subject to especially restrictive rules.
The report's view that production in the arms industry should be geared to actions taken under the CFSP and the specific requirements of these for military equipment reflects a wish to turn the EU into a military superpower - a wish that we oppose.
However, in order to progress, industrialists need a clear framework of reference provided by the European Union and the Member States under the CFSP.
How the unsuspecting taxpayer can end up helping the merchants of death (the arms manufacturers) is clearly outlined in a special report by the Arms Trade Resource Centre World Policy Institute in the U.S.
Lockheed Martin is one of a number of U.S arms manufacturers who will be supplying funds for a pro-NATO expansion foundation that is being established by the Romanian Embassy in Washington.
We have decided to vote for this report because we think it an excellent idea to call on the Member States to restructure their armed forces for the benefit of environmental objectives.
