In the Minutes under paragraph 39 on the revision of the treaties I am listed as voting for that particular paragraph.
Mr Hory, the Minutes will be corrected but your word counts for more than any proof.
Mr President, I am in the same situation as Mr Hory.
However, my question is slightly more fundamental than Mr Kerr's.
I end, Mr President, by calling, once again, for the establishment of a common forestry policy for the whole Union.
With Manchester Airport close to my constituency, I also know that the airport, its airlines and staff would benefit from the huge savings in time and money which a better traffic control system would bring.
Castricum report (A4-0419/96) This is for the most part a good report, so we will follow the line taken by the Socialist group and vote in favour of it.
Giving workers a real stake in their companies can only be a positive development both for them and for their firms.
The national consensus that has existed in Ireland for the last 10 years on wages and conditions has been a contributing factor to the current healthy state of the Irish economy and as such is endorsed by the Employers' Federation, IBEC.
Thus, the Azerbaijanis are mostly Shiites and hence close to Iran, but their language is Turkish in origin, bringing them closer to Ankara, and they have a powerful feeling of solidarity with their brothers in Iranian Azerbaijan.
To this we must add the opposition between Armenia, showing solidarity with its brothers in Karabakh, and Azerbaijan.
These conflicts are often the product of the policy of the newly-born Soviet empire which, in 1922, created these problems to prevent the existence of a Transcaucasian federation opposed to the Bolshevik takeover of the young independent states in the region.
The truth is that two fundamental principles of international law are now in opposition here: the will towards emancipation of peoples like the Armenians of Karabakh or the Aprases and Ossetians of Georgia, and respect for the territorial integrity of states like Georgia or Azerbaijan.
It is here that the role of the European Union can be decisive, because Transcaucasia is on Europe's doorstep; because Europe, Iran, Turkey and beyond that the Middle East, meet there; because in the rich subsoil of Azerbaijan, and beyond that in Kazakhstan, lie oil resources needed by Europe.
Europe is involved in the region.
At the same time, it must help in developing the common regional framework, in other words, developing Transcaucasia.
This will be the most favourable framework for the economic advancement of all the peoples in the region and to the firm establishment of democracy.
In my view it makes a real contribution to finding a European Union strategy for its relations with the Transcaucasian republics.
In this regard we also welcome the responsible role played by the OSCE.
Ladies and gentlemen, since 22 April 1996 we have had partnership agreements with Georgia, Azerbaijan and Armenia and we hope these agreements will soon enter into force, for they are another important step in our endeavour to deepen our relations with these countries.
An ecological disaster in Transcaucasia would affect us too.
On 16 December the Security Council said that the two presidents of the Minsk Group should continue their efforts, continue negotiating and reach agreement.
Even acting on its own, it must do all the fine things recommended in the report and which everyone who spoke in the House today mentioned, even if Russia and Turkey decline to cooperate with us in providing substantial aid to the three countries in the area.
Mr President, once again we are fortunate in being able to benefit from the expertise of Hélène Carrère d'Encausse.
Mr President, firstly let me note that in her detailed report the rapporteur has set out the European Union's proposals for a strategy of cooperation for this region.
The PCAs also include a Chapter 71 on illegal immigration.
This means, firstly, that the European Union must not let the fragmented interventions of its Member States be developed on their own, separately from each other.
A genuine European Union strategy must prevent Member States from trying to outbid each other, as this could be dangerous in this ultra-sensitive region.
The European Union, through its constant presence, its aid programmes and a political dialogue that may develop into genuine political cooperation, must play a helpful role in the economic, democratic and political development of the region.
Europe must develop an active presence there.
The success of our activities, however, will depend on three conditions.
Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, this report is very interesting but its very title perhaps betrays the extreme nature of a deliberately global approach.
At the very least, Azerbaijan does not have the same cultural identity as Armenia or Georgia.
Not only that, but paragraph 17 acknowledges the real state of affairs by rightly asking for the blockade to be lifted.
Mrs Carrère d'Encausse has done the groundwork.
Not only that, but I am completely convinced by the arguments developed in favour of close cooperation between the European Union and the three Transcaucasian Republics.
The oil resources in Azerbaijan obviously carry a lot of weight.
Finally, I would like to use my brief speaking to underline the importance of the Transcaucasian region - especially in with regard to its links with its neighbours, in particular Turkey - in terms of our future energy supplies.
She has done the Union a great service by highlighting the strategic importance of the region and emphasizing our interests in it.
There can be no lasting recovery unless the three countries concerned can find a way to coexist with their neighbours, and there will be no return on all the investment we have made in terms of humanitarian and food aid, technical assistance and loans, which amounts to over ECU 800 million since independence.
Although the Council did not reach a common position on the lines of our proposal, it did adopt some conclusions which have allowed us to promote regional cooperation in the Caucasus, both through the collaboration and cooperation agreements and through our TACIS programme, especially in the areas of energy and transport.
If we aspire to play an important role in the region, our relations with each of these countries requires special attention and, at the moment, the Commission is not only welcomed as an important donor, but is also respected - and this was recognized in some of the speeches here - for its impartiality.
And when the report speaks of the need to open the frontiers between Turkey, Azerbaijan and Armenia, we must remember that while Armenia's concern is the blockade, Azerbaijan's is to end the occupation of its territories, including those outside Nagorno-Karabakh, and the return with guarantees of over a million refugees.
The debate is closed.
We hear many splendid words, but there is no understanding of the real problems of the region.
I agree with the contents of the report except for one word, a word that for me is fundamental, when it says that we encourage the Commission and the Council to open Community embassies.
The Community cannot have an embassy in a country.
We have voted in favour of this report as we consider it important that EU Member States establish relations, trade and cooperation with the Transcaucasian States and give support.
I recall that on 26 October 1995 an oral question was put in this Chamber, and in the final resolution the Commission was asked to put an end to this delay, which was having serious effects for producers and consumers.
So if the delay is the real, objective reason for these technical amendments, I think it behoves the Commission and the Council to accept the ideas contained in my report, namely to increase the five-year period provided for in Regulation No 2081/92 to seven years, to run from the date of publication of the regulation, and to allow for a further possibility of extension for certain products, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 15, while complying with the spirit of Regulation No 2081/92 and the thinking behind it.
Lastly, I think the Commission should tell us when it will be completing the planned lists, implementing the new packages which will, I hope, finally bring to an end the simplified procedure provided for under Article 17 of Regulation No 2081/92.
We say 1999, they say 2001.
Mr President, this proposal for a regulation is beginning to look like a kind of amnesty, a somewhat belated response to a problem of vital importance for the relationship of confidence between producers and consumers.
This also means that we often use different names for the same thing, which is only natural as we all use different languages.
Mr President, high-quality regional farming areas and agricultural products require a powerful European protection system in the context of the single market.
It is well-known that designations of origin of production and geographical designations can help maintain income levels, stimulate agriculture and, of course, also eliminate a policy of subsidies which, up to this stage, has been maintained not least because of the manifestly low incomes in many farms in the European Union.
Everywhere I go, in every country, I see McDonald's, Burger King, Coca Cola, even outside Europe.
We should endeavour to give more prominence to our European specialities and thereby also give our consumers a sense of quality on which they can rely.
If we are to achieve that outcome, I think that Amendments Nos 4, 9, 10, 11 and 12 should be rejected.
Given that the first proposal for registration of geographical indications and designations of origin under the simplified procedure was not presented until March 1996, and the current transitional period expires on 25 July 1997, measures must be taken to make the period effective from the date of registration of the names and not from the date of publication of the regulation.
So the proposal to amend paragraph 2 of Article 13 of Regulation 2081/92 is intended to ensure that the 5-year transitional period applies from the date the names are registered.
But this will only affect existing names registered under the simplified procedure laid down in Article 17, not new ones registered under the normal procedure, laid down in Articles 5, 6 and 7.
Secondly, the transitional period will also be applicable to letter a) of paragraph 1, Article 13 of the regulation not just to letter b) of paragraph 1, Article 13.
Thirdly, given that already existing names used in the Member States are notified according to Article 17 - the simplified procedure, the transitional period must apply only to names registered by virtue of this provision, to prevent damage to producers by granting this adaptation period for new names.
Moving on to the amendments, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1 and 5, as this proposal is insufficient, in the view of the Commission, to allow the producers affected to adapt to the new legal ban on using registered names.
Amendments Nos 2 and 8 cannot be accepted because under paragraph 3 of Article 17 the Commission must decide for or against each denomination presented for registration.
However, the aims of Amendment No 4 and Amendment No 11, first part, may be useful and will be examined.
Amendment No 7 seems to us superfluous given that the Commission's proposal provides for a period of 5 years, and the objective of Amendment No 6 already exists in the text, so we do not think that amendment is necessary.
And we think No 12 would not be useful because it is more restrictive than the Commission's proposal.
We agree to accept Amendments Nos 3 and 9.
The debate is closed.
