I was present at the House and I contributed to the debate on Northern Ireland.
Madam President, I cannot see a representative of the European Commission in the Chamber at the moment and I would not be prepared to proceed with the debate if there were no Commissioner present to follow it.
Mr Anastassopoulos, I had certainly noticed the Commission's absence.
Thus, with our 25 amendments, we mapped out the new boundaries of legal protection and the level of sanctions.
When, within the space of just five months, the Internet transmitted more than one million advertisements for illicit devices, and when the organizations which provide encrypted services are deprived of revenue of more than ECU 240 million a year, who is left in any doubt about the burgeoning of piracy?
The amendments in the new report that I have the honour of presenting to Parliament today serve this purpose.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the question of conditional access is a central interface for the whole range of services in our information society.
What we have here in fact is the question of what are the conditions under which conditional access should be introduced.
But basically, we have here a first opportunity to talk about the problem of convergence at this interface as well.
That is the point of Amendment No 25 and of many of the preambles which I believe have been properly addressed by all the three committees that have looked at this matter.
Madam President, I think the word "piracy' has been used too much in this morning's debate.
On the other hand however, there are other rights which must also be protected, such as the right to information or the right to privacy.
I am saying this because it seems that, at least in the discussions in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, there has been a temptation to protect encoded communications as if they were a fundamental right.
But there are other fundamental rights.
I want to congratulate the rapporteur for being so understanding during discussions on this subject, because I think the 20 or so amendments which have finally been adopted are reasonable and balanced.
However, in the Group of the Party of European Socialists we have objections to the second part of Amendment No 20 and the second part of Amendment No 22.
As regards the former, Mr Whitehead has already mentioned the difficulties of protecting content which, in the end, might end up as the justification for protecting more than just remuneration.
It is an honour because the rapporteur has followed in the best European Parliament traditions of Members defending their ideas - their ideas about protecting citizens' interests - with all the energy they can muster, with no effort spared and, at the same time, eager to reach conclusions by means of dialogue.
Madam President, as the rapporteur rightly said, we are faced with a Commission proposal which we in this Parliament see as a response to a resolution passed in this House.
Having said all that, Madam President, and speaking now in a personal capacity - since the Group of the European People's Party will vote according to the rapporteur's voting list - I am going to mention a few doubts.
There is a declaration in the Treaty of Amsterdam which says that legislation must be clear, concise and aimed at a specific problem.
That reference to remuneration should have appeared in recitals 5 and 12, in Article 1 and elsewhere, to make it absolutely clear which problem was being addressed.
I am not going to repeat what has already been said about the "sole intended purpose' , but blank tapes are not prohibited and, in that sense, there is no reason to think of banning an instrument which has a general use but can also be used for illegal purposes.
We should recognize that protection of services also creates an interest in developing high-grade products.
I hope this directive really helps to create a single market for products which are needed for the information society.
The change we are proposing in Amendment No 22 is so that we can get such a development.
Another point of concern - and I have not had an adequate response from the Commission so perhaps Commissioner Monti could address this in his reply - is why the directive only applies to pay TV.
Madam President, I would like to express my respect for the rapporteur and thank him for his excellent report.
The European cultural world must not only be protected in special directives on copyright, important as this is, but must be protected in all cases, and therefore also in this directive.
That is why I ask the House to support Amendment No 20 in its entirety, and to vote against Amendment No 22.
Madam President, I am one of the admittedly small number of members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights who voted in committee against some of our rapporteur's amendments, and subsequently also against the directive that had been amended in accordance with his proposals.
I do give my full support to all the amendments which are aimed at protecting not only those services which are subject to restricted access for commercial reasons, but also to those which are restricted for reasons to do with the security and integrity of the information transmitted.
Consequently there is no equivalent level of protection, and the Union is thus becoming a refuge for pirates and offers several possibilities for eluding the legal protection guaranteed in some Member States.
The proposal for a directive seeks to resolve this problem by introducing harmonized regulations within the scope of the single market.
I am referring in particular to Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 23, 24 and 25 which the Commission will accept in full, if not to the letter at least in spirit.
However, following a careful examination and taking into account the opinions of the various parties concerned, there are several amendments the Commission cannot accept.
The Commission cannot accept several other amendments which, in our opinion, are not sufficiently clear and could give rise to confusion or incorrect interpretations.
I am sure that constructive cooperation between Parliament, the Commission and the Council will make it possible to achieve the objective, and I hope that every effort will be made in this connection.
Having made these observations, I would like to thank you, Madam President, since we are now in a position to have a complete picture of this extremely difficult issue, which we shall be voting on at 11.00 a.m..
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11.00 a.m.
The internal market in natural gas The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0140/98), on behalf of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, on the common position established by the Council (C40103/98-00/0385 (COD)) with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council Directive concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas (Rapporteur: Mr Desama).
I would like to highlight the continuity with which this has been handled within Parliament, since during these six years a single rapporteur has been dealing with this issue, yet during the same period we have seen three different commissioners and even more presidencies of the Council.
Having said that, how should we judge this gas directive, and the proposal for a common position which is put to us today?
Firstly, it should be recognized that, as with the electricity case, we find in it the main essentials of what Parliament voted for at the first reading in November 1993.
It was, in fact, the European Parliament which came up with this idea.
These two compromises are important factors in the safety and supply of natural gas within the European Union, firstly that of the storage and use of installations and also, above all, that of the application of take or pay contracts, that is, long term contracts which guarantee the security of supply to a Union which is heavily dependent on external supplies of gas.
Of course, whether we see ourselves represented in this directive at an 80 % or an 85 % level, there is still a small margin with which we do not agree, but then, as Alfred de Musset said: "The pleasure is all the more intense for not being complete' .
It is not surprising that a certain number of Members have tabled amendments on this point.
To challenge this issue would be to challenge the whole directive, so I obviously call upon you to vote against these amendments.
Mr President, firstly heartiest congratulations to Claude Desama for achieving this uncompleted business for us over the time-scale involved.
The majority of the Socialist Group does not believe that Article 18.2 is appropriate.
Madam President, after three legislatures, believe it or not, we are today reorganizing the last large sector of industry in the Union.
Finally, there is also protection for Member States who set particular store by the ability to impose public service obligations on the companies.
In my opinion, the distributors have not been dealt with sufficiently well - but that is not the opinion of everyone in my group - and it could have been further improved in the area of combined heat and power.
This favourable position is the result of agreement with the other political groups in the European Parliament and also of mediation within our group.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, my group, the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party, is very pleased with the directive on natural gas.
In view of the agreements made in Kyoto concerning CO2 reduction, it is important that we use our gas as efficiently as possible.
We oppose Article 18. 2 and, with the Group of the Party of European Socialists, will support the amendments on this.
On principle, our group will persevere with this as well.
Mr President, in spite of the absence of a common energy policy, we receive directive after directive adapting the energy market to the principles of free trade and competition.
Certainly, a compromise agreement was reached between the different governments on 8 December 1997, a compromise which the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy has not wanted to threaten with amendments, judging the Council's common position to be balanced and reasonable.
Furthermore, owing to a rapid return on investment, liberalization risks leading to preference being given to electricity production based on natural gas, to the detriment of other sources such as nuclear energy.
Mr Desama has raised some of the critical points.
However, I would like to add that people would like to see decentralized production favoured much more than stated in this directive.
There is also a problem with the existing criteria for entering the market, such as the threshold of 25 million m3 for industrial clients.
Let us not forget that although Europe is going to find itself in a position of surplus supply in the short term, with greater competition between the traditional suppliers, new resources will be necessary from around 2005 and the Union's dependence on external gas sources will increase.
Following on from what he said earlier, we might also say that Council presidencies come and go, but the rapporteur Claude Desama goes on forever.
It is our intention that it should be possible for combined heat and power to purchase gas as cheaply as possible, in other words to be accepted as a customer, everywhere, in every country.
What Parliament is doing here is a contradiction.
On the one hand, we are calling for a doubling or trebling of the role of combined heat and power; on the other, we are afraid to write into our directive that they may buy their gas wherever they like.
Besides, I think it is very important that the implementation of the directive in Member States is monitored and that the Commission also shares its experiences with the European Parliament and Council by means of a report.
The directive is targeted towards the gradual exclusion of the public sector while, on the other hand, encouraging and promoting a private monopoly over natural gas in the shape of the integrated enterprise, whether vertical or horizontal.
A private monopoly is incompatible with these three factors because it seeks profit and nothing else.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we are all aware, the proposal for the internal market in natural gas is extremely important.
The gradual liberalization of this market, which has an annual turnover of more than ECU 100 billion, is inextricably linked with our aim of increased competition in the European economy, and also of reduced unemployment.
I would like to thank the European Parliament for its decision, first and foremost, to speed up the examination of the common position on natural gas in order to enable the timely submission of the second reading to the Energy Council to be held on 11 May.
The issuing of the electricity directive demonstrated the determination of Member States, the determination of industry and consumers, and also the determination of market forces, to open up the energy sector to competition.
In reality, as is clear from the recent Commission report to the European Parliament and the Council, Member States are opting for the fastest possible opening up of the market, with the widest possible range, in relation to what is called for by the directive on the electricity market.
The directive also guarantees that, from the outset, a large number of industrial consumers, as well as all electricity producers, will be free to choose their own natural gas provider.
This eligibility also includes combined electricity and heat producers and is therefore fully in line with the priority that is accorded to this sector.
The directive also provides for the protection of obligations to provide a service, which Member States can impose on natural gas companies in their market in the broader economic interest.
This mechanism will allow Member States to counterbalance competition with public service whenever it is judged to serve the broader public interest.
I am determined to set up an efficient method of cooperation between the Commission and the Member States on this issue.
The Commission and the Member States are now called upon to play a very important role in this regard.
The common position incorporates a large number of amendments which were tabled during the first reading by Parliament and which had already been taken into consideration by the Commission in its amended proposal.
As regards the amendment on the submission of a report after the directive has been in force for three years, I would like to say that the European Commission is willing to accept this amendment if Parliament considers it to be really necessary.
We cannot adopt the two amendments which have been put forward in relation to cogeneration since, as I have already explained, cogeneration is already eligible, except under very specific conditions which must always be communicated to the Commission.
For these reasons the Commission cannot accept the amendment.
Today's debate has clearly shown that this position is shared by the European Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11.00 a.m.
Mr President, the ALTENER programme is a typical example which illustrates the yawning gulf in politics between demands and reality.
I would simply remind you of the resolutions in Berlin, Rio and Kyoto.
In its deliberations on ALTENER II, the Council itself says that by the year 2000 we shall have an increase of 3 % in CO2 emissions, not a reduction.
I have to say, that strikes me as frankly outrageous when I see that only ECU 22 million have been provided for it.
What on earth can you do with ECU 11 million per annum?
The Council goes even further than this by restricting our budgetary authority, not de jure , which it cannot do, but de facto , and it even wants to prescribe how much we have to allocate in the budget next year.
I would just like to remind you once more of the shameful fiasco - since there is not enough money - of SAVE, JOULE and THERMIE.
The Council says so, we know that, but there is no money for it!
We all continue to muddle through as we always have done in the past, and then we stage enormous international conferences, like the recent one in Kyoto, and say, of course, yes, CO2 reductions, we commit ourselves to 10 %.
The Commission had proposed ECU 30 million.
For that reason I would like to ask the House to approve the amendments which have been proposed by the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, which Parliament in any case approved at first reading.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Commissioner, I think I can very largely associate myself with the very clear words of the rapporteur.
The ALTENER programme is the only programme we have in the European Union that is available exclusively for the assistance of renewable energy sources.
They know that in calling for this, they are knocking at an open door as far as the European Parliament is concerned because, in the Mombaur initiative report, in my report on the Green Paper, we called for a significant build-up - at least 15 % - in renewable energy sources because of our profound conviction that, from the viewpoint of climate policy, from the viewpoint of environmental policy, from the viewpoint of import dependence, with regard to rural areas, and with regard to additional jobs, the European Union needs to do a great deal more in this respect.
A political strategy which leads to a restructuring of taxes in energy policy needs to pervade almost all Community policies, and needs to be implemented through coordination between the Member States and the European Union.
Thirdly, and on this point I give my full support to the rapporteur, it is absolutely necessary that the Council really does reach a decision on 11 May so that measures can begin during the current year.
If you look at the current renewable energy production figures for the European Union, you will see that we stand at 6 %.
And I do think subsidiarity is important, Mrs Rothe and Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz, because each Member State should make the greatest possible effort if they really believe in renewable energy.
Mr President, the continuing debate on renewable energy highlights again the importance of a coordinated and integrated approach to all EU development programmes.
To the extent that energy based on renewable resources is of significant importance in the utilization of our land resource and, therefore, offers potential to farmers and to job creation in rural areas, I would urge the Council and the Commission to coordinate their efforts in the formulation of long-term energy policy with the development of agriculture and to do so - and this is important - in the context of Agenda 2000.
Alternative energy programmes based on renewable resources offer a profitable alternative for our farmers and for rural dwellers and rural development programmes.
That is widely accepted and supported in this House.
I think the Council's position with regard to the annual ECU 11 million basically places the ALTENER programme in cloud-cuckoo-land and thus deprives it of any real significance.
It is something which we, as a Parliament, must fight against and challenge, especially during the budget procedure.
It is very important that these inconsistencies be stopped.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz, for her report.
If the emissions were to decrease sharply, then you could perhaps talk about stabilizing the programme, but not in this case.
In that case it is important for the different figures to estimate the emission costs to be calculated in different ways too.
At home, in my local area, just behind my house in fact, a windmill construction project is planned and a private developer is ready to invest between 150 and 200 million Belgian francs into it.
In this context, the ALTENER II project is a very appropriate means to carry out an impact study, enabling it to be proven by computer simulation that, from the castle, the windmills will not be seen and there will therefore be no visual impact.
Of course, I am more worried about the noise, and it is for this in particular that the ALTENER project will give us the means to finance these impact studies.
If you consider that an impact study for a project costs 1.5 million Belgian francs, then the ECU 22 million granted by the Council is exactly enough for 500 projects throughout the European Union.
So, what has become of this priority that the Union should be showing?
In fact, I am truly embarrassed by this report.
Renewable energy enables us to keep our promises, the promises made at Kyoto.
We need, at the same time, to create the legal framework through access to the grid which enables it to prosper and we need a programme like ALTENER.
Mr President, the Commission's goal to raise the share of renewable energy sources in total EU energy consumption to 15 % by the year 2010 is in keeping with the aims decided upon at Kyoto and Parliament must give it the support it deserves.
High technology in Finland has a place in nearly every walk of life.
I announced to you then my intention to propose as soon as possible for approval in the European Commission the White Paper on renewable energy sources and the framework programme for energy.
As regards the White Paper on renewable energy sources, it is anticipated that a resolution will be adopted by the Energy Council on 11 May, which will support our proposals.
I assure you that we will make every effort in this direction, in collaboration with Member States.
And I hope the European Parliament will support this proposal.
More specifically, as regards the amendments which you propose, the Commission accepts, in principle, Amendments Nos 1, 2, 6, 7 and 9.
However, as regards Amendments Nos 1 and 2, in accordance with the position it outlined during the first reading, the Commission considers that it is more suitable to place the fundamental principles which are introduced with the respective explanatory statements Nos 20 and 19.
As regards Amendments Nos 7 and 9, they are already covered at other points in the ALTENER II proposal.
The content of Amendment No 6 is better placed with, and is covered in, the proposal of the White Paper on renewable energy sources.
As regards Amendment No 3, the Commission considers the reference to indirect costs and their inclusion in tariffs to be premature.
Amendments Nos 5 and 8 concern the amount which is entered in the budget.
In this regard, the Commission inserted in the minutes of the Energy Council of December 1997 a communication in which it opposed including in the text of the resolution any amount concerning the budget.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11.00 a.m.
Air pollution by motor vehicles The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0126/98), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the common position adopted by the Council on 23 March 1998, with a view to adopting a Directive of the European Parliament and Council relating to measures to be taken against air pollution by emissions from motor vehicles and amending Directive 70/220/EEC with regard to light commercial vehicles (C4-0177/98-96/0164B(COD)) (Rapporteur: Mr.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in February we took a decision in relation to the Auto/Oil Programme on air quality in Europe.
It is for vehicles such as these that we need to add a component as soon as possible to ensure an improvement in the air quality in the towns of Europe.
That shows how quickly and efficiently Parliament can work.
That applies in particular to Amendment No 5 and the other amendments connected with it.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11.00 a.m.
Votes Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose to our Parliament that we show solidarity with European Parliament staff, who are currently holding a standing general meeting to defend the independence of the European civil service against nationalization and politicization.
Our position is to support this text unamended.
The question of the decommissioning of weapons in Northern Ireland is a very delicate and deeply sensitive question.
Therefore, we support what is in the agreement but will not be voting for amendments to the joint resolution.
Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have yet another debate.
Mr President, I did not table these amendments this morning to create any trouble for this House.
However, I want to point out that in voting for the agreement and for the joint resolution, this is what the agreement says we are voting for: ' All participants to the agreement accordingly reaffirm their commitment to the total disarmament of all paramilitary organizations' .
Mr Falconer, I am very glad you keep reminding us of the Bureau's instructions, in case anyone should have forgotten them!
Mr President, given that the implementation of the single currency is nothing but a political fraud, I will not take part in this vote.
Paragraph 11 Mr President, I should like to propose the following oral amendment, namely to replace the final words in the German text, i.
Paragraph 26 Mr President, in that case I propose as rapporteur that in the second sentence the word 'werden ' should be replaced by 'können ' , that is "will' by "may' .
Amendment No 7 Mr President, we have accepted other oral amendments and so, with your consent and with the House's consent, but particularly with the rapporteur's agreement, I would like to propose an oral amendment because the amendment is incorrectly formulated in terms of the law.
It is - I repeat - a small technical amendment that I would like to read, if you agree: "The European Council is asked to observe its undertakings and to propose a single candidate for the Presidency of the European Central Bank during its forthcoming Summit, on 2 May 1998' .
Mr President, we discussed the amendment in its original form in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and we came to the conclusion that we should not agree to it because it contained two factual inaccuracies and was formulated in such a way that we could not accept it.
In fact, the vote we are going to take today brings to an end a process which has been in progress for six years now.
The reason I am opposed to these amendments is clear.
Amendment No 29 Mr President, even before this vote I indicated my wish to speak for a quite simple reason.
Clearly, a translation has been made that is liable to be misunderstood in several languages, and this ambiguous translation for Amendment No 29 may also lead to a quite different outcome in the vote.
We are dealing here with a measure against youth unemployment.
Mrs Thors, as you are aware, this is a common practice, and when reports do not present problems it does not matter in the least.
There are already working groups in the ecological area of the textile industry.
Mrs Soltwedel-Schäfer, as you are aware Parliament, in its wisdom, has the right to vote for whatever position it thinks it should take, without taking into consideration either the position of the Council, or the position of the Commission, or the positions of many of us.
The present directive fulfils this purpose insofar as it provides a sufficiently comprehensive and flexible framework at Community level through its combination of definitions of protected services, the application of internal market rules and the exclusion of all unauthorized access technologies.
Resolution on Northern Ireland Mr President, I really welcome this opportunity to speak.
I believe it was very fitting that John Hume, who has played a most significant role in getting the peace process to where it is today, should have been our main speaker.
I want though to reject the criticisms of the Socialist Group made by Jim Nicholson yesterday and again today.
Our role in supporting Northern Ireland has been a major success.
I am also delighted that our group initiated the proposal to have the debate here yesterday because it is important that Parliament 's views are expressed clearly and that our continuing good will is seen publicly.
I also want to pay tribute in finishing to the role played by the Women's Coalition in the process.
Can I say to you and the Socialist Group that I speak in this House for the largest Unionist Group in Northern Ireland.
If the Socialist Group wish to discount what we feel, wish to discount what we say and wish to discount what we really believe in our inner hearts, then you can do so.
Mrs Malone, let me make it clear in this House today, I want all terrorist groups to lay down their arms.
I would like to say, unfortunately, this House sent the wrong message to the Unionist people that I represent in Northern Ireland.
The success of the present negotiations can be traced back to the signing of the Downing Street Declaration of 1993 which set the parameters of joint cooperation, mutual respect, equality and reform of inequities that were inherent in the systems.
The ongoing support, both financial and moral, of the institutions of the European Union has been a vital ingredient of the process.
On 22 May the island of Ireland will vote in dual referenda on the agreement and the proposed changes to the Irish Constitution, British constitutional legislation and the establishment of new North-South Bodies.
von Wogau report (A4-0130/98) Mr President, in the vote on the von Wogau report on convergence conditions for the introduction of the single currency, the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations wanted to carry out a test in order to clearly demonstrate the wide abyss between the ideas of the European Parliament and the national parliaments with regard to how monetary union should be controlled.
So in this declaration, the possible role of national parliaments is completely eliminated.
But at the same time, its control will never have the legitimacy of national parliaments, for it is too distanced from the people.
Thus, European monetary union is constructed in such a way that the most legitimate parliamentary control is also the most impossible.
Mr President, I have voted against this report because it follows the line of eurofanaticism, a line obsessively aimed at the sole objective of the single currency, without trying to outline a common economic policy at the same time.
By submitting to all this, the majority is unfortunately reserving a subordinate role for the European Parliament.
A political project of this kind must have the support of a majority of the people in order to be implemented.
The introduction of the single currency must not make us forget our overseas economic partners.
However, it must not make us forget that the future euro zone can help to strengthen our partners' economies and offer us wider access to the market in general.
The report concludes that eleven Member States - Belgium, Germany, Spain, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Austria, Portugal and Finland - fulfil the requirements for participation in the third stage of EMU, and that these nations should be included from the beginning on 1 January 1999.
The report by the Commission, ' EURO 1999' , accepts that the eleven Member States mentioned above fulfil the necessary conditions for participation in the third stage of EMU.
The Danish Social Democrats are of the opinion that these eleven nations may participate in the third stage of EMU and we do not wish to prevent these nations from entering into closer mutual collaboration.
I am in favour of a single currency.
I voted "Yes' to Maastricht.
The American Federal Reserve or the Bundesbank draw their powers from laws, enabling parliaments and governments to amend them at will, which guarantees the latter the power to be heard in case of a serious problem.
Here, the idea of harmonization emerges more or less on the horizon.
Social Europe is on hold, as it was at Vilvorde and sometimes, unfortunately, the orthodoxy of competition at all costs causes unemployment and social decline.
Thus, with regard to political and social issues, the Maastricht promises have not been kept.
Because of the poor translation, Mrs Raschhofer, Mr Hager, Mr Linser and Mr Lukas confused Amendment No 11 and Article 11.
The von Wogau report recommends that Parliament should approve the Commission's proposal that the third stage should begin on 1 January 1999 with eleven Member States.
The only matters of importance are for "monetary policy sovereignty (sic) to be transferred to the European Central Bank on 1 January 1999' and "the immediate implementation of the terms of the Pact for Stability and Growth' .
The franc zone is regulated within the framework of the French budget and, we are told, will not be a euro zone.
This trend to political union is, of course, the reason that many people support the single currency, but I do not believe that a huge growth in the powers and budget of the European Union has public consent.
The single currency project has been driven by politics and is designed to end in political union.
Desama recommendation (A4-0140/98) Today we must give an opinion on the Council's common position concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas.
The Council's common position represents a good compromise; we need to keep to it and not give in to "liberalism at any price' .
The ALTENER II programme must therefore include bio-fuel within its list of renewable energy sources and we are happy with the Commission's initiative.
Indeed, within the Agenda 2000 framework, no specific measure to allow bio-fuel development is envisaged.
On the contrary, within its reforms of the "large-scale farming' COM, the Commission proposes a 0 % compulsory rate of fallow land, along with an alignment of the aid to oil-producing crops with that of aid to straw cereal crops, on the pretext of both the Blair House agreements limiting huge amounts of fallow land and a future possible gain in profitability in oil production using, of course, genetically modified seed.
In this particular case, the Commission plans to develop a programme facilitating the use of renewable energy sources, whilst preventing the Member States from taking tax measures to encourage the use of renewable energy sources and whilst eliminating all the efforts European farmers have made to create and invest in the area of using agricultural products for fuel purposes.
Castagnetti report (A4-0135/98) We can only be pleased with the Commission's proposal concerning systems and measures for work-linked training in Member States.
I fully support this initiative of European pathways for training, enabling young people to alternate their work-linked training between Member States.
I believe that the initiative and vision of Melina Mercouri have been justified through the general success and favourable impression of the institution, which is regarded as a symbol of the viability of culture in the European Union.
The Monfils report, which we are debating today, as well as the initial proposal of the European Commission, aims to further strengthen and support the institution of the "European City of Culture' .
However, in our opinion, many of Parliament's amendments are unclear, both in their wording and in relation to their anticipated results.
The proposal for a directive currently under review is one of the measures announced in the Commission Green Paper relating to supplementary pensions in the EU.
Gasòliba I Böhm report (A4-0133/98) The Gasòliba I Böhm report notes an economic recovery in Europe, and proclaims that the framework of economic and monetary union will be able to increase this in the future by creating the conditions for a zone of stability.
The reduction in public deficits over the past few years has largely been obtained through increases in tax and social security payments, which reached a record level of 42.4 % of European GDP in 1996.
The report states that the rapid reduction of public deficits in many EU Member States prior to the start of the third stage of EMU has had unfortunate consequences for employment in the EU.
It lacks two key factors: firstly, although unemployment is a major problem, increases in poverty, insecurity and inequality are also dreadful, for there are some countries where the published unemployment rates are low but where the number of poor and marginalized workers is increasing considerably.
So I will vote against this "single-minded' report.
The report by the European Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy goes in the same direction.
Resolution on the textile industry (B4-0438/98) The fact that at least 600 000 jobs have been "scrapped' in the textiles and clothing sector in less than five years with a massive, continuous redundancy process is causing anguish.
It is hoped that the Council will outline a new common strategy to encourage the adaptation of the sector, on the eve of new liberalization worldwide.
The Highlands and Islands of Scotland has a lot of area heavily dependent on the textile industry: Harris Tweed, Johnstone Mills at Elgin, Brora Mills and Shetland Knitwear.
Even at the level of special programmes, the new proposals for the Structural Funds within the framework of Agenda 2000 provide for the abolition of the RETEX programme.
It has not made any attempt, even in a rudimentary way, to safeguard European production in the face of unfair competition from those countries which practise social dumping.
The joint resolution of the European Parliament, although it contains many interesting proposals, especially concerning the funding of the industry, the implementation of international labour agreements and measures against social dumping, greatly limits its horizon and avoids setting out the enormous problems in the sector - the relocations which are fatally affecting the European textile industry, the general crisis within the industry - and the measures for combating it.
Scientific studies have shown that the number of dolphins caught by European fishermen has been very small since this limit was applied, a limit which does not apply in the Baltic Sea where fishing with drift nets up to 21 kilometres long is still permitted.
It is particularly regrettable that, on this point, the Commission decided to disregard the international rule, by looking for the total abolition of the use of drift nets in the Atlantic and Mediterranean, for this proposal is not based on scientific considerations but in reality stems from political bargaining.
For example, in paragraph 123 of the decision on hormones by the WTO's Dispute Settlement Body, the principle of precaution is completely overlooked.
New legislation regarding the well-being of laying hens has just been submitted to us, obliging the area per chicken to be doubled, which will paradoxically lead to an increase in the death rate amongst chickens due to cannibalism (CNEVA study) and will increase production costs by 40 %.
