Everyone in this House knows that I have said very clearly time after time, orally and in writing, and in reports by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, that I am of the opinion that the same statute must apply to all Members and that there must be no discrimination on grounds of nationality because that is against Article 6 of the Treaty.
Of all Community regional development policies, the Cohesion Fund is one of the main instruments of that policy, since its essential aim is to help combat the current disparities within the European Union.
The four countries which receive aid from this Fund are still the most affected by such disparities, as was clearly shown in the Commission's first three-yearly report on cohesion.
We note with satisfaction that the take-up of appropriations from the Structural Funds for 1996 amounts to 98 % of available commitments and 95 % of available payments.
We therefore call on the Member States to respect the three-month deadline for transferring funds to final beneficiaries.
More effective controls and closer cooperation between the Commission and the Member States are certainly exposing more cases of this kind.
The Commission has proposed additionality as one of the criteria for a 10 % reserve.
In conclusion I would like to express my thanks to all those who have provided help and support in the drafting of this report.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Commissioner, a year ago the Council decided to modify the Treaty on European Union inserting an important clarification into Article 130a, at the heart of the cohesion policy.
The island regions, which are for obvious geographical reasons far from continental Europe and its internal market, were added to the list of the European Union's least favoured regions - regions therefore in need of special, focused help - because of a series of extra costs which nature imposes upon them.
Finally the European Union acknowledged, on that happy occasion, what it had already acknowledged for other regions, such as the ultra-peripheral regions or the regions of the far north: the right to be treated and considered differently, an exception to the principle of uniformity of which it is often a victim.
A year ago, the Council gave us a huge container to fill with ideas and constructive proposals, a container whose legal basis is the new text of Article 158 of the Treaty of Amsterdam and Declaration No 30 which is attached.
I do not want this House to open the controversy on the linguistic translation of Article 158 - the Committee on Regional Policy did not concern itself with this problem - and I leave that task to whoever is competent in this Parliament and possibly the Court of Justice.
If it is true, as it is true, for example, that Community regulations must comply with their primary legal source - that is, the Treaty -, I do not understand why the proposals for regulations on the reform of the Structural Funds, presented by the Commission on 18 March, do not refer to any insertion of that aspect of insularity which concerns 14 million European citizens.
In my report I describe an integrated policy for the island regions, coordination managed by an 'Interservice Group' within the General Secretariat, inclusion in the new Interreg of a specific chapter for inter-island cooperation, a criterion for eligibility for the Structural Funds concerning the insular geo-economic factor, and an intermediate island tax zone between the continental and ultra-peripheral zones which already exist, allowing the island regions to compete on equal terms with all the other continental regions, if accompanied by valid financial incentive measures.
These decisions will only be the product of Amsterdam if they go in the direction stated in the declaration attached to the Treaty, which recognizes the need for Community legislation to take into account the disadvantages imposed by the island handicap , with a view to adopting specific measures - if justified - in favour of these regions with the ultimate aim of integrating them more in the common market on equal terms.
It is the Amsterdam Treaty which uses these expressions, not an islander like the rapporteur, who nonetheless obviously fully recognizes himself in this Treaty.
Madam President, the motion for a resolution on the Cohesion Fund by the Committee on Regional Policy is concise and clear, and addresses practically all the aspects worth emphasizing.
So we all benefit when investments are made in the countries with a lower income.
Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Klaß for her excellent report and to say that the financial instrument for fisheries guidance, the FIFG, only represents about 1.5 to 2 % of the Structural Funds.
In 1995 the position of this instrument was in marked contrast to the rest of the Structural Funds in that commitments reached 100 % but in 1996 the position was reversed with only 75 % of commitments, giving it at face value a much worse performance than the regional, social and agricultural structural fund.
We do not have a clear explanation by the Commission of the position in the various regions but the Court of Auditors' report draws attention to the situation in greater detail.
For the total programme up to 1996, 71 % had been committed and 14 % payments made.
The Court of Auditors tells us that in 1996 91 % of the PESCA Fund had been committed and 43 % in payments.
Surely, within the framework of EMU, we should have a more balanced public spending programme in each Member State.
Madam President, first of all I have a few comments regarding the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
To begin with, 1996 marks a turning point in the use of Structural Fund appropriations since, for the first time, we have recorded a very active year and this reveals a distinct improvement in the use of appropriations for commitments and payments, as compared with the last two years.
This, then, is a good year in which to prepare for the reform of the Structural Funds in the framework of Agenda 2000.
As draftsman, I would like to make a few remarks concerning the European Social Fund that are wholly encouraging and I would like to say that, with respect to both commitments and payments, we have been able to use up all the appropriations detailed in the budget for the first time.
Nevertheless, in spite of everything, we need to qualify this asset, due to the fact that Objective 4 has proved difficult to apply on the ground and that take-up rates for Community initiatives remain inadequate.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, we in the Committee on the Environment consider that many of the Commission's commitment appropriations have been honoured, that payment appropriations have been advanced almost in full and that the balance between assistance for transport and for the environment has been maintained.
Madam President, we have two very important reports before us today.
The first, the report by Mrs Klaß, reviews the implementation of the Structural Funds in 1996.
It is important that this Parliament takes its scrutiny and monitoring roles seriously as regard structural fund applications.
It is precisely at this point that we should emphasize the role which the European Parliament and the structural and cohesion policies play in combating unemployment, protecting the environment, advancing equal opportunities and building a People's Europe while closing the gap between poorer and wealthier regions.
When organizing this redistribution we need to observe a few basic principles, which being few are all the more important for it.
Parliament takes its role as a monitor here very seriously indeed and calls on the Member States to do likewise.
I should like to repeat that when we talk about these aspects of regional policy and cohesion funds, we are talking about 34 % of the EU's budget.
The Member States should also take the principle of insularity into account in their fiscal measures.
As Mr Viola said, I think this report is about implementing the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam in relation to island status.
In fact, and this is the main point of our debate, these regions have never been perceived strictly and specifically in terms of their insularity.
Their future depends on it, as does economic and social cohesion, which is a highly cherished principle in the European Union.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this joint debate I should like to emphasize further - as the Viola report does - the need to take the problems of the island regions into account and to adapt Community policies to their particular characteristics with more flexibility.
However, we must be careful to distinguish island regions from ultra-peripheral islands and regions, as indeed the Treaty revised in Amsterdam very properly does.
I should also like to associate myself more closely with the conclusions of the Klaß report on Structural Funds in 1996, which makes it clear that the budget has been better implemented generally, achieving around 98 % of its commitments, but which also calls for more and better information on the proper application of the principle of additionality by some Member States.
For that reason I am obliged to concentrate the House's attention on the Arias Cañete report on the Cohesion Fund for 1996.
To propose, as the Member does, that the European Parliament should consider limiting the benefits of the future Cohesion Fund to those Member States which at present are parties to the cohesion agreement but have not joined the euro, that is to say to try to exclude Spain, Ireland and Portugal from the Cohesion Fund in future, is not only an attempt to subvert the legal basis of the Treaty itself, but confirms that in this House there are Members for whom economic and social cohesion are mere figures of rhetoric which must bow to the reigning financial and monetarist interests.
If by chance the amendments were to be approved, which of course I do not believe they will, we should have reason to wonder where this European Union of ours is going and what has become of the concepts of cohesion and solidarity between its peoples and its Member States.
It is a matter of great urgency that both the Commission and the Member States should now effectively comply with the requirement contained in the Structural Fund regulation for the sustainable development of the regions.
They are all about making Europe more acceptable to the citizens, whether they live in the remote islands or the larger islands and whatever their location.
If you look round Europe you can see Scotland with its hundred islands, you can go through the Åland Archipelago between Finland and Sweden and you will see one island after another.
It would be tempting to say that they do not have common problems but I believe they do.
In many cases this is compounded by smallness of size.
These are important items to build into our Agenda 2000 discussions.
Madam President, I congratulate the rapporteurs on their reports.
It is therefore pleasing that this old problem seems to be in the process of being resolved.
I fully support Mrs Klaß in her view that the annual report should include information on the transmission of funds to final beneficiaries.
It is therefore essential that it is properly implemented in all Member States.
It is by this means that the general public will be able to identify with the European Union and the work in their constituencies.
It would also be remiss of me not to take this opportunity to say to the Commission that, as we move towards the reform and Agenda 2000 in 1999, the rigid criterion of 75 % of GDP is not only unreasonable, it will be difficult for many regions to accept.
The cohesion funding has given certain areas a particular advantage.
Madam President, the National Alliance and I in particular are aware of the disadvantages of the island regions, and in accordance with our position in matters of economic and social cohesion, we are very concerned for the future of the islands, if the reform of the Structural Funds is approved without substantial changes.
With the reform of the Structural Funds, whose main points are set out in Agenda 2000, particular importance has been given to the principle of concentration and, please note, among the various territories which will be disqualified from the Objective 1 programme are many islands.
This is nonsense and it also appears that the experts in the European Commission who have worked on the reform of the Structural Funds have not read the new Amsterdam Treaty, which provides for the specific nature of island regions either through a rewriting of Article 130a or through the attached declaration.
Mr President, we have before us three important and good reports.
As regards Mr Viola's report on islands, allow me to pay tribute to that report by associating myself, word for word, with my colleague Carmen Díez de Rivera Icaza's excellent speech.
However, we would ask him to withdraw Amendment No 4 because we are talking about the Cohesion Fund for this period.
But I would earnestly call on him to withdraw his Amendment No 4, since we are not making a decision on a future debate.
If we manage to get that amendment withdrawn, I think this report will have all the qualitative and positive ingredients it needs.
That is all I have to say regarding the annual report for 1996 and its evaluation.
In some aspects of the resolution the rapporteur has tried - although in my opinion this was not part of his remit - to keep all four current beneficiary Member States in the Cohesion Fund beyond the year 1999.
I am particularly pleased that my group, the Union for Europe Group, played an important part in ensuring that this vitally important matter is the subject of a report from the Regional Affairs Committee.
While I recognize that the problems of Corsica, Sardinia and some of the Greek islands are very specific, I would also like the Commission to recognize that there are small islands in my own country that could and should be considered for specific Community action.
The budget for 1996 was fully implemented and no case of fraud was reported.
In this context, I pay tribute to the Irish Government for a whole series of actions it has taken in this sector.
I thank the Commissioner for her work in this area.
The hallmark of Structural Fund administration is sluggishness and bureaucracy.
When talking about these regions, reference is often made to the need to adopt specific measures to compensate for the disadvantages they suffer compared with mainland regions.
The Viola report is an attempt to avoid that.
My group supports all the report's proposals for improving the situation in island regions.
We therefore believe that the 75 % threshold should be retained.
We also believe that in Agenda 2000 the Commission must allow the Member States to authorize national, regional aid to those areas - such as the islands - that are not covered by aid under the EUʼs Structural Funds.
The second step will be the vote on this report, which really sets out the basis for an integrated policy which will create equal conditions for competition and development in both continental and island regions.
Fourthly, alternative fiscal measures need to be introduced and financial incentives offered in order to promote the endogenous development of the islands.
Our problems can be solved if the Commission, with the support of our national governments, implements a plan of action, within the framework of Agenda 2000, to apply Community legislation based on the principle of equal opportunities.
Madam President, Ireland is a good example of the effective use of Structural Funds.
There is now, however, a very strong case for regionalization in Ireland for the next round of Structural Fund monies.
Some regions in Ireland are clearly out-performing other regions in terms of economic performance and therefore all regions cannot and must not be put into the same bracket for the next tranche of structural fund money.
Figures recently produced from the Central Statistics Office clearly show that the midland region was below 75 % of the average EU standard of living.
Therefore, the case for granting Objective 1 status to the midland region for the period 2000 to 2006 is both real and compelling and beyond reproach.
If Objective 1 status was accorded to the midland region, it would develop as a region on the back of the infrastructural improvements such as the Portlaoise bypass, so as to attract more investment and create more jobs.
Mr President, I would like to say how pleased I am that this report, probably for the first time in the history of the European Parliament, takes special account of our northern Member Statesʼ archipelagos, that is to say the archipelagos of south-western Finland, Åland and Sweden.
Mr President, I want to draw people's attention to something happening here today which they might find surprising.
The Viola report is an excellent report, as has already been said.
Thirdly, we should introduce alternative fiscal measures which take account of the special nature of the islands in these regions and encourage local economies by introducing tax incentives.
However, in a debate being held in May 1998, surely the benefit of time can allow us to draw a wider conclusion about what happens when the programme in effect starts three years late.
Therefore, I hope that this morning we will recommit ourselves to both ensuring that the budget for the current structural fund programme is fully committed in the 1999 budget, fully honouring the Edinburgh Agreement, and that everything possible is done to ensure that the new programming period from 2000 onwards starts on time.
I hope too that she will offer support for the Community initiatives and the innovative projects which, as the report points out, represent 70 % of the total underspends.
Apart from these ultra-peripheral regions, the island regions are areas within the European Union which are differentiated and experience certain difficulties.
The new Article 130a of the Treaty of Amsterdam already introduces a legislative point, and a declaration made at the Amsterdam Conference also goes in the same direction.
In other words, the image we have of the European Union is of a continent, but that ignores the fact that there is a whole series of island regions which experience difficulties.
Secondly, Mrs Klaß established in her report that there has been a considerable increase in fraud in the area of structural funding, a fourfold rise, to be exact.
Madam Commissioner, I hope that we can include these areas not just by saying that we need a little more control, but by making our structural policies a little more watertight in the coming years as far as fraud is concerned.
So it is encouraging that the Cohesion Fund has at last reached the ultra-peripheral regions, for example, as a result of this House's repeated efforts to call attention to their needs.
This fact is all the more relevant inasmuch as in Portugal 55 % of the finance from the Fund has up to now been concentrated in its most highly-developed region.
In 1996 the rate of application of Structural Funds increased, but in future it will be necessary to speed up and simplify their allocation and make them easier to use.
For that reason, the proposals contained in Agenda 2000 must not penalize Portugal and take away a slice of the funds it now receives, because that would be unfair and morally wrong.
Virtue should be rewarded, and therefore Portugal should go on receiving Structural Funds at their present level in the next Community aid programme.
Mr Cañete's report, which in itself was a very good piece of work, is the 1996 annual review of the Commission's report for this period.
Let us then not anticipate the revision of the Structural Funds and the review of the Cohesion Funds, which will surely go hand in hand with it.
GDP is over 100 % of the European average.
The Isle of Wight similarly has great people but GDP is just 67 % of the European average.
Unemployment is 20 %.
It is the poorest district in England but has no European Objective 1 funding because, statistically, it is measured with Hampshire.
The British government, the Council of Ministers and the Commission do not want to take any action on Clause 158 of the Treaty.
In the words of the Treaty, while Member States have a per capita GNP which is lower than 90 % of the Community average, we will need that Fund.
Unfortunately, the fact that we have achieved monetary union does not mean that regional and social disparities no longer exist in the European Union.
But there is still a lot left to do, as the Commission itself admitted in its threeyearly report on cohesion, and in its proposal for Agenda 2000, maintaining the Cohesion Fund after 1999, even within monetary union.
But as has also been said here, we shall have the opportunity to talk about the future in forthcoming debates within the Committee on Regional Policy.
Even the relationship between transport and the environment has come closer to the desired balance and you will see in the annual report for 1997 that deficits in the individual Member States have also been progressively reduced, with the result that the Commission expects the target balance to be achieved in all four beneficiary countries by the end of 1999.
The Commission is involved in intensive discussions with the cohesion countries about the need for progress to be made in the rail sector and in other environmentally friendly areas of transport.
Your proposal to create local and regional structures within the context of Cohesion Fund projects does not, unfortunately, comply with the Cohesion Fund regulation.
This positive development has continued in 1997 with payments at a rate of utilization of 99.2 %.
A certain improvement was visible in 1997, but the general situation is anything but satisfactory.
The financial plan which was agreed in Edinburgh earmarked 39 % of commitments for the final two years of the programme planning period.
At the time of its implementation on 31 December 1997 this percentage figure had in fact increased to 41 %, that is to say 2 % more than was planned.
In this respect, we are building on the experience gained from SEM 2000.
The Commission is also in agreement with the rapporteur that the new communications technologies can offer the island regions a wonderful opportunity for their development and for reducing the problems associated with their temporal and geographical remoteness.
The Commission is prepared to work with you in drawing up a detailed policy.
Thank you, Mr Tomlinson.
We must therefore table an oral amendment, following the nuclear tests carried out by India on 11 and 13 May and the risks which are still very evident in the region.
I would thus like to present you with this oral amendment: "views as most serious the continued presence of nuclear weapons in the Indian subcontinent which poses a threat to international stability, and regrets that the lack of a genuine common EU policy on security prevents the Union from playing a political role in the establishment of a dialogue on the strategic balance between the countries in the region' .
Mr President, the oral amendment can only be accepted if there are no objections.
I do not accept the oral amendment. (More than 12 Members stood up) Mr President, I would just like to say to the Members who have stood up that if they do not accept the oral amendment, the Socialist Group will not be voting for this report. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, I want to point out that there should be a correction to Amendment No 20, at least in the Swedish version.
When you moved to vote on the recitals, you combined recitals J and paragraph 1 under the same vote.
We were also told that the existing recital J had become recital K.
You put recital J to the vote which was the former recital J, rather than recital K which it became after this corrigendum.
We may rejoice in the fact that in this fundamental matter with regard to the future of our children and our societies, Community programmes, such as Socrates, have contributed to the growing awareness in each Member State that improvements are possible in higher education establishments, as compared with the situation in other Member States.
In the unified Europe we are building, we must deploy every resource towards achieving a harmonization in terms of an increase in the grades achieved by qualified students graduating from the higher education establishments of different Member States.
For all these reasons - even if we might actually regret, along with the rapporteur, that the Council did not consider it advisable to assign the Commission the responsibility for getting it off the ground - I am pleased today to see a long process that began in 1991 finally come to fruition.
After years of waiting, this result will allow us to create and implement the "European Quality Assurance Network' in the higher education of Member States of the Union.
The traffic of vehicles between all the Member States is merely a by-product of the wishes of the Brussels Eurocrats.
It is nothing of the kind and the growth of the Mafia and terrorism in all Member States is all the proof we need.
Certainly, it is important that we should be able to combat this international crimewave that continues to grow dangerously and the report by my colleague, Mr Bazin, makes a very favourable contribution to that cause.
It is therefore high time we responded and attacked the primary causes of this entire breakdown: the Europe of Maastricht, the Europe of Schengen and now the Europe of Amsterdam.
Herman report (A4-0195/98) Mr President, the Council has just presented us with a proposal for a decision defining the application procedures for Article 105(4) of the Treaty which stipulates that from 1 January 1999, the European Central Bank should be consulted by the authorities in each state regarding any proposals for regulations in areas within its jurisdiction.
Even worse, he has expressed indignation that Article 105(4) merely allows for simple consultation of the ECB without allowing the minimum right of veto.
Such a conception must still have been prevalent in 1991, at a time when this ambitious project seemed unlikely to appeal to certain Member States.
And it is to this ploy that the European Parliament has just lent itself, by voting in favour of the Herman report.
Those in France who demand a referendum on the single currency should find here new arguments in support of their campaign.
Since we do not subscribe to the idea of a common currency for the EU Member States, we have chosen to abstain from the vote on this report.
The report proposed by our colleague, Mr Herman, addresses the issue of setting up the euro and its "secular' arm, the European Central Bank, a sturdy supporter of this particular currency; I therefore accept the guidelines presented to us today.
And I would say that of those who are most horrified by the notion that the European Union might have a major political role, many would vote for this text, not through a European persuasion, but simply because they subscribe to liberal, monetarist dogma.
As far as I am concerned, I will vote for this text, not through ideology but through a genuine European commitment.
I would hope too, that many of us realize that the construction of European does not come to an abrupt halt on 1 January 1999 but that, on the contrary, it must be stepped up from 2 May 1998.
I hope, one year away from a major political deadline, that a genuine debate will be opened up concerning the Europe we seek to offer its citizens, as regards the constitution, the political Europe and the social Europe.
The debate and the vote on the Herman report contain important considerations for the legal harmonization of monetary policy matters, but, more significantly, they also prepare the way for the establishment of a workable European Central Bank which will be the basis for a successful common currency.
The statistical data must be provided by the Commission, or by Eurostat, so that the capital shares held by the Member States in the ECB - respectively 50 % of each Member State's proportion of the total population and GDP of the EU - can be determined.
The incorporation of both these parameters could quite possibly become a model for other projects and institutions in the European Union.
Redondo Jiménez report (A4-0163/98) We have abstained from the vote on this report because we believe that the common agricultural policy is in need of fundamental reform.
During our work in the Committee on Agriculture, our rapporteur attempted to sow some confusion with regard to the production of potato starch and the setting up of a potato CMO.
During the vote in the Committee on Agriculture, all amendments which sought to merge these two types of production were rejected.
Historically, aid for starch potato production was established in order to maintain this special sector which is in direct competition with the production of cereal-based starch.
In fact, the quota, the competitive balance with cereal prices for starch manufacture and the net operating margin which is higher than that for cereals, justify the legitimate stance in favour of pegging the minimum price of starch potato at 20 % above the basic intervention price for maize, in terms of both the minimum price and for compensatory payment, all within the framework of the Santer package.
Finally, we must introduce a measure of flexibility in this quota-setting system to take account of climatic fluctuations which affect the volume of production.
This is why our group has tabled a further amendment to enable a starch manufacturer, during a marketing year, to use - either above or below that year - not more than 10 % of his valid quota for the next or the last campaign, as applicable.
This 10 % flexibility with respect to an average campaign allows quotas to be adapted to meet variations in production.
Starch potato production requires expensive special investments, resulting in high cost prices of around FF 15 600/ha.
Finally, I am glad that the vote in committee prevented our rapporteur from introducing a measure of confusion between starch potato production and the production of potatoes for human consumption.
The problem is not whether we set up a potato CMO, but quite simply we must not "corrupt' the debate concerning the very special starch potato production sector.
Cardiff European Council Mr President, the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations would like to issue an appeal to the forthcoming Cardiff European Council.
The Council should be informed of a Franco-German initiative on subsidiarity, decided on at the bilateral meeting in Avignon on 6 and 7 May last.
The proposed price cuts of 30 % in beef, 20 in cereals and 15 % in dairy prices without full compensation would be devastating for Irish farmers.
Like the rapporteur, I am pleased to highlight the progress made, albeit limited, by the CFSP during the past year, but I also temper this with the dilatory approach and the difficulties surrounding each step forward, as well as the distance we still have to travel before the European Union has a genuine common foreign and security policy.
In addition, I would stress the democratic need to see Parliament hitch its wagon to the major policy guidelines of the common foreign and security policy.
However, the report aims for the most part to create a common, uniform, supranational foreign and security policy with an increasing military element, which we simply cannot support.
The report emphasizes the new opportunities that the Amsterdam Treaty offers for the gradual establishment of a common defence policy.
This enables the EU to intervene in a conflict by force of arms with the aim of making peace.
The right of veto is retained, but is diluted via a system of so-called constructive abstention from voting.
Because I believe that the European Union must be a cooperation between sovereign states, I cannot vote for the Spencer report.
Potential cost-saving measures must be examined.- Gasòliba i Böhm report (A4-0193/98) We consider the wording used in point 35 of the report to be excessive, particularly as far as tax reductions are concerned.
The Commission's recommendation on the broad economic policy guidelines has one merit: it is consistent with the principles of a single currency and pushes the consequences of monetary unification to their logical end, the harmonization of national policies and the introduction of flexibility in economic structures.
The text of the Commission is quite clear: it states that if the economies of Member States do not make the stipulated progress in terms of flexibility, the consequences will be serious.
In particular, we are told bluntly that in EMU, salary adjustment must play a more important role in the process of adapting to new economic circumstances, especially when snags specific to certain countries arise.
Under pressure from the Socialist group this reality was deleted from paragraph 12 of the motion for a resolution.
Certainly, in the first case, as regards an upsurge in growth, it should be based on a European approach and common rules and policies.
When we are landed with policies that bring us to the level of unemployment that prevails in Europe today, we should at least be cautious and moderate when we decide, in principle, on a policy introduced by a government democratically elected to implement that policy.
The report by our colleague Gasòliba i Böhm emphasizes, as it should, the significant progress that all the Member States of the European Union have made in order to qualify for the third phase of Economic and Monetary Union.
Similarly, it is important that those countries that are not yet members of the euro area regard their exchange policy as a matter of common interest.
We must pursue, or initiate in the case of those countries who have not yet understood it - such as France -, a reduction in public expenditure and prevent tax rises or, even better, reduce taxes.
The second concern relates to the high average European unemployment rate, rising above the 10 % mark of the active population.
Since the report by Mr Gasòliba i Böhm stresses the vast amount of work we have yet to do before EMU can reach total fruition, I shall vote in favour.
But this proposal goes much further than what I consider to be reasonable.
Point 25 reflects a continuation of the coordination policy, which appears to be the guiding star in the EU, this time with a view to coordinating "tax systems' .
This goes entirely against the principle of subsidiarity.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of the report by Mr Gasòliba i Böhm.
Firstly, a high level of employment is part and parcel of a successful EMU, and strong emphasis needs to be placed on employment pursuant to the Amsterdam Treaty.-Secondly, the low level of employment in the EU is a source of extensive social, economic and budgetary costs.-Thirdly, we need Investment in training, research and development.-Fourthly, measures to promote investment and stimulate internal demand within the EU are needed.-Fifthly, establishing and maintaining a strong social dialogue is essential.However, the report's appeal for increased approximation of budgetary and fiscal policy at Community level reflects a lack of understanding that some Member States are not participating in the third stage of EMU, not because they fail to meet the criteria of convergence, but because they do not wish to participate in the closer coordination of financial and monetary policy, not to mention comprehensive coordination of monetary policy.
We could not endorse the points in the report referring to the harmonization of macroeconomic policies - point 8 -, including budgetary policy - point 7 - and fiscal policy - point 25.
Denmark is choosing to maintain a fixed exchange rate with the euro after 1 January 1999.
Many of the general guidelines from the Commission on the economic policy are good, such as the proposal for reducing unemployment and increasing employment.
They peep through, albeit timorously, when a 2 % limit is suggested to prevent the reduction of inflation from turning into deflation, when he has the necessary ounce of courage(!) to mention the subject of democratic legitimacy and the principle of subsidiarity where the question of taxes is concerned.
That obviously includes the Gasòliba i Böhm report.
I strongly agree with the committee's assessment of the Commission's recommendation; in other words, I fully endorse the view that countries that are not participating in EMU from the outset should consider their currency policy as a matter of joint interest.
We accept the report for two quite different reasons: 1) It takes a number of important steps in the right direction, particularly in highlighting the macroeconomic role of investments and the need not to set as absolute the objective of inflation control.
Even though in some important respects we hold quite different, and in some ways more practical, views on the necessary transition to a new ecological and social development model, we are nevertheless prepared to acknowledge this.
In view of the risk, which has been clearly expressed in the debate, that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in particular might completely drain the Commission's proposal - and the position adopted by the European Parliament - of any specific, and therefore possibly controversial content, our support of Mr Gasòliba i Böhm's report gives expression to our view that a "European economic government' is in fact required for the euro but that binding and substantial directives on economic policy must be adopted as an absolute minimum measure.
My country hosts nearly 20 % of the 380 000 frontier workers employed in the European Union.
Our frontier workers will also benefit from this, although no such insurance exists either in Belgium or in France.
It is frequently viewed as good form to congratulate a colleague, but I am sincere in wishing to commend the author of a report which, let us hope, should put an end to the ludicrous situations in which some of our fellow citizens live, whereby progress in the construction of Europe results in complicating their situation even further.
I hope that this status will be understood by all and accepted by all.
It is a good thing that the frontier worker problem crops up at regular intervals in Parliament, since it helps us assess the situation.
My country, Luxembourg, employs 60 000 frontier workers out of a total of 210 000, that is, around 30 %.
The report on frontier workers encapsulates brilliantly the problems which these pioneers of a united Europe have to face every day.
Arias Cañete report (A4-0159/98) Mr President, it is incumbent upon me, on behalf of my group, to explain our voting procedure on this report.
The vote has been a shambles.
The rapporteur himself voted against his own report.
The future of the Cohesion Fund from 2000 to 2006 must be dealt with within the regulation.
I am sorry to have to say it but the only option for my group in the circumstances was to abstain on the vote on this report.
The Arias Cañete report dealing with the Cohesion Fund for 1996 offers a very interesting review of the progress concerning the operation of this fund in 1996.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations, which even opposed the principle of a single currency must maintain a cautious stance with regard to this Fund and the use made of it.
The birth of the single currency may further disturb the imbalances between states through the accelerating relocations, either to states or regions that are more competitive than others, or from those regions in difficulty towards the more dominant economic powers.
I voted against this report because of the European People's Party's Amendment No 4 which sought in future to exclude from cohesion funds all Member States participating in EMU.
The Portuguese Socialist Members will vote against the Arias Cañete report, because Amendment No 4, which the Socialist group list was committed to voting against, was narrowly approved in the end.
Klaß report (A4-0160/98) As usual each year, the Commission submitted its annual report on the state of implementation of the Structural Funds.
Like our rapporteur, we must express our delight at the way in which the Structural Funds have been used in 1996.
In fact, we note a 98 % expenditure for available commitments and 95 % for payments.
Finally, how can we fail to endorse the conclusions of our rapporteur regarding the shortfall in terms of Community initiatives and innovative actions?
It is indeed regrettable that the total represents more than 70 % of unused appropriations.
Given this situation, I feel sure that our Parliament - when it gives its opinion on the reform of Structural Funds - will keep a close eye on events and will introduce specific recommendations.
This is the eighth annual report on Structural Fund spending.
This of course has improved in 1996.
My own country has always used Structural Funds well and efficiently.
The successful application of these funds in Ireland has undoubtedly played a significant part in the 'Celtic Tiger' economic performance.
This makes it all the more important that our access to future structural and cohesion funds does not end abruptly.
I hope that the Commission will be able to deliver on its promise to ensure that Ireland is designated as an 'Objective 1 region in transition' .
The same applies to the partnership principle, which is crucial in setting up viable, sophisticated projects at regional or departmental level.
I would like to stress this aspect because, as the elected Member for Pas-de-Calais and a member of the monitoring and planning committees, it seems vital to me that we intensify this partnership, which ensures that we avoid mistakes in the future.
The regions covered by Objectives 1 and 6 certainly give precedence to technological research and development, but in a most uneven way: half of the Objective 1 regions scarcely have the infrastructures needed and exhibit a weak innovative impulse, compared with just a quarter that demonstrate a strong potential in that respect.
This observation is confirmed by the fact that 60 % of public expenditure set aside for civilian technological research and development in the Union is concentrated on two Member States of the Union: Germany and France.
In certain cases, duty-free sales finance up to 60 % of the costs of this traffic.
The practical purpose of this report on the problems of island regions is to extend to all island regions those specific measures which up to now have been confined to the ultra-peripheral ones, on the grounds that the Treaty includes a specific section on ultra-peripheral regions and islands.
Paradoxically enough, in Agenda 2000 the Commission is withdrawing REGIS from the list of Community initiatives in the proposed framework regulations, and merely re-adopting the 10 % increase in the Community distribution of the Structural Funds.
In the wake of the new provisions incorporated into the Amsterdam Treaty, recognizing the cultural identity of island regions, our Parliament - aided by the own-initiative report from our colleague - is asked to decide on the measures to be introduced to overcome the handicaps suffered by those regions.
I myself endorse the recommendations made by our rapporteur, especially with respect to the reform of the Structural Funds.
The European Commission must understand that an official aid policy is required, one that is perfectly in keeping with European law, but one that pursues the goal of harmonious economic development in those island regions.
Similarly, we must consolidate the support that already exists in certain sectors and I am thinking here of environmental protection.
Finally, a special effort must be devoted to the question of transport.
We all know that the competitiveness and economic development of those islands suffer because of the high cost of transport for goods and people.
Madeira, Porto Santo and the Azores are particularly deprived island regions in the context of the European Union.
But they are also ultra-peripheral regions sharing common structural characteristics covered by Objective 1, the defining one being that their per capita GDP is less than 75 % of the Community average.
But it is no less true that some of those islands have a level of economic development equal to that of some of the richest Member States of the European Union.
The necessary solidarity between the most highlydeveloped countries of the European Union and the most under-developed regions must be based on pre-defined and easily measurable principles, which must continue to include the per capita GDP.
I therefore hope that the debate and the vote on the report will make it possible to restore the European Union's responsibility for its island regions to its proper proportions, without prejudice to the provisions of the Treaty on the ultra-peripheral regions, and I would remind the House that these consist only of Madeira, the Azores, the Canaries and the French overseas departments.
This is especially important to Ireland's island population, particularly as we are likely to lose our Objective 1 status.
The reportʼs proposal of a special form of aid for islands within the scope of Objective 1 aid is therefore a positive development.
There is a massive difference between a large island such as Sicily, the home of the rapporteur, and the hundreds of small islands in the archipelagos of Stockholm, Åland and Åboland.
The Viola report relating to island regions is a very comprehensive text that highlights the natural handicaps and socio-economic difficulties suffered by those islands.
It also cherishes the notion of coordinating tax measures in favour of islands, although taxation is one of the pillars of sovereignty.
