German Presidency and the situation in Kosovo The next item is the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council on the programme of the German Presidency and the situation in Kosovo.
Applause Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 January 1999 with the introduction of the euro, the common currency, by eleven Member States, Europe took a historic, perhaps even a revolutionary step which will lend a new dimension to the process of European integration.
Its introduction would, however, turn out to be a huge risk if this bold step on the part of the EU was not logically followed by other equally bold steps toward full integration, which must include enlargement of the EU to Central and Eastern Europe as quickly as possible.
Firstly, we want to bring the Agenda 2000 negotiations to a successful conclusion by 24/25 March, the date of the special summit in Brussels.
Everyone knows that we will only be successful if we treat Agenda 2000 as a single package and if everyone makes compromises.
Now we must set about tackling the questions of substance as quickly as possible.
This concern, which Germany shares with other Member States, has been recognised as legitimate by the Commission and in the meantime also by many partners.
If we want to admit countries in Central and Eastern Europe which are still mainly agriculture-based, we cannot carry on with European agricultural policy as it stands.
Secondly, we want to make definite progress towards an effective employment policy.
The fight against unemployment is the most urgent concern of the people of Europe.
The southern enlargement of the EU was a great economic as well as political and democratic success.
Prosperity, peace and stability can only be guaranteed for the whole of Europe in the long term through the accession of the Central and Eastern European partners.
Our ability to enlarge must go hand in hand with other countries' ability to accede.
For all these reasons Germany remains a strong advocate of early eastern enlargement of the European Union.
Only a Union with an effective foreign policy can safeguard peace in Europe and bring its increasing weight to bear on the world stage.
In the multipolar world of the 21st century, the EU must therefore become an independent entity capable of political action.
When the Amsterdam Treaty enters into force, by 1 June at the latest according to the current progress of the ratification process, we want to ensure that it will be applied in all areas immediately.
In regard to the Common Foreign and Security Policy, the Treaty contains a package of new instruments which will enhance the Union's ability to act in foreign policy matters.
During our presidency, the policy planning and early warning unit are to be set up and the new 'common strategy' instrument introduced, and with it majority decisions in the CFSP.
We want to apply this new instrument first to the EU's neighbouring regions and adopt the first common strategy for Russia - and if possible also for Ukraine - at the Cologne European Council.
The creation of a prosperous civil society in Russia in the long term is most important to the stability of the whole of Europe.
If the European Union is to maintain its ability to act with 21 or more members, the appropriate reforms must be carried out.
The key to an enlarged Union's ability to act is the willingness to accept majority decisions in as many areas as possible.
Applause The new Federal Government advocates limiting the unanimity requirement in the EU in the longer term to questions of fundamental importance such as treaty amendments.
I would imagine that in Cologne we will give the green light to a new intergovernmental conference, which could meet around the year 2001.
Applause Economic and monetary integration is largely completed with the introduction of the euro.
If we want to turn the European Union into a strong and assertive entity, then we need to strengthen it in four key policy areas.
The greater the Union's ability to act, the greater the democratic legitimacy of its actions must be.
Applause The European Parliament could also play a greater role in the election of the Commission than is provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty.
In order to strengthen citizens' rights, Germany is proposing the drafting of a European charter of fundamental rights in the long term.
Applause We want to take the initiative here during our presidency.
The European Parliament, which has already done the groundwork with its 1994 draft, should be involved in drawing up the charter of fundamental rights, as should the national parliaments and as many social groups as possible.
During our presidency we will work towards strengthening the EU's human rights profile.
The new EU human rights report aims to create transparency and at the same time to provide impetus for action in the European Union and the Member States.
The key to efficient preventive and operational conflict resolution lies in greater use of majority decisions and presenting a united front to the outside world - in the G8, the international financial institutions and the United Nations.
The issues just mentioned point to the urgent need for the entry into force of a European charter of fundamental rights.
Applause Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during my presidential trip before Christmas, I met my Spanish colleague at the conference centre in Madrid where the Peace Implementation Conference for Bosnia was also being held.
Yesterday morning I was in Bonn with my whole team for the traditional meeting at the beginning of the presidency.
I was struck by the German Government's determination to harness all its energy to the service of Europe.
Determination is certainly needed, because the Vienna strategy provides for a very heavy programme for the German Presidency.
In fact, the first six months of this year will represent a pivotal stage in the development of the Union.
At the same time, of course, Germany will also be presiding over the fortunes of the G7-G8, the Western European Union and Schengen.
This is a very heavy burden, but it is also a unique opportunity to move forward on major issues such as the introduction of the euro, the incorporation of Schengen into the Treaty, and the definition of a genuine defence policy.
Mr President, Agenda 2000 will, of course, be the major challenge of the next six months.
Agenda 2000 will undoubtedly be decisive for the future of the Union, because without a serious reform of the common agricultural policy, we would be facing unmanageable surpluses again in a few years' time.
Without a reform of the Structural Funds, the vital efforts made to achieve economic and social cohesion would gradually run out of steam, and without an agreement on the future financial framework, the Union would end up making all the old mistakes with endless quarrels about the budget, and acrimonious disputes that harm the development of the Union.
The political will to do so exists in every country, as Mr Fischer has just mentioned.
The second major theme of the presidency, as I see it, is the whole issue of growth and employment.
The Cologne meeting will be important in that respect.
During the German Presidency, the Amsterdam Treaty will come into force.
A major innovation in the Treaty involves the creation of a real area of freedom, security and justice.
The fight against organised crime is a priority in all the Member States and we must tackle it together; that is what our citizens expect.
Foreign affairs will occupy a special place during the German Presidency.
The political will to do so has sometimes been lacking in the past.
Our relations with the United States have assumed unparalleled importance and intensity.
My second example is that of our relations with Russia, that great country which, despite its present difficulties, will always remain a great country.
Mr President, I think this very brief statement from me is enough to highlight the importance of the German Presidency for the Union.
Mr President, although I very much regret the accident that has taken place, I am delighted to be the first to speak on behalf of the Socialist Group, and to extend a warm welcome to the new President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union.
We contribute a little over 1 % of GDP to the Community budget.
The other speakers from my group will explore some of the issues I have raised in greater depth, but I believe these are the ideas that form socialist expectations of the German Presidency.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the German Presidency began on a historic day, 1 January 1999, the day when European monetary union became a reality.
But at the beginning of this German Presidency I would like to give thanks on behalf of the PPE Group to a figure who took Germany through three presidencies, in 1983, 1988 and 1994.
I want to thank Helmut Kohl, former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and freeman of Europe.
Applause Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we wish this German Presidency the same resolve, the same dynamism, the same courage that Helmut Kohl displayed for Germany and in Europe.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we hope that in your words and your actions you will manage not just to maintain but to further strengthen our European partners' trust in Germany's European policy.
We regret the fact - and this is not a question of party politics - that the use of the term realism has given the impression that the accession process is to be delayed.
We have a political and moral duty to do our utmost to ensure that the people of Central Europe can join the European Union's community of values as quickly as possible.
That is also a question of trust.
That too is a question of the trust the people of Central Europe place in us.
Applause Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said you want to submit proposals for institutional reform.
You want to adopt Agenda 2000 at the March summit.
The agreement reached by the Bonn coalition government - which is of European significance - provides that in the next European Commission both posts will be occupied by the government parties.
Many key European policies are being re-evaluated in the context of the Agenda 2000 programme which is to be put into place to take account of the impending enlargement of the European Union itself.
The successful launch of the euro in recent days must clearly be an indication to the German Government that stability is the key to the success of European Union policies.
The success of the single European currency was brought about by careful, consistent planning which is now going to bring economic benefits to the 290 million people in the eleven participating countries.
I wish to emphasise that the German Government should approach the issues of the reform of the common agricultural policy and the reform of the Structural Funds as well as the future financing arrangements of the Union in a balanced and even-handed manner.
Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the debate taking place in relation to the future financing of the European Union's annual budget.
Secondly, there cannot be a reform of the EU Structural Fund programmes unless there is a continued commitment to financially supporting the four Cohesion Fund countries.
The European Structural Funds have played a considerable role in helping less-developed and peripheral nations to prepare the completion of the Single Market, and in the introduction of the European single currency.
It is in this way that the Irish economy can make a positive contribution towards generating growth in the euro zone.
Finally, the same situation applies in all of the peripheral countries and regions of the Union and it is vitally important for the success of both the euro and the single market that the good work of recent years should be consolidated through the continued availability of structural cohesion resources until these regions have reached European average levels.
Mr President, you raised many issues that our group is committed to, including democracy, fundamental human rights, peace, and a multipolar world.
The next summit in Cologne, which the German Presidency must prepare, must not end in further disappointment.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you will believe me when I say that for my group this is a big day which will go down in the History with a capital H of the Green movement and will even have a place in the continuing story of Europe.
Not 'from a jack to a king', but from a street protester to a minister is in itself a development which inspires the imagination.
Your presence here today as a representative of the Council is of great symbolic value.
It is the highest point so far in the history of a generation which in 1968 embarked upon producing a radical upheaval in society, in Europe and in the world.
Combating unemployment is a central concern of the presidency.
It is significant that colleagues from the CDU find it necessary to lodge a petition in order to undermine this innovative initiative which grants political rights to fellow citizens.
But our greatest concern is for the future of Agenda 2000.
Applause Mr President-in-Office, I want to welcome you and your presidency on behalf of my group.
You also inspire hope and curiosity because your government has come to power after the long reign of Chancellor Kohl.
I am thinking in particular of the whole financial and budgetary side of Agenda 2000.
I am thinking of the future of the great policies of the Union, for instance, the common agricultural policy.
Let me return to the financial aspect of Agenda 2000.
What worries me is that all this might result in Germany disengaging and withdrawing from the spirit of solidarity, from solidarity with the less favoured regions of the Union, solidarity with the developing countries, and solidarity with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
My group will propose a more democratic alternative.
For the time being, the German Presidency's top priority is to establish a new financial framework for the Union by 25 March, which will set the conditions for enlargement, but also encapsulate our vision of Europe for the years ahead.
Above all, it is the only solution that clearly demonstrates the nature of the Union - an association of states receiving annual contributions from its members - and it is also the only one that will allow the states to control expenditure properly.
In particular, our group has always expressed doubts about the effectiveness of the Structural Funds at their current levels and severe reductions should start there.
Finally, in the coming years, Europe's finances will be characterised by a major inconsistency.
Mr President, Mr Santer, Mr President-in-Office, under your presidency everything is now clear: we have a single currency, which Germany wanted, a central bank in Frankfurt, with senior executives straight from the Bundesbank, a foreign policy in the Balkans inspired by Germany, and an opening-up towards the East, which will benefit Germany in terms of geopolitics.
Of course, I know Europe must be based on solidarity.
The success of the euro is not enough to allay those concerns.
The European Union could really get closer to its citizens if, instead of announcing initiatives and manifestos - I am not referring her to its idea for a Charter of Rights which deserves applause - the German Presidency were to establish an honest and sincere dialogue with everyone, without contradictions and without hypocrisy.
Yet, despite our political disagreements, we are ready to cooperate with the German Presidency to further the common cause of Europe, to prepare the institutional reforms demanded by the times, and to begin to develop a common foreign and defence policy.
As we draw closer to the European elections in June, does the German Presidency not think it ought to accept Parliament's proposals for a common electoral system?
In fact, the interim political settlement in Kosovo should not only have been found long ago, it should have already been implemented, as had been agreed between Richard Holbrooke and the Belgrade government.
That agreement is of central, overwhelming significance to the future development of Kosovo, for without that interim agreement it will prove extremely difficult to move away from a process of non-peace and eventually achieve a lasting process of peaceful agreement and peace itself.
We must not forget one thing, and I want to say this quite plainly here in the European Parliament: Kosovo is part of Europe.
The problems there are our problems and the political solution of this conflict - which has considerably wider implications than the conflict in Kosovo alone - will do more to decide the development of a European foreign policy, a security and foreign policy identity, than any number of resolutions, of programmatic declarations and speeches.
Agenda 2000 is an overall concept and you called for the timetable to be met.
My group, as also, I am convinced, the majority in the European Parliament, wants the timetable for adopting Agenda 2000 to be met.
But that also means that the Council must be prepared to discuss them, for a large part of the proposals you put forward at the March summit will also have to be endorsed by the European Parliament.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me say a few words in regard to the discussions in our Member States and to the internal political debate in our own country.
You cannot try to rally the Union partners to eastern enlargement and at the same time call not just for fair contributions but for a massive cut in net contributions to the European Union.
And, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that means we are the only parliament that is taking the risk of adopting all the cruel decisions associated with Agenda 2000 before an election.
The European Union would need to be reformed in any case; but we also need this reform so as to make the Union capable of enlargement, which will be the great historical task following the introduction of the euro.
Agenda 2000 is only a part of the reform package.
I am very glad that you also referred to the institutional reforms that will be needed in addition to Agenda 2000 in order to make the Union capable of enlargement and that you sketched out the broad lines of a general concept.
I am saying that also against the backdrop of the debate we will be holding this week.
Against the background of a history spanning a thousand years of European wars, 50 years of peace in most of Europe is a very short time and there is no guarantee that it will continue if we do not make fresh efforts every day to seek agreement, to seek common institutions and common decisions in the European Union.
I would like to see not only members of parliament and the European Parliament but also the Member State governments uphold the European policy they decide in Brussels during the working week - not just on Sundays, but on weekdays too.
That is the meaning of the term European, those are the foundations on which we build and on which we can construct a European Union that is capable of external action, that makes it clear that Europe plays a role in the world, not just for the sake of playing a role but in order to disseminate our principles, our great tradition of human rights and social rights in the world and to help establish them.
Applause Mr President-in-Office, it most certainly has fallen to the German Presidency to steer us through a particularly demanding period.
A proactive policy for employment creation at European level should be launched, and you yourself referred to a European employment pact.
Third, a determined effort must be made to put in place a system of contributions that is more in line with the ability of Member States to pay.
Fifth, it should be borne in mind that there are limits to the negotiations on Agenda 2000, namely the provisions of the Treaty.
The Europe of the future, of integration, as you very rightly said, must be open and must offer prospects for all its citizens and for all Europe's states and nations.
Mr President, the Christian-Democratic Group is currently engaged in discussions, because it has not yet sorted out its views on the behaviour patterns of two socialist Commissioners.
Laughter Colleagues, I always welcome this kind of debate, but it should not go on for too long.
Secondly, it is dangerous for the German Presidency - for whatever reasons - to say not one word about Mediterranean policy.
Applause Mr President, I would first like to thank the President-in-Office very sincerely for his speech and his introduction of the German Presidency's programme.
It had been a long time since we had heard a speech inspired by such federalist ambition in the European Parliament.
If possible, I would like the German Presidency to tell us if it intends to take any measures in this respect in the course of the next few weeks to prevent a flop like last year and to ensure that we do not miss this opportunity to create conditions that favour the adoption of a universal moratorium on capital punishment by the United Nations General Assembly in the year 2000.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are the first President-in-Office of the Council whose political legitimacy is based on the eco-movement.
Mr President, the Luxembourg summit put an end to the virtually endless series of non-binding statements about employment.
I am convinced that coordination of economic and social policy solely at national level has no meaning if you do not now also succeed in getting this underway at European level.
Although employment policy is a subject of deep concern to me, I am gradually getting the feeling that people believe social policy as a whole is covered by employment and by labour market policy.
This seems a little like searching for the third way, as if solidarity is taboo, but I would be very pleased if the German Government succeeded in putting solidarity firmly on the agenda.
Dear Daniel Cohn-Bendit, I am glad to have the pleasure of your company in the Chamber today.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I hope you will appreciate that the situation looks a little confused.
The opposition in Germany, the CDU/CSU, will urge Germany to show continuity in its European policy here in Parliament too.
I believe the statement you made today reflected that spirit of German continuity in its European policy and forms a basis for constructive cooperation on a number of issues in the coming months.
Of course we would also like to know whether you are the President of the Council for foreign affairs and the Chancellor is the Wilhelminian President of the Council for home affairs.
The Cologne summit must act as a mandate for more majority decisions and more co-decisions, as also for the charter of fundamental rights.
I believe that these matters must be carefully defined, with the participation of the European Parliament, so that in the next two years we can take the necessary steps to make the European Union capable of enlargement.
That is why the former German Government approved and participated in the coordination of European employment policy in Amsterdam and in Luxembourg.
This employment pact should not be used to give the impression that we can pursue a common wage scale policy from Finland to Portugal or embark on financing a labour market policy.
You spoke of labour market policy in your address.
Mr Wim van Velzen spoke of social policy.
If we are serious about European integration we must also be serious about integrating these cross-sectional policies in other policy areas.
However, I hope that it will become apparent after these six months that the earlier Cardiff summit and the forthcoming Cologne summit have produced more in this respect, that we actually see integral legislation that commits the Commission to integrating environmental policy in other areas too, including structural policy.
If we want to do something for people all over Europe - and that includes people in the applicant countries - then we must take make sure they can live in an environment worth living in.
That is why I urge you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you go home and when you go to Bonn, to remember that environmental policy must be a key component of German policy and also a key component of European integration.
Applause Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the German Presidency has opened under the best auspices.
In Europe and indeed around the world, opinion is virtually unanimous that the launch of the euro has been a success that will mark a truly historic stage in the long course of the construction of Europe.
It is a Europe that we naturally want to extend to those countries of Central and Eastern Europe seeking to join us, but it is a Europe that must now affirm its political dimension and therefore overhaul its institutions so that it can respond better to the expectations of our fellow citizens.
First, as regards Agenda 2000, we applaud your determination to try to complete this, if possible, at the summit on 24 and 25 March.
I also agree with the idea that the future financial framework of the European Union, the reform of the structural policy and the reform of the common agricultural policy are inseparable parts of an overall package.
The introduction of measures that would effectively lead to a renationalisation, even a partial one, of the common agricultural policy would be a political mistake that would ruin the European Union in the minds of many of our fellow citizens.
My dear Klaus Hänsch, of course no-one has ever said that nothing should change.
But it seems to me that the stakes are higher than anyone's national interest because rural development is truly essential to the very balance of our European area.
My second point relates to the institutions.
If we want a Europe that is naturally open but that is also strong and united, we need institutions that allow it to act; otherwise, we risk an institutional collapse, as you have said.
That is why I am surprised that after 16 years in government in Germany they now seem to be prophesying that the current German Government will have to answer for the failure of employment policy.
Basically it is a question of the future of our rural areas, which account for 80 % of the European Union, and above all of how we will manage to protect jobs, to create new jobs and to maintain the environment in Europe both within the agricultural sector as such but also, independently of that, in the rural areas.
So it must be one of the priority aims of Agenda 2000 to make it clear that aid policy must largely be social policy in the agricultural sector too.
Applause Mr President-in-Office, you have made some important points and have certainly set out some ambitious aims: a new intergovernmental conference, a new European constitution, an autonomous and independent common foreign defence policy, strengthening of the WEU, majority decisions in the Council and increased powers for Parliament.
The problem lies elsewhere, namely in grasping how the coherent aims which you have announced tie in with the specific policies which the German Government seems determined to introduce.
The German proverb states: 'Wer nicht vorwärts geht, der kommt zurück '.
Mr President-in-Office, your speech was undoubtedly political, and in it you placed great emphasis on budgetary matters.
The current financial perspective was not approved in Edinburgh, as some believe, but a year later in Brussels, under the Belgian Presidency.
As rapporteur for Agenda 2000, I wish you good fortune and plenty of luck.
At the Vienna European Council it was agreed that Agenda 2000 should be approached in a spirit of solidarity and budgetary rigour should be guaranteed.
On 8 December, the Council had to issue a statement confirming that it intended to abide by the agreements it had reached with the Commission and the European Parliament that same morning, and not render them meaningless.
Parliament took a stand against national contributions and the principle of fair return in its resolution of 4 December 1997.
You have quite rightly stated that the euro represents a step forward in the development of a new kind of sovereignty in Europe.
Parliament has voiced its doubts concerning the financial consequences of the reforms proposed in Agenda 2000.
The Court of Auditors' opinion on Agenda 2000 from December, No 10/98, is now available and is even more sceptical.
Finally, enlargement is a major issue.
Those of us who were previously excluded from the construction of Europe because our country was under a dictatorship are ardent supporters of enlargement towards the East.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to start by pointing out once again that nearly the entire PPE Group was present at the time when the President-in-Office of the Council spoke and that he received our full applause, as also the applause of the German Christian Democrats, because we too will support him in what he said - provided he also acts on it.
Even in October 1998 it became clear that Milosevic did not want a political settlement.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I too want to speak on the subject of Kosovo.
Secondly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have stated quite unequivocally in many interviews that you do not regard organisations such as the OSCE as merely incidental, as something that can be pushed aside.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the determining event at the beginning of the German Presidency was certainly the introduction of the European currency.
That opened a new era for Europe.
That is why we should jointly - meaning the Commission, the presidency of the Council and the European Parliament - take steps during these six months to ensure that 1 January 2002 is the appointed day for the introduction of euro notes and coins.
You spoke of a package deal in March on Agenda 2000, of lower contributions, especially by net contributors, of reducing agricultural expenditure.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said there can be no alternative to enlargement.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you and the German Government rightly declared that fighting unemployment was the central aim of the German Presidency.
In 1994 we achieved another success with the directive on European works councils.
I wish Mr Riester, the Minister for Employment, the same success that his predecessor Mr Blum achieved with the European works councils in 1994.
Without the detailed work done by the High Representative, without the presence of the allied troops, without the civilian activities, without the EU High Representative's assumption of responsibility, we would be back in a situation of confrontation again there or even of bloody conflict.
That is not inconsistent - and I thank all those who pointed this out - with considering the problems arising in the Mediterranean.
But the more progress is made with the peace process - and I really cannot see any better alternative to this peace process - the more all the parties concerned in the Middle East will realise that as regions we are neighbours.
We are following a line of continuity with the preceding German governments and in the light of its national interests Germany would lose out a great deal if we changed that approach in any way.
If we still regard the concept of national interests as at all in keeping with the times, all I can say for the German Government is that the European integration process takes first place in our national interests.
Applause Let me make it quite clear: what I have presented here is the approach of the German Government and the German Chancellor.
The next historic step after the introduction of the euro will be enlargement of the European Union.
That would be a historical failure without parallel and the soul of Europe, the idea of integration, would atrophy.
Quite apart from that, it would be a historical injustice of the first order vis-à-vis the Central and Eastern European applicant states.
The second great historical challenge facing us is to make the European Union into a political entity.
Applause That will not do Europe any good, nor for that matter will it do the stability of our currency any good.
That is why I am firmly convinced that our second important historical challenge is to strengthen the European institutions.
In my view democracy always also implies a strengthening of democracy.
Under what are for us very difficult conditions - we only recently came into office, which has some implications for the business of Europe - the German Government declared itself prepared to make Agenda 2000 the focus of our presidency and to reach agreement at the special summit in March.
The date of 1 January 1999 has created a new dimension and thereby also a new responsibility.
I remember the military dictatorships in Spain and Portugal.
Applause The role that Germany plays also reflects our economic strength, and that should be a cause to rejoice rather than complain.
The new German Government knows that too and will therefore adhere to its commitment to Europe.
My group in the German Bundestag was the first in the last legislative term to call for the Europe of 11, for the accession of Italy, at a time when others, like Chancellor Kohl, were far from prepared to do so.
And the coalition - here I am not talking about internal politics but about European politics - went into the elections with a position that was no longer entirely consistent, as you know better than I do.
This is a central aspect of the necessary structural reforms.
As was pointed out earlier, although 80 % of the territory of the European Union is rural, we must not forget that it is not 80 % of our population that lives in these rural areas.
If it did, the German Government would regard that as a mistake.
And here we consider it urgently necessary to have national financial contributions, in view also of the future European Union, the enlarged European Union, and the future of the agricultural market.
Mr Hänsch, I warmly thank you for your support in regard to the settlement of the Kosovo conflict and would say to the European Parliament: it is important that we cooperate very closely.
We believe that during the German Presidency we have an obligation to make the European Union more capable of enlargement, to combat unemployment, to take a first step towards making progress with institutional reforms, to help strengthen democracy in Europe and, in general, to turn the European Union into a real political entity, with the ultimate aim of full integration.
Mr President-in-Office, you have of course spoken for 30 minutes, but I think that the Members, who have heard you speak for two hours, have been listening very carefully.
Applause Mr President, Mrs Pack, or rather my dear Doris, I think we are both being emotional, which is nothing specifically feminine but a quite legitimate position to take on this issue.
So it would create a great problem for an international force to intervene for the first time on the territory of a state recognised by all EU Member States and by the international community against the will of that state's government.
In my view there are only worse alternatives to this strategy of stabilisation.
That is why I have explained to you that we must do our utmost to bring about a peaceful solution, working together with our partners in the Contact Group, but also in the European Union and in other institutions.
The debate is closed.
Broadly speaking, the proposal means that all incoming and outgoing documents of importance in the EU institutions should be public.
I would also dare to hope that there will be broad support in the final vote, which would naturally put strong pressure on the Commission to come up with a proposal that meets Parliament's requirements.
The citizens of Europe have a right to that.
Transparency and democratic control will bring us closer to the people, something we should not just think about every five years just before the elections.
The European Union institutions must develop mechanisms to enable the citizens to bring their own ideas and thoughts into the decision-making process.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was with great pleasure that I listened to the statements by the new President-in-Office during the previous debate about the need for a European constitutional process and the announcement that a charter of fundamental rights would be drawn up.
This is a particularly backward area of democratisation that we are considering today, but perhaps that is partly due to a misunderstanding.
We usually refer to transparency, to public relations, to the information services here in Parliament and in the appropriate committees.
It is this openness to the public to which the citizens of Europe have a right: open legislation (not transparent legislation but legislation in public), the public justification by the administration of all its acts, rights of control and information for Parliament, in the second and third pillar too, public decisions and decision-making bases, in the area also of internal security and foreign policy, and the rights of the citizen to information (not the information services), the press services, the public relations work of the European institutions.
The Lööw report on openness within the European Union is a serious attempt to give just that precision to the relevant provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty.
It is certainly desirable - and here too we welcome the Lööw report - for Council and Coreper decisions to become more transparent by improved access to their documents, for the EU administration to provide the citizen with information more rapidly and courteously - which should really be a matter of course - and for multilingualism to be maintained precisely for the sake of transparency.
The report demands a great deal and of course the European Parliament must also realise that this would mean creating the appropriate financial and staffing conditions, to avoid being told afterwards by the Commission and all the other institutions that any lack of efficiency was simply due to a lack of the necessary resources.
I really would wish to avoid that and I hope this report on openness within the Union will create the necessary bases for doing so.
We should therefore all support the principles laid down by Mrs Lööw in her excellent report.
We should have a code that includes clear rights for our citizens and obligations for the institutions.
The rapporteur points out that greater transparency is vital for the future of the European Union.
There are thus two main aspects to this report: form and substance.
And I think that our rapporteur has defined it very well.
The second aspect is the substance.
If we want the judgements made about European action and development to meet our hopes, then our duty as Members of the European Parliament is to improve the information the citizens receive.
Mr President, we think that this report is particularly well-balanced and the Union for Europe Group will be pleased to vote for it.
Mr President, more openness in law-making and administration is crucial for the democratisation of the EU.
The weak point in the Lööw report is the proposal relating to open meetings of the Council.
The Council's action directly called into question the rules on openness and constitutional law at national level.
Greater openness is vital for the process of democratisation in the EU.
Parliament has tried to do this through the Amsterdam Treaty by calling for all documents used in preparing European legislation to have to be made open and open meetings of the Council when it is dealing with legislation.
I also support the Brok report, but I believe that the code which the Commission is now proposing should make it clearer that European Commissioners hold office on behalf of the European administration and on behalf of Europe, and not on behalf of their national Member States.
And, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder why we pass resolutions about China and accuse it of a lack of democracy and transparency, when the Council of Ministers of the European Union is doing exactly the same thing.
My group will vote for their report.
The Treaty of Amsterdam represented a step in this direction, but more is needed.
As far as access to documents is concerned, certain interinstitutional arrangements are currently in place, and each institution also has its own procedures.
Adequate information is obviously the most important aspect of transparency.
The debate is closed.
It shows how the CFA franc has been drawn in under Community authority in spite of the Treaty, how national prerogatives are violated, and how French interests are gradually going to be compromised.
Thus, the first paragraph of the recommendation generously grants us the right to maintain the agreements relating to the CFA franc, despite the fact that this is our right anyway.
In fact, the financial guarantee that France granted to the CFA franc involved an important commercial advantage for our country, since economic agents could organise their transactions more easily on the basis of fixed exchange rates.
This abandonment of French sovereignty, added to the loss of our commercial advantage, is bound to mean a gradual reduction of French influence in the African countries involved.
I believe this is a basic element in any genuine principle of public access.
First of all, while it is true that the Amsterdam Treaty recognises the citizen's right of access to the documents of the European institutions - this right should, of course, have been granted long ago - there are grounds for concern about the lack of symmetry in the treatment of the Council and the Commission.
Perhaps it was of very little importance when the Community was in its early days, but now it has dramatic consequences in the shape of essential quasi-clandestine transfers of sovereignty and a complete sense of isolation from public opinion.
But today we have to prioritise between integration or democracy.
Similarly, we believe that civil servants should follow certain rules when speaking about internal matters, such as sensitive personal information, as in the Danish civil service.
This report comes at the right time, when scepticism about the European Union, indeed condemnation of it, seems to be the style in certain press circles and in a section of public opinion.
The anti-Europeans disparage the Amsterdam Treaty and yet it explicitly introduces the concept of transparency into the Treaty on European Union, by guaranteeing the public's right of access to European Union documents and by stating that Community decisions are to be taken 'as openly as possible and as closely as possible to the citizen'.
I will therefore vote in favour of this report and I urge Parliament to do the same.
But I wondered then about the transparency of the European institutions in general and our own in particular.
Public access to documents is essential for transparency and has been provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty in Article 191(a)(2).
I admit that the decision of 10 July 1997 on public access to European Parliament documents is certainly a step in the right direction.
More recently, on 17 April 1998, the Bureau took a decision on the costs involved in forwarding documents.
The Dury/Maij-Weggen report ahead of the IGC wanted access to EU documents enshrined in the Treaty.
On that point our two colleagues won the day.
The closer Europe is to the democratic model of the states that form it, the more the citizen will relate to it.
The Amsterdam Treaty represents progress in that direction, but there is still a long road ahead of us to achieve transparency and democracy.
Transparency is more necessary than ever if the construction of Europe is to make good progress.
I am delighted that our rapporteur does not restrict the idea of greater transparency merely to public access to Community documents, and extends this concept to include ensuring more open meetings of the Council when meeting in its legislative capacity, making fuller use of modern methods of rapid or real-time communication, drafting simpler texts, retaining the use of all languages within the institutions, and improving the quality of information campaigns about the European Union.
I am convinced that a genuine principle of public access to EU documents would be an effective instrument in combating deception and fraud in the EU institutions, and would help to overcome the justified suspicion and lack of confidence currently felt by EU citizens.
Approval by Parliament of Commission President The next item is the report (A4-0488/98) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Institutional Affairs, on institutional implications of European Parliament approval of the President of the Commission and the independence of Members of the Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the implementation of the Amsterdam Treaty, the European Parliament has new powers of determining relations between the institutions.
But I believe it is also important for the European Council and the governments to accept the results of the European elections as a determining factor in the nominations.
Here, too, the nominated President of the Commission elected by the European Parliament has new opportunities, for the Member State governments can only submit a proposal in common accord with him.
This also offers new opportunities to hold Commissioners more politically accountable - as we tend to do in the case of national ministers - so as to make provision for their compulsory retirement and enable the President of the Commission to withdraw the portfolios of Commissioners who have failed politically, as laid down in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
In that case, through the MEPs, the Members of the European Parliament, it confers popular legitimacy upon the proposal by the states, the Heads of State and Government, for the nomination of the President of the Commission.
This is a very important institutional step and if, as we hope, the ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam has been completed by the French Presidency by the end of March, it will come into effect in May and immediately after the election of the Members of the European Parliament this very important new provision will be implemented for the first time.
This is a fragile tripolar structure and many concessions will be needed to achieve this balance.
But it is clear that the aim of the Amsterdam Treaty is that neither the Council nor the European Parliament should be in a position to alone appoint the executive without taking account of the position of the other institution.
The second issue involves adding vitality to the election campaign.
In any case, I do not think that the process of nominating someone for the presidency can begin until the voters have had their say, if only out of respect for the citizen in his role as a voter and for the European Parliament.
And finally, I would like to say that I was very pleasantly surprised when the Council representative said in his statement this morning that the Amsterdam Treaty had given the European Parliament important new rights and powers, and when he added that he could see the next IGC granting the European Parliament an even more important role in the appointment of the Commission than is provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty.
Mr President, this report concerns a most important aspect of the European Union's constitution; if its proposals become reality, the European Union will become far more parliamentary and therefore also democratic in nature.
This report shows us that we can progress along this road to a democratic European Union in a crucial area, if the proposals it makes are implemented.
The greater political responsibility and authority of the Commission President is a principle to be applauded and is today, more than ever, a factor we should all welcome.
I do not agree with it because the institutional consequences of this proposal have not been thought through and because it makes the dilemma of our method of integration quite glaringly obvious.
The only way to turn this Union into a democracy now is through a constitutional process.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning the President-in-Office made a splendid, very important speech, which was certainly extremely well received.
Mr President, there are awful coincidences in parliamentary life.
Of course, the honourable Member who drafted those lines was no doubt thinking of strengthening the Commission's independence with regard to the Council and the Member States, but not with regard to the European Parliament.
Mr President, the rapporteur has taken on a difficult legacy with this report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during this unusual week the European Parliament is taking a twofold position on its executive.
Firstly, we are deciding on the destructive vote of censure - as it is called - against the Commission, and secondly we are establishing how our rights of assent can be used constructively in relation to future Commissions.
That is the main message of the Amsterdam Treaty.
Furthermore, for the future I hope that the main political parties will fight the campaign for the election of the European Parliament with a supranational top candidate who also aspires to the office of President of the Commission.
The proportion of women, currently 25 %, needs to be increased.
During the 1994 appointment of the Commission, the European Parliament demonstrated that it was exercising its rights in regard both to hearings of individuals and to the vote to approve the college as a whole.
The new relations between the European Parliament and the Commission must also be based on a code of conduct and on interinstitutional agreements.
The Brok report reflects our growing self-confidence and our common responsibility for the European Union.
Mr President, the Treaty of Amsterdam contains among its innovations the fact that Parliament would henceforth elect the President of the Commission on a proposal from the national governments, just as Maastricht already provided that the college of Commissioners would be subject to a vote of confidence by the European Parliament.
In my country in particular, where the press often misportrays that reality, this step forward is important in underlining that democratic accountability.
What would follow from that would inevitably be that the different party groups, and then the different political party structures in Europe generally, would then have to come up with candidates before the European elections.
The danger is that a majority in Parliament feels bound to support everything that the Commission it has elected wants to do - just as many of our national parliaments feel bound to support their executive, come what may.
But the Brok report is a step in the right direction.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the reasons already indicated, I consider that the Amsterdam Treaty implies the need to strengthen the democratic legitimacy and political responsibility of the Commission and also therefore of its President.
I must say that I support Jacques Delors' proposal, which is backed by some very important figures on the political scene, to organise the European election campaign around not just a political programme but also the choice of Commission President, with the European political parties having to publicly present their candidate for this post to the electorate.
In any case, it was the motion for a resolution that contained the proposal - and I am pleased to have contributed to this - for the European Council to choose the person to be nominated as Commission President bearing in mind the election results.
It is therefore not right for the German Government to claim that it will start the process of nominating the Commission President at the Cologne European Council set for 3 June, before the European elections.
The report is important for this reason, and also for the way in which it envisages European elections as transcending narrow nationalism and promoting a common idea of Europe.
Joint and balanced action by the three European institutions - the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament - is also to be commended, Mr Brok.
The experience of 1995, that is, the approval of the College of Commissioners by Parliament, made it possible for a full debate to take place between the Commission - the President and each of its members - and Parliament.
Since then, the Treaty of Amsterdam has led to improvements in the procedure.
The debate is closed.
Why are we tabling this proposal for a declaration of intended rejection?
Instead of working on this basis at second reading, the Council radically changed the original text, providing for the nomination of the European city, for the period from 2005 to 2019, by each country in turn when it assumes the presidency of the Union.
This system is all the more ridiculous because who knows what Europe will be like in 2015, when Belgium will be able to nominate its European city, or in 2019, when it will be Italy's turn?
The Council has even forgotten that the enlargement of Europe should presumably take place before 2019 and that, under the system it has decided on, the new members would have no chance of nominating their city unless, pursuing this brilliant line of thought, the Council meets again to organise a rota of the future 11 countries of the European Union from 2020 to 2031.
But the main point is that the Council's difficulties in reaching agreement on a text cannot be used as an excuse for hijacking an institutional procedure.
Otherwise, the Council could act in the same way on other issues in the future, allowing a text from first reading that does not correspond to its views to be submitted and then coming up with a totally different common position.
We are therefore tabling this declaration of intended rejection to make the Council negotiate in the Conciliation Committee, as provided for by Article 189b(2)(c) of the Treaty.
I would like to end, Mr President, with two important comments.
The first is that the declaration of intended rejection is not aimed at the designation of European cities of culture for the period 2001 to 2004, as those cities were selected through a simple intergovernmental decision.
Under the proposed system we have no power as Parliament to discuss the intergovernmental decision.
The declaration is only aimed at the common position setting the procedure for choosing from 2005 to 2019, which is the only text we are looking at.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of 1997 the European Commission submitted a proposal to designate European cultural capitals on the basis of an assessment by an independent selection panel, with the Council taking the final decision by qualified majority, after consulting Parliament.
Within the space of six months Parliament had an opinion ready on the Commission's proposal, an opinion that can be summarised as follows: more quality for the cultural programme, greater transparency in the selection of candidate cities and, finally, more money for those cities which are finally designated, with Parliament doing more in its role as co-decision-maker at every stage.
Then, shortly afterwards, the ministers came up with what is described as a proposal for a common position, a proposal, Commissioner, which took no account either of your initial proposal or of the European Parliament amendments, and under which cities were designated for the period 2001 to 2004.
After that, as is well described by the rapporteur, Mr Monfils, we have a kind of rota situation in which cities are designated from 2005 to 2019 each in turn.
But at the same time we also have problems with a proposal which contains absolutely no guarantee of quality, assumes that all countries in Europe are culturally comparable when, let us be honest about this, some countries probably have more candidates for city of culture than others.
As has been said, it also takes no account of Union enlargement or of possible Treaty amendments over the next 20 years, as a result of which Council decisions on cultural matters will no longer have to be unanimous.
We intend to reject the common position, but on the understanding that we approve the towns selected for the period 2001 to 2004.
Bruges, Salamanca, Oporto, Rotterdam, Graz, Genoa and Lille must not suffer as a result of a protracted debate between the institutions because the Ministers of Culture have acted so unilaterally.
We also want to increase the reference amount to EUR 2 million per designated town, but from 2005 we want to see another system, decided through conciliation.
We want a genuine European dimension, we want large sections of the population to be involved in projects and we want more money for the most appealing cultural project.
Mr President, as has already been said, the subject of 'Cultural capital' is an important one for cultural policy and is also very important to our citizens.
The development of the Capital of Culture programme as part of the European Union's new culture framework programme is a very important and prominent area of common cultural activity, as it inspires and underlines the diverse nature of European cultures.
Although partnership projects among different cities may add to what is on offer during the year of the Capital of Culture, it is very important that clear responsibility for a project is only that of one city at a time.
Unfortunately, the solution adopted from the year 2000 onwards has been to appoint all nine applicant cities as Capitals of Culture, and thus none will really stand out as 'the' Capital of Culture.
Under the new proposal each country will have its turn in future, according to a given order.
It has already been said that the Council, ostentatiously ignoring the procedure under way for the adoption of the relevant decision, reached its common position not only without taking Parliament's views into account but also producing a text which differs markedly from the Commission's amended proposal.
Our group welcomes the fact that these procedures will restore the dialogue rejected unilaterally by the Council on 28 May, so that we can adopt a position either by amending the common position that exists at the moment to redefine the desired criteria of quality and transparency, or indeed by rejecting the common position.
I therefore entirely agree with our rapporteur's view and I want to congratulate him both on the quality of his work and on his determination in defending the method of designating this European city, which is a symbol of our cultural vitality.
Mr President, in the discussion about the European capital of culture all the participants seem to have forgotten that in the final analysis it is a question of culture.
Mr President, Parliament's rejection is not directed against the cities that have already between designated for 2001-2004 but against the way the Council is proceeding, in taking account neither of Parliament's amendments nor of the sensible proposal made by the Commission to introduce a Community procedure to designate one European capital of culture a year from 2002, selected by a high-level independent selection panel and after consulting Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall briefly outline the Commission's position on Parliament's intended rejection of the Council's common position on the European City of Culture.
Nevertheless, given the importance of this event, what we are now seeking is the application of the codecision procedure, leading, we hope, to agreement between the institutions, so that this action will be viable as soon as possible and have the backing of the whole Community.
The important thing at this juncture is for Parliament and the Council to engage in open and constructive dialogue, making a final effort to come closer together and reach an agreement guaranteeing the future of this event.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Of course the introduction of the complex EU competition rules represents an enormous challenge for all applicant countries.
I would urge the Commission to take greater account of that when it evaluates the extent to which these countries have adjusted.
That is very important to the stability of Europe as a whole.
The Lithuanian Government submitted new draft competition legislation in 1998.
The competition rules for undertakings are generally consistent with Community law and in 1997 the Lithuanian Government also submitted a decision on monitoring state aid.
Account must also be taken of social and environmental aspects during the adjustment process.
While appreciating all the obstacles that still remain, I believe that the accession negotiations between the EU and Lithuania should begin before the scheduled date, which is not until the end of 1999, if possible even during the German Presidency of the Council, for that is the only way to sustain the optimism and willingness to adjust that have developed in that country.
Mr President, in July 1997 the Commission was in favour of accession negotiations with Latvia beginning as soon as that country had made sufficient headway in fulfilling the pre-conditions laid down by the European Council at Copenhagen.
The EU strives to ensure that there is a high level internal market that renounces the notion of restrictions on competition.
Latvia has a new law on competition which is largely in line with EU regulations.
The countries in front of Latvia in the queue will cause exactly the same problem for the EU.
The economic structure in all the applicant countries is entirely different from that in the EU single market.
I can see no justification for Latvia having inferior status in comparison with some other applicant countries when it comes to EU membership.
The country is ready to pay a high price for EU membership by preparing its economy for EU market forces and competition.
Mr President, Estonia occupies a rather special place amongst the three Baltic States.
It is the only Baltic country to have been included in the first round of accession negotiations.
The Europe Agreement with Estonia states that competition legislation must be completed no later than the end of 1997.
This relates to Articles 85, 86 and 96 of the EC Treaty which concern, respectively, the prohibition of restrictive practices, the prohibition of the abuse of dominant positions and discipline as regards state aid.
The principal purpose in drawing up the implementing regulations for those articles is to improve trade between the European Union and Estonia.
This would not help the competitiveness of Estonian companies and could therefore be an obstacle to the European Union's rapid enlargement.
In a recent report on Estonian state aid we read that the Estonian competition act, applicable from October 1998, provides better conditions for monitoring state aid and collecting related data.
I am not just referring here to the economic growth it has achieved and its undertaking, in signing the IMF's economic memorandum, to strive for economic growth without overheating.
These efforts by the Estonian Government must encourage us to speed up the process leading to Estonia's accession to the European Union.
One particularly positive aspect is that, as in other areas, the Romanian administration is cooperating very closely with EU authorities in regard to the competition provisions and is taking the corresponding legislative steps.
The majority of economic reforms still remain to be undertaken by the Romanian Government.
To date, only some 20 % of firms have gone into private ownership.
Romania can play a key role both in the transport and in the further processing of oil from the Caspian Sea, as I pointed out very specifically in my report early in 1997 on economic cooperation between the EU and Azerbaijan.
The more active the role Romania plays in the joint projects between the EU and the Trans-Caucasian republics, especially Georgia and Azerbaijan, in relation for instance to transport networks including energy transport networks, the sooner it can realise its potential in a European market that will soon become larger with the accession of Hungary, Poland and Slovakia and thus improve its balance of trade and balance of payments.
The planned high-speed TGV-ICE train link from Paris via Strasbourg, Karlsruhe, Munich and Vienna to Budapest is to be extended in a few years' time via Timisoara-Arat to Bucharest.
So on behalf of the Committee on External Economic Relations - and here I agree with Mr Bernard-Reymond's conclusions on Romania's accession prospects - I would like to encourage Romania resolutely to pursue the road to Europe, following the example of other Eastern European countries, to overcome its temporary weaknesses and to make full use of its development potential as a great Eastern European country.
We certainly urge the Romanian people, its parliament and government, not to give up in spite of the current difficulties and to do their utmost to achieve closer economic cooperation with the EU.
They have our support in that endeavour.
But in relations with the applicant countries we also have the problem of unequal economic structures.
We now have the further risk - and I believe there is some indication of this in all three countries - that simply because in a sense these countries are each resolved for political reasons to achieve a perfect market economy they will apply a synthetic system of competition rules that are purer than those the Union itself could apply.
But that is not the only problem; another is that other aspects that in fact play a part in strengthening or creating markets have not advanced at the same pace.
These include the question of public infrastructures, the question, which was raised earlier, of strengthening the capital resources of enterprises, and the question - which I believe we all consider most important - of strengthening the articulation and assertion of interests other than the enterprises' immediate profits in the economic process.
What I mean is that it would be quite absurd to apply the rules more rigorously in these cases than we can apply them in Bavaria or Saxony, in other words at home.
These agreements which we are going to adopt are a signal to the populations of the countries concerned that we have not forgotten them and that we are continuing to work on precisely the problems which I encountered in Tartu.
The question is whether we need a common set of rules in the area of competition to make some countries suitable to participate in cooperation in the future.
I am thinking in particular of the country for which I am currently responsible, Lithuania, which plays a key role as a transit country for trade with Russia and Belarus.
If the country has its competition policy in order and has harmonised its standards and rules in this area, then it is qualified to increase its trade and take on whatever competitors there may be.
Mr President, Parliament is being urged in four separate reports to approve the Europe agreements with the relevant countries, and this is clearly happening, thus creating a firm basis for the future enlargement of the Union.
Much work and time is required of these countries for economic and political harmonisation.
For this reason it seems very likely that in the medium term all the Baltic countries will be able to join the European Union simultaneously.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to congratulate the various rapporteurs on their reports.
My group also believes enlargement to be a historic opportunity.
On this occasion the applicant countries are countries with a fairly limited market economy.
It is not only the applicant countries which need an efficient government apparatus.
Above all the Union itself needs a balanced and effective apparatus in order to cope with the problems of accession.
I hope that the Council, as Mr Fischer announced this morning, will indeed use a new IGC in around the year 2000 in order to put our own house in order.
Mr President, all three Baltic countries have striven and at this very moment are striving hard to fulfil the criteria laid down for them for membership of the European Union.
Perhaps it is the effect of the snow that has fallen, but I just want to recall a situation I found myself in a few years ago.
What I mean is that I regard the Baltic countries as an integral part of our European civilisation and they have paid a very high price for their freedom.
In this period of time Romania has made tremendous progress, great strides have been taken to move the country towards a position that more equates with the west.
I very much welcome this report and I for one look forward to being here when we welcome to the European Parliament Romanian Members as colleagues.
Mr President, I too wish to stress that those four reports can have a positive effect.
It is important for there to be commonly accepted rules for cooperation and relations in the business sector between the European Union and these four countries, and for there to be some security in relation to the ability of businesses to move into and cooperate with these countries.
On the other hand, of course, we must bear in mind that they are in a difficult stage of transition which, besides the necessity for certain principles and legal provisions, will certainly require the European Union to show solidarity, support and an understanding of their individual characteristics.
Mr President, the Baltic countries have accomplished a mammoth feat in a short time.
In ten years, they have moved from dictatorship and a Soviet-style planned economy to democracy and a market economy.
This is why it is so important for these countries to proceed step by step.
Our countries, the present Member States, took quite some time before they assimilated the policy of competition rules and respect for state aid.
On the one hand we must remain realistic about this issue, but at the same time we must clearly say to all these countries: look, this has to be done, otherwise you will be running a great risk on the day you join.
What we are essentially discussing here are the rules on restrictive practices, Articles 85 and 86 in particular, what we might call relations between companies.
But the situation in these countries is very unusual.
Mr President, may I put another small question to Mr Van Miert?
For if exceptional provisions were allowed in the framework of state aid, then far more emphasis should be placed on environmental aspects in regard to state aid and private investment, which, incidentally, would also be very necessary in the case of the Czech Republic.
The vote in this House on the Framework Agreement for Trade and Cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, is to be congratulated.
Despite the importance of Korea and our economic relations with the country, this House, through the competent committees, started to indicate reservations at the time of the vote on the agreement signed on 29 October 1996.
These reservations were in the areas of protectionism - specifically relating to national preferences under the guise of the 'frugality plan' or to problems in channels of commerce - intellectual property, respect for human rights and, above all, the failure to comply with minimum labour rules.
The changes observed in the last two years have been very marked.
The support which may be provided by this agreement has become particularly relevant in view of the crisis South Korea is experiencing, the results of which include significant falls in production and large increases in unemployment, from 2.6 % in November 1997 to 6.7 % in April 1998.
However, these consequences are also contributing, in a transitional phase, to the liberalisation and restructuring measures which, with our backing, are being implemented.
Even in the area of trade unions, the main target of our concerns, we must undoubtedly welcome the agreement of the Tripartite Commission, which was reached on 6 February 1998, and the specific liberalisation measures that were implemented, such as the recognition of the KCTU (the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions), the authorisation of multiple trade unions at company level or even the right of sacked workers to belong to a trade union.
It is particularly symbolic that, just a few days ago, on 6 January, trade union freedom for teachers was approved.
We therefore have a special responsibility to support an agreement which, in a very delicate external and internal context, may help to strengthen and revive the South Korean economy and alleviate the problems of its inhabitants.
I must stress that there are clearly points open to criticism in all these areas, for example, the failure of Korea to sign up to international agreements on respect for intellectual property, as underlined in the opinion by Mr Pompidou.
We will all benefit from the commitment of a strong Korea to the support announced at the Millennium Round of the World Trade Organisation.
Article 7 of the agreement on maritime transport establishes the goal of securing unrestricted access to the maritime market and to international maritime traffic on a commercial basis and in accordance with the principles of fair competition.
Article 8 establishes cooperation in the shipbuilding sector in order to create a fair, competitive market, in view of the current structural imbalance between supply and demand within the international shipbuilding industry.
Therefore the Korean authorities must not use international financial assistance in support of their shipbuilding industry, and the European Union must take care to ensure that the commitments made by the Korean authorities in this regard are in fact met.
I found that South Korea had not complied with the undertaking it had given on becoming a member of the OECD in 1996 to bring its labour laws into line with internationally binding labour standards.
The operation of the national security law was certainly a problem and there was a serious problem concerning long-term political prisoners.
I should like Commissioner Leon Brittan, when he sums up, to tell us whether he will undertake, on our behalf and on behalf of the Commission, to follow up the three points made to the Commission in the conclusions in my opinion and also in Mr Porto's report.
Not only is this quite unacceptable as we approach the twenty-first century, but it also results in global dumping affecting countries like ours which do observe the regulations on labour and social standards.
This must be made quite clear in the Committee on External Economic Relations.
For example, will it draw on reports from organisations such as Amnesty International and, in particular, I would suggest, the ILO?
The Commission should be aware that parliamentary support for this framework agreement is contingent on continuing progress on the issue of labour and human rights and that the support of this House could not be sustained if that position was to worsen.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I want to come back to shipbuilding again.
If the European Union is to raise its profile on the world stage it is vital to strengthen ties not only with world-rank powers but also with key emerging countries.
That is why the Commission adopted a communication on 9 December reviewing the Union's relations with the Republic of Korea and making comprehensive recommendations for the future.
The Framework Agreement does this by comprehensively covering economic issues and political dialogue.
It contains detailed provisions which directly address issues of key importance to the European Union; economic issues such as intellectual property rights, ship-building, maritime transport and so on, but also issues in other fields such as human rights including labour rights, cooperation against drugs and money laundering.
The Framework Agreement sets up the institutional machinery through which the European Union can pursue its interests vis-à-vis Korea, and the Commission is fully committed to using the agreement to advance European interests.
The vote today is timely not only because it is just before the European Parliament sends a delegation to Korea, but also because it is one year after the beginning of a financial crisis and the change of government in Korea.
But I think it is right to point out that a number of positive steps have already been taken under President Kim, who has involved the unions in a national tripartite dialogue on restructuring.
The fact that things are moving in the right direction is all the more remarkable and all the more a positive achievement when you consider that it has taken place at a time of severe economic contraction with growth of minus 6.8 % and unemployment tripling in just over one year.
The sooner it is disabused of that and reconciles itself to the fact that there will not be more state aid, the sooner it will support going ahead on a quadripartite basis, even without the United States, to give us the protection against Korea that this OECD Agreement would give.
We will certainly take into account all the points in the conclusions and as far as the report is concerned, I am - as perhaps you know - not enthusiastic about formal reports but very enthusiastic about reporting to Parliament.
As far as I am concerned, I am happy to come to Parliament, as many here know, and to give a full report on the situation of Korea or any aspects of it that Parliament is at any time interested in.
The debate is closed.
This would enable Mr Monti to reply to those two questions and then leave.
I should also like to take this opportunity to welcome him and wish him well for this year.
For example, from a technical point of view, I would recall that the common action programme on research and technological development has funded various instruments designed to guarantee the secure transmission of credit card data, such as the SET standard, an open standard for secure electronic transmission, developed by Visa and MasterCard, which has now become C-SET and allows for the use of smart-cards.
The Commission is moreover supporting the development of technical instruments for electronic commerce and security under the fifth RTD framework programme, which will focus in particular on the development of technologies to ensure greater protection of privacy.
Finally, I would stress that the protection of personal data in Internet communications falls within the ad hoc legal framework governing the processing of personal data established by Directives 95/46/EC and 97/66/EC, which entered into force on 25 October 1998.
This means the UK has not implemented the directive.
My question is therefore: how many countries have still not implemented the directive?
I can inform you that all the Member States have transposed the directive.
The question by the honourable Member concerns the relationship between membership of the European Economic Area and the states which will shortly be joining the Union and which at the time of their accession must of course adopt the acquis communautaire, pursuant to the provisions of the accession agreements when negotiated.
A part of the negotiated acquis will be the agreement concerning the European Economic Area and to what extent Union membership automatically implies membership of the European Economic Area.
Article 128 of the EEA Agreement provides for a procedural mechanism for the accession of new states to the EEA.
Firstly, it stipulates that a new member must submit its application to the EEA Council.
Secondly, it stipulates that the conditions for participation are the subject of an agreement between the contracting parties to the EEA Agreement and the applicant country.
The EFTA/EEA partners must also ratify the participation of applicant countries in the EEA.
These decisions must be made in parallel so that the applicant countries also become full partners in the EEA on the date they join the Union.
As far as ratification is concerned, I tried to make clear in my first reply that since the EEA agreement is part of the Community acquis, ratification by the Member States of the Accession Treaty implies equally the ratification of the EEA extension.
As regards Article 128, if you read the text literally they have to apply, but in fact the Council will remind them that this official act has to be carried out anyhow before accession, which also in fact includes participating in the EEA.
Mr President, I am happy to reply to Mr Crowley's supplementary.
Thank you, Mr Fischler.
That question lapses, however, as the author is not present.
In the Commission's view, the objectives concerning culture outlined in Article 128 of the Treaty cannot be applied to sporting competitions between national teams.
In the case of Spain, relevant Spanish legislation on the issue should be borne in mind, in particular, the Sports Act of 15 October 1990, and Royal Decree No 2075 of 20 July 1982 concerning representation at international events and other sporting activities.
We have indeed considered this matter, especially in view of certain recent developments, notably a declaration in the Treaty.
Some Member States were of the opinion that the issue of sport should be included in the Treaty.
As regards doping, we should not be seeking an individual response from each of the Member States, but some sort of coordination amongst them.
I myself was present in Salzburg where we exchanged ideas on the possible way forward for sport within the Community.
The President of the International Olympic Committee has called a meeting in Lausanne on 3 and 4 February to discuss doping.
Consequently, we shall be meeting on 19 January to prepare for the meeting on 3 and 4 February in Lausanne.
There is a suggestion that sport should be included in Article 128 of the Treaty.
This would mean that sport would feature in the cultural area envisaged in the Treaty.
What I can talk about is what could be envisaged for the future in terms of including the issue of sport, but that is another matter.
The aim was to ensure greater transparency in the relationship between the European Union and the station, and to link the Community's financial contribution to the production and broadcasting of specific programmes.
The agreement provides for the joint production and broadcasting of programmes for the general public on a range of contemporary European issues.
In this way, the arrangement provides a more transparent basis for cooperation restricted to products the public can easily identify and it also respects the channel's independence.
The agreement signed in 1998 involved a sum of ECU 3 250 million and the production and broadcasting of 42 five-minute news programmes with on-the-spot reports, 168 two-minute educational cartoons and 222 three and a half-minute news items.
I think it is worth mentioning that Parliament's services recently informed my own services that the presentation of information in programmes produced jointly with Euronews had changed, resulting in more balanced coverage of the work of the various institutions.
I should like to tell Mr Seppänen that I personally am a great fan of Euronews and have done all in my power to bolster it.
I visited Euronews in 1997, and the situation seemed to be far from ideal.
Four or five Members of Parliament attend together with four or five Commissioners, and we review all issues related to news output, giving particular attention to those concerning Euronews.
You will be aware that Euronews has undergone many changes of ownership throughout its history, but it is a matter of regret for me that public channels do not have a greater involvement in it.
It appears close to us, but is rather more distant from the Member States.
The Commissioner said in his closing remarks that people are only concerned about their national television channels.
At great personal inconvenience and considerable expense I paid the cable television company which has a monopoly on the service in my area to instal cable television so I could sit and spend happy hours in the evening listening and watching Euronews.
Question No 36 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-1225/98) Subject: European City of Culture candidates On 30 October 1997, on the request of Parliament and the Council, the Commission submitted a proposal for a decision on the European City of Culture .
The Commission has made its view on the common position abundantly clear.
My exchanges with Mr Naumann focused almost entirely on this issue, and I urged him to promote a three-way dialogue between Parliament, the Council and the Commission in an attempt to resolve this situation.
This is what it did between 1985 and 1999, and it can continue to do so between 2000 and 2019, or for as long as it wishes.
I also intend to propose to Parliament, the Commission, and the Council that the European institutions should send out a joint political message to the citizens on the theme of peace.
Further, the essential process of collaboration with the Member States was launched on 30 June, when DG X called a meeting in Brussels of those responsible for national millennium celebrations.
After all, the year 2000 refers back specifically to the birth of Christ, which is when our calendar begins, and I therefore think we should include a dialogue with our neighbours, the Muslims and Jews, as this is increasingly becoming a domestic policy issue in our countries.
A cultural framework programme is scheduled for 2000 to 2005.
Nevertheless, from a Community standpoint, we shall concentrate on the three major events.
Visitors will be coming from all over the world, some 40 million of them.
Within the first three months of this year, that is, before the end of March, I shall be in a position to issue a communication concerning the action planned in connection with Hanover.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Both organisations are addressing the problem of unruly passengers as a general matter of aviation security.
They are making an assessment of current legal provisions and, in addition, collecting relevant information on the nature and the number of in-flight incidents involving unruly passengers.
The ECAC working group on security will discuss the relevant issues at its next meeting, which is in February, and the organisation is also arranging a workshop on these matters to be held in March.
We know that 99 % of bad behaviour is linked to alcohol.
It is difficult to say exactly what proposals we would want to make in respect of legislation until we have a complete analysis.
The gap in the current legal provision that is set down in the ICAO Convention which governs globally the conduct of passengers and the powers of aircraft commanders is that the aircraft commander has the duty of deciding whether an offence committed on board an aircraft is serious or less serious.
The question of luggage is a slightly different one and I am sure that from time to time all of us have contravened the general rules in order to add to our convenience.
Question No 39 by Richard Howitt (H-1203/98) Subject: Trans-European transport networks and access for the disabled Can the Commission indicate what measures are being proposed in the current revision of the guidelines on the trans-European transport networks to ensure that access for the disabled will be properly recognised in the guidelines and then implemented by the Member States?
The objective also applies to people with mobility handicaps.
All decisions to build transport infrastructure projects, including the selection of technical standards, are of course primarily the responsibility of Member States.
I support and encourage him to further consider the proposals about service levels and access for disabled people.
The standard of responsiveness was far from perfect but has increased very significantly in recent years.
In particular, the association has been asked by us to use as an example of law relating to the access of disabled people the public transport legislation, civil rights legislation relating to disabled people, that has recently become law in the United Kingdom.
I am not in a position to draw attention to any power that the Commission has to try to ensure greater use of more accessible buses.
I hope that cross-border trade will intensify as Irish bus authorities in the Republic of Ireland take advantage of these excellent products.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
As the honourable Member no doubt knows, the directive also defines as a 'transferee' any person on whose behalf the principal contractor agrees to purchase the package - such persons being defined as 'other beneficiaries' - or any person to whom the principal contractor or any of the other beneficiaries transfers the package.
The Commission considers that single-person supplements derive from a commercial principle - higher prices for single travellers - a principle generally accepted by the market, in that these travellers generate higher accommodation costs which must obviously be reflected in prices.
The matter has been raised on three recent occasions: on 22 October, when Sir Leon Brittan met the Canadian Foreign Minister; on 7 December, at a meeting of senior fisheries officials in Ottawa; and finally on 17 December, at the EU-Canada summit.
In any event, I would add two further considerations.
As you know, an entire section of this Convention provides for binding dispute settlement, which would obviously prevent Canada from refusing to recognise the Court's jurisdiction, as it did in 1994/95.
We are likely to go on discussing this matter here every two months, probably every month, as Canada is putting forward all the arguments it can think of against our case.
It is because we find that differing interpretations of the UN Convention are an undoubted source of contention, and could increasingly become so, that - and I would stress this point - ratification is desirable, above all in respect of the pillar of the Convention relating to a binding dispute settlement mechanism.
Thank you, Mrs Bonino.
As the author is not present, Question No 45 lapses.
Question No 47 by Christine Oddy (H-1232/98) Subject: Puerto Morazan - Hurricane Mitch Would the Commission advise how much construction help, in the form of road and bridge repair teams and equipment, it has sent to Nicaragua and Honduras?
The two plans have been approved by the Humanitarian Committee, to which all the Member States belong.
Directorate General 1B, headed by Mr Marín, recently released ECU 8.2 m in preparation for the overall reconstruction plan which, as the honourable Member knows, is to be presented to the Donors' Conference in Stockholm.
Concerning the other question, I would point out that one of the problems confronting us is that ECHO's ordinary budget is exhausted by half way through the year, and a whole series of unforeseen disasters compels us to engage in very lengthy and cumbersome procedures to mobilise the reserve.
The first projects which were decided on 4 November were immediately operational because we decided to use the NGOs which were already working in the field so that there were no gaps.
What we are doing now is concentrating mostly on Honduras and the north of Nicaragua.
The new plan is mostly concentrated on basic health care, the rehabilitation of pumps, and drinking water.
Overall, in the action plan for 1999, we want to strengthen our natural disaster preparedness.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Since we have now reached the end of the time set aside for questions to the Commission, Questions Nos 49 to 79 will receive written answers.
How can we be taken seriously by the developing countries when in the United Kingdom, for example, two million children have jobs, and 500 000 of these are under the age of fifteen?
But even with regard to countries that are likely to join the Union, I believe that we need to take steps that are just as strict.
Bringing these conventions together within a single unit constitutes a very important step as it means that the countries that have not ratified one or other of these conventions will still get to see reports on the subject.
This step could serve as a model for or indeed a precursor to the European Union's strategy in the World Trade Organisation.
However, the right to join a trade union and the right to engage in collective bargaining are often forgotten.
As I see it, a code which is based on the Declaration on fundamental principles must be a minimum core.
In concrete terms, Parliament is calling on the European Commission to organise discussions on drafting a European code within a forum bringing together the European Trade Union Confederation, European employers and certain NGOs.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity here in Parliament today to make a solemn appeal to all the international institutions, to the world's most noteworthy figures in the political, philosophical, religious and cultural spheres, to take a joint decision to finally launch a merciless fight to eliminate forced child labour from the world once and for all in the first decade of the 21st century.
Mr President, I am a member of a party that bears the word 'Social' in its name, and so the social market economy is a particular concern of mine.
On the other hand, the globalisation of international trade, which is leading to a liberalisation of trade, investments and capital transfers, compels us to consider social development on a global scale.
In its 1995 World Development Report, the World Bank emphasised the importance of good industrial relations to the creation and maintenance of an efficient labour market.
This means that the Member States of the EU would insist on and promote the fundamental standards of social protection, principally in the framework of the International Labour Organisation.
It is absolutely essential that the work of the non-governmental organisations in pursuit of these goals should be supported by the EU and its Member States.
We should also support trademark campaigns, such as the Rugmark and many others born of consumer initiatives, as well as voluntary undertakings by companies to respect fundamental human rights.
The committee also supports the inclusion of social clauses in the trade and cooperation agreements concluded by the EU Member States.
My opinion contains a proposal for the wording of such a clause.
Firstly, I wish to dwell particularly on and to underscore how important it is, today, just a few days after the introduction of the euro, for us in the European Parliament, us in the European Union, to spell out the true dimension of global society.
To this I wish to add that it has been shown by authoritative bodies such as the World Trade Organisation that there is no contradiction, no conflict between this and economic development which is at the same time a prerequisite for social prosperity.
Mr President, this is not the only time this week that we shall be discussing a code of conduct for international transactions, since tomorrow's agenda, as you know, includes a report on the same subject which was compiled on the initiative of the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
Thirdly, child labour is a vital point in this whole issue.
The rapporteur sees a clear role for the European Commission in this field, but unfortunately this role must be limited as the European Union is not a member as such of the International Labour Organisation.
This brings me immediately to my second point.
I should very much like to support this, but he proposes, first of all, introducing compensation for families whose children are forced to work and, secondly, education for children in the countries concerned as well as supporting measures.
The European Union must assume its responsibilities in this field, preferably by cooperating with international organisations such as UNICEF and UNESCO.
It must therefore be clear that the affirmation of respect for human rights is not just a matter for the poor and emerging countries but also for the developing countries and in particular for the countries of the European Union.
With regard to internal strategy, beyond what was undertaken within the system of generalised preferences, the committee and its rapporteur want the European Union to develop other dimensions to its own action, in particular in the case of its trade and cooperation agreements and agreements on aid to investment.
But this is undeniably a very good report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am certainly very pleased that we in Parliament are now recognising the right of employees throughout the world to decent working conditions.
The need for balance between the liberalisation of international trade and commerce, on the one hand, and viable economic development with respect for human and social rights on the other hand, is today a sine qua non for the very survival of our planet.
Besides, we have the very good example of the Union's programme for Pakistan.As mentioned in a recent report by the International Labour Office, approximately 250 million children all over the world, aged between 5 and 14 years, are working under harsh conditions for humiliatingly low wages, while 120 million children have to give up their schooling to take up work.
Mr President, Commissioner Marín, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the excellent report by Mr Sainjon allows us to measure once again the distance between the progressives and certain conservatives on social issues and on the importance to be given to employees throughout the world and in all companies.
The report by André Sainjon may enable considerable progress to be made in terms of social standards.
In line with this proposal, I would like to see this mechanism extended in future to undertakings which respond to invitations to tender in the area of public procurement.
Authorities should be able to set out basic principles and minimum social conditions in their tender specifications.
One of these - and this was a very important point when we first discussed the matter - was to reject an approach relying on constraints, sanctions or protectionism, an approach that was also clearly rejected at the World Trade Organisation's Ministerial Conference in Singapore in 1996.
The negotiations with Pakistan were far from easy, but we now have a very important and clear project that is going to be implemented there on the highly sensitive issue of child labour.
The first of these lies in the mechanism itself, the Generalised System of Preferences.
Following on from the invitation made to the Commission in the report, it would be extremely interesting to look at how social and environmental aspects could be given full consideration in the trade agreements the European Union negotiates or plans to negotiate, particularly in cases involving free trade or the progressive liberalisation of exchanges.
I am referring here, first and foremost, to the region that affects me personally, that is, the Mediterranean countries, the ACP countries - if this idea is accepted in the review of the new agreement - and Latin America, with Mercosur and countries such as Chile and Mexico.
Obviously, this strategy must not put the objectives of the common commercial policy at risk.
There is also a series of interesting precedents, including the fact that such clauses are already included in the Free Trade Agreement for the Latin American region and, as you know, they also exist in the bilateral agreements with Chile and Canada.
Since 25 May 1998, when it was adopted, only one country has requested the benefits involved in the so-called social clause.
As you know, we had proposed to the Council that the social clause be extended.
I myself do not fully understand why the Council rejected this proposal from the Commission, but that is exactly what happened.
We believe that we should support the ILO, which, as you know, is currently trying to apply a series of mechanisms.
The problem with the ILO mechanisms is that their scope is limited precisely because all three parties have to agree.
In my view, it is fitting, as you point out in your report, that the WTO has decided to amend Article 29 and to make social standards a criterion for entry to the WTO.
It will be an extremely delicate matter as you will be aware that the Member States are very divided on this issue.
In fact, it is only natural that an ILO convention that has been signed by the European Union or by its Member States forms part of the acquis communautaire , and I do not believe that there are any particular problems for the applicant countries or those who eventually want to join in terms of accepting the European Union's general system.
As I said, the Commission agrees with the criteria set out in the Sainjon report.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In addition, it calls on the Member States and the Commission to ensure adequate transparency and public participation in the planning process relating to publicly/privately supported projects.
In our report, we have delivered an opinion on the Green Paper of December 1997.
There is still no escaping the conclusion that competition among sea ports is distorted by regional and national aid, and that is simply in total contradiction to the principles underlying the single European market.
First of all, the Commission should at long last present a transparency study on the conditions of competition between and within sea ports.
You know a great deal, but it is our view that we need guidelines on aid to sea ports and on verifying compliance with competition law if all ports and port companies are to be treated fairly, and we need those guidelines before 2001, which is the date suggested in a paper from your institution, Commissioner.
Our committee takes the view that, at least for the time being, there is no need for either a directive on port-related infrastructure, fees or terminals, or a directive on market access for providers of port services.
It will work without new legislation if the Commission supports the market forces.
Spare yourselves the trouble of making new laws, and operate instead with the existing legislation on state aid and competition; protect the ports that are progressing by their own efforts, and let us cooperate in supporting the others, but the paramount aim must be to preserve a level playing field.
The global navigation satellite system, GNSS, enables us to meet the increasingly high demands for up-to-date information on locations and times in our daily work and leisure.
In short, with a European GNSS we shall be able to create a more efficient and environmentally friendly general transport system in Europe.
At the present time, two satellite navigation systems are available for use - the American GPS and the Russian GLONASS.
So GMSS really does have enormous market potential, and Europe can perhaps provide the world's first civilian supplier in this segment of the market.
The first step in this direction has just been taken with the conclusion of a convention which lays down the ground rules for close cooperation between the three European institutions in this field - the Commission, the European Space Agency - ESA - and the European air safety organisation Eurocontrol.
The two-stage model will pave the way towards this new market.
Closer coordination between the European Investment Bank and the European Development Fund and long-term sources of funding, including risk capital, are necessary to make public-private partnerships more appealing the second time round.
Mr President, Europe's competitiveness in the maritime sector is increasingly dependent on the transport and port system: 90 % of the EU's traffic with third countries and 30 % of intra-Community traffic passes through the ports.
Hence the obvious need to adopt the appropriate policies, designed in particular to preserve the competitiveness of the EU maritime sector, which accounts for 2.5 million jobs, and to safeguard the prospects for cooperation with the applicant countries and the Union's Mediterranean neighbours, which also represent a major challenge for the immediate future.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Jaak Vandemeulebroucke whom I have succeeded as rapporteur for the Committee on Regional Policy, I should like to stress a number of points made in the committee, including how difficult it is to implement uniform measures in an area where there is so much diversity in terms of organisation and ownership structure.
I would also mention the importance of ports as a connection for Europe's less developed regions and also emphasise the great geographical diversity.
It is a complex issue because of its very technical nature, but the system is also an eminently political issue in that the independence of Europe in the field of air traffic control is at stake.
The GNSS is a prime example of complementarity between the European Commission and the European Space Agency involving Eurocontrol, which also applies to the EGNOS programme.
In fact, the GNSS world market is in the order of EUR 40 billion, of which satellites represent 10 million and ground installations and on-board equipment represent 30 million.
The improvement and in particular the safety of air traffic is one of the challenges of the European GNSS but we must also aim to improve the management of sea and land traffic and also of road and rail transport.
Europe will thus have not only a satellite navigation and positioning system but also the means to use it to improve air, land and sea traffic, which is the ultimate aim of the European GNSS.
Indeed, that is where I should like to begin: the Green Paper on sea ports and maritime infrastructure has aroused great expectations, not least because for the first time ports are recognised as an integral part of the trans-European network system.
Growth rates in double figures have been recorded, and many ports have at last become more business-oriented, organising themselves in a more up-to-date, competitive fashion.
I would stress two further points here.
My second point relates to maritime passenger transport which, especially in the Mediterranean, is of crucial importance as a factor of economic, social and regional growth.
The expansion of sea port infrastructure in the Mediterranean must be encouraged, including in third countries.
In short, it is within our means.
Furthermore, this venture would symbolise the use of technology for safety and efficiency purposes, and could make European cooperation more visible to our citizens.
I would therefore say - somewhat paradoxically - that it is in the interest of the US, as well as Europe, for Europe to take its own initiative concerning a new constellation of regional and global satellites.
I could not help thinking of this when I was looking through the Green Paper on sea ports and maritime infrastructure again and was struck by the second rule.
Europe's competitiveness in the global economy is increasingly dependent on an efficient and profitable transport system.
Finally, Mr President, various groups have submitted amendments.
But I should like to put one question to the Commissioner in connection with Amendment No 8 tabled by Mr Lagendijk.
This will only be possible when potential investors and construction companies, along with transport service providers and the capital goods sector, are offered a stable framework for their financial transactions.
This network is essential to achieve the objectives the European Union has set itself, which include the construction of a trans-European network of infrastructures that will promote the successful enlargement of the European Union, and the opening-up of the pan-European transport system to the countries of Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean.
Mr President, let us start by agreeing that the three reports which we are debating this evening have little to do with one another, but that it is nevertheless an interesting debate as it illustrates that we in Europe are developing a somewhat broader vision of the networks and how they operate.
Ports are general companies and you cannot tell them to have one kind of transport in one port and another kind of transport in another.
We thought that the inadequacies and gaps in the Commission's proposals would be noted by the rapporteur and that certain points in the Green Paper could usefully be improved upon when examined in committee.
We ourselves had made a number of proposals to promote a new dynamism for Europe's ports.
However, none of our proposals was included either in the Commission text or in Mr Jarzembowski's report.
Certainly, these have a commercial purpose but I must stress that they also play a fundamental role in terms of regional planning and have a certain impact on employment.
Mr President, the Green Paper on sea ports and maritime infrastructure concerns important issues as it involves 90 % of European Union trade with third countries, 30 % of intra-EU trade and 200 million passengers a year.
This sector plays an important role in employment, economic development and regional planning; it cannot therefore be considered solely in commercial terms.
This position is also in line with that of the Council.
Therefore, despite a certain degree of progress, this report in its current form does not in our opinion meet this sector's development needs.
Mr President, European ports are a constant source of disagreement between the various Member States.
I would stress that ports grow up in a particular culture and are characterised by this.
This is why verifiable regulations must take account of this diversity.
In order to correct this discrepancy, it is first necessary to conduct a thorough inquiry into the financial structure of Europe's ports.
Excessive subsidies going to competing ports cannot be allowed to destroy everything a port has built up over many decades with major investment.
For this reason I should like to see more investment in our ports in order to encourage a shift in the modal split in this direction.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on the Danesin report on trans-European transport networks.
The development of transport TENs is obviously a key element in the process of European unification.
This report therefore proposes that use be made of joint public-private partnerships to create the trans-European transport networks.
Hence the need to share out the entrepreneurial risk, taking account both of commercial and of social and environmental criteria, as part of an overall strategy for mobility within the Community.
Every effort must be made to ensure that this network is interoperable, building on the intelligent transport system currently being developed in a systematic manner within the Community, which has already had a significant impact in the EU's most built-up areas: Turin, Hamburg and London have all experimented with intelligent transport systems.
I would point out here, for example, that in Italy the Prime Minister has established an ad hoc group on satellite navigation systems, thus attributing great importance to this sector.
Let me now make two observations concerning the Green Paper on sea ports.
Mr President, it gives me great pleasure to welcome all three reports and the high level of support from all political groups within the Committee on Transport and Tourism attained by those reports.
Through you, Mr President, I would like to make a plea to the Commissioner this evening to look closely at the United Kingdom model and in particular to learn from the private finance initiative schemes operating in the United Kingdom.
In particular I think we could use the opportunity presented to the House this evening to set conditions in which public-private partnerships can flourish.
Similarly, through the Danesin report and the Commission communication we must seek clarity in the implementation of competition rules to avoid any distortion of competition within and between the Member States.
Equally, there should be greater transparency and clarity in the implementation of the European Union rules on public procurement.
I firmly believe that the Danesin report will be a great and positive step along the way, building on the Commission communication to create such public-private sector partnerships.
There is a further consequence which links in with our debate here some time ago on the coming into operation of the Treaty of Amsterdam, that is the question of employment.
Because of reform of the EU financial systems and reductions in structural funding and cohesion funding to certain countries under the Agenda 2000 reform package, it is essential that we find new ways of financing these very essential projects.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, simply trying to reach a common position with regard to the ports in Europe is a brave thing.
However, the real challenge does not come from the neighbouring port, but from the roads.
May I also express my unreserved support for the project concerning a strategy for global navigation systems.
Mr President, I should like to comment on the report on satellite communications.
Mr President, it is quite clear that the construction of the trans-European transport networks, envisaged in the White Paper on Growth, Competitiveness and Employment in 1993, has veered off course.
It is also true that there could be better coordination between the Community instruments for financial assistance, the Cohesion Fund, the Structural Funds, the EIF, the EIB and even potential new instruments such as structurally subordinated loans and the so-called 'mezzanine funds'.
Without a strong political will on the part of the EU, the 14 priority projects defined at Essen will not be developed.
Between then and today, the Community budget has allocated the measly sum of ECU 1.8 bn, or less than 2 %, which is absolutely nothing.
Mr President, the emphasis in the Green Paper on fair competition between ports and on market mechanisms is very much after my own heart.
Three, how does the Commission believe it can strike a balance between its objective of regional development and its task of combating distortions of competition?
Four, I would criticise certain passages in the Green Paper on financial intervention in order to increase the efficiency of ports.
I thank the Commissioner for his positive response to the link between the Scheldt and the Seine.
I should like to ask him, also on behalf of my colleagues Mr Tindemans, if he could consider whether the Commission can play a stimulating role in the renaissance of the 'Ijzeren Rijn ', as we call it.
This link is included in the trans-European networks' list of priorities for combined transport.
It is by far the shortest rail link between Antwerp and the German Ruhr, but the special thing about it is that it runs through three countries when the supposed national interests of the three countries do not correspond.
The development of increasingly accurate systems with accompanying communications possibilities will lead to a strengthening and a much better and safer use of European airspace.
I expect the ESA - the European Space Agency - to continue to act as the EU's technological arm in this area.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking all three rapporteurs for their reports and, indeed, all who have contributed to what has been a very interesting and mixed debate this evening.
I shall begin with Mr Danesin's commendable report on public-private partnerships in trans-European transport network projects.
The House will be aware that our proposal to amend the TENs financial regulation envisages support for the development of risk capital funding.
Secondly, amongst the initiatives and developments on which I should like to report, the House will be aware of our proposal to increase the budget for transport TENs to ECU 5bn in the period between 2000 and 2006.
Thirdly, we welcome Mr Danesin's call for clear and flexible legislation on public contracts.
As honourable Members in this House may know, the Commission has already presented a general communication on public procurement which will be followed before Easter by another that specifically addresses the application of public procurement legislation to concessions.
Mr Jarzembowski has written a characteristically excellent report on the Green Paper on sea ports and maritime infrastructure, published 13 months ago.
I welcome the fact that the report supports the full integration of ports into a multimodal trans-European network and also recognises that the Green Paper is a valuable basis for achieving greater transparency in conditions of competition between and within the ports of the European Union.
The rapporteur and the Commission are also in agreement that any rules on sea ports should always respect the subsidiarity principle.
It is a divergence which could potentially distort competitive conditions significantly and also contradict fairer competition, which, of course, must be based on non-discrimination between users and increased transparency of port accounts.
I believe, however, that the view expressed in the report that the proposed directive on charging is not the right instrument for achieving these goals may be based on a misreading of our true intentions.
As someone who tries to avoid proposing unnecessary legislation, I would like to be able to share that view.
I firmly believe that the Union's approach to the development of the global navigation satellite system is vitally important, not only for transport reasons, but also in terms of employment, competitiveness and our wider strategic interest.
The Russian Federation also appears to be very keen to cooperate and also to accept our conditions.
Without our assistance there would certainly not be a fully operational GLONASS system for some very considerable time to come.
The current Agenda 2000 discussion of the TENs financial regulation will therefore be crucial in determining the extent to which the public sector contribution of GNSS can come from the budget of the Community.
If there ever was a case for Community commitment to network development then it must be in the advance of our policy in global navigation satellite systems.
I am sure that Members of this House will be active in all of the areas required to ensure that we get an adequate financial regulation, a sophisticated policy on global navigation satellite systems and an urgent execution of both to the advantage of the Community.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
I put a specific question to the Commissioner concerning the possible exchange between infrastructure subsidies and the subsidies for combined transport.
As all Members who know me know I always do - fastidiously.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the use of electronics in public and private communication is so far advanced today that the mechanisms used for such communication can even speak and read digitised language.
Only three things have to be regulated in this context: the conditions for guaranteeing the reliable identification of the person communicating by means of an electronic medium, whether digital or binary, the integrity of the transmitted information and the legal status of electronic or digital signatures.
The German Government has told me that there could be a compromise solution to this issue, involving the addition of an Annex III, dealing with the technical specifications for certification equipment.
I am interested to hear, Commissioner Bangemann, what the Commission thinks of this proposal, which has no doubt come to your attention too.
As far as the amendments tabled are concerned, I recommend their adoption, with the exception of Amendments Nos 2, 4, 8, 9, 21, 22 and 26, which either create inconsistencies within the directive, duplicate other clauses or effectively water down the provisions of the directive.
Finally, let me make a prophecy to all those who have stayed away from this interesting midnight debate: you will be amazed at the impact this directive will have.
Mr President, this report will establish a stepping stone on the path to the future.
In all Member States there are moves towards introducing technology into so many aspects of daily life - for example, electronic voting, electronic social security systems and electronic banking transactions.
We need a clear common framework for electronic signatures to boost confidence in the new technologies.
Also, recognising the range of existing proposals and initiatives currently operating within the different Member States, the need to protect the principles of the internal market are paramount.
As already expressed by Parliament in its resolution of 17 July 1998, it is important to set up a regulatory framework to ensure that electronic signatures and manuscript signatures have the same status in law, so that a document bearing an electronic signature may be used as evidence.
Obviously, this proposal for a directive carries on this unfortunate custom.
They aim to clarify the status of certification service providers in order to prevent the divergent measures that have already been seen in a number of our Member States.
Another example is the case of Spain, where the 1998 finance law this time authorises the Minister for Home Affairs to act as a certification service provider.
The consumer's right to conduct small electronic transactions under a pseudonym can also serve to prevent the creation of excessively detailed customer profiles.
Finally, I should like to appeal to the Commission to accept the amendments adopted by Parliament, to the rapporteur to reconsider his position with regard to Amendment No 26, and above all to the Council to come up quickly with a common position.
It is therefore high time that this material was incorporated into a uniform European framework, otherwise there is a danger that we shall eventually have 15 different laws on digital signatures with a variety of different standards.
For example, Article 8(3) of the proposal provides for digital signature certificates to be issued under a pseudonym at the signatory's request.
In its efforts to ensure the protection of personal data, however, the Commission goes rather too far.
Moreover, a number of other amendments succeed in formulating provisions more precisely and eliminating contradictions.
Regrettably, there are also some rather inappropriately worded amendments, such as nos 8, 15 and 23, which my group feels have overshot their target, namely to formulate the text more precisely.
The same applies to the amendment on the electronic submission of petitions, which, in the view of my group, has little to do with digital signatures and is consequently out of place here.
Other amendments, namely Nos 6 and 7, seek to have data protection clauses inserted in all multilateral conventions to which the Union is a party.
They insist that other parties to such agreements should respect the right of not only the EU but also its Member States to maintain existing rules on data protection.
Mr President, Commissioner, a great deal has already been said about the importance of this issue.
The Commission proposed strict responsibility - in Finnish 'ankara vastuu '.
I also asked the Commissioner what position he would adopt in future discussions with the Council, since in my view this will be a key factor in future negotiations.
The Commission proposal recognises the need to ensure legal recognition of electronic signatures which have the same validity as handwritten signatures.
The clarification is necessary for the certification services.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights recommends that the use of pseudonyms should be investigated and monitored.
Mr President, at the end of her speech, Mrs Oddy just addressed a problem which really can arise in this area, where the issue is to what extent electronic signals can satisfy formal requirements laid down by law in the Member States.
The report has been of great assistance to us.
Of the 35 amendments, we can accept 17 in their entirety and eight in part.
We should not start subjecting electronic signatures to more stringent requirements than are normally applied to handwritten signatures.
As I said, the report is very constructive on this point too.
This directive for the first time lays down a set of tough, legally-binding limits for emissions of the four major pollutants - sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen, particulates and lead - to be met by 2005 and 2010 and based on 1997 guidelines from the World Health Organisation to protect public health.
Of the amendments proposed by Parliament at first reading, 21 out of the 28 were largely accepted by the Council in the common position under the British presidency.
However, the Council also weakened some of the original Commission proposals.
This is a matter of some concern to us in Parliament and so we have tabled 11 amendments to the common position.
Amendment No 4 ensures that action plans for any areas for which a derogation is in operation must also be made available to the public.
Amendment No 5 asks that, since the Council did not agree our proposal for an alert threshold for particulates, the Commission should reconsider this when more research is available after the review in 2003.
Amendment No 7, sadly, I understand the Commission, amongst others, cannot support and, as a result, the problem of dealing with especially sensitive ecosystems is obviously one of those that will have to be dealt with by action at national level.
But we feel in Parliament that it is important to highlight that the World Health Organisation recommended four different levels of limits where the directive only allows for one.
I hope, therefore, that the Commission will stick to its guns on this, and likewise on Amendment No 2.
In any case Member States are able to choose their own selection of monitoring points so they ought to be able to find a way in which they can actually deal with this difficulty.
Secondly, as far as oxides of nitrogen are concerned, this is obviously hard for Member States to achieve.
Amendments Nos 10 and 11 cover exactly the same sort of problem but for particulates.
However, the common position text allows ten more permitted exceedances per year on the 24-hour limit and on the hourly limit and, in effect, pushes the review back so that not a great deal is going to result from that until at least 2010.
Otherwise, this directive is a good example of the work that is being done to improve European environmental legislation.
I should like to thank Mrs Pollack for her work on this directive, which is a complex document because of its technical nature.
I also believe that the Conference of Presidents, sadly, does not attach very great importance to environmental issues.
Parliament is to adopt stricter EU pollution limits in order to ensure better air quality.
Just like the previous speakers, I regret that only 21 of the 28 parliamentary amendments adopted at the first reading have been accepted in letter or in spirit.
The report even provides for a very sharp reduction in the limits for particulates, and compliance with the envisaged limits will require a considerable effort in most of the Member States.
Annex I(I) lays down limits and alarm thresholds for sulphur dioxide, and the proposed limit of 350 grams per cubic metre with 24 overshoots is far too high in my opinion.
The reduction envisaged in the maximum number of overshoots from 24 to 8, while not satisfying my wish for a lower concentration limit, is undoubtedly a step in the right direction and will therefore have our support.
The European Environment Agency has calculated that a reduction in the average PM10 value from 30 micrograms per cubic metre to 20 micrograms per cubic metre would prevent 10 000 premature deaths from particulate poisoning in the EU.
Drastic measures are also required for industry: 30 % of NO emissions come from incinerators, cement ovens, electrical power stations and other factories.
This applies, for example, to Amendment No 1, which concerns the definition of natural events.
We are also able to support the demand that the question of alert thresholds for particulates should be reviewed in 2003, and so we accept Amendment No 5 and also Amendment No 8, which corrects a mistake concerning the margin of tolerance.
We in the Commission want to see as much information as possible about this guideline value, but it would be too difficult for a number of Member States to comply with this, and therefore we cannot support this amendment.
The situation with regard to this proposal is that Member States which are in a position to go further may do so in connection with this proposal, because it is in keeping with the framework directive on air quality for them to go further if they can.
The proposal is the first concrete implementation of the EU's new programme for the improvement of air quality for its citizens and for the environment.
We recently adopted another proposal on carbon monoxide and benzene.
We shall also return to the pollutants dealt with in this proposal in 2003, to see whether even more can be done in the next phase.
The debate is closed.
