I accepted a considerable number of amendments in committee, since I believe that a European Parliament resolution on a subject as important as this must be able to count on the support of a substantial majority of Members.
We take as our starting-point, ladies and gentlemen, the clear fact that the globalization of the economy and the astonishing growth of the financial markets have reduced the effectiveness of traditional economic policies and weakened the ability of national governments to define independently their macroeconomic objectives.
The international capital market enables countries with little capacity to generate domestic savings to gain immediate access to external savings - often on exceptionally favourable financial terms.
This allows such countries to finance economic development policies which they would otherwise be unable to fund.
Consequently, whilst accepting the fact that the international markets have achieved a degree of autonomy which is far greater than the ability of individual governments to influence them, the alternative which I am proposing to the House today is to strengthen international cooperation, within the existing institutional framework, and drawing on the encouraging experience of economic and monetary union.
Fundamentally, Mr President, this report seeks to suggest that the European Union's experience of making progress towards economic and monetary union through economic cooperation and through the application of convergence criteria could serve as an example on a global scale of how to strengthen monetary cooperation, with a view to achieving the general conditions for sustained, noninflationary and job-creating economic growth.
Mr President, this report on the strengthening of world monetary cooperation to ensure better regulation of monetary and financial markets is very timely.
I do not just refer to the collapse of Barings Bank in London, following dealings on the Singapore market, but also to the consequences which followed lower interest rates in the United States in 1995.
We will need strong international cooperation, and the newly-fledged European Central Bank will need to quickly master its global, as well as its local, role.
To these suggestions I would add that the G3 or the G7 should not exclude other important global players, including Asia and ASEAN, whose parliamentary representatives are in conclave with Euro-MPs this morning here in Strasbourg.
I recommend, in essence: closer cooperation in the field of economic policy between the 'big three' , in other words the United States, Japan and Germany; closer cooperation with regard to exchange rates, in particular between industrialized countries; and, finally, action to promote greater international financial stability in the context of a would be globalized economy.
There are three main lines of approach that come into question here: strengthening the present multilateral surveillance system, making payments from the Structural Funds subject to certain conditions in the event that a country fails to move with sufficient determination towards economic convergence, and, finally, setting up a fairly complex system which would deprive the defaulting State of a 'laisserpasser premium' , guaranteeing that it would receive no more money from Brussels as long as that aid - currently paid in ecus and in future to be paid in Euros - would represent a large sum in national currency after devaluation.
Secondly, the wording of paragraph 19 of the motion for a resolution is not acceptable to our group, because it requests that, via the Commission and the future European Central Bank, the European Union should be a full member of all the international institutions mentioned and that it should be involved as such, in the drawing up and taking of decisions.
If the question should eventually arise as to whether the provisions of paragraph 19 are to be proposed and transcribed into international reality, then we shall discuss the matter again, but as far as the Treaty on European Union is concerned, this hypothetical situation cannot be taken into consideration at this stage.
Neither any national banks nor their international counterparts are capable of combating this level of speculation.
Whatever one may think about the Bretton Woods agreements, the superiority of the dollar as a reference currency for the entire international monetary system was justified on three grounds.
The United States abandoned that guarantee on 15 August 1971.
To put it bluntly, if my debt is expressed in my own currency and if international trade is all settled in that currency, I know that I am not going to pay my debt - it is as simple as that.
This is why the Group of the European Radical Alliance is resolutely in favour of the single currency, and I would say that even without dwelling too much on its immediate social cost, though this remains an essential point as we see it.
Mr President, the Garriga Polledo report supplies an excellent analysis of the international money markets and their possibilities with regard to regulation, but it also contains a considerable surprise.
Yet the Commission's arguments always include, prominently faced, a paragraph from which we learn that 'the single currency will contribute to greater worldwide monetary stability' .
It is hard to understand exactly what this statement is supposed to mean, and the Garriga Polledo report provides no enlightenment.
In point of fact, as the report rightly stresses, the best way for a country to arrive at stable exchange rates is still for it to implement sound economic policies, without tolerances designed to facilitate that stability.
In this case, international monetary cooperation should be a possibility, in order to bring the exchange rate back within an acceptable band, and it could be coordinated by the IMF, as the report rightly indicates.
But we all know that the success of this method cannot be guaranteed: the major powers are not necessarily going to be prepared to subordinate their national economic policies to the objective of maintaining their exchange rate parities, and in any case the capital flows are very often stronger than any intentions that may be expressed.
In these circumstances, once again, we deplore the fact that countries which are the victims of monetary dumping cannot, ultimately, protect themselves by means of compensatory monetary sums.
They could also be useful in relations between European States and third countries, and within a reconstructed European monetary system, as an ultimate deterrent intended to reinforce discipline.
We regret the fact that the latest GATT negotiations do not include a monetary section, and we hope, Mr President, that further discussions on this subject will begin as soon as possible.
Mr President, I too am grateful to the rapporteur for this very well presented and very effective report.
If all the Member States take part, the convergence criteria are met, and the citizens of Europe put their trust in the new currency, the euro could perhaps become strong enough to act as a third 'international currency' .
Mr President, this report is a most timely one, in that immediately prior to the April meeting of the IMF and the World Bank, it once again calls for an improvement in international monetary cooperation.
It is therefore right to make these calls now, in view of the globalization of markets and the weakness of cooperation in this area between the governments of the major industrialized nations, as well as the technical advances in communications and the massive increase in capital movements, only 4 % of which are accounted for by the real economy and real trade.
Because after all, as the report makes clear, the US dollar accounts for 60 % of world currency reserves, which in no way corresponds to the importance of the US economy.
The European Parliament has already quite rightly called on the Commission several times to produce a white paper on monetary developments.
This is particularly important now that there are new financial instruments on this market which can influence monetary planning, for example the blueprint for the future European Central Bank, since these new financial instruments will mean that it becomes harder to assess and manage the money supply than has hitherto been the case.
Mr President, in my opinion Parliament acted responsibly when it gave the Committee on Economic Affairs the opportunity to draw up this report.
The international financial markets now play a very important role in the world economy.
I believe that the money markets are not necessarily the best judge of real economic performance, as we have seen with the exchange rate mechanism here in Europe.
That new direction is cooperation.
We need new multilateral procedures, we need cooperation because the success of the global economy and the livelihoods of many people around the world depend on it.
The same cannot be said about the subject of his report, the international financial markets.
This report has been perfectly timed to support the Commission in its efforts to improve international monetary cooperation.
As Mr Santer and Mr de Silguy have emphasized to the relevant international bodies, the IMF and the G7, increased cooperation on the macroeconomic policy front implies that all those concerned must agree on the objectives, and undertake to use the instruments which enable those objectives to be achieved.
One of the major challenges for international cooperation in the future will be to take more account of the interdependence not only between countries, but also between their policies.
The House is also calling for the European Union to play a greater role in international cooperation and, via the Commission and the European Central Bank, to become a full member of the international institutions concerned.
The Commission is willing to assume this role.
The question of international cooperation in the monetary arena must also be considered in the light of monetary union, which will have far-reaching consequences for the international monetary system.
First of all, the increased role of the euro as an international currency will help stabilize the international monetary system and, secondly, monetary union should give the European Union a weight and influence more in keeping with its economic importance than has previously been the case.
To achieve this, however, the European Union must adopt a firm and steadfast attitude towards its partners.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12.00.
It will also help to improve the effectiveness of the Structural Funds, the Union's most important instrument of economic and social cohesion.
It is therefore necessary to draw up a cohesion strategy laying down specific stages, as happened in the case of economic and monetary union.
A true cohesion policy, designed to dovetail with economic and monetary union and to absorb any adverse effects, will entail greater coordination in all policy areas which have a bearing on economic and social cohesion.
In a European Union with 17 million unemployed, employment policy must take top priority.
We are therefore calling for an explicit article on employment to be incorporated into the Maastricht Treaty.
Europe will have a bright future if it can combine solidarity with reliability.
Problems are more likely to arise in the short to medium term, if one acknowledges the possibility that employment might be adversely affected in countries which are not yet taking part in monetary union.
Secondly, when overhauling the Structural Funds, I think it is important to focus on projects which are needed in order for countries not yet taking part in monetary union to meet the convergence criteria.
Mr President, I am very pleased we have been able to have this debate today following the initiative of my own political group to draw up an own initiative report on EMU and economic and social cohesion.
They have only dealt with the macro-economic issues at the level of a national economy and ignored the regional impact of EMU, or have ignored the relationship between EMU and cohesion policy.
In this report my group has pledged its support for EMU.
That is why the Walter report is such an excellent one, because it puts forward constructive policies on how we can help those countries move into EMU and into the third phase faster.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, along with the completion of the internal market and the achievement of economic and monetary union, the promotion of economic and social cohesion represents one of the EU's three political priorities.
EMU, with all its advantages - including in particular for social and economic cohesion - is impossible without nominal convergence.
It is therefore clear that a reduction in crippling national debt plays an important role with regard to investment, and thus employment.
Practical experience in recent years has shown that where unemployment has been tackled by increasing national debt and raising taxes, no lasting success has been achieved.
Only a stable economy, which is the crucial precondition for participating in monetary union, can create market confidence, encourage trade and investment, and hence stimulate growth and job creation.
The Walter report explores this problem.
Let me therefore draw particular attention to two points which are of considerable importance to my group.
The first is Amendment No 9 on paragraph 22, in which we state that the current provisions of the Treaty are not inadequate and incomplete, but merely need to be strengthened and properly applied.
The second point relates to Amendment No 11 on paragraph 41, where we refer to the Ciampi report, in which leading European trade union and industrial representatives point to a direct link between public services and competitiveness, and state that greater competition in public service provision is of benefit to governments, economies and consumers.
On the other hand, we must acknowledge that economic and monetary union is one of the most ambitious projects and perhaps the one with the greatest implications for the European Union and its future.
Economic and social cohesion, on the one hand, and economic and monetary union, on the other.
In these situations, what is on the table is the fact that we are not able to choose between these two aspects, we are not able to choose between economic and social cohesion and economic and monetary union.
We must reconcile the attempt at achieving economic and social cohesion with achievement of economic and monetary union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioners, it is a matter of priority for the European Union to promote economic and social cohesion, in order to provide a guarantee for the leastdeveloped regions that in the transition to economic and monetary union, the inequalities do not increase.
We support the proposals in this motion for a resolution which are aimed at promoting solidarity, offsetting or avoiding the adverse effects of economic and monetary union and, above all, combating unemployment: cohesion and unemployment are incompatible.
The present convergence criteria laid down in the Maastricht Treaty are neither compatible with the principle of cohesion, nor sufficient.
Because, as Mr Walter points out in his report, the conclusions of the Madrid summit and other initiatives may remain empty words if they are not genuinely put into effect.
On the one hand, it calls upon the IGC to maintain economic and social cohesion as a policy in its own right, but on the other it is inclined - more so here than in the first draft - to misuse structural policy as a carrot-and-stick approach to the consolidation of national budgets.
Although the idea of solidarity with countries which are unable or not allowed to take part in monetary union does feature prominently in the report, it is inconsistent here too, because dividing countries into first and second class in itself belies the notion of solidarity.
Mr President, it goes without saying that this report deals with economic and social cohesion in Europe, and I believe that when reference is made to preserving the convergence criteria, it is clearly being assumed that the Commission has left itself some room for manoeuvre under the Maastricht Treaty as regards strict observance of the convergence criteria.
I am therefore firmly convinced that any country able to do so should put the question to its citizens in a referendum, to be sure that monetary union meets with the acceptance of Europe's citizens.
Economic and social cohesion has always been a Community goal, but as Mr Walter points out, the Treaties do not provide us with a clear definition of this concept.
Article 2 of the Treaty clearly stipulates that the establishment of a single market and an economic and monetary union must serve to promote economic and social cohesion.
I would point out, incidentally, that the Commission unfortunately failed to make any reference to this subject in its report.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Walter's report is an important one.
The proposals it contains to counter social dumping and strengthen regional policy and employment policy in order to counterbalance EMU are of course good ones.
Here, however, I represent opinion in the Nordic countries which is critical of EMU, Mr President.
I myself am against EMU - my group holds a different view.
Sweden and the Nordic countries are vast areas and already have serious regional problems.
The consequences which are examined in the report are interesting to see but I consider that there is a lack of depth as regards the issue of studies of the effects on unemployment, regional balance and the environment.
Mr President, the report by the Committee on Regional Policy states that the less-favoured regions will derive advantages from the single currency, yet it is forced to admit that the application of the convergence criteria may slow down growth, worsen unemployment and reduce social spending.
The allocation of structural funds has not, hitherto, done anything to reduce the regional disparities in the matter of income, infrastructure and employment which are very prevalent in the European Union, as the Committee on Regional Policy acknowledges.
Experience shows us that the application of the nominal convergence criteria for the preparation of the single currency is nothing less than the declaration of war on employment, wages, social protection and the economy in regions which are already less favoured.
Furthermore, the European Social Observatory has recently acknowledged that the Economic and Monetary Union model inevitably carries the seeds of social deregulation.
The only means of creating jobs and ensuring genuine economic and social cohesion is to reexamine the issue of the single currency, which subjects economic policies and national budgets to the domination of the financial markets.
By lending weight to this social movement, and prolonging it, we must help to lay the groundwork for a new type of development of society, in Europe in particular and, let me add, throughout the world.
A single currency will represent one of the most profound changes which Europe has undergone in recent decades.
There will be a 'before and after' in terms of the single currency.
The single currency is going to be an important element of the identification of European citizens with the European Union.
The current budget will be insufficient, too limited and restricted in terms of the implications of economic and monetary union.
Without such a federal budget the imbalances across the Union's territory might well worsen, especially when we note the so-called asymmetrical shocks which will effect certain countries and regions more than others.
The Union's cohesion in the broadest sense is going to depend on the single currency and it will depend on economic and monetary union, it will depend upon solidarity and generosity, it is going to call for the continuation of transfers of resources from the richest countries to the poorer countries but it will also demand of the poorest regions and countries greater responsibility and better use of those resources.
The weaker Member States are forced to make cuts in their public expenditure and public investments in order to restrict their deficits, cuts that may make the economy healthier in the short term, but which can slow development and broaden the gap between the strong and the weaker.
In any case, the distance, even at national level, is so great that decades will be needed until cohesion countries reach a rough approximation of the Community average, vital in order to avoid risks and in order for the benefits of European monetary union to be felt.
However, since the less-favoured countries must also make a greater effort towards nominal convergence, in order to meet the Maastricht criteria, it is also important that, without delay, there should be some more flexibility in the requirements of additionality, since it is vital that real convergence should be achieved without a worsening of budget deficits or public debt.
I think it is a good comment on regional policy and its importance within the European Union.
The figure in that report that indicates that 0.4 % of GNP is devoted in the European Union to regional policy draws attention to the fact that the resources committed are quite small.
We have to recognize that if enlargement is to take place, and considering that the gap is even wider than this report says - my understanding is that the candidate countries have an average of only about 30 % of the GDP of the Cohesion Fund countries - then obviously, we are going to have to strengthen European policy considerably.
We know from historical experience that economic activity ebbs and flows and what is rich today may be poor in 50 years from now.
There has to be a partnership between them and the Commission.
Per capita income in the richest region in the United States, Connecticut, is twice as high as that in the poorest, Mississippi.
Let me simply point out that at the present time, the only three countries which would fulfil the convergence criteria are Argentina, Taiwan and Singapore.
No country which has made a genuine effort to fulfil the convergence criteria should be excluded from the single currency.
That is my personal position.
Mr President, I also welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur.
I believe the EMU will be of particular benefit to Ireland and other peripheral regions.
With regard to unemployment, while I understand that there are difficulties about making it one of the convergence criteria, I believe that we should have a chapter on unemployment or employment in the new Treaty.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I very much welcome the European Parliament's initiative to bring economic and social cohesion back onto the European political agenda in the runup to the IGC and the transition to monetary union.
The Commission's position paper of 28 February on the IGC, which sets out a clear commitment to a socially responsible model of European society, proves that you have a political ally in the Commission.
Moreover, the deliberations of the G7 countries in Lille revealed that after a decade of neo-liberal thinking, there is a growing awareness not only in Europe but around the world that competitiveness and social progress go hand in hand.
The single European currency and the completion of the European single market are needed to ensure our competitiveness, but they must be supplemented by the European Union's third priority: economic and social cohesion.
A high degree of price stability and healthy public finances - nominal convergence, in other words - are necessary conditions for growth, but will not in themselves be sufficient to ensure real convergence of incomes between the Member States and regions.
Real convergence requires an active national and European policy to promote growth in the poorer regions.
The Commission shares the House's wish that an agreement should be reached on exchange rates in order to foster a joint approach to stability and to prepare for the pre-ins to join the single currency as soon as possible.
I would also stress that a third of the whole Community budget is already flowing, through the Structural Funds, into projects such as the fight against unemployment.
I am not sure whether there has been some misunderstanding on the question of public services, as the Commission's position paper made it clear that equal access by all citizens to public and community services should be regarded as fundamental to the European model of society.
It is therefore important for us to unite in advancing your main demands about the future profile of cohesion policy, in particular concentration, increased efficiency, the strengthening of partnerships and the promotion of local employment initiatives.
In my view, if economic and social cohesion is to be increased, living standards in the Union must be aligned and overall economic development brought into balance.
I think it is important that the House should continue to highlight these factors in the forthcoming debate, because the European model of society demands that economic efficiency should be in tune with social cohesion, and it should remain so in the future!
The debate is closed.
With specific regard to the Cohesion Fund it must be borne in mind that, whereas its contribution to economic and social cohesion is clear, a distinction must also be made with regard to the objective of facilitating achievement of economic and monetary union by adopting a single currency.
First of all, the main objective of the Cohesion Fund is to strengthen economic and social cohesion within the Union such that, although the respective scope of the attribution is national, it must contribute towards the fight against regional disparities.
Thirdly, I should like to point out that, although there has been an improvement in the overall balance in the funding of projects on the environment and transport infrastructures, there are still imbalances within each Member State which means that, while maintaining the right amount of flexibility, we must achieve the necessary balance.
Finally, I should like to say that it is vital for the European Parliament in particular - given the functions which it exercises as a budgetary authority - should be informed before any decision concerning Commission proposals, based on application of the provisions of Article 6 of the Regulations of the Cohesion Fund.
It should be recalled that, in this Article, there is a conditionality on financing of the actions by this Fund on observance of the nominal convergence criteria defined in view of economic and monetary union.
I should like to finish, for the sake of the most basic principle of justice, by highlighting the excellent cooperation on the part of the various Members of the European Parliament and other interested parties who, with their opinions, have helped to make this report one which effectively translates the present position of the Committee on Regional Policy and, I hope, as of today, the opinion of the European Parliament on this particular matter.
On behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I would like to point out that in accordance with the principles governing its operation, the Cohesion Fund aims to underpin the efforts of the less well developed Member States.
Its declared aim is therefore to support economic and social cohesion.
Financial support for infrastructure projects is aimed at doing something about unemployment in weaker Member States and about the structural problems of their economies, in an effort to make an important contribution towards development.
Consequently, it is an important instrument for the exercise of economic policy, and it can play some part in the reduction of regional inequalities and in a fairer distribution of revenue within the framework of the European Union.
The debate on this item will be resumed today at 6 p.m.
A group of terrorists attacked innocent tourists with the loss of 17 or 18 lives, most of them Greek tourists, and 14 or 15 wounded, 7 of whom are in a critical condition.
I do not know whether that would be part of a travel directive or something else, but I believe the European Union could contribute in some way towards the protection of citizens.
Mr President, I too, on behalf of our political group, would like to express our sharing of this grief and to ask that we should not dignify such occurrences with a political or any other character.
Last night, in the exchange of views with Commissioner Fischler, the chairman of my group asked for a vote by Vice-President Fontana so that we could have an open question-and-answer session.
Mr Pasty, I think this is an issue that should be considered both by the Conference of Presidents of the Political Groups and by the Bureau.
I would not like to start a debate here, in Plenary.
No-one can fail to be aware that there are differences in temperature and climate between the north and the south of Europe which cause different conditions for microflora and parasites to live in and hence give rise to a different demand for products such as biocidal products for example to solve this problem.
Rejecting Amendments Nos 4 and 42 on laying down a green tax, and Amendments Nos 7, 38, 43, 87 and 89, and accepting instead Amendments Nos 96, 97, 100 and 101, we support the directive.
As a result, there was a need for this proposal for a directive concerning the placing of biocidal products on the market, in order to establish an approved list of active substances and a system for the mutual recognition of biocidal products in the single market.
Because of the complexity and interdependence of the 20 or so existing directives on chemical products, understanding and interpreting this draft directive is not easy.
We need not only to enable consumers to protect themselves against chemical products whose side effects are little understood, but also to defend nature and wildlife against invasive chemistry.
It was this basic proof that came into my mind when I analysed the report by our Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection proposing a new Community directive relating to the indication of prices of products offered to the consumer, with a view to protecting the consumer by providing appropriate - in other words - specific - information on prices, so as to enable a comparison.
I wonder whether we do need to force traders, following the introduction of the single currency, to quote three prices for each product during the transitional period: the price in national currency, the price in European currency, and the price per measured unit in the single currency, and why not quote this price in the national currency too, which would ultimately result in four different quoted prices?
This report contradicts itself to a great extent.
In fact, it is worth remembering, and we think this is quite obvious, that economic and social cohesion and the reduction in the disparities of development are central objectives of the European Union and we should also remember that EMU will not just be an instrument - just one alternative, we should add - but is a sharp reminder to all of those - including the Governments of the 15 countries - transforming the passage to a single currency into a central objective (which should not even be an objective at all) and in addition excluded from any of the discussions about the revision of the Treaties.
We should also like to point out that the increase in unemployment (a further one and a half million jobs lost by the year 2000), the reduction in economic growth, the increase in taxes or the reduction of social public spending (or both) are all consequences of the achievement of the criteria of nominal convergence and we should also remember that a Union at different speeds is a contradiction in terms - none of this comes as a surprise because we have been saying it for a long time.
The contradiction in this report resides in the fact that some of the conclusions insisted, nevertheless, as is recognised, on maintaining the existing criteria with a view to the single currency, in the suggestion of tightening up the criteria after 1999 (with disciplinary or punitive measures applied to the 'ins' and the 'outs' , despite the fact that a multi-speed Europe has already been accepted), by restating - unbelievably - the principle that EMU can actually foster social cohesion, when it is really a contradiction in terms, by putting back on the table a proposal of conditionality for the Cohesion Fund and the implicit rejection of the creation of identical regulations for the structural funds after 1999.
We tried to solve this contradiction by letting the peoples of Europe have a say and by proposing the conducting of constitutional referendums on a handover to a single currency, but this amendment was rejected.
Therefore, and without denying the public recognition which we have defended for a long time, and which a major part of this report actually corroborates, we had no choice other than to abstain from the vote on this document.
The old plant meets only 16 % of the Ukraine's energy needs and it became apparent to us in the course of our discussions that the search for alternatives would be welcomed.
I think that country deserves this, but we as Western Europeans deserve it too, despite all the risks entailed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against the resolution, because I find that there is more hypocrisy here in the European Parliament than anywhere else.
That is why we voted in favour of the text presented to us, whatever its deficiencies.
Mr President, I voted against this motion for a resolution because the text allows the Western nuclear industry complete freedom to go and carry out cosmetic operations in the countries of the former USSR.
In this connection, let me cite the example of the pressurized water nuclear power station of Cattenom, which is in my own region.
The Chernobyl disaster was discovered in Sweden and apart from Ukraine and Belarus Sweden has been the country which has suffered most from the consequences.
At the same time Sweden is one of the countries most dependent on nuclear power for its electricity supplies.
Persson has said that the decommissioning of nuclear power is an opportunity for development.
Here in the European Parliament various committees have pronounced in favour of the phasing out of nuclear power, in favour of Euratom becoming a body for alternative energy.
If the European Parliament really wants to protect the future of the Union, a common plan for the phasing out of nuclear power should be very high on the agenda.
Visby Summit The forthcoming summit meeting to be attented both by the heads of government of the countries around the Baltic Sea and the EU presidency, as well as the Commission President, in many way constitutes a milestone in European cooperation.
First of all, because the circle of participating countries in the Baltic region also consists of both existing and future EU Member States, as well as countries for which EU membership is not currently relevant for various reasons.
Part of the cooperation process is a developed network of association agreements between the EU and the European third countries in the region; the EU provides support for the promotion of economic growth and the solution of a number of acute environmental problems.
These text, once again, make no genuine peace proposals, and the peace of 1993 has failed.
Because it strengthens the apartheid between Jews and Palestinians, an apartheid which is just as unacceptable as the form which once prevailed in South Africa, between the Bantu homelands and the predominantly European areas.
Its President, on the same principle as Nelson Mandela, would be Yasser Arafat, representing the Arab majority, and assisted by a Vice-President, like Frederik De Klerk in South Africa, who would be Shimon Peres, while his Minister of the Interior, equivalent to the Zulu Chief Buthelezi, would be the King of Jordan.
The Green Group has voted for the joint resolution concerning the Baltic Sea conference, despite the fact that we regard it as being far too weak in many respects.
The environmental situation in the Baltic Sea is alarming, not least in respect of exhaust fumes from road transport and the risks from nuclear power stations.
Nor has sufficient attention been paid to the risk that EU membership and the Schengen Agreement, which it is true will increase freedom of movement for EU citizens within the EU, may result in the establishment of new barriers between peoples in the Baltic region.
The EU countries Sweden and Finland should play an active role in this.
Ukraine's decision to remain non-aligned is a positive step in this direction.
The international community should make it clear once and for all that what these countries are supporting is a criminal attack on peace, which must be condemned as international crime and dealt with accordingly.
The international community should call to account the perpetrators and their accomplices, and do everything in its power to help the innocent people who have become involved.
Madam President, indeed once again there has been a flare-up of the situation in East Timor, in relation to Indonesia.
Thank you, Mr Costa Neves.
We wish to express our solidarity not only with the memory of those who lost their lives as a result of Nazi barbarity but also with the Jewish community which has once more been outraged.
The European Union has a great duty in this direction and we therefore strongly advocate the strengthening of specific information and training programmes directed towards the young and more active preservation of the integrity of places which hold the memory of the Holocaust and of the crimes committed by Nazism and fascism against the peoples.
The Group of the European Radical Alliance, which I represent here, believes that all the discussions - all the many discussions - that take place between the European Union and Poland must include the duty to protect and preserve sites such as Auschwitz - and, alas, there are others in Poland.
These doubts and anxieties also underlie our motion for a resolution, and our vote in favour of the joint resolution.
But no one has a right to destroy justice, and those who wish to suppress freedom must have no freedom of opinion or association.
The European Parliament is therefore pleased that both the President and the government of Poland have condemned the building of a supermarket and the march by neo-Nazis at Auschwitz.
It is in fact in the first instance up to the Polish authorities to decide how to respond to the provocative acts of 6 April, and who must be called to account for them.
The answer to this question should be an unequivocal one.
Madam President, it is more than fifty years since the nazi regime came to an end.
Madam President, there is a great feeling of moral outrage in this Parliament at what has happened at Auschwitz.
We believe, Madam President, that the decision by the Polish authorities to authorize this neo-Nazi demonstration is unacceptable.
And I believe, that as a contribution to this, the governments of all the European States should further strengthen their legislation against racism and antisemitism, the more so since the organization of the European Year against Racism, in 1997, should enable us to encourage further activities.
In conclusion, I should like to call upon the European Institutions, and especially the Commission, to continue their activities intended to contribute to the development of Community and national initiatives to ensure the protection of the Nazi concentration camps as historic monuments, as was recommended in our motion for a resolution that was adopted by a large majority on 11 February 1992.
We will therefore support the text of the motion for a resolution tabled by all the groups.
Reverence for the dead and the memory of this barbarity are of greater moral value than the democratic right to demonstrate freely.
And this applies above all to the candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe, within whose borders many of these memorials are situated.
Madam President, as the House will know, 1997 has been designated the European Year against racism and xenophobia, and every opportunity will be taken to make our collective concern understood and push for our common objectives to be achieved everywhere in this area and certainly in Poland too.
In this letter of 11 April the Polish ambassador writes 'As you will doubtless be aware, the racist demonstration at Auschwitz was met with considerable outrage in Poland...
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
At least two points in the resolution in support of which I am speaking on behalf of the Liberal Party seem to me to warrant the full attention of the European Parliament and other Community bodies.
The second concerns the hundreds of thousands of Liberian refugees in the Côte d'Ivoire, Guinea-Conakry and Sierra Leone who, whilst waiting for the situation to settle down, which unfortunately seems a long way off, need humanitarian help from everyone, but above all from the European Union.
Madam President, the recent resurgence of fierce fighting in Monrovia, the capital of Liberia, could, unless it is speedily halted, lead to a new human catastrophe of major proportions.
Many of these are already suffering from malnutrition and disease and it is vital for all possible pressure to be brought to bear on the warring factions to cease fighting and restore the peace agreement of Abuja.
The need for humanitarian aid is immense and exists not only in Liberia but in numerous neighbouring countries to which thousands of Liberian citizens have fled in fear of their lives.
A number of warring groups have been responsible for some 150 000 deaths in the seven years since 1989.
Recently on 6 April fighting broke out again when the police tried to arrest one of the warlords, Roosevelt Johnson, for his dubious role in the whole conflict.
Since the war has been in progress the situation in the country has steadily worsened.
Here, in fact, the road to peace lies in the first place through determined support for the institutions set up by the peace agreements of Abuja on 20 August 1995, which remain the only legal national and international framework capable of allowing Liberia to find once more the path to development.
My Group is convinced that ECOMOG must be given responsibility at international level for disarming the factions and for deploying its troops in the capital, Monrovia, and throughout the country.
We think in fact that the European Union should ask the Economic Community of the West African States to reinforce the international presence in Liberia, since there is the question too of ensuring that the arms embargo, laid down in 1992 by the United Nations Security Council, is respected, since it seems that there is a shortage in Liberia of everything but arms.
The European Union is the only international institution which today can help to create conditions of stability and peace in that country.
Now that many European and American residents have been evacuated there is a risk that all talk of the war in Liberia will cease, whereas the urgency for a political and diplomatic intervention remains the same.
I hope therefore that the Italian presidency of the Council, in consultation with the United Nations and ECOMOG, will produce political initiatives, so that a serious cease-fire is declared and respected, together with a programme of economic cooperation with the new, weak authorities in Liberia.
We cannot stand by and watch the destruction of not only a country, but almost an entire continent - for we too shall pay the consequences of so much horror.
Only by acting within the framework of the Lomé Convention - reiterating the United Nations resolution, demanding respect for the arms embargo on Liberia, reaffirming the Abuja peace agreements of August 1995 - and with decisive, responsible and rigorous action by the Organization of African Unity, is it possible to think about starting to rebuild what used to be a country called Liberia.
Some colleagues have already referred to the problem of youngsters involved in military organizations.
The joint resolution which has been tabled asserts that aid for the population is a matter of urgency, but also that it is extremely difficult at present to provide assistance.
Madam President, in Monrovia, a week after the sudden flare-up of violence, the capital presents a scene of desolation that grows worse day by day.
Madam President, as we know, the swift deterioration of the crisis in Liberia is having tragic consequences for the civilian population.
The European Commission fully shares the European Parliament's anxiety and concern over the humanitarian situation on the ground there.
The attempt to arrest Johnson on 5 April last had more to do with factional politics than with justice.
Intense pressure from all those concerned narrowly saved the European Commission's aid coordination office in Monrovia, still manned by a skeleton staff, from being looted.
A meeting is to be held in Brussels on 23 April with representatives of the main bodies currently or previously operating in Liberia.
The Commission also draws Parliament's attention to the presidency statement of 11 April on Liberia which strongly deplores the renewed violence and calls on all faction leaders to keep their members under control.
The debate is closed.
They are needed too because China's constant refusal to engage in dialogue with Tibet damages the relations between the European Union and the People's Republic of China.
The European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Group is very happy with the European Union's decision to submit a resolution to the UN Commission on Human Rights on the situation in China and Tibet.
We ask them too to hold a thorough, in-depth debate ahead of the vote in the UN Human Rights Commission.
We must not be afraid to raise the imprisonment of Wei Jinseng, the disappearance of the Panchen Lama, the situation in the Chinese orphanages, the death penalty, the continuing policy of moving ethnic Chinese to settle in Tibet and the dismal conditions of the Tibetan people in general.
Madam President, unfortunately greed seems to be gaining ground in relations between the EU Member States and China.
For example, the President of Finland is currently in China with an 80-member trade delegation.
The genocide which has been going on for 40 years is still in full swing and it is the European Parliament's responsibility to remind the Member States, the Council and the Commission continually of this terrible tragedy.
The UN Human Rights Commission should adopt the resolution defending human rights in China and the position of Tibet.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the text of the motion for a resolution finally submitted by the European Union to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in Geneva is an extremely feeble one, a text which barely condemns the Chinese authorities and merely touches upon the tragic matter of Tibet.
We adopted resolutions on it back in 1988 and 1993, but other issues have emerged since then.
Madam President, the Bakun dam is an ecological and social disaster: it is a massive hydro-electric project which will flood 70, 000 hectares of prime tropical rainforest in Sarawak and displace 7, 000 local subsistence farmers.
But in 1992 the project was resurrected.
However, the detention and condemnation by a military court to 20 years in prison of a 24-year-old woman - and I shall read out her name: it is Keltoum El Ouanat - simply for demonstrating peacefully in support of selfdetermination for her people, reminds us of the repeated postponement of the referendum in Western Sahara, which must be held without delay, but which is being blocked.
The United Nations resolutions stipulated that a referendum on the selfdetermination of the Sahrawi people should have been completed by the end of 1992, but we are still discussing this subject today.
In our last debate on the subject of Colombia, we used a word which is today constantly on the lips of all those who work to safeguard human rights in Latin America: impunity.
Not only in Colombia, but also in Bolivia and other Latin American countries, impunity is the word which is constantly on the lips of all defenders of human rights.
The motion for a resolution which we are introducing today refers to nine more murders which we fear will go unpunished - in the same way as the 94 other murders committed in recent years.
Madam President, the situation in Colombia is deteriorating day by day.
Madam President, I want to speak on the motion on Patrick Kelly, which is a resolution before you under the human rights heading.
Patrick Kelly is an Irish citizen who is a prisoner in Northern Ireland and who is suffering from cancer and is critically ill.
A petition has been signed for his transfer by 85 % of members of the Irish Parliament, including Dick Spring, the Tánaiste and Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Patrick Kelly is gravely ill and his health continues to deteriorate.
Political parties in the Republic of Ireland and in Northern Ireland are very supportive.
I would also emphasize to the British authorities that the Convention on the transfer of sentenced prisoners has been ratified by all European countries and that the Convention allows for the transfer in cases where the justification is on humanitarian grounds.
You can contrast the harsh treatment that has been meted out to Patrick Kelly with Private Lee Clegg, a British paratrooper, who was actually convicted of murdering a joyrider: he only served two years of his sentence and then was released.
It is absolutely disgraceful that one person is treated in one way and another in another, particularly taking into account that Patrick Kelly was sentenced to 25 years for conspiracy.
Secondly, we would also like to see the European Parliament playing a much stronger role in relation to human rights abuses within the European Union.
There is widespread support for the European Parliament to send an all-party delegation to visit prisoners in Britain and Northern Ireland and see the conditions there for themselves.
This proposal is also supported by many human rights lawyers who are working on these issues.
Patrick Kelly is a prime example of humanitarian reasons.
I am also appealing to Parliament to vote for our two amendments to strengthen this resolution and, for once and for all, to address human rights abuses within the Community and not just in China, Tibet and different parts of the world, but here in Europe where we are primarily responsible.
Prisoners have to be treated as prisoners and Patrick Kelly was found in possession of a considerable amount of explosives.
Patrick Kelly's association with events in Northern Ireland makes his proposed transfer perhaps more sensitive than most.
All I can say is that the sympathetic consideration of this case is of paramount importance in the context of our continuing efforts to sustain the peace process in Northern Ireland.
Senator Mitchell in his report also emphasized this point.
I would like to thank all the political groups in Parliament who have supported this joint resolution.
The attention of the whole world is fixed on that great country and especially on the market opportunities it offers.
Much criticism has been voiced in Parliament about the upholding of human rights in Asian countries and sometimes we even go so far as to call in our resolutions for a halt to investment.
The European Parliament, Madam President, has nothing at all to gain from constantly pillorying China, but it does have a responsibility to promote stability in the world economy which is becoming more and more interdependent, and China is a factor of major importance in it.
Madam President, I also speak as rapporteur for the European Parliament on EU/China relations, a subject which is occupying much attention both here and in Asia, based on the fact that there is an enormously important trade between our two continents, one which we would like to develop and which was solidified at the recent Bangkok Summit.
I had meetings with many ministers and officials during which I raised the matters which the European Parliament has been preoccupied with for so long, including the question of human rights, the status of religious freedom, the problems in Tibet, the Panchen Lama, the orphanages but also those more positive aspects relating to the new economic policy in China.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking as chairman of the Interparliamentary Delegation for Relations with China.
I have taken a few minutes off from a most important conference being held here in this building on the initiative of the President of our Parliament, an initiative which was a follow-up to the governments' initiative to give parliaments too a part to play in Europe-Asia relations.
Some minutes ago, in the course of our meeting, the chairman of the Chinese delegation threatened to withdraw and left the meeting because he regarded today's vote as a provocation to his government and his country.
The European Parliament is particularly eager to uphold human rights in areas where they sometimes come under pressure as a result of political problems.
The European Parliament, Madam President, has a reputation to maintain on human rights both inside and outside the Union.
I would remind you of China's countless abuses of human rights in general, of the situation in the orphanages, of the political terror waged against Taiwan and today, sadly, for the umpteenth time, of her occupation of Tibet.
I take note of your comments, Mrs d'Ancona, and I myself will be raising the question in the Bureau of whether it is possible to arrange the order of business in such a way as to deal with the human rights issues item by item, in order to make the debate more coherent.
Our resolution puts us very much on the same wavelength as our Member States and the European Union in Geneva.
It might perhaps have been more considerate, and this was of some concern to my group, not to raise this issue until we examine the outcome of the Geneva meeting in May, when a large delegation of parliamentarians from Asia will be here in the House.
Mr President, I am now speaking on the motion for a resolution on Western Sahara.
We have already adopted many resolutions on Western Sahara, all of them with the same basic tenor: recognition of the West Saharan people's right to self-determination.
This is a longstanding colonial conflict, and we are responsible - not only the former colonial power, but also the European Union as its successor - for enforcing the right to selfdetermination.
She is 24 years old and was born in Western Sahara, in other words in the region under Moroccan occupation, and has been in custody in the Moroccan prison of Ben Sergaou near Agadir since 1993.
What we are entirely free to do here leads to being arrested there.
She was sentenced to 20 years' imprisonment by a military court in 1993.
Looking today at the Amnesty International report on Morocco, which is still hot from the press, I note a large number of human rights infringements in that country.
The Commission must be quite clear in its policy towards Morocco, a country with which we have concluded a whole series of agreements in the tourism and fisheries sectors, on how it wishes to see this right of self-determination enforced, and what pressure we can bring to bear.
Other issues which relate to the peace situation in Northern Ireland do not come into this debate.
Firstly, there is the conflict between the various armed groups - such as the FAR and the so-called National Liberation Army - which have been operating in Colombia for over 30 years.
Successive governments have offered these armed groups the possibility of dialogue and reintegration into the political process.
And thirdly, we cannot address the subject of Colombia without mentioning the drug cartels.
In any event, we must not forget that the political situation in Colombia is currently in a particularly delicate phase.
Mr President, it has just been said once again that this is a question of a colonial war and self-determination in Western Sahara.
Let me emphasize that the first country to propose self-determination in the Sahara was Morocco.
There is no reason to ignore these elements, however, and to keep harking back to the circumstances of over 20 years ago.
On the subject of China, Parliament will be aware that the European Union takes every opportunity, and has taken every opportunity in the past, to voice its concern either in the specific dialogue on human rights, the last session of which was held in Beijing in the third week of January, or on an ad hoc basis as and when specific questions arise between the Union and China.
Regarding Tibet, the Union has always sought to promote direct dialogue between the Chinese authorities and the representatives of the Tibetan people.
Mr President, several honourable Members have referred to the Bakun dam.
The Commission is aware that the Malaysian Government decided recently to continue with the building of this dam in Sarawak, East Malaysia.
In its cooperation with Malaysia the Commission has always consistently taken account of Parliament's resolutions on Sarawak, from 1988 onwards.
Mr President, the Commission has long been monitoring the human rights situation in Colombia.
It deploys all means at its disposal to support the efforts made on the Colombian side to ensure compliance with and guarantee human rights in Colombia.
The Commission fully agrees with the resolution in which the European Parliament expresses its serious concern over the violence in Colombia.
Abuses of the kind listed in the draft resolution now under discussion will continue to be systematically targeted by the Commission.
Now to Western Sahara, Mr President.
The Commission has long been keeping a close eye on the efforts which the United Nations Secretary-General has made at the instigation of the Security Council to obtain a referendum in the search for a peaceful solution to the dispute over Western Sahara.
Thank you, Mr van den Broek.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Consequently, Mr President, we make another urgent appeal today to the Russian Federation to ratify START II, the treaty limiting nuclear arsenals, to China to end its test programmes, and to all parties concerned, amongst them the European Union, the US and the Russian Federation, to return to the negotiating table in Geneva to sign a comprehensive test ban treaty.
Well, the year 1996 could be a decisive year for the decline of the detestable ideology of military strength based on nuclear power.
Admittedly, there are still reasons for anxiety: the attitude of China, the present silence of the States which are parties to the Threshold Treaty, the distribution of nuclear resources in the former USSR, and the trafficking in nuclear materials by organized criminals.
Mr President, every opportunity must be grasped to bring the talks on a comprehensive test ban treaty to a successful conclusion.
Today's joint resolution is thus right to press for the Duma to ratify START II.
The European Parliament has already, on 15 February, called for his release.
A person such as Alexandr Nikitin should in such circumstances be regarded as a great champion of peace who should receive the full support of the European Union.
The G7+1 summit in Moscow provides a direct opportunity of drawing attention to the significance of an issue which is so vital for human beings throughout the world, as Parliament has already done in a number of resolutions.
An overwhelming majority of people everywhere would come out against nuclear weapons and in favour of nuclear disarmament.
This Parliament, which represents the citizens of Europe, is directing a renewed plea to this effect to the participants in the G7+1 Conference, and to all politicians.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, the Dayton Agreement, the NATO-led implementation force and the aid programme for reconstruction, under the leadership of Carl Bildt, are the USA and the EU's joint contribution to peace in the former Yugoslavia.
There is still hope, however, Mr President - hope that the efforts now being made will result in a permanent peace in Bosnia even after the withdrawal of IFOR.
Mr President, in November of last year I was approached during the OSCE meeting in Warsaw by a man from Kosovo who was of Albanian extraction.
So it is crucial to this area's development that Belgrade should begin talks with the elected representatives of Kosovo.
President Tudjman is certainly making little effort to reunify Mostar, there is still no international civilian police force, road blocks are still in operation, the financial aid promised for the tribunal is still not forthcoming.
To come back to Kosovo, my Group endorses the proposal for an international conference on Kosovo and it would be a good idea to set up an EU office there.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the number of debates held by Parliament on this subject is almost legion.
By taking away Kosovo's autonomous constitutional status in 1989, Serbia triggered the disintegration of Yugoslavia, and it is only thanks to the peaceful conduct of the Albanians under their leader, Mr Rugova, that Serbia's inhumane treatment of the 90 % Albanian majority - not minority, Mrs Van Bladel - in Kosovo has not yet led to war.
But this could change very quickly unless the situation receives the necessary attention from Europe and the world at large.
But on the other hand, we must not forget that the civil war in former Yugoslavia started in Kosovo, and we must be careful about the means we use when dealing with a very sensitive and difficult situation.
From that standpoint, facile recourse to sanctions, facile recourse to means of international intervention, and the attempt to prevent the European Union from recognizing the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia - new Yugoslavia - will, I think, result in polarization on that point and orientations opposite to those we want.
I am sorry, but that must not happen again.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the point that I personally have the most explicit reservations regarding everything relating to Kosovo in the motions for resolutions that have been put before us.
Admittedly the excesses committed in the name of autonomy until 1989 triggered a process of recentralization which highlighted certain equally deplorable excesses.
None of us would accept similar interference in his own country.
We cannot transfer to the case of Kosovo diplomatic and economic sanctions which, rightly or wrongly, were adopted in order to resolve the Bosnian crisis.
The way to a lasting, just solution to the problems of this region is via an open, positive and constructive dialogue between the European Union and the Republic of Yugoslavia.
Mr President, in this, my maiden speech as a Member of the European Parliament belonging to the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, I wish to express our concern at the serious deterioration of the human rights situation in Kosovo.
Similarly, in line with the conclusions of the last donors' conference, held in Brussels on 12 and 13 April, the European Union must step up its efforts to assist the rebuilding of former Yugoslavia.
Only on this basis will it be possible to make progress in the process of democratization and the defence of human rights in the territory of former Yugoslavia.
Thank you, Mr Mohamed Alí.
Thank you, Mr Mohamed Alí.
Mr President, on Yugoslavia we have reached a stage where progress has been made, but you cannot say that the peace process has been consolidated and stability assured.
Our attention is now fully focused on completion of the civilian part of the Dayton Agreement, which the EU's representative Carl Bildt is responsible for coordinating.
Finally may I draw your attention to the passage in paragraph 11 of the resolution which talks of calling on the Council to instruct the Commission to open an office in Kosovo.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
I have not asked for the quorum to be established, but I have observed, as a result of the electronic votes, that there are not 207 Members present in this House, and I deplore that.
At the same time, however, I must tell you that they will have absolutely no effect on the result of the vote.
It will make very little difference, because the Commissioner has already said that there is no money for it.
However, these are also funds which are serving to bring our infrastructure up to a level which is necessary to foster not only competitiveness, but also social cohesion.
I should like to pick out those which call for the need to carry out an appropriate and prior assessment of the environmental impact project and the need for elected regional and local authorities to take part with increased powers in the supervisory committees.
In a political framework in which certain sectors insist on suspending funding to those countries which fail to meet the criteria of nominal convergence imposed by Maastricht, it is right, above all, to emphasise the adoption of amendments which we also presented and which advocate that the regulatory aspects of the Cohesion Fund must not be interpreted in an inflexible manner, accentuating at the same time that it is a protocol, outside the Treaty on European Union which, therefore, does not give it equal legal force.
Therefore - and to make sure that this is made quite clear - we can be sure to oppose and denounce firmly anyone who pretends and even accepts the idea of imposing conditions relating to monetary convergence of an even stricter nature on countries following 1999 which continue to need the Cohesion Fund and, not content with that, who might have the idea of extending the same conditions to the allocation of structural funds in the future.
It is not just common knowledge, but is actually stated in the document 'Europe 2000+' , that investment in transport stimulates development in regions where growth is already strong.
The point here is that environmental projects do not always protect the environment.
The system has caused one environmental scandal after another, and a study is now being financed with a view to trying out a similar scheme in Portugal.
This is how the reserves of the new structural policy are being used.
In future, in fact, the disadvantaged regions will be even more disadvantaged.
I am of the opinion that we should come out clearly against preserving the convergence criteria for structural policy purposes, because for social and economic cohesion to be undermined by convergence criteria is counter-productive.
According to the principles governing its operation, the aim of the Cohesion Fund is to support the efforts of the less developed Member States whose GDP is less than 90 % of the Community average to narrow the gap between themselves and the other Member States; in other words, to strengthen economic and social cohesion.
The fund is a significant instrument of economic policy and can play a not inconsiderable role in reducing regional disparities in the European Union, particularly in terms of environmental protection and infrastructure schemes in the context of the trans-European transport networks.
The fact that the year 1994 is being discussed here, and that the Court of Auditors reports a payment rate scarcely in excess of 50 %, shows that the form employed by the Commission to provide information for that year was inadequate, since it has merely supplied a complementary document.
Secondly, the 'polluter pays' principle forms the basis of action in the environment sector.
We have therefore started to consider how best to apply this principle in practice and, more particularly, what form of assessment - charging systems, for example - is best suited to the various different situations on the ground.
I take very seriously your concern about the small number of projects in the most remote regions, and will consult the Member States regarding ways of improving support, particularly for environmental schemes.
At the same time, however, the Commission must remain within its legal bounds.
However, it is an important step in the right direction that local bodies do now take part in monitoring committee meetings when projects based on local initiatives are under consideration.
On 25 January 1996, the Committee on Regional Policy was informed at length by the Director-General of DG XVI about the Commission's decision to enforce the legal obligations arising from the principle of conditionality.
The Council's recommendation therefore set specific targets for these three countries for 1995.
In any event, the Commission will inform Parliament immediately about any decision to suspend aid.
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation has presented a report, which it adopted unanimously, to contribute to solving the problem.
When the alternative is to grow coca or suffer abject poverty and death, the Mafia has an easy task.
Development cooperation is therefore essential, not only in the EU's own interests, but also out of solidarity with the people concerned in this area.
It cannot be stressed often enough that the problem of drugs is also a problem of development.
Europe realized too late in the day the need for joint measures to combat the drugs problem, and we are still being too tentative.
Not only must we act together in Europe, but we must also cooperate with the United Nations, taking account of the relevant international conventions and ensuring at last that these are enforced much more strictly.
The European Parliament created the budget line 'North-South cooperation in the campaign against drugs and drug addiction' in 1987.
It would be preferable to devote the money to specific projects, because calling into question the GSP preferences - even indirectly - would send the wrong signal to the developing countries.
Unfortunately, the EU - the Council and Commission - has not declared its unequivocal backing for such schemes, so we in Parliament should adopt a clear-cut position in order to send a signal to the Council and Commission.
The committee has unanimously done just that, and I am grateful to all the colleagues involved, in particular Mr Schmid - who unfortunately could not be present today for personal reasons - who gave me some very valuable suggestions.
Parliament has on several occasions expressed its opinion as to how the campaign against drugs should be conducted, especially at international level.
We regret the fact that this proposal takes insufficient account of that opinion, and that it refers only to the United Nations International Drug Control Programme.
The synthetic drugs that have appeared in the Western countries prove that.
The Ecstasy taken by young Europeans in Amsterdam or in Paris is just as harmful as the glue sniffed by street children in Rio or Mexico City.
Consequently, only a genuine codevelopment policy will enable us to take effective action against this scourge, both here and there.
The Cochabamba communiqué stressed the need for collective, concrete measures to tackle the worldwide drugs problem.
Marín sees little benefit in the US policy of forced destruction of crops, and that is a view reflected in the report, the Commission proposal on which the Liese report comments.
Fortunately the European Commission is increasingly recognizing that there is a need to balance the fight against drugs with the general social and economic development of the drug-producing countries.
In short, Madam President, north-south cooperation and measures against drugs have failed in terms simply of a war on drugs.
The outcome is negative in two respects: the objectives pursued are not met and the effects of a heavy-handed policy are disastrous.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, millions of people are addicted to drugs.
The victims are drug abusers, though not only them but also their families and all too often children and young people; it is the latter who probably suffer the most in the vicinity of drugs.
A liberal policy is just as irresponsible as a passive one.
It shows a way towards an alternative development which will result in less demand.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the campaign against drug addiction is a subject which gives rise to a great deal of polemics and passion, because unfortunately there is no miracle cure to stamp out this scourge which is poisoning our society, creating greater and greater devastation, and giving rise directly to delinquency and prostitution.
The Nord-Pas-de-Calais region, which I represent, has seen a considerable increase in this phenomenon during recent years.
Drug seizures increased by 272 % in 1995 as compared with the previous year.
The number of drug addicts in the region is estimated at 15, 000, or 10 % of the French total; the population of the region represents 2.5 % of the population of France, so that Nord-Pas-de-Calais sadly has four times as many drug addicts as the national average.
The proportion of heroin addicts in the region is increasing; it exceeds the national average by 15 %.
What they have seen in the Netherlands is nothing less than drugs tourism, and they are the first victims of it.
In 1991, 61 % of the heroin sold in France came from the Netherlands.
In the last two years, more than 40 people from the Department of Nord have died of an overdose in the Netherlands.
The French and Dutch police believe that young French people are making 200 trips per day to the Netherlands to buy drugs there.
We cannot organize the coexistence of such different models as those that exist at present.
As our rapporteur quite rightly stresses, while the only choice is between growing coca and extreme poverty or death, the Maffia will be on velvet.
The proposals by the Commission and the rapporteur are satisfactory.
In another important aspect of our north-south cooperation, however, we must try to encourage the cultivation of alternative crops to get off the ground.
Madam President, Commissioner, it is generally believed that in the fight against international drug trafficking, the key to success lies - and this was confirmed by the European Council in Madrid - in drawing up measures to reduce demand, combat the illegal trade and establish international cooperation.
There is no agreement, however, on how to reduce demand - and without the reduction of demand, the other measures will be largely ineffective.
This aspect of the question should be borne in mind, even though we are at present discussing international cooperation; for what is the point of reaching agreements with the countries concerned to eradicate drug crops from certain areas, when the criminal organizations can simply grow those crops somewhere else?
In Colombia, for example, in the flower plantations run by these large concerns, serious violations of human rights are taking place, particularly against female workers.
The rapporteur proposes the development of alternative crops to persuade peasants in Third World countries to abandon the unlawful production of hallucinogenic plants.
In a nutshell, what the rapporteur is offering these Third World peasants is that we should pay them a few pence extra for their potatoes and ask them to forego incomes a hundred times as great that they can earn by devoting their efforts to illegal crops.
And let us stop telling the anti-prohibitionists that a debate on the legalization of drugs will be a waste of time.
Madam President, first of all I must compliment the rapporteur on the excellent report which he and the Committee on Development and Cooperation have produced.
The Commission's aim with this proposal is to enable developing countries to combat drug addiction effectively and to involve them in existing international cooperation efforts on the subject.
People in developing countries do not grow coca and poppies because they believe in principle that drugs should be freely available; usually they grow these crops purely in order to subsist.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is actually a very interesting report on a useful idea: the idea of granting aid to the less developed countries in order to enable them to abandon drug production in favour of alternative crops.
However, this report places a great deal of emphasis on economic aspects, and less on the power relationships underlying this problem.
As the rapporteur has quite rightly noted, the credits released by the European Union in this area are far too modest, to say the least, in the light of the scale of the challenge represented by the drugs market today.
Moreover the Commission's own document reflects a certain lack of confidence in stating that the international community, including the European Union, must note the obvious failure of the fight against drugs.
The production, sale and use of drugs has increased out of all proportion in recent years and that tendency is confirmed in Interpol's statistics according to which, for example, in the space of thirteen years the quantity of cocaine seized in Europe has increased 200-fold.
It is now clear that, given what this represents in financial terms, the drugs traffic and related illegal activities create corruption at all levels and the infiltration of criminal organizations into the management of public affairs and the organization of the economy.
The problem has world dimensions and it is precisely in the field of cooperation policy and development aid that Europe can and must take stock of the situation to bring all aspects of the phenomenon into focus, to evaluate the policies implemented hitherto and to provide for setting up new forms of intervention capable of promoting cooperation between the producer States and the importing States and between the public authorities at all levels as well as assessing the suitability of root and branch changes of approach and of particular intervention policies.
Finally respect for human rights must be one of the Union's objectives in the field of the fight against drugs and not only in the context of prevention measures, treatment and rehabilitation of addicts.
In fact legislation against drugs and its implementation by police or military forces may involve risks of breach of human rights which can in no way be endorsed by the Community.
Madam President, the production, marketing and consumption of drugs has increased beyond measure in the past few years.
As regards amphetamines, the total amount in 1990 was 380 kg seized as against 184 in 1989.
It is now clear that trafficking and related illegal activities, in view of the financial value of the phenomenon, create corruption at all levels and infiltration of criminal organizations into the management of public affairs and the organization of the economy.
Though the problem is of world dimensions it is precisely in the framework of cooperation policy and development aid that Europe can and must take stock to bring into focus all aspects of the phenomenon, to evaluate what has been done, to determine new forms of intervention capable of encouraging cooperation between producer States and importing States, between authorities at all levels.
The approach must be a global one and there must be an in-depth reappraisal in the United Nations of the results of policies hitherto followed in the matter of drugs, leading if necessary to a revision of the UN Conventions on the matter.
We are fully aware that the powers of the United Nations are very slight, but the road is worth travelling, in a framework of North-South financing in the drugs sector.
Madam President, the battle against drugs is a priority issue for the Commission.
In recent years the number of drug addicts has increased dramatically in developing countries too.
Of the amendments tabled, the Commission accepted the following: Nos 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 13, 14, 16, 17, 19, 21, 24, 28, 30 and 33.
As regards Amendments Nos 5, 8, 10, 15, 18, 20, 22, 23, 25, 27, 29 and 36, these are essentially problematic and cannot therefore be accepted by the Commission.
Amendment No 5 proposes that the associated countries should have the opportunity to reject the evaluation criteria.
Amendment No 18 proposes a reference to Article 205.
Amendment No 22 concerns comitology and the July 1987 decision of the Council.
This issue can only be resolved within the framework of the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference.
Amendments Nos 23 and 25 concern reports to Parliament, to be made twice a year.
The Commission's proposal was for an annual report.
The Commission considers that Article 10 in its proposal meets the two legitimate demands that the Commission's operations should be open to scrutiny and that it should concentrate on project administration.
Amendment No 27 concerns measures to combat illegal trafficking.
Amendments Nos 2, 8 and 12 can be approved by the Commission after some editorial changes which do not alter the substance.
The Commission can only accept parts of Amendments Nos 26 and 31.
Amendment No 2 proposes the inclusion of words to the effect that the Union will not take any measures which would result in loss of income or greater poverty in the south.
In principle the Commission shares the view that the European Community should not take measures which have negative consequences for developing countries.
Amendment No 8 refers, inter alia, to the Dublin Group's definition.
Amendment No 12 concerns protection against reprisals.
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is the international decade for the prevention of natural disasters, which will end in the year 2000.
Consequently, the establishment of a Community action programme in the field of civil protection is of the utmost importance in tackling not only natural disasters, but also man-made disasters of a technological or industrial kind.
In 1985, a first ministerial meeting laid the foundations for Community cooperation in the field of civil protection.
And since 1984, the European Parliament has delivered a number of opinions in favour of the introduction of more effective measures, especially in the field of prevention.
The Council resolution of October 1994 recalls the declaration in the final act of the Treaty on European Union, which states that the question of introducing a specific title on civil protection into the Treaty establishing the European Community will be examined on the basis of a report which the Commission is to submit to the Council by 1996 at the latest.
Fundamental to this proposal are measures in the areas of forecasting, prevention, training and information, the self-protection, awareness and solidarity of citizens, and cooperation and coordination between local, regional and national authorities.
The role of the non-governmental organizations and the need for adequate funding are the subject of other amendments adopted by the Committee on the Environment.
Such a committee is clearly provided for in Article 4 of the proposal, and we believe that consultation and the requirement that the Commission must take its views into account are sufficient.
I should like to end by thanking my colleagues in the Committee on the Environment who helped to improve this report, the representatives of the Commission, who also assisted us, and our committee secretariat, which also collaborated in this report, which the scant attendance in the Chamber may perhaps suggest is unimportant, but which I believe to be one of great importance.
Furthermore, a specific chapter was devoted to this subject in the fifth action programme on the environment, directly following that on nuclear safety and protection against radiation - because as we recalled yesterday, the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster are still in everyone's mind.
EU involvement should therefore be restricted to additional help in cases where there is a need for cross-border action.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has proposed a few additions to the content of the future action programme, most of which my group endorses.
Opinions differ, however, as to how the future action programme should be implemented, especially in terms of who should take the final decision on the measures to be carried out.
Let us be consistent and remain within the framework which we ourselves have adopted as a guide, and let us at least apply the rules of comitology.
Madam President, I welcome the proposed action programme on civil protection.
It has suffered severe financial cutbacks and restrictions in recent years under the present Conservative Government in Britain and it is very much in favour of these cross-border exchanges to pursue its campaign to promote the Hazchem system to exchange its expertise in disaster management with other countries in the European Union and perhaps further to the east as well.
I trust Parliament will approve the funding in the 1997 budget once this important action programme has been approved by the Council, and I hope the Council will listen to our arguments in support of the programme and approve it as soon as possible.
The proposal also provides a legal basis for budget item B4-3300 concerning civil protection and environmental disasters.
Amendments Nos 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13, 15 and 19 improve and clarify the text and elaborate the Commission's proposal.
We believe that the Commission's proposal concerning comitology provides the best balance between the institutions, as a result of which Amendments Nos 16, 17, 18, 27, 28 and 30 cannot be approved.
What the Commission is proposing is in fact a committee procedure of type 1.
Amendment No 25 would allow voluntary organisations to obtain support from the Community for their work.
The resolution on mutual assistance which was adopted in July 1991 by the Council and representatives of the governments of the Member States means, however, that only the competent authorities may apply for and obtain support within the Union.
We should, however, remember that non-profitmaking organisations play a very important role in civil protection in our Member States.
In Amendment No 26 it is proposed that the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference should provide civil protection with a special legal basis.
At the same time I should like to point out that no appropriations have been earmarked as part of the budget item for civil protection, that is to say B-3300 for 1996, despite the Committee on the Environment's excellent report.
The Commission cannot therefore support activities of the kind involved in the three simulation exercises to be conducted this year in Italy and Sweden and on the Dutch-German border.
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
