Extraordinary Council meeting of 3/4 June 1996 The first item is the statement by the Council on the results of its extraordinary meeting of 3 and 4 June 1996, followed by a statement by the Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has decided to deal in this session with the problems facing the European Union now that the spread of BSE has thrown the whole beef sector into crisis, with all the producers in the Member States suffering serious losses.
A report on the Commission's last inspection mission to the United Kingdom, conducted from 28 to 31 May, was presented to the Council on Monday 3 June.
At the same time the British Minister for Agriculture presented a comprehensive plan for the eradication of the disease from the United Kingdom, and this plan should eventually produce a substantial reduction in the incidence of BSE in United Kingdom herds.
This proposal reached the Council after the Standing Veterinary Committee failed to provide an opinion on 20 May.
You will be aware that the Commission adopted the proposed measures yesterday and they will come into force as from next Monday, 10 June.
As regards the United Kingdom's aim - complete lifting of the ban - I want to stress that the Council clearly stated, in paragraph 6 of its conclusions of 29 and 30 April, that the group of measures introduced by the United Kingdom, their implementation, the appropriate controls established by the Commission, the programme for selective slaughter announced by the British authorities, the supplementary measures which have proved necessary and, finally, the equally necessary assurance that all future decisions will be based on solid scientific opinion, constitute reference points in a process leading to progressive lifting of the export ban, stage by stage.
The President-in-Office of the Council and Commission President Santer have stressed in an official letter to Prime Minister Major that there is no justification for such behaviour.
Finally, I want to remind the European Parliament that the last Agriculture Council meeting also dealt with the Commission proposal on emergency income support measures in the beef-producing countries of the European Union.
This programme was also distributed to the Member States through the Council.
The programme will now need to be discussed and examined in detail, and that will also be done by the Standing Veterinary Committee today.
The Commission and various Member States regard the realization and implementation of a selective slaughter programme as one of the key elements in the restoration of consumer confidence and in particular as a prerequisite of discussions on the framework programme requested by the British Prime Minister, Mr John Major.
In its conclusions at the end of April, the Council then asked the Commission to submit a proposal for a set of rules covering the aforementioned products in line with these scientific findings.
The Commission responded to this request and on 15 May presented the Standing Veterinary Committee with a draft opinion.
In addition, at its meeting of 22 May the Commission, following the rules of the contrefilet procedure, decided to submit to the Council the draft opinion on which it had asked the committee to vote and asked the Council to adopt a decision on the draft.
As you know, the Council discussed the draft in detail at its meeting of 3 and 4 June and put it to the vote, where it was backed by nine Member States, the other six Member States withholding their support.
These measures have had a clear impact; the number of confirmed cases has dropped since 1992 from 36, 000 to 8, 000 and it is still declining.
I invite everyone to read and consider the further action programme, all 121 pages of it, and to consider what has happened.
In addition, 20, 000 calves have been slaughtered since 29 March, 4, 000 a week.
Mr President, I presented the truth.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, these first speeches could actually make us feel moderately optimistic.
Lord Plumb will forgive me, but I am a little sceptical about the guarantees the British government is offering on the licences for these exports.
The way the situation has developed through the relationships between various institutions is not very clear, not very transparent, not very convincing.
For instance, Italy produces 20 % of bullocks and according to early indications would only receive 6 % of this special intervention.
Let the Commission also ensure that similar safety standards are applied in the whole European Union.
After blocking 30 measures in less than three weeks perhaps we should even thank Britain because London has demonstrated how necessary it is to replace the unanimity rule by majority voting.
We can preach nationalism or we can strengthen the rule of law within the European Union.
By letting party interests prevail over the country's interests the conservative party has shown clearly where it stands.
It is time to make their choice. (Applause) Mr President, perhaps there is no need for me to mention the wrong approach taken by the British Government but you will perhaps allow me an observation on the functioning in this case of the Community institutions.
The underlying problem with BSE is that political decisions have been subordinated to economic pressures in the United Kingdom.
Mr Fischler, this morning you have again been speaking of 'could' , ' should' and 'ought to' with reference to the measures that the British Government must introduce.
We retract our signature.
Mr President, I am glad this debate is taking place now.
I say to the House that the UK Government has unleashed a tiger.
The Scottish farmers are very worried.
I trust that he will be sufficiently touched by and sensitive to our legitimate questions not to confirm that decision on 10 June, whatever the political consequences may be.
It is surely absurd that the British government is actually damaging everyone's interests by indiscriminately blocking measures which are in Britain's national interest and some of which were actually proposed by the United Kingdom.
The decision is based on scientific evidence and will bring some movement in the beef sector which is very welcome at this time.
Beef producers were already facing heavy financial losses before the BSE crisis.
If the coming months are marked by dogged consumer resistance to many products containing gelatine and tallow, just as has happened with beef itself, this will have something to do with the premature lifting of the ban on these three products.
I believe we have really reached the point at which the BSE crisis may become a crisis in the European Union.
That is the foremost precept of the European Union and surely also of the British Government.
Consumer confidence in beef has been severely undermined and consumption levels have declined by anything up to 30 %.
At last the British Government has produced a fairly detailed programme for the eradication of BSE.
In addition the Commission has produced a new programme to compensate farmers for some of their losses.
The British decision to disrupt Community business is wrong.
It must now sit down with the Commission and examine the eradication programme and adopt a set of measures to eradicate BSE and restore consumer confidence.
Finally, the Commission must urgently re-examine the proposed compensation package for beef farmers.
Mr President, Lord Plumb is an able advocate - nobody denies that.
It is more than two and a half months since the British Minister told the House of Commons of the possible link between BSE and CJD.
Incredibly, in spite of all the warnings, from here among other places, the Government had no contingency plan when the Minister made the statement in the House of Commons.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Working Group on Agriculture of the European People's Party held a hearing in February 1991 in the presence of Mr Meldrum from the Royal Veterinary Institute in London.
As a consequence of that hearing, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on 12 March 1991 urging the British Government to ban human and animal consumption of beef from herds suspected of carrying BSE.
In the years that followed Parliament adopted further resolutions.
We also need close Commission monitoring of the measures taken by the United Kingdom.
Only that will really help to restore consumers' confidence.
But I have my doubts about semen since the measures we have heard about, such as sterilization, as the word indicates, would leave it useless.
The British Government, which is blocking all European decisions in order to obtain the abolition of the ban on tallow, gelatine and bulls' semen, is rewarded by having its demands met.
The extent of the present crisis is clearly the product of thoughtless deregulation and maladministration on the part of the British Government.
What we need to do now is concentrate on establishing a framework for the progressive lifting of the main ban.
With regard to bulls' semen, I was asked where there had been a scientific decision or recommendation on this matter.
Well, the Scientific Veterinary Committee adopted several conclusions at its meeting on 26 April.
Among other things, item 3 of Article 1c states that, after consulting the Member States in the framework of the Standing Veterinary Committee, the Commission will determine when dispatching can begin.
These intervention measures, of course, primarily help the processing industry; they also help the abattoirs and those who work there.
And finally, you have to add on the expenditure for private storage aid for veal, for the slaughter programmes for calves and particularly for the programme being implemented in the United Kingdom for animals over 30 months old, as well as for the selective slaughter programme that has yet to be adopted.
All of these measures added together naturally produce a considerably higher amount, more than double the 650 million debated here.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report outlines the results of the WTO negotiations on financial services and on movement of natural persons in the framework of the multilateral trading system.
The GATT Agreement signed in 1994 by 76 contracting parties had hitherto applied only to trade in goods and has now been supplemented by a General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS).
The Commission had proposed that Parliament merely be consulted on the conclusion of the negotiations, a proposal based on the first subparagraph of Article 228(3) of the EC Treaty.
Whoever gives assent to a procedure is also entitled to give assent to any subsequent changes in the procedure.
The results are to enter into force no later than 30 July of this year.
The good news is that the proposal was referred to Parliament and the committee at all.
As you all know, in July 1995, the European Community made a decisive contribution to the conclusion of these negotiations.
The Uruguay Round package presupposes the creation of a new institutional framework with binding legal rules and disciplines.
The assent of the European Parliament was asked for on that basis.
The debate is closed.
Votes Madam President, I would have liked to say a few brief words before voting began, because I have been somewhat surprised today by the turn that events have taken in this House.
I have my own opinion on the matter.
Not only that, but this agreement is incompatible with the principle of national preference, which seems to us more important than ever.
It is a most inappropriate time to make this agreement with Morocco.
Madam President, I did not vote for this report either, along with numerous other Austrian Social Democrats, because it effectively forestalls something that the world and Europe have long awaited.
Madam President, it is because we would not wish on Morocco something we reject for ourselves that we have not voted for the association agreement with that great country.
On the other hand this association agreement has also opened the way for a new fishing agreement between the European Union and Morocco, of fundamental importance for the economy and for employment in fishing areas such as Sesimbra/Setúbal and the Algarve.
This House has voted in favour of the association agreement between the European Union and Morocco, and I welcome that vote.
By making this gesture we have accepted the conclusions arrived at by Mr von Habsburg, and I congratulate him on his excellent work.
I voted in favour of giving Parliament's assent to the association agreement between the European Union and the Kingdom of Morocco for several reasons.
This agreement is a consistent follow-up to the decisions taken at Essen in 1994 and at Cannes in 1995 by the European Summits of Heads of State and government of the European Union.
On the financial side, this agreement is covered until 1999 by the credits allocated within the framework of the MEDA programme.
Last but not least, I voted in favour because Morocco has since 1990 been evolving slowly but surely towards political democratization and respect for human rights.
Paradoxical as our vote may have seemed, it was more a vote against the way in which the European Union has behaved in the negotiations with the Kingdom of Morocco, particularly with regard to the consequences which this agreement will have for Portugal, than an actual vote against Morocco which, we are convinced, will sooner or later have to be our partner, even if as an associate country.
But because it affects our agricultural sector (for example as regards fruit and horticultural products such as tomatoes and early potatoes as well as flowers (particularly from Madeira), because it affects our industrial sector (for example the processing sector) and because it affects our fishing sector - although that was the subject of a special agreement for which, moreover, we voted - we think this association agreement should be condemned.
But we still hope that although the agreement is for an unlimited period the Kingdom of Morocco and Portugal will be able to cooperate and show, as regards the healthy relationship which must exist between these two countries in the sense that they draw closer together without provoking one another, that there was no need to harm essential sectors of the Portuguese economy so that an agreement, a good agreement between the European Union and Morocco could be signed, this time with our vote in favour.
The principle laid down in Article 1 of Directive 91/439/EEC concerning mutual recognition of national driving licences is entirely sufficient.
The directive will only give rise to unnecessary change-over costs in the Member States.
Parodi report The Commission's communication on the common transport policy action programme 1995-2000 has many serious failings from the environmental point of view.
The Commission wants to keep transport policy and environmental policy separate, which will result in unsustainable development, in view of the fact that the effect of road transport on the environment is one of the most serious threats facing the European Union today.
We regard this description of Europe's cultural development as a somewhat gloomy and narrow conception, particularly in view of the fact that the trans-European networks will mean that the area taken up by motorways in Europe will increase by 32 %.
It is against this background that we abstained in the final vote on the Parodi report.
I believe greater emphasis should have been placed on the waste which partly accounts for the administrative costs of 13 %.
Corresponding costs in normal research programmes are between 2 % and 3 %.
Argyros report This report from the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy constitutes an excellent analysis of the Commission's green paper on innovation.
Extraordinary Council meeting Madam President, my group believes that we have no alternative today, for the protection of human health, but to maintain a complete ban on British beef and veal and their derivatives even if it does mean finding the resources to pay appropriate compensation to the farmers concerned.
We must accept that States have the right to control their frontiers for the objectives stated in Article 36 of the Treaty, in particular the protection of human life and health.
Madam President, in my view the British Government is making itself look very silly in the present circumstances.
However, I regret that today's resolution was a very substantial change from the resolution we passed on 28 March.
Madam President, my answer to Mr Hallam, in particular, is that our British colleagues and the British government are scientifically right: there is no danger of horizontal transmission and the culling of cattle is scientific nonsense.
What we rightly accepted in the case of the Amoco Cadiz disaster, the principle that the major oil companies were to be held responsible for the pollution, we have rejected in the case of the British factories responsible for spreading poison.
Scientifically, Mr Hallam, you are right: the risk is exaggerated.
Madam President, I voted against the resolution.
I should have expected the European Parliament to signal far more clearly that consumer protection and public health are not subordinated to economic interests in the European Union.
The decision taken by the Commission makes a mockery of consumer protection and public health.
I believe it is a totally misguided decision, because consumer protection and public health must take priority.
