Mr Hernández Mollar, that message will be passed on.
Mr Wynn may speak.
Mr President, on item 8 of the Minutes, the order of business.
Can I ask you, Mr President, when you give authorizations for committee meetings in Strasbourg to be extremely strict in defining what is urgent.
Mr President, yesterday I tried to raise the issue of Roisín McAliskey and her continued detention in a secure psychiatric unit in England.
Your letter will be sent to all German and British colleagues so you will achieve your objective.
I attended other meetings yesterday, of both my group and my committee, and perhaps I forgot to sign myself in for the sitting in the Chamber.
Thank you very much, Mr Thomas. (Parliament agreed to urgent procedure) Annual report and statement of assurance by Court of Auditors for the 1996 general budget The next item is the presentation of the annual report and statement of assurance for the 1996 general budget.
As you know, customs revenue, as the largest item in traditional own resources, represents an important source of finance for the European Union.
Even though this customs revenue is falling because of the GATT negotiations, it still funds about 15 % of the entire budget.
You, ladies and gentlemen, therefore devoted the first committee of inquiry after Maastricht to this subject.
In this connection, certificates of origin have an important role to play.
About half of all imports to the European Union take place under tariff preference conditions, and it is therefore not surprising that precisely this fact repeatedly results in irregularities.
Even if the original determinations begin at the right time, the necessary subsequent surveys stretch out, so that the limitation period applies. 23 cases, which we checked from the point of view of the limitation period, resulted in losses of ECU 80 million to the European Union.
As you know, within the McSharry reform the guaranteed price for cereals was significantly lowered.
The result was that world prices rose steeply first, and consequently market prices in the European Union also rose far above guaranteed prices.
Even bearing in mind that there are many jobs in the tobacco industry, on the other hand we must recognize that smoking kills people.
It is also difficult to see how the European Union can finance a campaign against smoking and at the same time encourage tobacco cultivation.
To the extent that reports exist, they are rather state descriptions, but particularly now, when the new programming period from 2000 is being negotiated, it is important that appropriate evaluations should be available.
As you know, structural assistance is always opposed to some extent to competitive conditions.
The European internal market is based on the principle of competition, and in general subsidies interfere with competition.
ECU 910 million were provided in the budget for this Community initiative, but until now only ECU 140 million have been paid out in advances.
Only one State, Germany, has submitted one expenditure certificate, for only DM 3 million, and even that was only an advance.
As far as cooperation with the developing countries which do not belong to the Lomé Convention is concerned, we established that in at least one case a bank which was not particularly successful in this field was involved, so that in our opinion ECU 1 million were wrongly paid.
In the context of the development fund, in other words the Lomé Convention, we also checked public order placing for the period from 1988 to 1993.
It also includes other cases such as application of a wrong exchange rate in the social fund, and so on.
We also come to the conclusion that there are 4.3 % of so-called non-opinion cases, in which we could make no judgment, perhaps because there was a strike in the state concerned, or the public prosecutor had seized documents, when we wanted to take the audit.
We must now report on irregularities, the treaty says.
I would also like to thank the Commission, particularly Commissioner Liikanen.
We also recognize that the new settlement procedure in the field of agricultural policy allows positive results to be expected.
I thank you for your attention. (Applause) Mr President, the annual report and the statement of assurance relating to activities in connection with the general budget for the financial year 1996 identifies a list of shortcomings in the use of Community funds.
In key areas it will help the Commission make progress towards fulfilling its joint responsibility for significantly improving the impact of Community funds in achieving the Union's objectives.
However you measure it - in terms of growth rates, margins below the financial perspectives or in relation to the own-resources ceiling - the forthcoming 1998 budget is rigorous.
The Commission therefore will come back to this question in the context of Agenda 2000.
In October the Commission adopted a regulation on minimum standards for financial control by Member States.
The discussions on the Court of Auditors' 1996 report and the discharge procedure coincide with the Commission proposal and will make it possible to draw the best possible conclusions for the next period.
Here I would like to make a plea to the Court of Auditors.
It would be valuable if, with the additional resources for the statement of assurance, the Court could in the future provide more sectoral information.
This report reinforces the conviction that in many areas of the Community budget there are too many projects which are too small and have too many objectives.
In several chapters the Court criticizes the management of Community subsidies.
In line with the observations of its own Inspectorate-General and the continuous insistence of the European Parliament, the Commission is working towards general standards in this area.
Finally, the Court has convinced the Commission of the advantages of a general overhaul of the Communities' financial regulations.
The Commission should be able to provide a first reflection document in the first half of 1998.
The future presidency has also indicated its particular commitment in this respect.
The reform of the management of Community finances is a continuous process.
Improving financial management is a continuous process.
It is our duty and also the duty of the Member States.
Thank you very much, Mr Liikanen.
We now come to the debate on the report, and I would ask you to keep your questions concise please.
Mr President, I have four questions.
Finally, in the response to paragraphs 19.28 to 19.36 the Commission makes a statement which I seem to have seen now for the third time.
However, there are some points that obviously cause us great concern, particularly in the field of cooperation with the Member States.
When I hear that nine out of ten errors happen in the Member States, as you showed, that is very disturbing.
Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, with regard to individual programmes, in particular Phare and Tacis, last year you emphasized the difficulties of both monitoring use of funds and underutilization of open accounts.
But I would like to ask your opinion on a subject which particularly concerns me, as I am the rapporteur for the budget.
Lastly, given that management responsibility has been largely delegated to the World Bank, can you give us any information regarding your relations with this organization and, in particular, with regard to way in which control is exercised in the award of contracts?
Mr President, once again, the Court of Auditors has severely criticized the way in which the Community's resources are managed, and for example the Economic and Social Committee has been severely criticised for fraud in connection with travelling expenses refunded without proper documentation, and the meeting lists are not reliable.
Mr President, I refer to line 1426, former Yugoslavia.
You state in the Court of Auditors report that up to July 1997 a total of 1.3 % of the resources which we provided in December 1995 for reconstruction in Yugoslavia had been used.
My question to you is this: if you say that your work is for prevention, and if you say that the Commission has shown itself to be capable of learning to respond to your stimuli, how then do you assess the ability of DG 1a to learn something for 1997 or 1998 and following years from the mess of 1996?
Mr President, the report on the 1996 budget exercise is extremely rewarding, as were the previous years' reports.
The report points out that, within the context of the ERDF, there are no defined regulations for SMEs, there has been no inventory of the numerous actions benefitting SMEs, nor a statement of the amounts allocated to financing them.
Mr President of the Court of Auditors, you have dedicated a chapter to general subsidies, in which you note numerous anomalies in their distribution.
My question is: would it not be sensible to complete the inquiry, both into the number of members and into the time that those members have spent on the Economic and Social Committee, to give the Council, which is politically responsible for the appointment of the members of the Economic and Social Committee, the opportunity to take the necessary action?
Mr President, I am glad that the President of the Court of Auditors and Commissioner Liikanen are both here, because my questions concern their lack of communication with each other.
I should like to put three specific questions.
The first question is about substantive errors.
My second question concerns the rules of eligibility.
The third question, Mr President, concerns the national monitoring institutions.
Mr President of the Court of Auditors, in your report you mentioned that there are formal defects in the management of the structural funds, which amount to violations of the law.
Mr President, I have a question about overpayment of income supplements in agriculture.
Mr Friedmann, if I have understood correctly, are we only talking about the year 1996, or has he also included the previous years?
This is important in connection with overcompensation.
And then my last question, also in connection with Agenda 2000: these income supplements were set for six years; does he think it is reasonable that halfway through the game the rules are changed, and does he think it is credible in the light of the proposals the Commission is making in this context ahead of Agenda 2000?
Mr President, Mr Friedmann said there were around 5.3 % irregularities in the EU's budget.
My last question concerns the Commission.
Mr President, I should like to ask two questions.
First of all, will the Court of Auditors accept that the threat to own resources shown in the annual report cannot be tackled at Community level alone?
Member States receive 10 % in a payment for collection of traditional own resources and they must, therefore, accept a high level of obligation with regard to this payment, particularly as it coincides with their own self-interest.
Mr President, this presentation merits more time but its brevity should not stop us from congratulating the Court and thanking it for this very good report.
I just want to ask three questions.
In chapter 15 the Court discusses the failings of the Community's decentralized bodies.
Will the Court please look early at the proposals from the Commission, which the Committee on Budgetary Control is now considering, to see if, in the Court's view, they will meet the problem.
Thirdly, regarding the sentence quoted by the Commissioner on overprovision of resources in various areas, I would remind the House that this overprovision happens in the compulsory expenditure chapters.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the interest you bring to the report.
I believe I can say that we have come a long way in the development of our auditor's certificate regarding the method, and also in the discussion with the Commission.
Mrs Theato, you refer to the risks concerning VAT.
Your question is well-founded, because with VAT in the internal market system we have a similar situation as in the customs field.
I know the difficulties between the Member States and the Commission.
We have indicated the percentages of irregularities in this connection which we determined last year and the previous year.
We have just been sued in the European Court in a case for ECU 1 million in damages, because we named a private company in a context which the company thought was unfavourable.
This applies, for instance, to the special report on tourism.
I spoke before briefly about SEM 2000, where very promising work is being carried out, and I also state that in the Member States they are preparing more and more for the consequences.
If the fraud report of UCLAF states that in country X so many cases of fraud occurred and were reported, that simply confirms by example that the rate of errors which we list is justified.
But in practice four-fifths of the budget is executed by the Member States, and to this extent, in connection with this criticism, the Member States are also in the pillory. (Applause) In general, if the Community is criticized again and again because the percentage of irregularities is so and so, it must be remembered that no more people are employed by the Community than by the administration of a medium-sized city.
The expenditure programmes of the Community are put into effect by the Member States.
This estimate concerns the agricultural year 1995/96.
Mr Holm, you ask, if there are 5.4 % serious errors, what about the Member States?
You must consider that the Community budget is almost exclusively a subsidy budget, and therefore highly liable to irregularities.
The income from customs belongs to the Community, but it is raised exclusively by the customs administrations, which are national.
That is all the more annoying because the Member States are paid 10 % of the customs revenue for their work.
Obviously, Denmark is included in the overall figures, like all other countries.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 April this House decided to set up a Temporary Committee to follow up the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into BSE.
Its task was to monitor the handling by the EU Commission of the 70 recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry, and to report to the Conference of Presidents about it at the beginning of November.
I add that wherever we went in the undergrowth of the treaty or treaty interpretations, there really were problems.
Even the supplementary budget is now finally on the way.
This is also a subject which concerns the Council, Mr President-inOffice.
The pressure of public opinion and the pressure of markets would then have much more effect than the initiation of any breach of contract proceedings by the Commission.
This is positive, but at the same time we expect the Commission, where there is room for interpretation regarding the legal basis, to undertake always to exploit it in favour of Parliament.
You will find the results in the report.
A truly functional recycling system can only be sustained if three safety keys are in place in future: clean base materials, slaughtering waste only from animals which are permitted to be used as food, the highest possible processing standards, and never, never, feeding to ruminants!
The behaviour of the Member States here is really a scandal.
If a Member State completely refuses to put this directive into effect, it must be put in the pillory!
I will add that, regarding the problems of the risk material decision of the Commission of 30 July, we as a Parliament are giving the Commission as well as the Council a real helping hand with this report, on how to escape from the dilemma: step by step removal of the export prohibition on the clear conditions which were agreed in Florence, filling in the gaps in the decision of 30 July regarding pharmaceutical products, and many other open specialist questions.
Mr President of the Commission, we also welcome your promise, which you have again made clearly, to strive, in the renegotiation of the interinstitutional agreement with Parliament, to ensure that in future it should be obligatory for members of national governments to appear.
I believe that in the last 16 months Parliament has tried, with the Committee of Inquiry and dealing with the recommendation, to recreate a front rank position for protection of health and the consumer in the internal market.
Nevertheless, I have few illusions that there has really been a change of heart in all Directorates-General, and I doubt very strongly that the speed and intensity of the change would have happened without the coordination of Commissioner Bonino and her Directorate-General.
It hopes, or at least I understand it as a hope, that the European Parliament will continue to be a determined ally of the Commission.
Finally, allow me to thank the services of the European Parliament for the speed and support that we received in the committee, for the flexibility about meeting times and meeting rooms, the uncomplicated facilitating of unscheduled meetings, which is not to be taken for granted even in this Parliament.
On the basis of your report and the questions to the Council and the Commission, we have accepted eight motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 40, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, before going to the heart of matters I wish to deal with, I would like to point out the importance of the work we have carried out on these two committees, first the Committee of Inquiry and then the Temporary Committee to follow up the Recommendations on BSE, and without any flattery, I want to highlight the great climate of cooperation within these two committees.
On relations with the United Kingdom, I am giving one more vote not only for the pressure on the British government which has succeeded in reinforcing the global application of the embargo (I will vote on effectiveness later) but also because the United Kingdom has realized the importance of taking measures to help families affected by the new Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
I am giving one more vote to the culling plan which is proceeding with guarantees of appreciable scientific safety; however, I am giving one less vote to the quantity commitment made by the United Kingdom in this operation: with only twenty-three slaughterhouses and seven incinerators, it will take ten years to dispose of the number of heads to be slaughtered, as indicated by the European Union.
I am giving one more vote to the operation of the ban on using animal meal for feeding ruminants; but we should find out whether or not this meal can be used today for feeding other non-ruminants.
So my group wants to thank the Members concerned very warmly.
We in this Parliament have watched and will continue to watch what goes on - in the way the Commission responds to the recommendations of the Temporary Committee and the original Committee of Inquiry through our standing committees.
The Commission has moved, but what is also very important is that the European Parliament has reminded itself of its duties.
When our chairman said that suddenly there is effort in the Commission, suddenly there is openness, and suddenly there is effort, that has to do with the fact that we in Parliament, through this gentle pressure, but also through insight in the good work of the BSE Committee of Inquiry, have forced the Commission to accept Parliament's demands.
That happened, but we must not forget that true legislative control starts with Parliament.
I believe we have all benefitted, and that we all start from the assumption that we will not fall back from the standard we have achieved, and that we will together historically force back this historically unique Council, which is executive and legislative at one and the same time - Montesquieu would turn in his grave - and arrive at normal parliamentary work and lawmaking, where we all have our due responsibilities.
We also reinforced the national inspection authorities for veterinary and human health, which also proved to be highly necessary.
Mr President, after one year of intense, continuous work on the part of the committees of the European Parliament with regard to bovine spongiform encephalopathy, the time has come for us to see what has been achieved and if there has been any real progress on the issue of the protection of public health and of consumers alike.
First, there is no doubt that the European Parliament, with its resolution of the 19 February 1997, has succeeded in consolidating its position and today is able to exercise real control over the actions of the European Commission.
Thirdly, it is absolutely essential, Mr President-in-Office, for the Commission's veterinary inspection services to be organized as efficiently as possible, and we must ensure, in the future, that they operate appropriately and effectively, as regards their responsibilities, the flow of information, the guaranteeing of timely, effective action at both a legislative and a political level, and also compliance with the treaties.
Fourthly, Mr President-in-Office, effective coordination and cooperation between the various services and the Member States is the real basis on which the protection of public health and the protection of consumers must be supported, as also the mapping out and execution of the necessary Community programmes and strategies in this area.
Eighth, it is essential that the Commission should actively monitor the transfer and implementation of Community law within the Member States and submit proposals for improving the system of control and export of meat and other foodstuffs, since the effective protection of consumers can only be safeguarded when measures are taken beforehand, rather then afterwards, when the damage has been done, as in the case of BSE.
Mr President-in-Office, I would like to remind you of the commitment that you made that every piece of legislation, every regulation, directive or programme that is brought before the European Parliament in connection with the protection of health, will go forward under the codecision procedure.
There were 118 of us who felt that this justified a motion of censure.
The European Union still does not possess the necessary instruments to enable it either to stand up to such a crisis or to avoid it.
It is upstream that the Commission must provide itself with effective mechanisms for risk management in general, and we note its sincere efforts in this direction.
If this were not the case, I would hope that the politically correct consensus which seems to be current here would finally be weakened and that Parliament, which has begun to take itself in hand, would be able to take decisions which the interests of our citizens call for, otherwise the ultra-liberal machine would be able to lay down its own laws.
I also want to congratulate Mr Böge, whom I had already had the pleasure of meeting, when he chaired the earlier Committee of Inquiry.
In this respect, the Temporary Committee did not have a mandate to investigate new responsibilities nor to modify the judgements made by the Committee of Inquiry.
However, for the moment my group can do no more than entertain well-founded hopes that the arrangements will all work adequately.
Of the recommendations which have been put into effect, there are several whose implementation has been only partial, or consists of no more than promises from the Commission.
I think this House should seriously consider a method for the monitoring and evaluation of these aspects.
However, the Council should be far more aggressive in forcing the Member States to comply with Community guidelines.
In the first place, we want to support fully the rapporteur's proposals in his conclusion regarding the need to ensure transparency within the Commission.
In fact, throughout this affair, as we all know, the essential problem has been a desire to suppress the so-called mad cow affair in order to avoiding delays in both the completion of the single market and the process of ratification of the Maastricht Treaty, and perhaps also, regrettably, to satisfy many other shameful interests.
The third paragraph of our resolution denounces the modifications to the Amsterdam Treaty - which, may I remind you, is in the process of being ratified - regarding article 100a.
In its new version, article 100a, paragraph 4, we would no longer be able to apply this method without incurring the wrath of both the Commission and the Court of Justice of the European Community.
The fifth paragraph of our resolution specifies that we would like to know what the consequences of the development of the new CAP are, as described in Agenda 2000, as well as those of international agreements, especially agreements concluded within the framework of the COM, for the quality of agricultural and food products to be provided to consumers.
I would like to remind you that at the beginning of this affair, our former colleague, Philippe de Villiers, had already threatened the Commission with a motion of censure.
We keep to our word; our credibility is at stake as is, of course, Mr President-in-Office, your own.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Luxembourg has always been convinced of the key role of the European Parliament in Community life and has therefore not spared its efforts, each time it takes the Presidency of the Council, to maintain an intensive and constructive dialogue with your Parliament.
This seems to us all the more important today as the subject of debate is particularly important and sensitive.
In my speech, I will endeavour to draw up a balance sheet, necessarily brief but at the same time as complete as possible, of the Council's deliberations with regard to the problem of BSE, particularly since the resolution you adopted on 19 February this year concluding the work of the Temporary Committee of Inquiry.
I will also take this opportunity to reply to the various oral questions which have been put to the Council.
In general, I believe it is appropriate to note that, beyond taking into account the legitimate economic and social concerns raised by a considerable number of those who depend on the survival of the beef industry for their living, the Council has constantly acted and continues to act, within the context of its legislative jurisdiction, by basing its action on two principles.
Firstly, the protection of human health must be guaranteed and thus regulations must be established which enable the quality and safety of food products to be ensured.
The Council agrees with the European Parliament and with the rapporteur, Mr Böge, in recognizing that it is by acting with transparency, clarity and responsibility that we will contribute to the restoration of the confidence of European citizens in the way our institutions function and, consequently, to the reassurance of consumers within the Union and in third party countries as to the gravity of measures taken at European level to protect their health.
In addition to the need for legislative action with regard to the quality and safety of food products, the Council also recognizes the considerable importance of effective controls, particularly in the fight against fraud.
Furthermore, it is clear that beyond the different veterinary and phytosanitary legislations, action in the fight against BSE must be extended to research into, and prevention of, the different forms of BSE.
Since BSE appeared, and above all since the recent scientific discoveries which highlighted the possible link between BSE and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, the Council's actions within its different fora have included all of these aspects.
Let us start with the Agriculture Council, which adopted a series of measures in the food, veterinary and phytosanitary fields, along with regulations relating to animals.
Firstly, the adoption by the Council of the regulation on the system of identification and registration of bovine animals, and on the system of labelling of beef and beef products which will ensure, in particular, the traceability of beef products and thus a very efficient control mechanism.
Secondly, the decision adopted by the Commission last July following the Council deliberations, which aims to ban the use of specified risk material, particularly in human and animal foodstuffs.
The principle of precaution played a determinant role in this decision.
Furthermore, and without claiming to be exhaustive, I would like to remind you of the different measures such as the ban on hormones and hormone derivatives in livestock farming, the certification of animals and animal products, the protection of calves and sanitary policing of intra-Community trade in cattle.
By adopting these different legislative acts, the Council has largely heeded the European Parliament's position.
The time has not yet come for the Council to give an opinion on a possible relaxation of this embargo.
The question of controls, and above all the flaws that recent fraud cases have highlighted, is a serious subject of concern for public opinion, for the European Parliament and also for the Agriculture Ministers who are looking into this question under my presidency.
However, the Agriculture Ministers were unanimous in confirming their firm will to do everything possible, both at national and Community level, to fight fraud energetically.
With regard to hormones, the Council fully supports the Commission's action within the framework of the WTO, for we consider that the Community has the right to set the level of protection of human health that it judges appropriate and consequently, to ban the use of substances considered dangerous for human health.
In the field of research, an important result for the improvement of the cooperation and coordination of research into BSE has been obtained with the common decision of the Council and the European Parliament regarding the report of the expert, Professor Weissmann, which aims to allocate a further ECU 35 million to research into transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, vaccines and viral diseases within the context of the fourth framework programme for research and development.
This decision brings to ECU 50 million the funds allocated to research.
With regard to the Health Council, I will limit myself to reminding you that its conclusions on the question of BSE highlight the need to give the highest priority to the protection of public health and to take all appropriate measures to eliminate the risk of the transmission of BSE.
The Health Council agreed to continue detailed listings of cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease and to collect together and analyze all the statistics at a European level.
It will make sure that the cases of BSE are reported in the appropriate manner.
Furthermore, it intends to return to all of these questions during its meeting on 4 December this year.
Ladies and gentlemen, we heard of the Commission's communication regarding consumer health and food safety with the greatest of interest, as well as the Green Paper on the general principles of Community legislation.
The Luxembourg Presidency has clearly stated, in its action plan, that it would give food safety a high level of importance.
The ministers responsible for agriculture and consumers have already begun to study them and in particular have recognized that the protection of human health and research at the highest possible level into the safety of foodstuffs should remain the top priorities of European legislation.
Mr President, the mad cow crisis is an event which deeply marks not only public opinion but also ourselves as decision-makers and which can raise questions concerning convictions and behaviour.
If there is one lesson we can and must learn from this crisis, it is that there can be no effective protection of human health or development of lasting agriculture without permanent research into the harmonious integration of agricultural activity and nature.
This realization, which is being increasingly confirmed every day, is inspiring the deliberations of the Ministers of Agriculture on Agenda 2000.
In this context, we intend to confirm and defend a European agricultural identity for the future which will, in particular, be in a position to take care of the countryside, to support the natural spaces and, above all, to respond to the concerns and demands of the consumer with regard to food safety and quality, environmental protection and the defence of animal welfare.
By confirming this European agricultural identity, which it hopes to consolidate and develop through the reforms to be undertaken, the Council also wants to send a clear and unequivocal message to countries which are candidates for membership of the European Union regarding the directions their agricultural policy should be taking in order to facilitate membership.
Finally, Mr President, and to reply to the oral questions raised by the different political groups, you will understand that it is not possible to take a position today on the conclusions of the report of the Temporary Committee to follow up the recommendations on BSE as, due to lack of time, it has not been possible for the Council to study this report.
I note, in general, that the European Parliament and the Commission have carried out excellent work and that the Council largely took account of the European Parliament's position in the context of its deliberations devoted to the Commission's proposals following your recommendations of February this year.
The Amsterdam Treaty has, in fact, considerably modified the legislative role of the European Parliament, including in this sector which is particularly close to your hearts.
In particular, the codecision procedure is anticipated, notwithstanding article 43, in the adoption of veterinary and phytosanitary measures with the direct objective of public health protection.
The Luxembourg Presidency is extremely happy with this development, which it judges to be very positive.
Regarding the participation of the Council and Member States in the work of the Committee of Inquiry into BSE and the concerns expressed on the subject of cooperation between Member States governments', I would like to emphasize that the Council and the Member States have made great efforts to contribute to the work of this Committee of Inquiry.
As far as the Council is concerned, let me remind you that it provided all the information required of it by the Committee of Inquiry with regard to its deliberations on the subject of BSE.
I myself addressed the Temporary Committee to follow up the Recommendations on BSE to inform them of the package of measures adopted since February 1997.
In addition, in compliance with article 3 of the interinstitutional decision of 19 April 1995, the Council appointed a senior civil servant from its secretariat with authority to appear before the Committee of Inquiry.
Furthermore, I would point out that it is not for the Council to give an opinion on the follow-up given by Member States to the invitations of a Committee of Inquiry in compliance with article 3, paragraph 2, of the decision of 19 April 1995.
I have already informed the chairman of the General Affairs Council of this wish, which I personally consider to be a possible way of clarifying this question and of improving understanding between the institutions.
Mr President, the debate today once more brings out clearly the fact that in the areas of public health and food safety, the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council have shared responsibilities and common duties.
It is therefore a question of uniting efforts and forces and of cooperating closely in this sphere.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will be giving your opinion, during this sitting, on the report of the Temporary Committee to follow up the Recommendations on BSE.
At Community level, all the players are now aware that the protection of health and food safety must figure amongst the highest of our priorities.
The results have been extremely fruitful and I am convinced that the mutually beneficial relations which have developed in response to this difficult issue have contributed significantly to the enhancement of dialogue between our two institutions.
Anyone who has read the report can but note that the Commission has achieved virtually all of more than 70 recommendations and is committed to respecting precise deadlines for the implementation of those that the brief period of time given has not enabled it to accomplish.
They are numerous.
Mr President, more than 20 people have been victim to the new variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
Their fears relate not only to BSE, but also to other questions to which we must give clear responses.
Thus we proposed the inclusion of agricultural raw materials in the directive governing liability for products.
The Agenda 2000 proposals contain important reforms of the common agricultural policy which move in the direction of an agriculture which is more respectful of human health and of the environment.
Mr President, we are today at the end of a first stage.
We are here to draw up a balance sheet and to talk about the future.
You are expecting the Commission to share its future intentions with you regarding the recommendations of the report of the Temporary Committee on BSE and, in particular, regarding those which, in the opinion of the Temporary Committee, have not been implemented or have been implemented insufficiently.
The crisis has led the Commission, as well as the Council, to take a series of legislative measures involving financial support to the eradication of BSE and to the economic consequences of BSE for the producers.
The exercise would not match up to the objective of solidarity that characterizes our Community, a solidarity which was furthermore underlined by the European Council of Florence in its conclusions.
This administrative action can only relate to control of the correct implementation of legislative decisions taken by the Council.
In this case, most of the fraudulent transactions in British beef were destined for third party countries and have benefitted from the restoration of exports.
Parliament has asked the Commission to institute proceedings in the European Court of Justice on account of the failure of Mr Hogg, UK Minister of Agriculture, to appear before the Committee of Inquiry on the basis of the interinstitutional decision of 19 April 1995.
But we are agreed with you in theory.
Furthermore, I must note that relations between the Council and Parliament seem to have improved.
The Committee of Inquiry recommended individual disciplinary measures against Commission civil servants.
I would like to start by saying that since 1995 this Commission has been involved in an exercise of reform and global modernization of its administration.
More directly concerning the departments responsible for the fight against BSE, as I have already mentioned, we have completely restructured these departments.
This measure was necessary because the handling of the BSE affair had revealed a certain number of gaps and structural shortcomings.
With regard to possible disciplinary measures against individual staff members, after carefully examining the situation - and as you know I never refuse to accept disciplinary measures - the Commission came to the conclusion that there were not sufficient grounds for commencing disciplinary procedures, even if certain misjudgements were clearly made.
I would lastly like to mention the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry regarding the possibility of a motion of censure being brought against individual members of the Commission.
Furthermore, the Intergovernmental Conference shared the Commission's point of view on this.
Mr President, together we have come a long way.
The Commission will present, twice per year, a report of activities regarding BSE to the European Parliament and to the Council.
A big conference on consumer health, organized jointly with you, which will give us the opportunity to measure the distance covered together and I am confident, along with the Council and Member States, for we firmly believe that only a close collaboration between the three institutions and the Council will succeed in restoring citizen and consumer confidence beyond the crucial question of protection of health.
The only problem is that you are one minister for agriculture out of 15, and I am not sure that with all your goodwill you will find a majority in the Council.
I listened to you when you said that until now the Council has had no time to discuss many questions which were dealt with, for instance, in our oral questions.
Mr Boden, you said that the labelling of beef products is now new grounds for creating trust.
Mr Boden, I am sorry that I must say that so sharply.
The close scrutiny of commissioners, veterinary officers, scientists, ministry officials and many others who gave evidence has quite clearly shown that in the early days of this dreadful BSE epidemic there were mistakes at all levels, both at Commission and European level.
I stress European because, although the bulk of this problem has hit the United Kingdom, there is no doubt that there have been problems in other European countries.
With the tonnages of contaminated material which were exported to mainland Europe from the United Kingdom, it was quite obvious that a few cases would appear.
I am delighted, Mr President, that Commissioner Fischler has taken a strong stance to create a European policy and get the same high standards in other European countries that we have been bound by in the United Kingdom.
To look forward it is quite obvious from the statistics that, having had a peak of 37, 000 cases three years ago and only 3, 000 cases this year in the United Kingdom, the efforts of the last government and the present one have had a dramatic effect on the reduction of this disease.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, as a member both of the Committee of Inquiry and of the Temporary Committee to follow up the recommendations on BSE, I would particularly like to congratulate Mr Böge for all the work he has accomplished.
In fact, Mr President, I would like to underline the importance of information and transparency.
The European institutions will not remain credible unless transparency is the rule.
The European Parliament must remain vigilant on this point, for not only is the mad cow affair not finished, but there is nothing to say that other problems of a similar nature will not present themselves as well, be it hormones, GMOs or any other badly controlled new technology.
However, I would like to draw your attention to the need to preserve a balance between the different Directorates-General.
In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to remind you that I was one of the signatories to the motion of censure which was rejected by this House, and emphasize that, in this capacity, I will remain particularly vigilant with regard to this affair and with regard to the way in which the Commission implements my recommendation.
It is a good example of how this Parliament works and how things should be done in an Committee of Inquiry.
Thankfully the European Commission has acted upon most recommendations, and that means that as far as we are concerned, the sting has been taken out of the debate.
We are pleased with the fact that every six months the Commission will be reporting on the state of this dossier.
Participation by Members of this Parliament as observers at scientific committees is a good thing, because openness is good.
Parliament can never take responsibility for the decisions of these committees before they are made.
For this reason, the Green Group intends to strongly oppose the need to satisfy all those requirements pointed out by the two Committees on BSE, to ensure consumer protection and to protect the health of the citizens and the animals reared.
I would now like to touch briefly on several aspects requiring further commitment and further cooperation between the Member States and all the institutions of the European Union: the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
First of all, we should recall that other cases of this disease will occur owing to negligence and omissions in the policy of combatting BSE and we should be prepared to intervene in these cases, avoiding a repetition of what happened in Belgium, where an infected animal carcass was converted into animal meal.
From this point of view, we need to remember that the BSE affair is symbolic and should serve to improve the entire consumer protection policy and lead to a system of farming that is compatible with the environment.
I certainly welcome this report as a basis of ensuring that we are never again faced with such a serious or difficult problem as BSE has been to us.
I hope that we never again have to return in this House, on any similar occasion or at any similar time, to such a problem.
So in exchange the Commission has offered us a few crumbs about internal reorganization, the ruling on the withdrawal of specified risk materials from the food chain, a small crumb of ECU 50 million for research, a slight improvement in the treatment of animal waste meals, but the most important thing has not been done, Mr President, Mr Commissioner.
For two years, no labels, no controls at Dover, no controls on the embargo!
Mr President, I would like to say a few words on how I feel at this stage in the debate.
In such a complex context, I think a positive factor has been the cooperation between the Commission and Parliament over the last six months, which has demonstrated that it is possible to make progress, admittedly not always peaceful, sometimes in a climate of confrontation, but in a spirit of dialogue which is the most suited to helping us.
As far as we are concerned, we think we will soon be able to complete the structure responsible for control.
The scientific advisors are already in place; the scientific committee has its procedure, which everyone knows.
First, food safety and quality, and at the same time improving the competitiveness of European agricultural products.
As you know, these are primary aims and leitmotifs of the agricultural part of Agenda 2000.
I therefore welcome the clear, relevant conclusions in the report, and I am grateful for the support of the European Parliament for introducing social and environmental support criteria into the future formation of the common agricultural policy, as I proposed in Agenda 2000.
As you know, the Commission has appealed against the WTO panel on hormone meat.
We shall therefore have to continue checking systematically whether our legislation meets this requirement, and where revision and adjustment are required, they must be carried out.
As the first point of this programme, my departments are working on an improvement of the Community system of controls in the veterinary field.
The Commission is following the only possible path by basing its policy on the principles of safe sourcing, safe processing and safe use.
As I announced at the meat-and-bone meal conference, these questions will be discussed in the context of a public consultation.
The appropriate consultation paper has been prepared and sent to Parliament, and since 14 November it has also been available on the Internet.
The Commission is trying to coordinate the research activities of the Member States in this field, and to provide money for research projects.
To ensure sufficient interest in research by the scientists, particularly about questions of applied BSE research, we should consider, together with Parliament, whether we should also follow new paths.
However, I would like to clarify that this is only possible when, among other things, the necessary resources are available.
BSE has faced the European institutions with a unique challenge to overcome a crisis of European dimensions.
Parliament's Committee of Inquiry and the subsequent committee have shown new ways to formulate our policy in the field of health and consumer protection, but also of agricultural policy.
Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to respond briefly to the questions and comments which have been made to the Council.
I note that you have appreciated the presence of the Council at this debate and that you have confidence in its president, but it seems to me that you lack a little confidence with regard to the Agriculture Council.
Furthermore, this Council has interrupted its debate on Agenda 2000, on which a decision must be taken before tomorrow evening, to highlight the importance it accords to this debate and the problem of food security.
I will also try to show, during this speech, that the Council, and in particular the Agriculture Council, has not been idle in its efforts to improve the problems of health and food safety and that it has tried to follow the recommendations and proposals made by the Commission in this regard.
I would also like to say that, in our deliberations, priority is not given to social or economic considerations, although they are important for a number of farmers.
I have emphasized that the Council has always acted by giving overall priority to the protection of public health.
On this issue I would like to say that the choice of an appropriate legal basis, in accordance with consistent legal practice of the European Court of Justice, does not depend on political considerations but must be based on the content of the act to be adopted.
Regarding the regulation on identification and labelling, the Council considered, again following European Court of Justice precedent, that given the current clauses of the treaty, article 43 was the appropriate and sufficient legal basis since this regulation concerns the production and marketing of agricultural products listed in annex II of the treaty and it contributes to the achievement of certain objectives of the common agricultural policy stated in article 39.
Of course, if the Council did not follow the Commission's proposal regarding this legal basis, which was modified virtually at the last minute following a debate in the European Parliament, it should still be recognized that the Council carried out specific and very rapid work and that it tried to bring into force an essential regulation, for we all know that registration of animals and cast-iron traceability of their movements are essential to be able to eradicate these diseases effectively and rapidly.
I hope that, when we recommence the work of the Agriculture Council this afternoon, my colleagues will be unanimous in affirming and defending this European agriculture identity, both inside and outside the Community.
If this is the case, I believe we will have taken a step in the right direction, which the European Parliament also wants, in order to promote an agricultural sector which respects health and safety.
Many have lost their livelihoods and some have lost their lives.
The Medina report and its follow-up have shown that the European Parliament can take an appropriate initiative by itself in this matter.
It is another form of co-decision, except that here we were not responding to proposals that came to us from the Commission or the Council but taking a view because of the absence of such proposals at an earlier stage.
We should acknowledge quite properly that the Commission has made considerable advances, in particular through DG XIV, in the last six months.
Because of that, by far the majority view in my group and in others as well, is that a vote of censure would be inappropriate.
We also feel that the Council was lethargic early on in its response to the Commission's very necessary proposals for health and safety and the treatment of risk materials throughout the Community.
The whole committee wanted to express solidarity with the victims of this terrible disease and their families.
The UK Government welcomes this report.
We believe that all Member States should now be prepared to join in precisely the same preventive measures which have already been implemented in the United Kingdom.
The answer is not to clamour for BSE-free regions or zones but to recognize that throughout the European Union we are a single zone which needs total security, safety, traceability and vigilance as the soundest basis for consumer confidence and for beef to be traded once again throughout the Community on its merits and in a market where that confidence has been restored.
My final point is just to say that in the future this process of scrutiny must continue and I look forward to the information campaign on food safety which DG XXIV is planning for 1998.
The relevant legislation will in future take place with the responsible cooperation of Parliament.
But in this connection we have the promise of the President of the Commission to ensure by a new disciplinary law that in future we shall have an appropriate legal basis if irregular behaviour occurs.
We have not achieved everything, and therefore we must continue to work together in the coming months, so that the consequences of the BSE scandal are appraised and that we all profit from the work of the two BSE committees.
Mr President, for the food sector, food safety and quality must surpass all other considerations.
He treated it in a very sensitive manner.
I want to say in relation to BSE that farmers were the innocent victims of circumstances beyond their control.
On the question of food security and food quality, we must ensure, and I think this is important in the context of the next world trade talks, that the European Union commitment to consumer protection does not place our consumers at risk or place our industry at a competitive disadvantage.
We have faced up to the importance of food security and food quality and we must also ensure that our consumers are fully protected in the broader world trade.
The second is political responsibility against officials.
In this matter you have made compromise after compromise, and what came out of it was what the Commission submitted and Parliament's proposals for improvement!
Mr President, very briefly, of course.
The fight against BSE and against CJD requires guaranteed safety of animal materials intended for human consumption.
The European Commission has therefore quite rightly introduced new standards for the processing of meat-and-bone meal as from 1 April this year.
That as many as ten Member States have not implemented them is a serious omission.
The decree of June this year aimed at zero risk.
Yet the Commission appears to be abandoning the ban on the processing of risk organs in gelatin and tallow.
Although it would have been better if the British minister, Mr Hogg, had appeared in front of the Committee of Inquiry, I think it is an over-reaction to want to compel the members of the governments of Member States to appear at a Committee of Inquiry of the European Parliament.
Governments are answerable to their national parliament; the European Parliament is overplaying its hand on this.
I know that the Commission itself is not directly responsible for the individual Member States' lack of will to carry out the controls, but it should have fulfilled its role as guardian of the treaties long ago.
Unfortunately, article 144 of the treaty only provides for a vote of no confidence against the entire Commission.
May I furthermore remind you that the vote on the Resolutions regarding the Kyoto Conference on climate change will also take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Well, Mr President, I put a written question to the President of this Parliament in December last year.
It was question 3/97 about the report of the Vice-President of Parliament, a report dated 18 November 1996, on the installation of 128 extra shower cubicles for Members of Parliament in Brussels, at a cost of 90 million Belgian francs.
The Bureau is meeting today, and I am asking for this be put on the agenda today, so that I will receive an answer after eleven months.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, all the Members have read this document, which is without debate. (Parliament approved the Commission proposal) The undersigned will vote against all reports concerning the slaughter of calves unless they include bans or restrictions on the production of so-called white veal.
Colino Salamanca report (A4-0330/97) Owing to the nature of the Portuguese sugar industry, and in order to keep it viable, we consider it essential to maintain national subsidies to Portuguese sugar-beet producers in addition to the framework laid out by the Commission.
Furthermore, the Sturdy report on sales of agricultural products has already predicted a gradual decrease in subsidies to Portuguese sugar-beet producers up to 2001, and the present proposal by the Commission is going down the same road.
Heinisch Report (A4-0358/97) Mr President, it is a shame that the Commission's text, presented by the Council, uses the word "guarantee' , otherwise who could be against European cooperation in order to evaluate better the quality of European higher education?
The crucial question of teacher training, which is very different in our diverse countries, is completely left to one side, as is a concern which seems to us fundamental, that of the future of general education in our different European countries.
For example, it is striking to see that, in the whole of the Commission's and Council's text, there is virtually no mention of the task of higher education, except in one small place and in a completely incidental way - I am talking of establishments targeted at students who have completed their secondary education - there is no mention whatsoever of general education, more necessary than ever in an increasingly mobile world.
From this point of view, I am extremely upset that Amendment No 5 was voted for, as it is a veritable condemnation of general education, more necessary than ever to ensure that essential changes do not bring about a dehumanization of our societies.
The proposal is merely of a technical nature and concerns the procedure for establishing the Community's position.
We are in no doubt that the European Parliament's influence on this subject has already given democracy strength in Turkey.
To get public assistance, Turkey should observe human rights, accept and follow the rules of democracy and developments in the country should be monitored by a supervisory body.
When it concerns fraud, when it concerns the misuse of expenses, travel expenses, and so on, the Members of this Parliament - and I tell you, Mr President, that is 95 % of this Parliament - think it is important that things are clarified as soon as possible, so that accusations cannot be made out of the blue for others to consider as well, and which we have nothing to do with.
Mr President, the mad cow affair has shaken consumer confidence, shown the limits of an internal market which has no serious rules of consumer protection and revealed that this market can only function if the Commission and Member States work in close symbiosis.
The work of the parliamentary inquiry and the political pressure exerted on the Commission have shaken the latter and made quite a few things move at Community level.
However, the point of my comment here is primarily to denounce the attitudes of Member States, because they are still lagging behind.
Not only are ten of them indicted for having infringed the rule on animal meat-and-bone meal, but I wonder what national MPs are doing as far as their ministers for agriculture and consumer protection are concerned.
As well as the national MPs, the national level professional organizations have an enormous responsibility in this respect.
This is therefore clearly one of the great responsibilities of Member States.
Amongst the losers I would certainly like to mention those who are affected by CJD, but I would also like to mention the farmers and all those who are dependent on them, and who have run great risks financially and who have seen their operating profits decline considerably over the past year as well.
This means that in Europe the consumer has become the winner in this BSE crisis, although I am not forgetting the losers.
The report produced by the Committee of Inquiry and the Temporary Committee is excellent.
I also think that from here, from this position, I should sincerely thank the rapporteur, Mr Böge, but most certainly the President of this Committee, Mrs Roth-Behrendt, for the way in which they have listed all the points and tackled everything in such a systematic fashion.
The Committee, too, Mrs Bonino, Mr Fischler, and certainly Mr Reichenbach, is due much gratitude.
Thank you, Mr Böge, for the detail of your work.
I am very appreciative of what the committee has done up until now, and I also appreciate that people are present at this late stage of the debate, but I think the Council needs to make a more determined start.
I am not all that satisfied about what has happened between the final report of the Committee of Inquiry and now.
At this stage, I think it is fair to say that the mad cow affair is an example of chaos theory.
A small detail, certain omissions or lack of care in the transformation of animal remains into proteins for animal consumption, has led to a terrible tragedy in the agriculture sector, and to consequences for human health which are still relatively unpredictable.
I feel that this crisis has led to a reaction from the Community - a healthy reaction from the Commission above all - and also from certain Member States (such as the United Kingdom) and from Community institutions such as the Council.
In the last analysis, I think this has just been the first example of what can happen in an internal market which is dominated exclusively by economic considerations.
If the European Union is nothing more than a mechanism for economic harmonization, then we will encounter this type of difficulty from time to time.
The BSE issue has also taught us that the shortest route to the solution of a problem is not always the most negative.
It is by showing what should be done ourselves, and by using the vote of censure as a driving force, that we have succeeded in setting in motion fundamental changes, including a new policy culture.
The BSE crisis has confirmed the need for parliamentary control.
Without the work of this Parliament, and particularly with Reimer Böge and Mrs Roth-Behrendt as central players, we would never have achieved this result in this time.
We should ask ourselves, however, if we as a Parliament have sufficient instruments at our disposal to carry out this control duty continuously.
Mr President-in-Office, your continued presence today in the European Parliament does you great honour and underlines the seriousness of the problem.
The Council has, in a very elegant way, disclaimed any responsibility and has loaded all the responsibilities onto you.
However, I would like you to tell me in your reply whether this illegal trade is continuing not only to thirdworld countries - although it makes very little difference, people live there too - but also to countries of the European Union.
Mr President, what have we learned from the BSE scandal?
But we have also learned that to change can mean to win, that transparency, as we now have it, for instance, in the field of scientific advice, as we want to have much more of it in the initiation of legislation and the decisionmaking process, can instil trust back into people.
Mrs Bonino, you have demonstrated just how much really good and important work the right woman in the right place can achieve!
Over 25 years ago, Willy Brandt won an election with the slogan 'Dare more democracy' .
We too must dare more democracy in this Parliament.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, along with all my colleagues, for all his work both on the follow-up committee - as we have just been discussing - and also on the earlier committee.
It is obvious to everyone now that many mistakes were made in the past.
The biggest scandal surrounding this tragedy was the British decision rightly to ban the use of contaminated meat and bonemeal in the UK but, at the same time, allow and even increase the volume of infected feed which was exported to other Member States, with disastrous consequences for innocent farmers including specifically in my own country, Ireland.
Both committees have done excellent work.
The risk to human health must be established scientifically.
I can only regret that.
As far as we are concerned there is not one single reason for complacency.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at this stage in the BSE debate virtually everything of importance has already been said by those who have spoken before me.
The Commission was slow to react, but it has reacted.
Interinstitutional collaboration should be the trademark for constructing the Europe we all want.
Of course, I do not think that this pleasant atmosphere, indicating that we have found a common language, prevails in the beef market.
The consumer remains wary, there is a lack of confidence in the beef market, which means that whatever half-hearted steps we have taken towards transparency need to be speeded up in the future.
I think that a little more courage is needed as we must make up lost ground.
We have begun our efforts, there is a long road ahead of us, and there will be no success if we do not manage to coordinate the action of the Commission, of the European Parliament - because we have not been generous in the budget for research into this disease - but, chiefly of the Council.
Because, at this moment, market controls are not in the hands of the Commission; cross-border controls are in the hands of the Member States and in this we see that market logic still reigns.
But what conclusion can we draw from the story?
I do not like the fact that we have no guarantee at all that in the 15 Member States things will be even approximately put into effect in a foreseeable period.
But when I hear that meat should be labelled so that the consumer knows where it comes from, I would give no guarantee that that will actually be put into effect in the 15 Member States.
I would also give no guarantee that the 15 Member States will put into effect the separating out of risk material, and above all that the heating regulations, which we believe to be right, will be observed.
Not all the Member States are equal and different positions are held in Council: some Member States make their contribution, while others do not.
It seems to me the measures taken in Italy are very important and, from this point of view, it may be a country that has developed an extremely important action.
We need to insist on this and do a lot more, because other countries will also have to assume responsibility with regard to international public opinion.
And there are two policy errors, two basic policies which have caused this problem.
Those two problems are still untouchable; I mean, we know this disease is transmitted through the use of types of meal - and we are now concerning ourselves with paying compensation to the victims - but we have not yet had the courage, in the face of vested interests, to ban the use of animal meal to feed other animals.
Unless the Commission gives an unconditional undertaking to ban the use of animal remains in feed for other animals, and unless it gives an unconditional undertaking to change the CAP, which is not on Agenda 2000, in favour of quality, animal health protection and animal welfare, then for my part I shall continue to protest here, Mr President, and use the only weapon at my disposal: my vote against this situation.
Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee and Commissioner Bonino for the work they have done.
In a reasonably short amount of time, there has been a complete reorganization of the way food safety is dealt with and I am sure this will increase public confidence and improve food safety by ensuring high standards.
The key points are reorganization of DG XXIV and transparency in the work of the scientific committees, together with improved monitoring measures and wide dissemination of data.
While the vast majority of Parliament's recommendations have been fulfilled, there is still plenty more needing to be done.
The lack of political will at Council level means that we have to keep up pressure to ensure more progress is made to keep the public fully informed about all aspects of nutrition that are important for public health.
For me this does not only concern BSE as a disease, but also other diseases and other parts of our agricultural policy which actually endanger people's health.
You have made important transfers of staff from DG VI to DG XXIV but in practice nothing has changed.
Consider the last case of this kind in Belgium.
And I believe if you hide behind the status of civil servants to abandon putting sanctions in place, it is because in fact, in my opinion, you did not want, and you still do not want, to see who those truly responsible are, those who could have, at a crucial moment between 1985 and 1989, assumed their responsibilities and thus protected the health of the citizens of Europe and the world.
Your attitude of refusing responsibility kills political credibility amongst young people, on your knees as you are before the interests of money.
It is not enough to give emphatical warning of disciplinary action in Item 7 of our decision.
All these traffickers, all these criminals are, moreover, also those who are already mixed up in other fraudulent dealings, who have in the past sullied our Community, whether it is a question of trafficking in hormones or whatever else.
We admitted, from the moment our first appearance before the Committee of Inquiry, that there were some malfunctions within our departments.
In this spirit, I believe I can confirm that, all in all, we must work constructively in this area to ensure collaboration which will enable us to straighten out the situation, both good and bad, without letting ourselves be taken in, without giving ourselves false guarantees, which nobody here can give.
I have just read, in a scientific journal which is an authority in France, La Recherche Scientifique , that scientists have a new theory on the origins of this crisis.
Let us therefore show humility in the case in point and see to it that consumers, whoever they are, regain confidence in the guarantee of the safety of our food products.
It is in this direction that we must work and I am happy that there has been a change in climate in the collaboration between the Commission and the House regarding the mad cow crisis.
I would like to thank you once again for the spirit of collaboration you have shown, but also for the truly determined action your Temporary Committee has carried out to widen perspectives regarding the future management of this crisis.
When, just now, I took stock of the five questions still pending following the reports of the Committee of Inquiry and the Temporary Committee, it was within the context of the jurisdiction of the Commission.
And I am sure that, if we continue to work as we have been doing, as we have started to do today, we will have set in motion a process, a process which opens up new perspectives, which enables us to hope that consumers will once more regain confidence in the safety of food.
Mr President, following President Santer's comments, it remains for me to reply to a number of specific points raised during this debate.
Firstly, relations with Member States.
There are some which are more efficient than others in certain aspects, or vice versa.
I hope that you are going to help us, but it is quite frankly a long term task.
Firstly, there has been a great cultural change that needs to be communicated to public opinion and to Member States, that is, that the market is made up of two players: the producer and also the consumer.
We have even been criticized by Member States because we wanted to be too transparent.
I can provide you with the report in question, but it is already available to your colleagues.
I think I have largely answered the questions raised.
In conclusion, it must be said that, in my opinion, zero risk does not exist.
Mr Campos, I know your arguments on the subject of meat-and-bone meal, the argument of non-utilization.
We must continue to reflect on this, even after the conference on meal.
That said, ladies and gentlemen, as I said this morning and as the President has just repeated, we are at a stage in a process which, with your support, must be continued, for the benefit of Member States and public opinion.
Its main task was to make proposals about how the position of employees could be defined in the statute of the planned European public company.
Unsuccessful attempts have been made for more than 25 years to harmonize or coordinate European company law more strongly.
Adoption of an appropriate order about such company forms has failed until now in the Council of Ministers, because it was not possible to agree about the directives which concern the position of employees, and which are linked with this instrument.
The ideas about involvement and co-determination of employees are very different in the Member States of the European Union and the various social partners.
On the basis of the Davignon study, the Luxembourg Council Presidency made a compromise proposal to the Council of Social Ministers in October.
Co-determination is not an export article, but the more extensive co-determination by employees in countries such as Germany, Austria, the Netherlands or the Nordic countries must also not be evaded using a European legal instrument.
Both documents - the Davignon report and the Luxembourg compromise - also provide for economic involvement of employees, when in doubt, by limited representation of fully entitled employees on the administrative and supervisory boards.
The European model is not the pure market economy, but the social market economy, the important principles of which are involvement of employees and partnership.
In this spirit, I ask you to agree to this report, and at the same time I thank my colleagues on the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for their support.
Mr Davignon and his group also propose a solution to get around the difficulty by advocating a flexible and optional two tier system.
It is therefore a very flexible system which enables, by leaving a great deal of freedom to the unions and management, a formula to be found which is agreeable to both, which therefore enables the legal structure to be adjusted at the wish of both parties, and which simply, in the final analysis, at that point proposes what is the norm in our countries as a whole, that is one method or another of worker participation in the company.
Mr President, many of us are convinced that the best instrument for regulating labour relations is dialogue between the social partners, and if that dialogue can be translated into agreements, so much the better.
The history of the report we are debating today - or of the background to it - is an example of the difficulties which arise when we try to elevate normal national practices to a European level.
Problems arise in finding common ground on how to define unequivocally what we understand by worker involvement, as regards both what that involvement should consist of, and how to develop that involvement.
He has suggested sensible additions, and the agreement in the Social Committee also shows this.
The economy of the European Union presses for a statute on a European public company or a European company.
The Davignon group has done good preparatory work, there is no doubt about that.
Information and consultation of employees are thus ensured.
The Commission's task of convincing the Council, Commissioner Flynn, ought to be entirely possible on the basis of the proposals, which really take account of all objections.
I believe it is important that, in this House, a certain number of Members are motivated to bring the issue of participation to a successful conclusion because it is also one way of making progress in employment policy.
This, Mr President, is what I wanted to say very rapidly on this issue.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Commissioner, we do not need to persuade each other here today that the European form of company partnership offers an excellent opportunity to promote cross-border trading in Europe; thus it ultimately benefits employment.
There is a big disproportion in Europe between the opportunities of labour and of capital.
The reason that we have not come further today, in my opinion, does not lie in the complicated relationships, the different interests or even the different traditions, but quite clearly in the excessive power of capital.
I speak as rapporteur on a European company statute and in particular the directive on involvement of workers.
Other forms of setting up branches in other countries, such as by subsidiaries, will remain, so there is no need for Member States to fear this proposal.
The Commission insists on this, and so does Parliament.
Not only are they undermining the position of companies which actively want this proposal, they are also undermining the good work that has been done in this Parliament over the last nine or ten years.
Mr President, let me first of all thank the European Parliament for having taken the initiative to deliver an opinion on the Davignon report and subsequent developments in the dossier on the European company statute within the Council.
As we all know, there was a clear mandate from the European Council in Amsterdam to make every effort necessary to secure the final adoption of the company statute by the end of this year.
We are all aware that this will require an early political agreement within the Social Affairs Council on the outstanding issue of worker involvement which will allow the Internal Market Council to finalize the whole dossier in good time.
We all know that these texts give us a real opportunity for the very first time in very many years to make substantive progress on this dossier.
To facilitate consensus among the Member States, this reference framework must incorporate both information and consultation, as well as participation provisions.
Its real purpose consists in meeting the legitimate concerns of some Member States who fear that the European company statute will be used to circumvent national rules on worker involvement, notably with regard to the participation systems.
So I am glad to see that these fundamental elements of the possible compromise are fully endorsed here by the European Parliament.
We hope to achieve the momentum that you have asked for on 15 December at the Social Affairs Council and see this business through finally.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the part-time work agreement which the social partners have negotiated after the Council of Ministers failed to achieve an agreement for fourteen years.
The agreement falls far short of what this Chamber agreed in 1990, that is to protect all atypical employees from discrimination in both employment law and social insurance.
The social partners have made an agreement which only affects part-time work.
But the part-time work agreement has more gaps, because whereas we get only an agreement on part-time work, which completely brackets out legal social insurance, we ought to be able to expect at least that employment law and occupational social security benefits are clearly defined and regulated by European minimum standards.
For instance, a whole group of employees can be completely excluded from the principle of non-discrimination.
Also, the length of employment, the working hours or even the amount of income can be reasons for further national exceptions for all part-time employees.
In a time in which we all want to create more employment, not least through flexible forms of work and shorter working hours, this really does not contribute to more making part-time work more attractive.
It does not prevent a single Member State from making better regulations.
But the Commission must also make proposals for removing discrimination in the other forms of atypical work, in both areas, employment law and social insurance.
Let us say here to the social partners: Even if this Chamber agrees to the agreement on part-time work, this is by no means a licence to assume that we shall accept similar weak agreements without minimum standards in future.
The social dialogue is a tender plant.
Mr President, Commissioner, with only a few days left now before the Luxembourg summit, this may be the last debate before the Heads of State and of Government confront a challenge in which perhaps the people of Europe have more hopes invested than any other.
The gravity of the unemployment situation in the European Union is dramatic, even though it is improving.
It is a problem which directly threatens the very foundations of the Union.
The Treaty of Amsterdam, on the other hand, represents the will to coordinate national policies, in order to create more jobs.
The common objectives are very commendable, and in some ways they are necessary.
Firstly, to complete monetary union successfully, which is not an end in itself, but an instrument for restructuring the macro-economic climate.
Secondly, to give priority to government policies on education and training, so that our young people and long-term unemployed can gain access to the jobs market with proper and effective qualifications.
Lastly, Mr President, Mr Commissioner, the tenth point is to modernize our social security system.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the employment summit will be the yardstick for the social profile of Europe.
The employment profile makes the ills we have to overcome very clear.
Because great successes in the creation of jobs will be thanks not just to labour market policy, but at the same time we need a macro-economic policy which promotes economic growth and does not put brakes on it.
Here there is more to be done.
We must create economic conditions so that we finally bring the gainfully employed ratio in the European Union close to the Japanese and American ratio of 70 %.
I must say that benchmarking for employment and benchmarking for investment must be added to our vocabulary.
Mr President, I rise to put forward the view of the Committee on Fisheries about this important report on employment, drawing attention firstly to the fact that the question of employment takes on special characteristics in the fisheries sector.
Matters relating to employment and working conditions in the fisheries sector are perhaps the least developed aspects of Community fisheries policy at the moment.
Therefore - and I am just finishing - the Committee on Fisheries urges the European Commission to draw up a detailed study of employment and working conditions in this sector, and to undertake specific revisions of the directive in relation to the question of jobs.
Especially excellent, by the way, because it contains two issues which could provide a correction to the decisions made last time on the report to the summit on employment.
Other speakers have already said that this report has to be seen above all in the light of the summit in Luxembourg, and I also think that this must be the first subject under discussion here in this debate.
A political will to promote an employment policy, and the political will to recognize that the out-dated belief that EMU will lead to economic growth and that economic growth automatically leads to employment is wrong, and that we should pursue a much more active labour market policy.
Secondly, a important goal is benchmarking: to direct our policy, our targets at the performance of the three countries with the best performance.
And for the first time, at last, you are not involved in this dismal process of harmonizing to the level of the lowest common denominator, but at the level of the best.
Much has been said about the summit in Luxembourg, but we must realize that we are now involved in an exercise which rises above that, which constantly tries to improve the still unhappy employment situation in the European Union.
If the summit fails, then it will be a failure of socialist Heads of Government, so beware of that.
In a number of countries, including my own, part-time work has contributed more to the reverse of the unemployment figures than anything else, and it has done so in a way that conforms to the market.
We fought very hard for it and for us the most important issue is that we as social partners should formulate an agreement that says that we will not interfere in the content of the agreement.
I think that in the amendments which are now on the table, we have found some kind of halfway house.
The main one is the exclusion from certain EU-sponsored schemes of many of the least well-off in our society.
I refer, for example, to the Commission's programme for rural development or accompanying measures under the common agricultural policy.
In this report and in the Commission document, great importance is attached to the need for proper provision for social security and pensions for part-time workers.
It was always my opinion that the taxation system of our Member State was there to regulate the amount of money that an individual earned.
The majority of farmers are in that network.
I would like to bring one more point to the attention of the Commissioner, and that is that despite fine words about tax reductions, tax on labour has risen again from 43.5 % to 51 % at present.
I think that most of the emphasis on Thursday and Friday should be directed at shifting tax on labour to other sources, as recommended in the Hernández Mollar report.
Here you may ask yourself to what extent we can leave this to the social partners.
Mr President, I would like to ask Commissioner Flynn which proposals on the issue of shifting tax on labour to other sources he considers achievable at the summit in Luxembourg.
However, it is just these groups of workers that have problems which, as the report states, are often greater than those of regular part-time workers.
The Commission must immediately start drafting a motion for the equal treatment of those in untypical employment relationships, who remain left out of this motion for a directive.
Furthermore, I am afraid that there is a danger that the same kind of watered-down decision will come out of the Luxembourg Employment Summit as from this part-time work contract.
Messages emanating from yesterday's marathon meeting of the Council of Ministers have not, at least around me, increased optimism for the prospect of getting very clear and concrete decisions on how we might improve the employment situation in Europe on any large scale.
Hopefully my fears are groundless, but yesterday's meeting of the Council of Ministers was not very promising.
But that would help to create those very jobs which are badly needed in the service sectors.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Commissioner, many of us have great hopes leading up to the forthcoming summit in Luxembourg.
These solutions look very different depending on what country, what region and what local conditions we are speaking of.
On this point, it is unacceptable that Germany and Spain are blocking the process which is to be undertaken in Luxembourg in a few days time.
The guidelines in these proposals will enable the creation of nearly 12 million jobs by the year 2003 and bring the rate of unemployment down from 10.6 % to 7 %.
An SME/SMI plan, professional training for 25 % of those unemployed, technological innovations, reduction of costs, these are the strong points of this plan.
But we could go further, be more daring, more ambitious.
At a time when the European Employment Summit is about to open in Luxembourg, European public opinion would not understand if we were unable to propose a strong project for employment in Europe, unable to admit the urgency, to search at a European level for solutions to this problem that undermines, traumatizes and weakens each one of our countries.
I support a socialist government in France, which has placed employment at the heart of the European project and it is, perhaps, to reply to one of my colleagues who was asking just now, because there are today a majority of socialist governments in Europe that the Luxembourg meeting may result in a true European employment policy, which we can but welcome.
ECU 800 million of aid to SMEs, European status for company heads and workers, improved European rates of enterprise creation, the development of small home-based industries, the lightening of the tax burden, there are so many factors which could enable us to go further.
Today, just a few hours before the special summit on jobs, we in Parliament are having a debate on the same issue.
It can be seen that countries with a lower level of regulation have also succeeded best in the fight against unemployment.
From 1988 to 1995 small and medium-sized businesses in Europe created 250, 000 new jobs per year, while businesses with more than 100 employees lost 200, 000 jobs.
It also shows the political will of the European Parliament to make progress in this area.
Furthermore, my group has demonstrated this, because we proposed the anticipated allocation of ECSC surpluses to EIB loans for SMEs which create jobs.
It is a concrete proposal to make progress in this area.
Mr Commissioner, I would like to make a concrete proposal: as the Summit will last two days, I propose that on the first day, the Heads of State reflect, but that on the second day they invite fifteen young unemployed people from Europe and they tell them clearly what proposals they could offer them so that, tomorrow, they can find work.
It is no coincidence that the agreement was reached ten days before the Amsterdam Summit, and in doing so the social partners sacrificed the importance of part-time and flexiworkers to the preservation of their position of power in the new treaty.
Perhaps the fact that more than 80 % of part-time workers and most flexi-workers are women plays a part in this.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the employment report for 1997 confirms the worsening of the job market situation in many details.
Women's unemployment has risen further, youth unemployment is at 20 %, relaxation is not in sight.
The reasons for the high unemployment lie firstly in the trend of business activity, which continues to be bad, but also in structures which have become rigid, and make it more and more difficult to act nimbly in international competition.
The consequence is that the net growth of jobs in 1996 is entirely due to part-time jobs.
The special Luxembourg summit on employment questions takes place against this background.
A summit which is linked with high expectations, because the Commission has announced the ambitious goal of 12 million jobs.
Mr President, I wish to express my congratulations to Karin Jöns for the excellent report and thorough work she has undertaken on the issue of part-time work.
I want to refer specifically to the position of women, who make up over 80 % of part-time workers in the European Union.
In many Member States such part-time workers do not enjoy equal rights with full-time workers.
For example, women working full-time receive on average 80 % of men's full-time pay.
However, in the United Kingdom women working part-time receive on average only 58 % of the average hourly earnings of men who work full-time.
This pay gap between women working part-time and men working full-time has not narrowed in the last 20 years.
The low pay of women part-time workers is reflected in their current social insurance entitlements.
Again an example from the United Kingdom: 2.25 million women workers - mainly those working part-time - are excluded from social insurance schemes because their wages are too low.
The framework agreement is a small, but I hope significant, step in a process which may lead to greater equality since it will allow part-time workers the opportunity to compare their positions with full-time workers and require employers to address the issues of equal treatment and equal pay.
If the Commission's proposals for its employment guidelines for 1998 are to take effect, then it is important that the Commission draws up some legislation and brings it before the institutions so that this can be implemented.
I think that we must concentrate our efforts in two major areas: firstly the area of growth and secondly the area of the structural changes that are necessary with regard to employment.
I would like to finish by focusing once again on structural changes, since a large part of unemployment in Europe is structural in nature.
As many speakers have already said, coming up to the Employment Summit, it is one of the key areas where Parliament could at last have its voice heard by the Council and the Heads of Government.
Despite what other people may think, some brilliant ideas come from this Parliament.
If I were to hope for anything from the Employment Summit it would be for the Commissioner to come forward with three suggestions.
Secondly, that the small and medium-sized enterprise sector, which has been spoken about by other colleagues, be given freedom to operate and create new jobs and new economic growth within the whole European Union.
Thirdly, previously wrong decisions of the Council, Commission and European Parliament should be overturned.
Mr President, first of all I would like to express my congratulations to Mrs Karin Jöns for her report, which quite accurately exposes the problems caused directly or indirectly by the Agreement that was signed by the bodies of the European organizations of employers and employees and which, unfortunately, lags far behind the settlements which have been elaborated by the International Work Organization or which are already being implemented in certain Member States.
Mr President, we are faced with two sides of the same problem, with enormous implications for the living and working conditions of working people.
On the other hand, the provocative downgrading of those rights concerning not only the part-time employed, but also all atypical forms of work, which are placing millions of workers at the mercy of their employer, with dramatic reductions in wages, in holiday entitlements, in benefits, in hours of work and in social security.
On the contrary, in fact this agreement promotes employer immunity and in no case does it cover the rights of working people in part-time employment.
We now need concrete objectives: concrete objectives with regard to youth unemployment, concrete objectives with regard to long-term unemployment and concrete objectives with regard to an active labour market policy.
The question of EMU and its effects on employment are disputed.
We now have that situation in Europe, so we should now have an opportunity for long-term growth in employment.
Before Mrs Carlsson became a member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, we had the Molitor report, which investigated this question.
However, ladies and gentlemen, my duty as the Presidency's representative at this moment is to respect the agenda which has been approved.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is questions to the Commission (B4-0901/97).
The Commission considers that, if Community support were provided in this sector (for Ireland or other similar cases) it would be advisable to look for a specific solution totally independent from the mechanisms of indirect taxation.
Ireland has identified the tourism sector as one area where it is possible to generate economic growth and new job opportunities for our young people.
With the help of European Union structural fund investment in tourism projects in recent years, it has been possible to record significant advances in the tourism sector.
Question No 25 by Jan Bertens (H-0820/97) Subject: EU policy on APMs in the aftermath of the Conference of Ottawa In December the 'Ottawa Treaty' to ban APMs will be signed.
In the last two years, around ECU 52 million have been allocated to mine-clearing measures in the countries most affected.
The Commission has therefore been invited as such to the Ottawa Conference where it will be represented by the Commissioner responsible for humanitarian aid.
Firstly, the European Commission will to a large extent continue to support the anti-landmine actions worldwide, using all the resources available, including the ECU 7 million of the anti-landmine budget line and the plans implemented in all the countries affected, through the budget lines for reconstruction, cooperation in development and humanitarian aid.
Thirdly, the international and regional actions will be supported by plans drawn up by organizations such as the United Nations and the Southern African Development Community.
We are delighted that Commissioner Bonino will be present in Ottawa.
And what attempts will the Commission make to get China, Vietnam, Iran and even the United States to add their names to the signatories?
First of all, I can assure you that I will pass these points on to my colleague, Mr van den Broek, who is responsible for this matter.
Question No 26 by David Martin (H-0798/97) Subject: Primates as laboratory animals Would the Commission please detail its plan for involving the European Parliament in the elaboration of the 'Community Policy Statement on the use of Primates as Laboratory Animals' which is currently being drafted in the meeting of national competent authorities for the implementation of Directive 86/609 ?
The initiative is aimed at improving the supervision of the acquisition and use of primates for test purposes in laboratories.
Further work on this statement was put on hold until well into 1997, as first it was necessary to resolve the important question of producing statistics on the use of animals in research.
The competent authorities of the Member States finally agreed on use of joint statistics in April 1997.
On 4 December 1997, the Commission's service branch will have a first meeting with the national authorities responsible for protecting the animals used in animal research.
A subsequent meeting is already scheduled for early 1998.
We very much hope that the meeting in December will give the Commission's service branch an opportunity to assess the situation on primates including wild animals as it appears in the Member States.
It will then be possible to draw the necessary conclusions for the EU.
Once the preparatory work is complete and the status of the statement in law has been defined more precisely, the Commission will of course involve the European Parliament in the discussions.
And I would like to add that it is my personal belief that we will need to choose a form which gives Parliament a reasonable amount of influence in this very sensitive and important area.
I wish to begin by thanking the Commissioner for that very helpful response.
I look forward to bringing this matter before the European Parliament so that we can give a political response to the Commission's technical work.
I have already had an opportunity to have discussions with the animal welfare group here in Parliament, and I certainly think we will get some results too.
Question No 27 by Ivar Virgin (H-0786/97) Subject: Environmental assessment Sweden became a Member of the EU on 1 January 1995.
The relevant legislation, Directive 85/337/EC on environmental impact assessment (the EIA Directive) became binding on Sweden when it joined the Community, in other words on 1 January 1995.
Under the terms of the Directive, Sweden is obliged to assess the impact of new projects on the environment if the approval procedure started after 1 January 1995.
The project in question, that is the Hallandsås tunnel, which is part of the west coast railway line, did not come under this obligation, as it had already been approved and started before that date.
What can be said with certainty is that if the project had complied with the requirements for environmental impact assessments found in Directive 337 of 1985, the accident would never have happened.
As I said to Mr Virgin, it is of course always interesting when an incident happens to consider whether it could have been avoided, and if it would have been better if another Directive had been in force.
With reference to previous resolutions and reports adopted in this Parliament does the Commission feel that the principles of free movement of people, including football supporters and others have been contravened?
The implementation of appropriate policing measures for the purpose of preventing hooliganism and violence generally at sporting events or other occasions attended by large numbers of people aims primarily to maintain public order.
The Commission thus does not have competence and is therefore not in a position to intervene in the way police forces in the Member States maintain public order on their own territories.
In this context, the Council adopted in 1996 a recommendation on guidelines for preventing and restraining disorder connected with football matches.
More recently, in 1997, a joint action with regard to cooperation in public order and safety and a resolution on preventing and restraining football hooligans were adopted by the Council.
However, the implementation of appropriate measures for preventing and restraining disorders is undertaken by Member States in accordance with their own national laws and Community law.
Furthermore, a Council draft recommendation on the responsibility of organizers of sporting events is currently being discussed at a technical level.
The Commission is not involved in the application of UEFA regulations concerning stadiums but it does operate with organizations that have a specific role in this area such as the Council of Europe, where a standing committee has been created.
I thank the Commissioner for her answers although they are not answers to the questions I put.
The point of my question was, does the Commission feel that the principles of free movement of people have been contravened?
Will she, in her answer, perhaps add just one or two sentences, particularly in praise of the football authorities of Member States who sought to coordinate the many complaints of genuine football supporters who were caused a great deal of inconvenience during that particular match and managed to communicate those complaints with great clarity to the Italian football authorities?
All of us who are interested in football really hope that the coming events will be handled in a proper way.
We cooperate with organizations that have a specific role in the area.
Mrs Rojo, as you know, Community policy on technical education and vocational training forms an essential part of Euro-Mediterranean policy as established at the Barcelona Conference, and its general aim is to increase the competitiveness of the industrial and services sectors, and to help the process of economic transition in those countries by creating a much better qualified workforce.
Firstly, I must tell you (although I think you already know) that one of the first projects under the Meda scheme, which came into effect in October, is the Manform project being implemented in Tunisia, with a fund of ECU 40 million.
At the moment we are negotiating a similar programme with the Moroccan Government, and a decision will be reached before the end of the year.
In the first instance, the contribution which the European Union has offered the Moroccan Government amounts to ECU 38 million.
That, then, is the line the Commission is taking, and will continue to take as other countries join in, for vocational training is a key element in the economic adaptation and liberalization of these countries, and the countries themselves are specifically asking us for help in this area.
With Tunisia, I think the problem lies in managing to integrate vocational training with industry.
Thank you very much, Mrs Izquierdo Rojo, but allow me to say two things.
We do not have any problems negotiating with the World Bank, because in fact we are cooperating very closely with that institution in defining the objectives.
However, the countries in question have difficulty understanding the dual system of vocational training (linking education, vocational training and industry) which is normal in Europe and works very well there - you mentioned the experience of CEDEFOP in Berlin.
Thank you very much, Mr Marín González.
Therefore, I do not think the Commission should express any opinion on this matter.
Mr Posselt, it is my responsibility as President to request - indeed, demand - that all Members of this House to show the greatest respect for the members of the Commission who attend here to answer their questions.
Mr Posselt, I have neither insulted nor shown a lack of respect to any Catholic or any Christian in this hemicycle.
To make my point absolutely clear, let me tell you that I have been personally invited to the Vatican to give my opinion on this visit, but in an individual capacity, as a private person.
My supplementary question is this: I recently received a directive about respect for human rights under the legal basis of article 130w, that is, development aid.
Mr Marín, with all due respect and in an attempt to regain our sense of proportion - because I realize that we have to be extremely careful with this, and what you said is entirely reasonable - I would like to stick up for this view.
I have tried to be very careful.
However, negotiations of this type have to be conducted, as you say, with restraint and intelligence, and the Vatican authorities have to be allowed to negotiate.
Secondly, you asked me a general question, Mrs Palacio, but I have a completely clear conscience.
First, I have written a letter on this question to the Spanish government, and I have already commented on it once in the debate on the Green Paper on numbering here in Parliament.
The reference to the code number for Gibraltar in the Appendix to the Green Paper about a numbering plan is not in the 'Countries' column, but in an untitled column, containing explanations of the actual use of certain code numbers, including quite different code numbers such as short codes for European services, telephone information, etc.
The fact that the regional code for Gibraltar - which was not defined by us, but by the ITU - happens to be between those of Germany and Luxembourg has no political significance at all, but is the result of the numerical sequence of the table.
Commissioner, you mention a reply that was given to the Spanish Government, which does not concern us in this House.
Also, you say that the column in question is empty, with no entries.
You could have put "territorial dialling code' or "dialling codes for Member States and territories whose foreign relations are dependent on a Member State' , or anything you like.
Therefore, I would ask you, Mr Bangemann, to please reconsider the situation, because there is a resolution from this Parliament requesting you to do so.
Fine, the letter does not concern you, but it may interest you that we also said clearly in this letter to the Spanish government that this is not a political statement.
We have discussed this question intensively for the last two and a half to three years, prompted by the then British Minister for Telecommunications.
Mr President, I can really only answer the first part of the question with hope.
I do not know 100 % how things will turn out, but I think that the responsible people have thought about it just as we have.
Question No 35 by Marianne Eriksson (H-0783/97) Subject: Tunnel through the Halland Ridge in Sweden Large amounts of acrylamide were released during the construction of a rail tunnel under the Halland Ridge in Sweden, and have polluted the groundwater for years to come.
At the moment, therefore, we see no reason to intervene, but when the Swedish government reports to us what violations have occurred and how it has been handled, we will check whether there is an additional need to act.
I would like to thank Commissioner Bangemann for his reply.
It has been used for just over 20 years, not only in tunnel construction, but also at airports and in mines, and so on.
At the moment we are also investigating this substance within our regular risk assessments, whether it should be classified at a different level or possibly use of it must be completely forbidden.
Mr President, Mrs Kjer Hansen, the questions concerns one of the grants which was approved for the 1993 PACTE programme.
On the basis of the reports which were submitted to it, at the start of 1997 the Commission paid the Community resources which had been approved for it since 1993, in full.
In some cases, claimable expenditure which differed from the amount which the project manager stated in his final report was identified.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for his reply.
Directorate General XVI is therefore thinking very hard, first about how this cooperation can be further promoted, but on the other hand how such things can be avoided in future.
I can only promise you that we have learned from the problems of the past.
I welcome that answer.
I should like to ask the Commissioner to say a little more about the PACTE programme.
I know she will not announce that today.
While we are trying to achieve concentration, will she accept that in this very fractional, peripheral part of the structural funds there is some merit in keeping a programme which provides very small amounts of money to large numbers of authorities that otherwise just would not get involved?
I believe that we must also have some ideas, not only with the PACTE programme, but also with all the article 10 actions, about how we ensure the mobilizing effect of such small projects, but at the same time find administrative forms which do not overstretch us.
We therefore check all these things.
Apart from the Lisbon region, which considerably exceeds the threshold value of 75 % of gross domestic product per head, the level of regional prosperity of the Portuguese regions is appreciably below this threshold, so that they continue to be eligible for support within objective 1.
Finally, the proposal to retain the cohesion fund in its present form does not raise a question about Portugal's further eligibility for support within this fund, so that in future Portugal will have available considerable resources from the Structural Fund and the cohesion fund.
I was very pleased with her reply, because even before I asked the question the Commissioner gave me her assurance here that the countries in the front line of European monetary union, which will therefore be adopting the euro, will not be at a disadvantage in terms of the cohesion fund and that the fund will be maintained.
What I said, and what Agenda 2000 also ensures in this sense, is that support for objective 1 regions will not be reduced because of the entry of new members, but that the proposal is still two thirds of resources which are increasing in total.
Also, the cohesion fund will continue to be open for Member States which do not exceed 90 % of gross national product.
Does the Commissioner agree that in looking at which regions will qualify under the 75 % rule for objective 1 funding after 1999, it would be inappropriate to apply this rule in a rigid, statistical way given that some regions will fall just above or just below the 75 % according to some, frankly, not very reliable statistics.
But the basis for calculating the eligibility for support of the regions is the last three years for which regional data is available.
As far as I can see, the 75 % criterion is mostly undisputed throughout the Community.
These criteria should take account of the regional priorities of the Member States.
However, implementation of an integrated strategy for regional development, in which actions to extend the infrastructure, human resources and the economy are meshed, requires a certain size.
Experience with objectives 2 and 5b shows that NUTS 3 regions or areas which have a coherent local economy and can be delimited administratively are most suitable as a spacial concept.
The national criteria, which we shall take into account additionally, will be proposed by the Member States, and the Commission will investigate in partnership how far these correspond to the objectives and effects which are aimed for.
Thank you very much, Mrs Wulf-Mathies, for joining us here today.
Since the time allocated to questions to the Commission has now expired, Questions Nos 40 to 79 will be dealt with in writing.
At the moment there is a debate scheduled between midnight and 12.30 a.m.
We know that our infrastructure is weaker, but we also know that the European Union can never find enough funds to tackle the infrastructure we need to create jobs.
The Council uses it a lot, the Commission uses it in its guidelines, the social partners also use it, and the European Parliament considers it to be one of the means of dealing with the problem of employment in its resolutions.
Mr President, there is an unfortunate tradition in the European Community that, when dealing with problems relating largely to women, a great deal of patience is required, for it will be at least several decades before you manage to get a legislative text adopted.
In order to eliminate the discrimination which part-time workers face, the great majority of them - more than 80 % - women, the Commission made a good proposal for a directive regarding voluntary part-time work nearly twenty years ago.
It was, furthermore, on this basis, that a few years ago in my country, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, a law was established, after having decided to wait no longer for a European Directive as we were fighting a losing battle.
We are now confronted with a framework agreement concluded by some of the social partners - SMEs are not represented - on part-time work, an agreement that I would qualify as "watered down' in comparison with the initial proposal for a directive and even in comparison with the amended version of 1983.
But this logical, non-discriminatory principle, which could be easily implemented, does not seem to be easily understood by everybody.
A larger wage range, more wage flexibility, less generous benefits make very little difference to employment levels, Mrs Carlsson, and certainly make no difference to unemployment.
Mr President, a second point I wanted to cite, is that this report brings up another buried topic, namely the reduction of working hours.
We, as the European Parliament, Mr President, asked the Commission as far back as in 1996 to produce a study, a comparative study into good examples of how the working week can be reduced; into how the reduction of social security contributions can give a new impulse to shorter working hours.
Sadly, I have not been able to find a trace of this in the Commission's new report - an employment agenda for the year 2000.
I know that not all of these topics will be discussed, or else they will be discussed insufficiently, at the Luxembourg summit, but I hope that the ministers will at least make a start with these important debates.
I only hope that my prophesies in this respect do not come true.
I would like to thank all those who have contributed and all those who have come back for the end of the debate.
Firstly, the 1997 Employment in Europe report is part of the package on employment adopted by the Commission on 1 October along with the joint report and the Commission's proposal for employment guidelines.
Honourable Members will recall that we had an excellent debate on the guidelines at the last session here when we discussed the van Velzen report.
On the subject you are talking about now I would just like to say to you that this matter is covered in the Green Paper on work organization and the deadline for submissions is 30 November.
We all agree on the importance of the overall economic situation.
Promoting better reconciliation between home and work is but the first step in dealing with this problem.
You will be very interested to know that the joint meeting that took place yesterday evening of the Ecofin ministers and the employment ministers was a very good one.
The joint meeting had a very high level of representation.
Our guidelines - the ones we discussed just recently - and the joint report have provided the main basis for the discussion as far as the preparation for this summit is concerned.
I would think that we are set fair just now for a major breakthrough in the progress and development of the European employment strategy.
Regarding Mrs Jöns' report, the importance of the new forms of flexible working, especially part-time work, has increased very substantially over the years and the trend continues on national employment markets.
In June 1996, UNICE, CEEP and ETUC expressed their common wish, as you know, to enter into negotiations on the parttime aspects of this issue.
After a very long and detailed negotiation these three organizations agreed on 6 June 1997 the framework agreement on part-time working.
The Commission is bringing forward this proposal to the Council pursuant to article 4(2) of the agreement on social policy.
To our mutual regret this article does not provide for involvement of the European Parliament.
In order to respect the autonomy of the social partners under the social protocol procedure, the Commission made it clear in its communication on 14 December 1993 concerning the application of the agreement on social policy that the Council could not amend the social partners agreement.
The Commission does not favour the inclusion of such a proposal which imposes new obligations under Amendment Nos 1 and 2 on the Member States and the social partners.
However, the Commission will monitor the implementation of this directive and will address, therefore, the issues referred to by Amendment Nos 1 and 2.
In this regard the Commission is currently reflecting on the possibility of the European Parliament playing a somewhat more active role in this process while respecting both the terms of the Treaty and the autonomy of the social partners, as we are bound to do.
Part-time work is only one aspect of the broader issue concerning the protection and promotion of other flexible forms of work.
In fact the Commission consulted the social partners in a much wider context which included other forms of non-standard employment contracts.
In the preamble to the framework agreement the social partners have already expressed their intention to consider the need for similar agreements on other flexible forms of work.
In their joint contribution to the employment summit adopted last Thursday, 13 November, the partners state that they are considering the possibility of a new negotiation.
Finally, since the question of social security has been mentioned by a few contributors, I should say that the adaptation of social security rules to stimulate more innovative forms of work organization is one of the issues covered by the Commission's Green Paper on work organization.
However, the question will certainly be addressed in the social action plan for the Commission that we are going to adopt next year.
Aircraft safety The next item is the report (A4-0335/97) by Mr Gonzalez Triviño, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a Council Directive establishing a Safety Assessment of Third Countries' Aircraft using Community Airports (COM(7)0055 - C4-0140/97-97/0039(SYN)).
The terrible air accident in the Dominican Republic in February 1996, in which nearly 200 people lost their lives, alerted us to the need to improve the inspection procedure for aircraft from third countries which use our airports.
If we are to have a directive which applies to all the airports of the European Union, and in such a sensitive area as safety, it would be a good idea to have a body of technicians who could apply the regulations in a consistent and rigorous fashion.
Mr President, the contents of the directive and of the report on safety inspections for third country aircraft were not at issue in the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
In February 1996 a Boeing 757 operated by the Turkish company Birgen Air crashed in the Dominican Republic.
All 189 people on board, most of them tourists returning home to Germany, were killed.
However, binding regulations are still required on cabin crew working hours, in order to reduce the number of human errors attributable to excess fatigue, and on training standards for maintenance crews, in order to cut the number of technical malfunctions on a more consistent basis.
There is therefore still much to be done by the Commission, by the Council and by this Parliament, before these vital regulations can become a reality.
Information exchange and cooperation also constitute a important element.
Here we have aircraft which are operating on behalf of companies who are subject to Community legislation but which are in fact owned by companies outside the Union.
The aircraft which are replaced are not always put into retirement, but simply go to another company in new colours.
People should not have to be nervous about getting on board a bus or an aircraft, or a ship for that matter.
Of course, there may be different proposals and isolated action by Member States, but that will not be effective.
With this proposed Directive, we have taken a major step within the EU towards people's safety when they travel.
Mr President, the accident in the Dominican Republic in February 1996 clearly highlights the problem before us today.
That particular case involved a Turkish aircraft chartered by a German tour operator in which all 176 passengers were killed.
I congratulate the Commission on introducing this proposed directive and the rapporteur for his excellent work in preparing this report.
In that opinion the European Parliament wanted to introduce a similar system of safety checks for third country aircraft using European Union airports to that used in port state control in the maritime transport sector.
That is to say that ICAO safety standards should be applied in relation to all third country aircraft to create a blacklist of those third country carriers not meeting European Union safety standards.
Mr President, firstly I thank the rapporteur for his excellent report on our proposal to improve aviation safety by providing for a system of inspection of third country aircraft that are suspected of non-compliance with internationally agreed safety standards.
Naturally I am pleased that the rapporteur and other Members who have spoken tonight are supporting us on this very important issue and also that many of the 15 amendments which are proposed are useful additions or suggestions which complement the Commission proposal.
Consequently, in June last year the Commission published its communication on a Community aviation safety improvement strategy which included a programme of action.
The first element of this programme to be presented as a formal proposal is the one being considered by the House tonight.
The Commission is happy to accept all the committee's amendments as they stand with the exception of two, as well as the new Amendment No 15 which covers issues similar to those of Amendment No 2.
With regard to Amendment No 14 which requires the Commission to draw up a report on the application of the directive no later than two years after its entry into force, I would say that if the proposal is adopted along the lines of the rapporteur's opinion, I do not believe there would be any need for a further proposal in the near future.
However, I am willing to accept that circumstances may change and maybe a new proposal would then have merit.
Consequently, the Commission will incorporate the substance of Amendment No 14 in a modified proposal.
Amendment No 13 to the proposal as it now stands calls for the deletion of article 12 which requires Member States to lay down a system of penalties for breach of the national provisions adopted to implement the directive.
We consider that article 12 is a necessary instrument to guarantee the proper application of a Community legal instrument in the member states and we therefore want to keep it in the text.
I hope that on further reflection, especially since there is very clear and strong support for our proposal, the House will come to share our view of article 12 as a necessary provision for enforcement.
I look forward to the future adoption of this proposal which should contribute to improving the security of European citizens and, indeed, many other air passengers, as well as providing additional protection for people living near airports.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, this report was submitted by the Commission before the Members of this House had ever heard of any Agenda 2000 document, even in draft form.
Nevertheless, many of its concepts and criteria have now become commonplace, because as time passed, the report on cohesion came to virtually overlap with other important reports, including Agenda 2000.
The Commission's report pointed out to us something obvious: there had been uneven progress in matters of cohesion.
Variations in employment, research and many other areas also showed that we were a long way from achieving the European Union's cohesion objectives.
We state quite clearly in the report that Parliament is satisfied with the European Union's political structure.
All the European Union's policies need to work together before we can really achieve the objectives of cohesion which Parliament and the whole of the European Union are aiming for.
Mr President, we have had long discussions about whether or not 1.27 % of the European Union's GNP is a sufficient allocation for questions of cohesion, and whether repeating the objectives already agreed at Edinburgh might give a negative image of the European Union by suggesting that we have not made any progress.
I should like to thank all my colleagues, Mr President, for the enormous amount of work they have contributed to this report, and for the help they have given me personally.
Mr President, I am delighted that we are having the opportunity tonight, even at this very late hour, to discuss cohesion policy.
The Commission's first triennial report on cohesion policies and their impact has been an essential part of the evaluation reflection on future priorities for cohesion policies.
It takes place at an important watershed with the reform of the structural and regional policies and the Agenda 2000 package.
We can begin the process of taking stock, reviewing the achievements and success and, as our rapporteur has done very effectively in his comprehensive analysis of cohesion, set down markers for the future that we can use as our reference manuals.
But there can be no doubt about our commitment to cohesion.
In fact, we have it in every Treaty, including the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The rapporteur stresses the equal value - and I agree with him - of cohesion policy alongside achieving the single European market and economic and monetary union.
It is a key priority of the EU to make the European Union more than a single market, a free trade zone or a currency zone.
Cohesion policies are vital to delivering a citizen's Europe and giving tangible support to regions and communities, to open up access to the opportunities of the single market for jobs and training.
Support for coalfield communities, learning projects are an essential component of achieving economic and social cohesion.
Quite frequently they do not remember or think about the role that cohesion policy has.
I have to say that my comments are not addressed to Commissioner Wulf-Mathies, because we know of her commitment to cohesion policy, but to the whole College of Commissioners.
One of the few criticisms I have of this excellent report is that the Commission has not dealt with EMU in a very effective way.
The future is running fast to meet us and we still have no clear analysis of the impact of EMU on our regions.
Finally, we have to have the means to match our ambitions for our cohesion policies as Jacques Santer said.
Regional and cohesion policies can be successful if everyone works together - the Member States, the regions and the local authorities.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
The report which has been presented by Mr Izquierdo Collado is very comprehensive indeed and goes far beyond the remit for a critical analysis of the achievements of the structural fund over a period of three years, in respect of economic and social cohesion, and the resulting conclusions.
We are in full agreement with the rapporteur on a number of points, namely the call for a greater concentration of resources, better coordination of community policies, improved economic competitiveness, sustained development and the creation of competitive jobs, since these are in fact priorities in the Union's structural policy.
However, detail regulations pertaining to agriculture, Union financing for the whole of the next planning period, and the enlargement process due to take place during this period, do not belong directly to the motion for a resolution contained in Mr Izquierdo Collado's report.
At the end of this period the cards can be reshuffled to correspond with the new economic situation in the countries of the Union, this applying to both givers and receivers alike.
The rapporteur quite justifiably calls for criteria for the promotion targets, but these criteria must be objective and easy-to-calculate, such as objective 1 regions receiving 75 % of GDP under the NUTS II scheme.
Mr President, the structural funds have played a positive role in helping the less developed regions on the periphery of the Union to develop their economies closer to their full potential and to close the gap with the well-off regions in the core of the Union.
This is particularly true in Ireland where the structural funds have been concentrated on constructing new improved roads, airport facilities, industrial modernization and vocational training for young people.
However, the objective of improving average living standards in Ireland to the levels existing in the better-off regions of the centre of the Union is still a long way from being achieved.
There are continuing structural problems in the economy which must be removed if our economy is to achieve its full potential and be able to maintain a GNP level similar to that of the better-off regions of the Union.
The structural funds have played a central role in encouraging the advances of recent years.
I believe the use that Ireland has made of these funds can serve as a model for other regions and countries of the Union.
It is vital to continue the programme of capital investment now under way, not just in order to finish the many important projects that have already begun, but also to maintain the impetus which has resulted in the economy recording consistently strong growth levels in recent years.
These strong growth levels have led to many commentators suggesting that the need for structural fund investment in Ireland is declining.
The criteria for assessing whether or not a country or region qualifies for maximum structural fund levels can mask continuing, underlying problems.
Consequently our level of development as compared with better-off regions of the Union is also exaggerated.
The issue should be addressed when the next round of structural funds is being divided between qualifying regions.
Secondly, unemployment levels must be given a prominent place among the criteria being used to determine qualification for Objective 1 status.
Finally, the Irish authorities, like those of many other less-developed regions of the Union, have a particularly serious problem trying to find employment opportunities for the long-term unemployed who are often without even the most basic skills which they could offer potential employers.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, the first thing I want to do is congratulate Mr Izquierdo Collado on his report on the triennial report on economic and social cohesion.
Obviously, this report was produced at a time when the earliest information about Agenda 2000 was just becoming known.
I think the rapporteur has done the right thing in basing his report on all the information available to him at the time, because the reports which we produce in Parliament are living documents which are in touch with reality, and we should not restrict ourselves to watertight compartments.
And it is clear - one of the speakers said so - that the assistance provided for this strengthening of economic and social cohesion cannot consist of unlimited aid granted for an indefinite period of time, but has to be properly controlled - which it is.
I would even say that it is controlled precisely because it is measured in terms of the domestic product of those regions which receive help in the form of structural funds.
I therefore think this is a good report and that this structural fund policy should be maintained.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, none of us can be satisfied or comfortable with the Commission's report on the development of economic and social cohesion in the European Union.
If a few Member States' GDPs do approximate to a very limited extent to the Community average, that cannot conceal the fact that such progress is clearly insufficient in itself and, as such, incompatible and out of line with the fundamental objectives established by the Treaty of Europe in that respect.
We also note a clear aggravation of the inequality between the richest and poorest regions, and the real and obvious inappropriateness of many policies to the objective of cohesion is confirmed beyond doubt, particularly the common agricultural policy, whose lack of structural and regional balance results in the richest farmers receiving over 80 % of subsidies and cohesion countries such as Portugal, for example, being a net contributor to the common policy.
We must maintain the cohesion fund for its present beneficiaries with a GDP of less that 90 % of the Community average; we need to ensure that the present levels of aid to existing Member States continue in force; it is absolutely essential to match policies to principles and practise real cohesion; and it is vital that we face the new problems arising from enlargement with our financial capacity strengthened.
Unemployment in the ten poorest regions is almost seven times higher than in the ten richest regions.
While the initial trend was to do away with economic and social cohesion as the European Union's own solidarity policy, the cohesion report is becoming a symbol for the preservation of the European social model.
In discussing and voting on this report, we need to think about certain points which have not only been vitally important in the recent past, but will continue to be so in the immediate future, because of enlargement.
It must be stressed that cohesion policy has had the positive effect of reducing the existing disparities between the Member States, as regards cohesion and other aspects.
However, there are still regrettable regional differences in income, while differences in unemployment rates have increased.
This fact reveals the lack of coordination between the various Community policies, and demonstrates the need for a global approach to ensure that they are consistent with the objective of economic and social cohesion.
Another worrying aspect which has arisen during the debate on this report, Mr President, is the attempt to withdraw the cohesion fund from those countries which join the first phase of economic and monetary union.
Therefore, Madam Commissioner, we think it would be a good idea for you to convey to this House the content of your legal department's document on this question, so that we can learn what is in it, and devote some thought to it.
It is up to us in the European Parliament to emphasize why cohesion was included in the treaty: to define a fair Europe, characterized by solidarity and social commitment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is more than a common internal market.
It is a matter which also includes the structural fund.
The debate on the structural fund will take place next year.
There is no doubt whatsoever that guidelines are required for this debate and it without doubt also right to draw lessons from the cohesion report.
For this reason we have made it clear that the compromise which has been found is for us, in its wording, both binding and reasonable.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion and competitiveness are complementary ideas.
Cohesion may strengthen competitiveness while competitiveness may in turn contribute to the promotion of convergence, growth and employment.
The results that have been achieved throughout the period examined in the report on cohesion could have been more satisfactory.
There has been progress at the level of the convergence of the Member States, but, in many objective 1 regions especially, the gap has widened with regard to the average community income and things have got worse with regard to unemployment, especially unemployment amongst the young, amongst women and amongst the long-term unemployed.
As we are rendering account our mind necessarily turns to what will happen beyond 1999 with the new regulations of the structural funds, and I believe that it is necessary: firstly, to proceed on the basis of the following three principles: simplification, transparency, efficiency; secondly, to restrict the number of programmes and the number of Community initiatives; thirdly, to condense the currently six objectives of the structural funds into three; fourthly, to proceed with more effective structures to monitor the reliability and the proper execution of the programmes; fifth, to harmonize the procedures and mechanisms of the structural funds; sixth, to increase the participation of the private sector in the actions of the structural funds and to give better information to the public concerning participation in the programmes.
In its essential internal policy, however, the EU had not acted in the spirit of article 130b.
The EU should, in the name of cohesion, ensure that the complimentary principle takes root in Member States.
Of great importance to cohesion in the EU is, furthermore, the viability of agriculture throughout the entire EU region.
The present system of agricultural aid does not account sufficiently for production difficulties due to factors of climate and other conditions in nature in both the northern and southern peripheral regions.
Mr President, cohesion policy will soon have to face two challenges: economic and monetary union, and enlargement.
Either of these could result in the existing regional inequalities becoming more pronounced, as previous speakers have repeatedly said.
However, all these measures become meaningless if the cohesion fund is not supported as an end in itself, rather than as a subordinate measure of less importance than other policies.
This report shows how dangerous the theory of a fair return is, developed by several Member States, when the policy of cohesion is applied, and show that the other policies only make a relative contribution towards achieving the objective of cohesion.
I would like to conclude by asking the Commissioner whether he can tell us in his reply what value the Commission will place on the report but also on Parliament's opinion so as to enlighten subsequent choices.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if the first triennial report on cohesion was good, and the Commission, and particularly Directorate-General XVI, deserve our congratulations for the analysis and thought that went into the document, then the report on that document presented by our colleague Juan de Dios Izquierdo Collado is a balanced and well-structured text, containing rigorous and thorough analysis, and just to read it gives an idea of the huge efforts which such an undertaking required.
I should like to draw attention to two statements which appear in the report: firstly, the inequalities within the European Union have hardly been reduced in the last ten years, despite the progress which has been made and the effectiveness of structural policies; secondly, nearly all Community policies have effects which are clearly counterproductive to cohesion.
Agenda 2000 can correct these shortcomings.
Reform of the common agricultural policy can allow the European Union's agriculture to regain its balance, if we do not follow the Commission's status quo policies, and achieve a balance between continental and Mediterranean farming, so that the best-funded policy in the Community budget is also ruled by criteria based on economic and social cohesion.
I end by expressing once more my sincere congratulations to our rapporteur for his excellent work.
Madam President, while funds for Germany and Spain for 1994-1999 are increasing, they have been reduced in the case of Greece and Portugal, two of the poorest countries of the Community.
The historical experience of federal or proto-federal states clearly shows that budgets must be designed with a view to redistribution, dispensing equity and justice.
Once upon a time, in the Delors package, it was a stimulus; now it is a hindrance.
If Portugal has achieved the feat of meeting the eligibility criteria and if she succeeds in maintaining a genuine convergence line - in 1995 Portugal achieved 67.4 % of the average Community GDP; in 1996 it went up to 68.3 %; and in 1997, with a calculated 4 % growth rate, it may rise to around 70 %, and, moreover, with unemployment under control - it would be serious, unjust and paradoxical if Portugal were penalized for her success.
In committee I have already suggested that we use first names when addressing each other.
My second comment is that economic and social cohesion is not, and never has been, primarily the responsibility of the European Union, but rather is a matter for the Member States, since the instruments and resources available to the Union can only act as an accessory to the main event.
Madam President, the Commission's report is an important analysis of what has happened in the area of cohesion in the European framework.
Neither can we underestimate the effects of national economic policies, national structural policies, and EMU.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, European economic and social cohesion is an essential principle and a prime objective in the building of Europe, and is just as important as monetary union or the single market.
The Commission's cohesion report shows this clearly.
The inequalities between Member States have been reduced, but there is still a gulf separating rich and poor regions.
The Izquierdo Collado report considers all these questions, or nearly all of them.
The policy of convergence and cohesion, this key policy without which European integration would be impossible, must be pursued in order to consolidate what has been gained and to ensure steady progress towards growth, competitiveness and convergence throughout the coming years.
Madam President, there is no doubting the fact that economic and social cohesion is a fundamental part of the European Union's policy.
The aim of this cohesion policy is to reduce the inequality which exists between EU regions.
On the subject of enlargement, which Mr Izquierdo Collado's report also covered, one can only emphasize that the preparatory phase must be supported by a special financial instrument so that new Member States can really be brought into the European community of nations.
Mr Izquierdo Collado's political group and my own, which are the two most important groups in the building of Europe, both agree that Europe will only be possible if it is based on two elements: a functioning market, and the strict application of the principle of social compensation.
The structural fund has been introduced to enable the EU's poorer regions to adapt.
I am assuming here that these regions will in fact be able to adapt over a period of years by the efficient use of resources.
But cohesion must also come from within.
Let me first thank the rapporteur, Mr Izquierdo Collado, for his excellent report, and let me also thank him for saying that the European Parliament was satisfied with the structural policy.
I think his remarks also include a degree of criticism, but nevertheless, one is pleased to hear a positive comment on the subject.
I think that this is borne out by a number of decisions, not only in the area of cohesion policy.
Economic and social cohesion as the guiding principle for a common policy therefore extends far beyond the economic dimension.
I believe that the cohesion report also brings this clearly to the fore.
From our point of view its contribution as far as cohesion is concerned is much more positive than has been suggested in the report and by a number of speakers in the debate.
The reform of the common agricultural policy, for example, has had a positive effect on cohesion since 1992 because it has guaranteed higher transfers of funds to the poorest Member States and regions.
The main objective of European research policy, if I may comment briefly on the subject, is to strengthen the EU's competitive position as a supplier of flagship technologies, primarily vis-à-vis the United States and Japan.
The Committee welcomes the support for its reform proposals and, if I understand the situation correctly, there seems ultimately to be a consensus, if one reads between the lines, in favour of reforming the structural funds regulation, both in the budget framework as well as in terms of its priorities and necessities.
I think that we also agree on basic objectives, such as the reduction of development disparities, the fight against unemployment and of course the need for sustained development.
The proposal is designed to ensure that Member States whose GNP is below 90 % will continue to receive assistance after joining the monetary union, the reason for this being that there are still considerable infrastructure backlogs, even in the most successful cohesion countries.
Certainly, the 90 % criterion will have to be reassessed half way through, and if it is no longer applicable, then we should still be in a position to draw conclusions from the success of our previous policy.
Maintaining the cohesion fund will, in my opinion, promote the continued extension of Europe's infrastructure, even under the difficult conditions imposed by the stability pact.
Finally, the Commission also welcomes the broad consensus on the guideline principles for the reform of the structural funds Regulation.
You can be sure that we continue to regard Parliament as an important ally when it comes to safeguarding the economic and social cohesion of the Union.
Thank you, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The Committee on Regional Policy has repeatedly expressed this wish for solidarity, in the form of concrete proposals, and is doing so again today before the European Parliament with this report which I am honoured to present.
The proposal for a regulation which the Commission is presenting to us is along the same general lines as the existing 1994 regulation.
That is the purpose of our Amendments Nos 1, 3 and 5.
Madam President, I wish to thank the rapporteur for his tremendous work and cooperation on this report.
The future of social cohesion in the two communities in Northern Ireland is inextricably linked to the future of the International Fund for Ireland for such is the importance of the fund as an instrument for reconciliation and development.
Madam President, on behalf of my political group and my Prime Minister and the British Government, I very much welcome the contribution the EU is making in this area.
He has demonstrated a great deal of sensitivity in this area and for that I thank him.
I consider the International Fund for Ireland to be an essential part of the confidence-building process for the communities, alongside the peace and reconciliation programme.
It is particularly important in this critical phase of talks for the EU to continue its commitment and for the International Fund to give a signal to our international partners that we still need to underpin the peace process with grass roots projects.
We want to see more effective use of funds and we do not want to see them duplicating what we do in mainstream funds or in the P &amp; R programme but giving added value to work that is going on.
Let me say straight away that I welcome the proposal by the Commission to extend European Community support for the International Fund for Ireland for a further two years.
Although the proposed level of funding is lower than the last two years, we must recognize that it represents an increase on the original amount subscribed prior to 1995.
This fund was established under the Anglo-Irish Agreement, which was not a treaty as suggested in the explanatory statement, with the objectives of promoting economic and social advance, while encouraging dialogue and reconciliation between the two communities of Northern Ireland.
That is to be warmly supported and it is worth noting that it has been supported by countries of the Commonwealth as well as the United States, in addition to Member States of the European Union.
However, we must remember that it is not easy to apply the consensus and conciliatory approach that characterize this Parliament to the deep historical divisions of Northern Ireland society.
We are now at a crucial juncture in the peace process and I hope that in the months ahead we will see the forging of a lasting peace and the establishment of a historic accommodation between the communities on the island of Ireland.
The fund plays a vital role in this process and the purpose of the fund is to promote economic and social advance and to encourage contact, dialogue and reconciliation between nationalists and unionists throughout the island of Ireland.
When the fund was put in place in 1986 many areas of Northern Ireland and the six border counties were experiencing business difficulties; high unemployment was the norm.
Most importantly, support has been given to 639 organizations engaged in promoting social and economic development, involving 7, 600 community leaders.
I would like to pay tribute to the chairman of the fund who has brought great experience to his role and has been particularly successful in securing much needed employment in Northern Ireland and the border counties.
There is an important role for the International Fund for Ireland in supporting the development and in catalyzing the economic potential of the border counties.
Madam President, the objective of the International Fund for Ireland to break the vicious circle of violence in Northern Ireland by contributing to peace and reconciliation is more important than ever at the moment.
The number of community and cross-border groups brought together in projects financed by the fund reaches into the hundreds.
I am very pleased to see the Commissioner here tonight as well because she also has acquired a good knowledge since she took office.
The IFI has had a credibility problem in the community I represent since its inception in 1986.
The rapporteur has called for increased transparency.
I would like to be more positive but I would be misleading this House and the Commissioner if I did not spell out the weaknesses I see in this fund at the present moment in time.
Madam President, I want to thank the rapporteur, the Commissioner and other colleagues who are here tonight.
The International Fund, as has been said here, has played a very positive role in the quest for a lasting and peaceful settlement to the Northern Ireland conflict.
As the managers of the fund themselves acknowledge, the European Union's contribution represents a major international recognition of the efforts by both the Irish and British Governments to seek a peaceful solution to the Northern Ireland conflict.
Finally, the funding must be additional.
It has, thanks to the efforts of the Commission and Parliament, been better publicized in Northern Ireland.
To date the European Union has given ECU 150 million, as people have said, and has involved itself with more than 3, 000 projects.
There is one big lesson to be learned from this fund operating together with the Delors package: this is that small amounts of money can very often have a bigger political impact than the investment would suggest.
As a representative of the border region of Ireland I want to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Parliament, the various groups and the Commission for the consideration and sympathy that they have always shown with the problems in Northern Ireland.
I want to thank too the Commissioner whose name is well known in the border regions and in Northern Ireland and who has made a remarkable contribution to bringing the spirit of European goodwill and cooperation into that divided community.
The goodwill has been translated into three packages: Northern Ireland got Priority 1 status when its economic development stage would not have justified it; the Delors package and the International Fund for Ireland all together have made a fairly remarkable contribution to getting voluntary workers to come together.
I regret it if there are people in Northern Ireland who have a feeling that one community has benefited more than the other or that the transparency that should be there is not there.
I am sure the Commissioner will do the same.
The Commission also thanks Parliament for its commitment to the peace process in Northern Ireland and in particular for its support of the International Fund for Ireland.
The IFI has a vital role to play in promoting dialogue and reconciliation between Nationalists and Unionists, and through this it complements the measures provided under the structural fund for the whole island of Ireland and the considerable efforts which the Commission has made through its programme for peace and reconciliation in Northern Ireland.
It is especially important, in my view, that those who are acting for the IFI should be based in both population groups and should make every effort to involve both groups in the various projects.
I believe it to be in all our interests that everyone should regard not only these projects but also those introduced at European level as measures designed to help both groups - and primarily those who have suffered most from the violence of recent years and months.
The Commission has already agreed with the IFI that it will give greater prominence to the involvement of the European Union in projects which are promoted jointly by Peace and the IFI or by one of the structural funds and the IFI.
As an initial step in this direction flagship projects which have a high proportion of cofinancing from EU resources shall in future be known as IFI/EU flagship projects.
Allow me yet again to express my thanks to Parliament for its support of the peace and reconciliation process in Northern Ireland and in Ireland as a whole.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Wulf-Mathies.
The debate is closed.
But if everyone apart from the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, for reasons of their specific situation, were agreed on the principle, then discussions on the content led to a ferocious clash of two philosophies, I would even say two cultures.
It was in May 1995 that the Commission submitted a first proposal for a directive to our Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
But this exercise in compromise had its limits.
Others could only accept that, after practising for five years in a European Union country, a lawyer who wished to continue to practise under his home-country professional title would be abruptly sent home.
This approach has led us, on the one hand, to replace the aptitude test by a rigorous verification procedure of the effective and regular activity of the lawyer in question over a period of three base years, added to this the possibility of recourse to the domestic courts in the case of a refusal and, on the other hand, to guarantee, for those who want it, the permanent nature of establishment under their home-country professional title.
The scope of this text must be clearly specified.
It is in no way a question of undermining the national regulations which, in each of our countries, govern access to the profession, nor the procedures for individual or group practice.
Subsidiarity rightly imposes on us respect for these rules.
I would today like to thank the Commission and the Council, who have agreed to concur with our new approach and this seems to me, Mr Commissioner, an exemplary model of the fruitful cooperation between our institutions.
The Committee on Legal Affairs has attentively studied the Council's proposal for a common position, dated 24 July last.
And this is what has happened today.
Our rapporteur proposes we accept the common position without amendment, supported in this by the Committee on Legal Affairs and tomorrow, I am sure, by the House.
We must also now look further, Mr Commissioner, and ensure the faithful implementation of the future directive.
Furthermore, Commissioner Monti, I ask you to vigilantly ensure, on behalf of the Commission, the faithful implementation of the directive in this regard and to assure us that you will not hesitate to note failures in the implementation and to punish them, if necessary, for we also have to convince lawyers, often young, that this directive is an opportunity for them and that it is an opportunity for Europe.
However, and this is a matter which I am keen to raise here, academic studies undertaken in the area of commercial law have indicated that almost 60 % of the laws which are in force in the various Member States have their origins in European legislation.
I still recall the arguments which took place in my homeland where early on the relevant technical committees in the German Bundestag refused point blank to approve the directive.
I therefore leave this House tonight feeling extremely satisfied because I believe that we have achieved real progress towards European integration and the creation of the internal market - albeit only in a small sector.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, Parliament is once again examining the draft Directive on the lawyers' right of establishment, which is of extreme importance not only to European lawyers but also to all European citizens, as potential users of the legal service.
If this House approves the motion as it left the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and in accordance with the requests of the Council of European Forensic Associations, European lawyers will be given two considerable opportunities: that of setting up, for an unspecified period, in a state other than their own, keeping their original name and providing advice on all European rights except for that of the state of establishment, and that of being equivalent for all purposes to their colleagues in the state of establishment, following the favourable appraisal of their legal competence made by the competent authorities of the host country.
Madam President, I could repeat my arguments from the first reading, but I have to say that my group, for the moment, concedes defeat.
Nevertheless, we have presented some amendments to our rapporteur's compromise, for which we congratulate her.
I ask with insistence, Mr Commissioner and Madam Rapporteur, why, for a profession that is exactly the same as many others, for example, the medical profession, we need either a work placement or an examination?
It is effectively because, in our Member States, professional groups want to protect themselves and have wanted to do so since the very beginning, when we demanded the freedom of establishment for lawyers as for any other group of professionals.
Now we are accepting a compromise, a rather dull one I would say, which certainly offers some possibilities, but possibilities only for a professional group which has done so much to promote the idea of Europe in the Court of Justice and in the national courts of law.
The fact that we now admit that the national Bar must itself impose conditions is also a form of defeat.
Twenty four of the twenty eight amendments that the European Parliament submitted during the first reading are already included in the common position of the Council of Ministers, since they had previously been accepted by the European Commission.
Citizens of medium-sized and smaller States, such as the country I have the honour of representing here in this Chamber, or even of the larger States, such as Germany, France and Great Britain, may, in this way, look to equality of treatment in other countries.
In this way the freedom of movement of persons and the freedom to establish oneself acquires much greater substance, and the European Union gains one more reason to justify its existence.
We are, of course, conscious of the fact that this directive will not automatically solve all the problems created by certain companies of lawyers.
Nor do we ignore the fact that the moment we arrive at a European solution which is more generally accepted, the problem assumes an even greater dimension through the globalization of the economy and the guidelines of the World Trade Organization which ensure the freedom of related professionals, chartered accountants and chartered surveyors, to establish themselves in almost all countries.
Parliament, the Council and the Commission have done their duty.
Then I remember, in the spring of 1995 we finally received the text of the Commission's proposal, and when discussions on it started in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in October or November of that same year, I said to my colleagues in the General Council for European Lawyers, "I think it is going to happen; it will be approved within two years' .
And the rapporteur has mentioned Mr Hans Weil, to whom we all owe a great deal.
Madam President, there is not going to be a flood of immigrants from one country to another.
The political value of this directive is of a symbolic nature.
Madam President, the Commission is pleased that the European Parliament has accepted Council's common position and the results of voting on that wording within the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights which approved it without adopting amendments.
The directive is important, not only to the lawyers who are playing a decisive role in implementing Community law and affirming this lawful Community, but also to their clients, such as the companies operating in the single market and individual citizens.
And as an extension to this cooperation, Mr Cot and Mr Florio, as a way of ensuring that the legislator's wish is actually implemented, I undertake, on behalf of the Commission, to do what you have asked.
I too congratulate this Parliament, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and you, Mrs Fontaine.
Madam President, I asked the chairman a clear question and he has not deigned to reply to it.
What I mean is that I truly wonder why someone who is a lawyer would change countries without having a deep knowledge of the legal system of the country in which he is going to practise.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the consequences of the Fourth World Conference on Women, which was held in Beijing in 1995, was the submission by the European Commission of a proposal for a regulation on the integration of gender issues in development cooperation.
In order to develop the concept of mainstreaming to include development cooperation, we need more than a regulation which is restricted to sensitisation measures and has only been allocated a modest budget.
By and large there has been a distinct improvement in the lot of women in recent years, even in the developing countries, though it has to be said that this has varied enormously from one region to another.
Feminization of the workplace is the result of growing adaptability in the labour market and the transfer of jobs to the developing countries, where they are being increasingly taken up by women.
Their productive capacity is an increasingly important factor for economic growth and must be considered as such.
In 1970 there were only 37 gainfully-active women for every 100 working men.
In most cases this means women.
Only 13 % of the agricultural consultants in development countries are women.
In Latin America the figure is 8 %, in Africa 7 % and in the Middle East a mere 1 %.
One-third of illnesses amongst women aged 15 to 44 in developing countries are caused by sexually transmitted diseases, back-street abortions or pregnancy.
Around 350 million women are still denied access to safe family planning.
We should protest against the impact of poverty which is felt disproportionately by women.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, women are not being asked, but they are the answer.
An effective development policy cannot be implemented without the participation of women.
They are the driving force not only for their families, but also for any future development in this area.
Our group approves the report.
We must therefore give all due attention to this report and this Council Regulation and wish them every success.
Madame President, the Commission's proposal to integrate the gender aspect as an important factor in development cooperation has the right aim.
The Commission's general mainstream approach could be part of this strategy, if the principle is otherwise put into practice and does not remain empty words.
I therefore ask that we cooperate as closely as possible with it so that we can improve the situation and take another step towards the complete achievement of our goals.
What interests me above all, however, are the methods which the Commission is intending to adopt in order really to include those who are suffering hardship in this respect, without using the standards of our society as a yardstick for what we believe to be good for women in developing countries.
I also see that the Commission's proposal and the proposed regulation are a step in the right direction, namely mainstreaming, and that they focus on gender issues in development cooperation.
I must reiterate that if we are to achieve sustained development here, we will have to include women much more in the drafting, planning, implementation and evaluation of the projects in question.
Madam President, the Commission welcomes the draft report by Parliament and expresses its appreciation of the support given by Parliament to the creation of this budget line in 1990 and to policy developments since the Beijing Conference in 1995.
The Commission's position on the 18 amendments submitted for consideration and voting is as follows.
We can accept fully seven Amendments: Nos 1, 2, 4 (as concerns articles 1(2)), 5, 7, 8 and 11.
The Commission much appreciated in particular Parliament's support for the regulation's overall approach.
In both these cases there seems to be substantial policy agreement with the objective of the amendment but we would suggest rewording in order to clarify the text.
In Amendment No 3 to recital 17, the amendment's wording needs revision to retain clear criteria for the budget line.
In Amendment No 4 to article 1(1), consistency with existing policy and the outcome of the Beijing Conference necessitate retaining the references to mainstreaming and to intervention, as well as policies.
In Amendment No 6, we wish to retain the reference to the need for action against gender disparities 'on an appropriate scale' .
The extent of gender gaps in fundamental areas such as literacy, access to health care and nutrition is clear from the Beijing Conference, which also emphasized the need for large-scale action.
In Amendment No 9, we welcome the amendment's proposed intention but find the extension of scope too ambitious for the human or financial resources available so far.
In Amendment No 10, the regulation is concerned with development cooperation and cannot easily address issues of trade - at least of international trade.
In Amendment No 12, we prefer to retain the flexibility of the references to services.
This is a standard text approved in many other recent regulations.
Restriction of cover for operating costs would cause problems for some projects covered by these budgets, particularly support for institution building which often requires some support for these items throughout the project before reaching viability.
The proposal for a new subarticle referring to the budgetary authority's powers seems to us premature.
This question should be considered at a second reading as it is normally addressed only in response to specific Council proposals for indicative budget figures.
In Amendment Nos 13 and 14, we prefer for reasons of consistency and legal clarity to retain the framework established in a series of recent regulations of this type.
In Amendment No 15, we support Parliament's desire to reduce costs to the EC budget but think that the Member States might reasonably wish to retain an option of additional representation for important or specialized projects.
The proposal for the committee to coordinate bilateral and Community cooperation, is too ambitious and exceeds the competence of the committee.
Generally concerning comitology, and particularly in Amendment Nos 12, 15 and 18, we favour retention of agreed comitology for reasons of consistency, practicality and clarity.
Changes of minor detail to their organization and competence in every regulation are impracticable, particularly as these committees in practice deal with projects under numerous different regulations at each sitting.
In Amendment Nos 16 and 17, we appreciate Parliament's intention but these are internal administrative questions which cannot be appropriately addressed in legislation.
Let me add that the Commission's proposals, made just a week ago to Council and also to Parliament, for the political framework for the future Lomé Convention, identify quite clearly the strategic approach in the future Lomé Convention.
I am very pleased to say that if something is underlined as a top priority, it is the mainstreaming on gender issues and, not only that, of taking it into account in the strategic approach for development that the Union should adopt according to the proposals of the Commission.
The debate is closed.
