My amendment would therefore be inserted into paragraph 7 and would read: calls on the Courts of Auditors to have its Opinion 1/9 published in the Official Journal of the European Communitiesand to submit, at the latest two years after the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty, a special report on expenditure in the framework of the CFSP.
The vote was held, with the oral amendment, as is often the case.
But it is not only the European Parliament which is concerned about the implementation of the CFSP.
Mr Berthu, I think that we have already had a debate on this issue.
Mr Berthu, as you can understand, I am not here to answer on behalf of the Conference of Presidents of the political groups.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we put this topic on the agenda because we wanted to make sure that something was finally done.
The Commission then brought forward a proposal on 3 December, after we had already set the wheels in motion.
The European Commission's Standing Committee on Foodstuffs had a very intensive session on this proposal yesterday involving the Member States, and it now looks as if the Commission and Council will make a decision in January.
This will clear the way, at least in the case of the labelling of genetically modified soya beans and genetically modified maize, for the provisions of the Regulation adopted on 19 September 1997, which came into force on 1 November 1997, but whose implementation subsequently had to be delayed until 1 February 1998, to be implemented by the Member States by the new deadline.
However, I have a few more questions for the Commission.
I fail to understand why this has taken so long, given that the novel foods regulation was finalized in the Conciliation Committee over a year ago, that it has been in force since May and that it has been clear since then that transitional arrangements would have to be made for maize and soya.
In Austria we had a case of contamination.
Madam Commissioner, I think all these questions will have to be answered very quickly if we really want the arrangements to be adopted by all Member States in February and implemented by industry then.
Mr President, I too am sorry about the delay over such a delicate subject, that involves not only the world of production, science and consumers, but also our ethical image, at least since the European Parliament has assumed the right of arbitrator and judge even in such delicate matters that affect the health of European citizens at close quarters.
In a recent survey, 90 % of consumers expressed great concern, but also great expectations as to what the Commission will be able to offer.
The United States says that the European Union is putting obstacles in the way of importing genetically-modified products and that the European Union bases its actions more on public opinion than on scientific evidence.
But in addition to that, the recent approval of the possibility of producing genetically-engineered maize in France gave rise to the publication in the Spanish press, and I think in the European press, of the statement that this maize will contain three genes: one with a toxic product to deter insects, another that has a product which is resistant to antibiotics, and a third which has a product which is tolerant to herbicides.
In any event, Madam Commissioner, I believe that all our fellow-Members here have expressed a reasonable concern on the part of the people of the European Union, who do not want to take the risk of consuming products which are a health risk.
Mr President, our group has twice asked the European Parliament to take a clear stance by voting on a resolution relating to food safety for our fellow citizens: once on the issue of genetically modified organisms and once on that of mad cow disease.
Regulation 1813/97 which came into force on 1 November establishes rules for additional labelling for food and ingredients which are produced from genetically modified soya and maize.
This regulation applies directly to all Member States and therefore it cannot be considered that there would be any shortcomings on this issue.
Operators are bound, as of 1 November, to label their products which are not equivalent within the meaning of article 2 of Regulation 1813/97/EEC.
As regards the adoption of detailed labelling rules for these foods or ingredients, the Commission, at the meeting of the Permanent Committee on Foodstuffs on 31 July 1997 undertook to present them as soon as possible; it also indicated on this occasion that it would consult the Scientific Committee on Human Diet for its opinion on the concept of non-equivalence which had been put in place by the regulation mentioned above.
As a result, the foodstuffs and ingredients produced from genetically modified soya bean or from genetically modified maize which are not equivalent to their traditional counterparts are subject to labelling requirements.
Therefore on this basis the Commission approved, on 3 December, a draft regulation which established detailed regulations for labelling which apply to foodstuffs and ingredients made from genetically modified soya beans or maize.
This draft was discussed in the Permanent Committee on Foodstuffs on 18 December and proposed for voting in this committee in mid-January.
Moreover, the draft provides for a standard formula for labelling without a possible alternative to facilitate the consumer's selection and information and to avoid different interpretations within the European Union of the possible equivalence of formulas which could create new difficulties in the internal market.
This is also true for statements concerning the absence of foodstuffs or ingredients made from genetically modified soya or maize, or statements concerning the presence of such foodstuffs or ingredients in cases where this cannot be scientifically verified but the proof is available by other means.
However, Council and European Parliament Regulation 258/97/EEC provides for this possibility, notably for bulk deliveries, and states that, in this case, the consumer information on the possible presence of genetically modified organisms in foodstuffs is supposed to satisfy the labelling requirements in the aforementioned regulation.
An ad hoc technical working group for inspections and control measures for genetically modified organisms was set up.
On 16 December, this working group looked at the availability and applicability of specific technical methods to detect or identify genetically modified organisms and their derivative products which would not have been granted authorization for voluntary dissemination with a view to their being put on the market.
The attempt to improve matters by means of the Regulation that came into force on 1 November has not helped.
These products should only be put on the market once three requirements have been met: first, these products should not represent any danger to the consumer; second, there should be no attempt to mislead; and third, they should not be so different from conventional foodstuffs that when eaten normally they can result in nutritional deficiencies.
The Commission has attempted to set out the arrangements for genetically modified maize and soya in its draft Regulation.
The Commission's proposal stipulates that genetically modified products must always be labelled if they contain genetically modified DNA.
As Madam Commissioner remarked, the regulation which came into force on 1 November was absolutely vital, but I have to say, the work of the Commission had lagged badly behind, there being no proposals for enforcement.
All in all, both the food manufacturer and the consumer have a right to more precise information to increase food safety.
I can report that the 2 % of genetically modified soya in the consignments imported from elsewhere, according to my information sources, will be around 15 % this year.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, genetically modified organisms have entered the European Union and the Parliament can only lament this state of affairs.
I do not wish to be a prophet of doom, but I think that this regulation which my group will approve because it is necessary to do so, will be hard to apply.
I feel we must exercise extreme caution in any decisions relating to this area.
We must also ensure that grain or any other material developed in this area is not imported into the European Union.
Mr President, I am very glad that this debate is taking place this morning.
I recognize that decisions have already been taken but labelling may well be only a short-term or, at least, a medium-term solution to the use of genetically modified products.
The question, however, is whether it is realistic at all today to think that we can have a comprehensive labelling system.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to your comments on this very important subject with great interest and would like to thank you for your part in this discussion.
I have occasionally had the impression that what I said was not always heard - maybe because this is a passionate debate, and rightly so since it concerns a fundamental issue such as public health.
So I will repeat what I said earlier, that is that operators are bound, as of 1 November, to label products which are not equivalent within the meaning of article 2 of Regulation 1813/97/EEC.
There are positive indications for the statements concerning the absence of foodstuffs or ingredients produced from genetically modified soya or maize, or the statements concerning the presence of a certain foodstuff or ingredient in cases where this is not scientifically verifiable and the proof is available by other means.
Unfortunately this point of view is not shared by the Member States, as we have seen during the meeting which has just been held.
It will be hard to apply because this is a difficult area, but we must proceed in a scientific way in order to develop methods of detection.
During the last few decades there has been total confidence in science, but this is no longer the case.
A Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with Uzbekistan was signed on 21 June 1996, but it will only come into force when it has been ratified by the European Parliament and by the parliaments of all the EU Member States.
Community exports rose by more than 60 %, resulting in a balance of trade surplus of some 180 million ECU.
On 14 November 1996, the European Community and the Republic of Uzbekistan signed an Interim Agreement on trade and trade-related matters, aimed at speedy implementation of the trade provisions contained in the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement signed on 21 July 1996.
The Interim Agreement falls under the exclusive competence of the Community, whereas the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement has to be implemented by the Member States, which experience has taught us is very timeconsuming.
But there is one problem, and this, as so often, is in the field of democracy and human rights.
This clause enables the Community to threaten Uzbekistan with the suspension of the agreement, should its human rights record significantly deteriorate.
The interim agreement contains a reference to a democratic form of government and human rights.
Mr President, because of its natural resources such as oil and natural gas, and even more so because of its cotton, Uzbekistan is interesting trade partner.
Our support for the Interim Agreement presupposes that both the Council and the Commission can convince the authorities in Uzbekistan that article 1 is essential for the agreement.
Mr President, these are the kind of facts that define President Islam Karimov's policies.
Furthermore, it is likely that with its population of 22 million and its abundant cotton, gold and natural gas resources Uzbekistan will become an important partner for the European Union during the next few years.
In this context, a swift entry into force of the Interim Agreement takes on even more significance.
If need be, the Interim Agreement could be used as a lever to push the Uzbek authorities in the right direction.
In reality, the suspension clause included in the Interim Agreement enables the Community to threaten Uzbekistan with suspension of the agreement if the human rights situation deteriorates.
In this instance, the questions relating to human rights could be examined formally by joint committees provided for in the Interim Agreement.
Thank you, Mrs van Bladel.
These investigations are carried out as appropriate, within the framework of the procedures established by Council Regulation 17 of 6 February 1962.
The assessment of UEFA's response highlighted the need to ask the Premier League and the Football Association of England to present their comments, both on the complaint and on UEFA's response.
At the same time, the Football League was called to present its comments on the response from UEFA.
It will ensure in the first instance that the public interest is respected, and this is associated with the restoration of a situation which is in accordance in fact and in law with articles 85 and 86 of the treaty.
We have seen a number of these clubs do so in the past and therefore I would urge the Commission to move as speedily as possible to resolve this issue so that in future in England, in Scotland and perhaps in other parts of the United Kingdom, we get a place for the winners of the Coca-Cola Cup so that the competition is seen as a prestigious competition and we get the proper sort of television sponsorship and money from this competition for the good of all the smaller clubs.
This may be the last debate of the week and indeed the last debate of the year in this Parliament, but it is not on an obscure or unimportant issue.
The development of European football competitions not only creates good sport that, again, our citizens enjoy, but it makes Europe more real for many of our citizens.
Football is big business.
Having studied this matter it is quite clear, in my view, that UEFA is very definitely abusing its dominant position.
In Britain, the Football Association and the League both support keeping the Coca Cola Cup winner in the European championship.
Most serious of all, I have received today a letter from Portsmouth Football Club.
Equally, lesser clubs in the football league, for example Bury Football Club in my constituency, depend on having matches played against the glamour clubs as well as on the prospect of themselves getting through to the final.
Thank you, Mr Titley, but this presidency, catching today's mood, wishes to say that it regrets that while you nominated Madrid as a great team you forgot to mention the Barcelona Football Club.
The Commission recalls that subject to the implementation of the competition rules - as this is a competition issue under the treaty - that it cannot have as its objective to set itself up as arbiter in private conflicts of interest, but must ensure that the public interest is respected with a view to restoring a situation which is in accordance in fact and in law with articles 85 and 86 of the treaty.
Thank you very much, Mrs Cresson.
Ladies and gentlemen, 4, 400 pages are translated in our Parliament every day.
Thank you very much, Mrs Lulling.
