Parliament observed a minute's silence Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of the sitting of Friday, 16 April 1999 have been distributed.
Mr President, today is the first day on which you will be applying our new Rules of Procedure.
Up to now we have had two categories of former Member: simple former Members and honorary Members.
In other words, the system of honorary Members will no longer exist.
As this is particularly important before an election campaign, in which some honorary Members are deliberately using the title in order to create the impression that they are still Members of this House, I would urge you to write as soon as possible to all those who still have this title to inform them of the new rule and the new situation.
Anyone who has been a Member of this House - honorary or not - has the same rights and privileges as have been laid down by the Bureau.
Mr President, we have just found out about the Council of Ministers' decision to allow staff of the Schengen group working in the Council to become European public officials.
I would therefore like to know, Mr President, how you intend to make the Council reverse its decision and ensure that these and other officials abide by the correct rules regarding recruitment.
Mrs Eriksson, you will appreciate that exhibitions held in this House cannot run counter to the feelings of groups within the House.
You in fact declared inadmissible a motion of censure tabled by 66 Members from all the political groups and in so doing you have called into question one of their basic rights.
The decision was taken and, as everyone knows, the Commission is continuing about its business as though nothing has happened since 14 January.
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, the process of approving the Minutes is designed to establish whether or not the Minutes are an accurate reflection of what took place.
However, this decision was not put to the vote because it was not necessary.
When the Quaestors say that an exhibition cannot be held because it deals with a contentious subject, there are two possible courses of action: the Bureau can be asked to change the rules on exhibitions, or it can be asked not to do so.
That is not a point of order, Mr Duhamel, and your comments are not in keeping with the dignity of the House.
The political decisions of each Member are a matter for himself, his conscience and his electors.
They will no doubt appreciate that, Mr Janssen van Raay.
Loud applause Agenda The final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents pursuant to Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
The details concerning these reports will be included in the Minutes of today's sitting.
Mr President, The last item on the final draft agenda for Wednesday is Mrs Miranda de Lage's recommendation on the partnership agreement with Mexico.
Mr President, I should like to make three brief points against postponement.
Let me say as a friend, admirer and respecter of many NGOs - and I rely greatly on their advice - that were we to postpone, we would in fact be handing to NGOs the right of eventual affirmation or veto of this agreement.
It will set up the political dialogue which will allow us to judge human rights and that dialogue must - I repeat - be decided at the political level, and so should the vote.
We have received the resolutions from all the groups.
Mr President, this is the last report I am presenting at my last part-session after 15 years in the House.
The events took place in 1995, and only in 1999 is the Kingdom of Belgium asking us to waive the Member's parliamentary immunity.
But that uniform statute is missing one thing, and this concerns parliamentary immunity.
There are still nationality-based differences as a result of the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities, and that contravenes Article 6 of the Treaty.
Thank you very much, Mr Wijsenbeek.
Frankly I hope he is defeated in the Belgian elections but I cannot allow him to be banned from standing on the basis of these allegations against him which have not, as yet, been substantiated.
Thank you, Mr Ford.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Turning to other matters, Mr President, it might seem to make little sense for the House to rule on waiving the immunity of a colleague when he has already told us that he did not intend to stand in the elections and when the House is in the last few weeks of its term.
Thank you, Mrs Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, as this is the last report to be drawn up by the now defunct Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, I should like to say a few words.
This is what we have done within the framework of this report and I should like to point out that it is the result of close collaboration with the Committee on Budgetary Control.
I should therefore like to highlight the fact that the new Article 3, the procedure for refusing or granting discharge, is the subject of three proposals.
There is a second proposal for a decision that provides for the closure of accounts.
This is an important new element which would allow us to separate, on the one hand, the closure of accounts - a type of simple technical procedure, if you like, to check whether the accounts have been kept as they should - and on the other hand, the discussion or opinion of Parliament on the Commission's management of the budget.
Lastly, there is a third proposal, a motion for a resolution, in which Parliament sets out its observations regarding the Commission's budgetary management.
Only this motion for a resolution can be amended, according to the Rules of Procedure, if it is accepted by the House, as we are proposing.
Finally, we have also set out a very specific procedure to be followed in the event of the decision being postponed, in order to highlight the need to develop the procedure further rather than simply leaving it as it is.
Mr President, I hope that this new annex will facilitate the work of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Parliament.
The issue we have before us arises because the Treaties themselves are not clear on what should happen if Parliament does not give discharge.
We ourselves, as a parliament, interpreted the right to give discharge to mean that we also had a right to refuse discharge.
In other words, refusal of discharge was tantamount in itself to a sort of motion of censure on the Commission.
It was therefore to protect the Treaty that we put this special majority requirement in our Rules.
All this, however, was undermined by the events of last December, when some Members of this House - some Groups indeed - wished to refuse discharge but keep the Commission.
Where we have not done that, my Group has tabled two amendments which will rectify that situation and, indeed, get rid of a contradiction which we believe exists in the report at present.
We remember that in the 1996 discharge procedure, inconsistencies and provisions which were contrary to the Treaty came to light; this was because Annex V laid down a larger majority for not granting discharge than the Treaty itself prescribes in Article 141 of the EC Treaty.
That also contributed to the problems we experienced during the 1996 discharge which have already been mentioned.
As a result of this situation, the chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, acting on the instructions of the committee, made a request in this House on 15 January 1999 for the Rules Committee to clarify precisely what the Treaty itself provides for, that is to say for the direct link between refusal of discharge and a possible censure procedure to be removed.
It is important that we now have agreement between the Rules of Procedure, the Treaty and the Financial Regulation.
We can choose to give a discharge, we can choose not to give a discharge, or we can postpone reaching a decision on the matter.
One thing which is clear is that in December we chose to activate the rules concerning Parliament's role as the discharging authority.
With regard to the more positive points, I should like to highlight the fact that we did not make a limited ad hoc amendment within the framework of the 1996 financial year; instead we set out a reform that will be valid for years to come.
We do not entirely agree with some of the points adopted, for example, the fact that the President can inform the Commission of the reasons behind a refusal of discharge simply by letter, as this seems a rather secretive way of going about things.
Our second point of contention relates to the role played by the Committee on Budgetary Control, which is in the process of losing the option it has had until now of giving its opinion on the amendments before they are put to the vote in the House.
Madam President, the Commission has no intention whatsoever of interfering in Parliament's internal rules.
Thank you, Mr Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report I am presenting this afternoon follows on from the Annual Economic Report we adopted on 11 March.
Today's report on the BEPG (broad economic policy guidelines) places greater emphasis on the economic strategy and the structural reforms needed according to the specific situation in each Member State.
Commissioner, our text comprises two main sections, in line with the Commission's proposals: the macro-economic section and the structural section.
This means that automatic stabilisers should have a part to play, but I would stress that they must not jeopardise any reduction achieved in public deficits which is absolutely vital for growth and employment today and, above all, in the future.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it should indeed be independent, but not at the expense of the vital democratic accountability that we in the European Parliament must vigilantly ensure.
The second section of our proposal relates to structural reform.
The level of participation in the labour markets must also be increased and we must render them more flexible by adapting the social welfare systems and reducing labour costs, particularly for workers with less skills.
So, ladies and gentlemen, this is the direction in which European economic policy should be moving.
Madam President, this report from the Employment Committee was originally supposed to deal mainly with a Commission communication on Article 127 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, that is to say with the mainstreaming of employment policies at Community level.
The committee decided also to include the European Employment Pact planned for the Cologne summit.
The communication did subsequently appear, however, on the very day after the vote on my draft report had been taken in the Social Affairs Committee.
It is now sensible to include it in Parliament's report together with several amendments, such as Amendments Nos 1, 2, 5 and 6.
We were also under pressure of time with our opinion on the Fourçans report on the Commission's recommendation on the broad economic policy guidelines, which it is also my task to deliver.
We believe that the European Council in Cologne has to make a tangible improvement on Luxembourg.
On the other hand, greater cooperation when formulating national policies - through rigorous application of the employment policy guidelines and action plans and improved monitoring - means European added value, which, together with the stabilising effect of a hard common currency in the European internal market, will in the medium term also contribute to there being more jobs and less jobless, which is an important precondition for the social dimension of the European Union.
This is why, in our view, the Cologne European Council must put an end to the grand and noble declarations on employment and commit itself to actually implementing effective measures.
Our group has proposed several initiatives in this respect: boosting public investment through the release of additional resources, including at Community level; continuing to cut interest rates, using a more selective approach, with a view to encouraging projects that create jobs; reducing working hours without reducing salaries or flexibility; and establishing minimum wages.
Popular support in the Member States for a tight financial and economic policy is an unpredictable factor.
Madam President, Commissioner, it is good that the European Parliament's report on the broad economic policy guidelines in the Community and the Member States strongly emphasises how essential it is to coordinate economic policies, and that it goes even further than the Commission proposal by also demanding practical initiatives.
What is decisive is whether we can achieve growth rates in excess of 3 % in Europe and in the Member States.
For this to be the case, economic policy must fulfil its responsibilities in terms of employment policy and ensure that there is a balanced and appropriate policy mix in the European Union with instruments geared towards supply and demand.
The ECB has finally made its contribution to growth and employment in accordance with the Treaty.
In this way, the Member States will also have more scope for investment in their budgets, even though consolidation is still an important goal.
Apart from this, where are the proposals for how the Member States can stimulate public sector investment while still respecting the 3 % ceiling?
The rapporteur, speaking on behalf of a committee dominated by the PSE Group and the PPE Group, could not of course express any point of view other than that of those two groups, and so could not denounce the fact that the Socialist policies implemented in 13 of the 15 Member States would put Europe at a competitive disadvantage in the global market.
Madam President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I have to say that we are especially glad, at this late stage, to be able to give our views and have a discussion on the European Employment Pact.
Whilst Amsterdam and Luxembourg placed jobs fair and square on the European agenda, it is obvious that the Luxembourg process alone will not be enough to bring about a drastic reduction in unemployment in Europe.
We therefore welcome the German Presidency's proposal to make headway on a European Employment Pact.
Indeed, the European Parliament itself has always insisted that a pact on employment is required, since the stability pact urgently needs something to counterbalance it.
It will not be an umpteenth rehash of fine words as a policy mix or a revamp of social security, served up with a dash of Luxembourg sauce, that gives the European Union a decent policy on jobs.
It is more of an American-style cocktail which does nothing new to stimulate growth and merely makes for more social inequality and more uncertainty.
Europe's Socialists and Social Democrats, inspired by Antoni Gutiérres, made proposals of their own for a pact on jobs at a congress in Milan, and I am delighted to see that both Martine Aubry and Dominique Strauss-Kahn have adopted large parts of these.
The special action programme agreed in Amsterdam was a good decision, but far too modest.
So the European Investment Bank and the Fund must free up new resources and the Member States must also be enabled, through their own budgetary policies, to give their economies a shot in the arm, not by making the stability pact more rigorous but by interpreting it more flexibly.
The decision on VAT on labour-intensive services is all very well, but in the meantime we still have the Monti proposals, the Primarolo proposals as our staple fare, if I can put it like that.
One specific commitment might be this: if all the Member States did as well on jobs as the top three scorers, we could get not 150 million but 180 million people into work.
Article 105 of the EU Treaty leaves no room for ambiguity here.
Of course it is also true that if there are stable interest rates, stable prices and low interest rates, Member States will have considerably more scope to eliminate chronic unemployment than they had before.
With help from the Commissioner, we have achieved some progress here, but the Council is not doing enough.
I therefore think that with regard to social security and pensions, it is very important to pursue convergence between the Member States.
Mr President, the Commission report on current general trends is a qualitative improvement and places special emphasis on employment by stressing the need for real structural changes.
We must bear in mind that this flexibility must also extend to the structural framework.
And only in this way will we be able to have real economic and monetary union, as envisaged in the Maastricht Treaty.
Mr President, this joint debate on the broad economic policy guidelines and the European Employment Pact is to be welcomed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a sound economic policy, which gives companies breathing space, is the best way to create more jobs.
Last year it was possible to bring unemployment down to 10 %.
But ideas and an awareness of the problem alone will not create a single job.
Mr Menrad has tabled a good and reasonable report which my group can also support, provided our amendments are accepted.
The national action plans were also new territory, and unlike the previous speaker, I strongly believe that the Luxembourg guidelines and the national action plans have contributed to the fall in unemployment.
Although I am largely in agreement with you, Mr Menrad, I should like to mention a few further points on which our views differ, and nor do I think that the German Government has such a narrow view on this as you described, Mr Langen.
Finally, I should like to give the German Presidency, which will be presenting the Employment Pact in Cologne, something to think about: please bear in mind that as a parliament, we obviously expect to be involved in this.
Mr President, both the Commission's recommendation and Mr Fourçans' report are based on an essentially fallacious idea, namely that of a uniform economic policy.
When countries have such different structures, as is the case in the Union, imposing the same economic principles results in disagreement and conflict.
We should firstly like to see the European institutions fall into step and bring the two facets of economic policy and employment policy together.
The European memorandum proposed by the French and Italian Ministers for Employment explicitly urges the European Union to set itself a 3 % growth limit for the next few years.
Lastly, public investment must be given a fresh impetus, for example, in the major initiatives mentioned earlier and also in research.
It is time for a new stage in terms of a reduction in working time, which should provide the opportunity to better distribute the wealth produced.
We need to invest in the future through public investment in major initiatives and research.
The national employment plans are very positive from this point of view.
Our opinion, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is that it we have not achieved the right balance.
Mr President, the advent of the euro has also changed the general guidelines for economic policy.
Independence is no longer an option, now that eleven countries of the European Union form one monetary zone with a single central bank and a single monetary policy.
The question is simply whether or not political considerations will play a sufficiently active part in that.
It is as if governments and the social partners could determine economic policy on their own and as if the ECB did not also have a role in supporting economic policy.
There is a history to this debate, and I put it to you that the Commission is setting itself up here as a kind of secretariat for conservative forces within the ECB which argue that the ECB's second duty under Article 105 of the Treaty, namely to support economic policy - without prejudice to the maintenance of price stability - can be discharged simply by maintaining a sufficient degree of price stability.
You have to return, Commissioner de Silguy, to a policy mix in which monetary policy also plays its part in influencing economic policy.
The Ecofin Council will examine the BEPG on 10 May, before they are ratified by the Heads of State and Government in Cologne at the beginning of June.
To make things easier, my comments shall focus on two areas: the present economic situation and the implementation of the broad economic policy guidelines.
It increased by 1.1 % in 1998.
I just wanted to emphasise the fact that following the example of your rapporteur, the German Presidency suggested in this regard that we should promote macro-economic dialogue among all the elements of the policy mix.
I shall end by saying that, in relation to the implementation of the broad economic policy guidelines, the Commission sincerely hopes that, contrary to what happened last year, Member States are able, in this first year of the euro, to agree on a specific, limited content for these guidelines, which is operational and which is not toned down, particularly as regards the recommendations for each country in the area of employment policy.
To conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to stress that the Commission gladly supports your proposal to systematically carry out an annual assessment of the way in which the broad guidelines are implemented by the Member States from spring 2000, on the basis of these country-by-country recommendations.
This is fully in line with the communication adopted by the Commission on this subject on 21 April.
As requested by the Vienna European Council such a pact should establish a dialogue involving all the actors with responsibility for designing policies which impact on economic growth and employment creation.
This dialogue should fully respect the autonomy of the various actors and take place at different levels as suggested in the draft resolution before Parliament today.
As regards macro-economic policy, there should be an exchange of views between the relevant actors on each element in the macro-economic policy mix, fiscal policy, wage trends and monetary policy, so that each can fully support the growth and employment process.
In our recent communication on this issue, the Commission outlined how a range of policies can promote a high level of employment and how policies are increasingly being directed towards this objective.
The Communication deals, for example, with ways of encouraging and supporting investment in capital and human resources in order to strengthen the European Union economy.
It examines how structural reforms can make markets work better and thus help achieve sustainable growth and employment.
We have the right to expect that the national action plans presently being drafted by the Member States will be more ambitious than last year.
And as we come to evaluate the impact of the national action plans later this year, two years after Luxembourg, we will be in a better position to assess whether the strategy is working or whether more effort is required in certain areas.
You are right to stress that the European Social Fund must play a key role in support of the European employment strategy.
We understand therefore very well why the draft resolution suggests a return to the Commission's proposal for the funding of Objective 3 activities in 2000-2006.
Let me now turn to your discussion on the link between the employment guidelines and the broad economic policy guidelines.
In Vienna the European Council called for greater synergy between the two processes and the Commission responded to this request with its latest broad economic policy guidelines and its Article 127 communication.
However, do not forget that the Luxembourg process is still very new.
The Member States have created new working arrangements to implement their national action plans and to report on them.
We are learning together to work a process of peer pressure and open evaluation.
It is clear that our approach to employment must cover macro-economic, as well as micro-economic, policies and must address problems which arise not just in labour markets but also in the product and capital markets.
We hope the pact will be a step towards a better integration of macro-economic, employment and structural policies.
I should like to conclude with two or three remarks on points which I found particularly interesting in the course of the debate.
Under Commissioner Flynn's initiatives, the Commission has looked into the problem of the future of social security and, I am glad to say that, at the further and recent instigation of both the German presidency and the European Parliament, we will come forward very soon with a communication on pension funds, drawing the conclusions from the Green Paper exercise.
Let me simply say that in spite of the inevitable difficulties due to the unanimity rule, it is undeniable that now, under the strong urging of the German presidency and with the support of this Parliament, progress is being made in the implementation of the strategy against harmful tax competition and a number of objectives have been set for the Helsinki European Council.
The Commission only has one position regarding the broad economic policy guidelines, which it set out in a recommendation that it adopted unanimously.
I should like to remind you that this recommendation on the policy mix defends a balance of budgetary policy, wage increases and structural policy.
Having said that, the Commission reserves the right, both this year and next, to carry out all the analyses and make all the comments it deems necessary to guarantee that the policy mix is as balanced and relevant as possible in order to ensure sustainable growth that does not cause inflation and that creates jobs in Europe.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have always been convinced that in the end the European Union and its institutions would emerge from the crisis of the past weeks and months stronger.
This would certainly not have been possible had not all those involved - the Council, Parliament and, after initial hesitations, the Commission - collaborated on this project in a very constructive spirit.
My thanks therefore go to all those who have been and still are members of the high-level group of representatives of our three institutions at both technical and political level.
In my capacity as Parliament's rapporteur, I should like to mention three of the participants by name and express my sincere thanks to them: my committee chairman, Mrs Theato; a courageous friend from my group, Mrs Wemheuer; and my tireless assistant, Mr Schönberger.
He may open investigations at the request of a Member State or an institution, but may also do so on his own initiative, and he has the right to lodge complaints with the European Court of Justice if he finds that his independence is compromised.
I now turn to the third component, the institutional agreement between the Council, Parliament and the Commission on internal investigations.
This is the subject of another report, which was adopted by the Committee on Budgetary Control today, shortly before the beginning of this debate, and which will be put to the vote along with the report on the regulation this Thursday.
It is precisely with our parliamentary immunity in mind that a number of sensitive issues remain to be clarified.
The new proposal is far better than the original.
It is vital that we have the Office now, and not in two years' time or never.
The Office must have the resources to operate effectively.
The tripartite committee should be involved in the discussion, and I would therefore like to propose a meeting of the tripartite committee after 25 May, when the proposal will also have been adopted by the Council.
Mr President, it will be remembered that one of the touchstones for being able to grant discharge to the Commission for 1996 was the creation of an operationally independent fraud prevention office.
If Parliament, the Council and the Commission continue to cooperate as well as they have done in recent weeks, then we will even be able to adopt all the legislation for an independent fraud prevention office before the European elections.
If Parliament and the Council keep to this line, then OLAF will be able to enter into force in June.
In conclusion, I think that our aims in creating OLAF are to make a constructive contribution to better protecting the interests of the EU against abuse, to make prevention a priority, and to recover money which has gone missing.
Mr President, the new UCLAF - OLAF - is intended to put an end to irregularities, nepotism, corruption and fraud in the EU.
On this report too, although we only played a minor role, we wanted to draw up an opinion which was consistent and in harmony with all the work done over the years.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 March 1999, under my chairmanship, the Council of Economic and Finance Ministers adopted a clear position: no leniency, zero tolerance of fraud and corruption in the Community.
That is why the creation of the new Fraud Investigation Office is a great opportunity for the Community and an important objective of our presidency.
If we succeed in setting up the Office by 1 June this year, as planned, then this will be an important sign, and the fact that this is just a few days before the European Parliament elections will lend it a particular significance.
I believe that we have managed - in close cooperation with the European Parliament - to produce a workable blueprint.
Many speakers have already pointed out the significance of this.
Secondly, even though the Office is being set up within the Commission, its operational independence is guaranteed.
The Commission can only appoint the Director in agreement with the European Parliament and the Council.
With your permission, I will also say a few words on the timetable.
Adoption by ECOFIN is planned for 25 May.
Afterwards the regulation will be signed by both the President of the European Parliament and the President-in-Office of the Council.
The accompanying agreement will be signed by the Presidents of the three bodies - Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
For all those who have worked on OLAF this has been an encouraging experience, which also bodes well for future cooperation.
Since then, we have come a long way when it comes to strengthening the tools in the fight against irregularities, fraud and corruption.
The European tax-payer has every right to expect us to protect their money and to administer it in an efficient way.
The decision to establish this office is built on a constructive political dialogue between our two institutions and the Council.
When I took office in 1995 the staff working in the anti-fraud area were still spread around several services of the Commission, with only around sixty staff working in UCLAF.
This is, of course, regrettable but it is also a sign that we are getting better in our work to fight fraud.
During the course of last year much attention focused on the 27 internal investigations in the Commission.
It is often forgotten that the great majority of UCLAF investigations relate to external cases in the Member States.
I do not mention this to diminish the internal problem in the Commission: just one single internal case is one too many.
The strengthening of UCLAF and its capacity to fight fraud stems from a number of internal Commission decisions.
As long ago as 1995 I took the initiative to bring together all the anti-fraud activities under the UCLAF umbrella.
A new decision in 1998 transformed the office into a taskforce.
At the same time, units were added to UCLAF to deal with fraud in third countries, corruption inside the institutions, and the legal and judicial cooperation with Member States.
The primary aims were to underline the obligations of staff to cooperate in investigations and at the same time to protect the rights of the individual.
Initiatives have also been taken to improve information about the work of UCLAF.
One could therefore say that we, too, have been whistle-blowers.
Despite all these efforts it became increasingly clear during 1998 that one further step was necessary.
As a consequence the Commission put forward a proposal to externalise UCLAF's investigation functions.
Last Wednesday the Commission also took note of the amendments proposed by Parliament in the Bösch report.
The Commission has also approved the draft interinstitutional agreement which will enable the office to conduct internal administrative investigations in Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
My thanks also include the Council presidency which has participated in the group with the same positive spirit.
I believe that this joint process has proven highly effective.
I hope that Parliament, in its vote on the Bösch report on Thursday will recognise the important efforts made and the added possibility the OLAF will bring to the joint fight against fraud.
This would clear the way for the ECOFIN Council on 25 May to take the necessary decisions for OLAF to come into force on 1 June 1999.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11 a.m.
Mr President, so that the Minutes are correct, I should like to point out that the last letter of my name is an 'r' and not an 'n'.
The Council recommendation to give discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the 1997 budget is being made in spite of the fact that the Commission has already resigned.
I should like to state explicitly before Parliament that combating fraud is a matter of great concern to the Council.
The comments accompanying our recommendation to give discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the 1997 budget make this crystal clear and leave no room for doubt.
In Vienna, the European Council reaffirmed that it attaches great importance to the efficient fight against fraud, corruption and other criminal activity affecting the European Union's financial interests.
It expressed the wish that the Council - together with the other institutions - should successfully complete its examination of the proposals on the table before the Cologne European Council in June.
I should like to confirm that our presidency is trying to have the so-called OLAF regulation - which we have in fact just been debating - adopted by the ECOFIN Council on 25 May, and is doing so in extremely close cooperation with you, the Parliament.
The Council is also very concerned about the fact that appropriations for general information measures and measures to provide the public with information about the European Union are still being utilised without a legal base.
The amendments made to the Financial Regulation in November 1998 have enabled financial control to be modernised, in particular as far as the release of unutilised appropriations is concerned.
But like the European Court of Justice - and probably also Parliament - the Council attaches great importance to the Financial Regulation being thoroughly modernised and completely recast.
Of course, this does not alter the fact that the Commission bears the responsibility for implementing the budget.
When it examined the 1997 annual report of the Court of Auditors, the Council also took into consideration all 25 special reports drawn up during 1998.
On some of them it jointly adopted specific conclusions, which have been included in the recommendation.
In conclusion, I should like to mention a few points which played a part in the discussion with your Budgetary Control Committee, Mrs Theato.
It was suggested that we should hold a trilogue, or at least a dialogue, with you before the Council adopts its recommendation to grant discharge.
I hope that we will be able to conclude our deliberations on this report this week.
On procedure, I would like to thank those colleagues in the Committee on Budget Control who have contributed towards this whole discharge process.
We should now therefore move to a decision on this item.
I understand less those who have caused problems in this discharge process because it has been dealing with problems of substance.
Most of us now realise that it was the right time for this Parliament to refuse to grant discharge because that triggered all the rest of the events which happened in the months afterwards.
Secondly, real concern - and it is interesting to read it now after these months have past - about irregularities with Commissioners, and one in particular who, by her inability to resign, caused the resignation of all.
Firstly, so far as the Commission is concerned, we have a number of ideas which have been part of this reform process.
Lastly, it has actually been Parliament above all who has campaigned on this process.
Mr President, it is clear that the conclusions of this report for 1997 are very specific and very clear, namely, a postponement of discharge on institutional grounds.
The Committee on Budgetary Control wanted to go further.
And it is against that background that the Budget Control Committee voted the document which you find as an annex.
It is also the political nature of this report to put the discharge procedure in a broader perspective.
I am very pleased with the comment of the President-in-Office of the Council because part of this report is also oriented towards the new partnership between the Commission and the Member States as well as the cooperation between the Member States themselves.
As the Council executes about 95 % of the budget it is necessary that more action should be taken.
It is also an account of what happened after the 1996 procedure.
For that reason it is a contribution from the Committee on Budgetary Control and will not be voted by Parliament as such.
As Parliament acquires more responsibility and power it should also be a partner, not only in criticising, but also in helping the Commission to carry out its tasks independently but with accountability.
Let me clear up one misunderstanding.
I had the opportunity of discussing this with Commissioner Liikanen at an earlier stage but I would also like to say it in public.
It cannot be the role of the Court of Auditors to replace the Commission, nor Parliament.
But the Court of Auditors has played a very important and useful role in this process between Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
It is against that background that I would like finally to say that it would be useful if the Council itself reviewed its procedures as regards interaction between the Court of Auditors and the national bodies.
As we move into a new phase, a new situation where it is not the Commission or the Member States, but the Commission and the Member States, I would call on the President of the Council to study this particular issue of activities between the Court of Auditors and the national auditing bodies in future.
I should like to make it clear that the reason for this was the delay affecting the D-3 building in Brussels and IPE 4 in Strasbourg.
As regards aid to democratically elected parliaments in Central and Eastern Europe, 30 % of initial appropriations were not used.
We would like to take the opportunity provided by the 1997 discharge document to draw attention to the fact that the necessary resources should be made available to the Committee on Budgetary Control to allow it to monitor the appropriations granted to the political groups and the expenses incurred by the secretarial services.
We really did not know what problems could arise.
Discharge for the Economic and Social Committee is therefore conditional on the findings of the report on its activities which UCLAF - the fraud prevention unit - is due to present.
Every time there was a problem, we went to him and we always got the problem solved.
So there has been good cooperation in connection with the accounts of the European Coal and Steel Community.
More than 80 % of the funds in the various institutions in the European Investment Fund is our money.
I have to admit that not all the debates have been as exciting and as exhilarating as this one.
The Committee on Budgetary Control is very much helped by the European Court of Auditors - and I should like to thank them for their two special reports on these two agencies.
I should also like to thank the Council which has latterly - and I emphasise latterly because in the early years this did not happen - been putting forward considered recommendations to Parliament to grant discharge.
The reports are not long because there is no point in finding fault where faults do not exist.
One of the committee's specific criticisms of the 1997 budget is that large amounts are transferred from one Development Fund to the next.
My Group can see no reason not to grant discharge for the 1996 budget.
I am sure that colleagues here are aware that the Commission came back with a series of responses to those questions which, to my Group, were satisfactory enough for us to grant discharge.
It has taken a great deal of effort to persuade the rapporteur to bring forward a report closing the accounts for 1996 so that we can proceed with the 1997 discharge.
We do not agree with the wording in paragraph 1, and we wish to delete the word 'definitive' from that paragraph because no vote was ever taken in Parliament on the question of the 1996 discharge, which was recommended by the Committee on Budgetary Control to this House.
The report was withdrawn and referred back to committee in the light of other events.
If we are to continue to be an effective Budgetary Control Committee, this must continue in an unfettered way.
On a more pleasing note, let me move on to my second set of remarks on the 1997 budget.
I hope that when the Commission comes back to us in the new Parliament it will take on board and use as a blueprint those questions which are asked in the working document, especially on staffing policies, TAOs, Leonardo and the way in which PHARE and TACIS is operated.
Again, my friend, and I should like to say colleague, has produced two excellent reports on Dublin and Thessalonika.
He says he has drawn up 15 reports in his time.
As a lasting memorial to his work, I should like to see the Council now, in recognition of the work he has done, agree to the changes in the statutes for the second generation agencies - changes on the own-resources question, changes on financial control and changes on discharge that will allow Parliament to carry out its responsibilities properly.
Our Rules of Procedure were awry.
No, but we have established that there is a need for restructuring and that new areas need to undergo a series of reforms which will make us in the European Union fit for the next millennium.
I hope that the new Parliament and the new Commission will make use of them.
He has produced a very accurate report for the other institutions.
That is why the Council and the Commission, but also Parliament, must abide by the decisions we adopted in the Tsatsos report, for example on party financing, and we must also act properly where filling posts and promotions are concerned.
The Commission's only reaction has been to take several subsequent measures aimed at filling in the gaps and appeasing Parliament, but nothing has been drawn up or thought out and no ideas have been formed.
The example of SEM 2000 and the installation of the new ROLEX system to manage all external contracts are good examples of this.
A final example is that of the technical assistance offices which, as everyone knows, have caused many problems in recent years.
On the other hand, we do want a Commission that takes full responsibility for its actions and choices, that is transparent in its institutional dialogue and that takes on the role of monitoring the operational policies that the services are responsible for implementing.
Since the Court of Auditors has been drawing up the Statement of Assurance concerning activities financed from the general budget of the European Union, the statement has been negative.
However, we hope that a new Commission that is politically consistent and responsible will enable the Court of Auditors to finally draw up a positive Statement of Assurance for the first time.
I will not go into the discharge procedure for 1996 and the Commission, as I feel that the facts of the matter and the responsibilities assumed speak for themselves.
Mr President, the latest Elles report marks the end of an eventful discharge procedure, a procedure that needs to be transparent so that the order of events is not forgotten.
More than a year ago, on 31 March 1998, the European Parliament decided to postpone the decision to grant the Commission discharge for the financial year 1996.
On 17 December 1998, the majority of the House fortunately allowed common sense to prevail and refused to grant discharge.
Mr President, I should like to say a few words on the postponement of the discharge for 1997, not least in view of what we have just been discussing, namely that where OLAF is concerned, we have actually found a basis on which the institutions can work together, which is obviously also a good indication of the political will to cooperate that exists.
However, I am assuming that individual Commissioners might perhaps also wish to belong to the next Commission.
Of course, we do not always expect results of investigations down to the last detail, but we do still have unfinished business to complete.
As far as the ECHO case is concerned, we have to take it that this affair could assume even greater proportions, but there is not even any information available on the events relating to 1997 - and it is the 1997 financial year that we are dealing with here.
The same applies to the points which we have touched on concerning agriculture which various other colleagues are also working on.
Of course this has involved the application of a little friendly pressure, in particular on the part of the Council presidency and our own House, to make the Commission finally understand that it cannot simply deny facts which are on the table.
Mr President, the 1996 and 1997 discharge procedures changed the way the institutions work together in the field of budgetary control - before, we only had cooperation of this sort with the budget.
A working paper and work programme have already been included in the Elles report; no one has yet reacted to them.
But to avoid overburdening the 1998 discharge procedure with these problems as well, the 1997 discharge procedure has to be brought to a conclusion.
But this is also significant for the 1997 and 1998 discharges.
But even more important are the real political problems which remain unresolved.
The reports were adopted in committee without any amendments.
They were finalised in committee and can therefore also be put on the agenda for tomorrow's vote.
Thank you, Mrs Theato.
Mr President, I am sorry I am late, but there are other meetings taking place at the same time and it simply is not possible to be in two places at once!
That is why the accounts for the 1996 financial year cannot be closed straight away, for example while there has been no reimbursement in areas where nepotism has been established.
As long as documents in connection with proceedings against SEL are withheld from me and the Committee on Budgetary Control, discharge should not be granted for Parliament either.
I hope I have made it clear that where discharge is concerned, my group is guided by its own principles, which indeed apply to both the Commission and Parliament.
At the same time, the Commission has taken a decision to freeze all nominations of A1 and A2 level until the new Commission is in place.
Secondly, as far as the Staff Regulations reform is concerned, there was the famous David Williamson report which was presented last autumn.
The position of the Commission was that the Williamson reform serves as a good basis except in one area.
At the moment disciplinary procedures are always internal.
For the rest, the Commission takes note that the discharge procedure for 1996 is about to reach its conclusion on the institutional legal side which is being discussed here today.
As to the discharge reports for 1997, the Commission takes note of the fact that the Committee on Budgetary Control has proposed postponement of the discharge on institutional grounds connected with the Commission's resignation.
The Commission has started reforms of SEM 2000, sound financial management.
It is very important that the new President has all the elements on the table when he takes his decisions on the portfolios and, in that context, on the structure of the services.
I agree with three major conclusions of the rapporteur.
It is very important that the Commission and Member States act together and that the rules and responsibilities are clear and are shared and that we know how to correct things if they go badly.
Secondly, the issue of decentralisation and devolution of Commission action especially in the field of external programmes is extremely important but we need very strict rules for the delegation of the management of Community policies and that must always be actively pursued.
For those who came into this House in 1995, I am referring to the area of the external offices which were performing many tasks for the Union.
Thanks to cooperation with Parliament we have been able to agree now the budgetary framework so that there must always be budgetary commentary.
But it is very clear that this work must continue.
The third area which is very important is the global reform of financial regulations.
It is extremely important to try to put all these small reforms in one clear global financial regulation where the roles and responsibilities of each player in the implementation of the budget within the Commission, namely the authorising officer, the financial controller and the accounting officer, will be clearly defined.
It is extremely important that all of us who care about the future of the Union, care about the good execution of the Community budget, care about the value of the taxpayers' money try to utilise all this to achieve deeper reform which has clear objectives and a strong capacity of implementation which can lead to results.
However, there is one report which I referred to in my speech which relates to paragraph 7 of the January resolution.
In the absence of any Socialist member of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I think I should do it on everyone's behalf.
Could I ask the Commissioner to provide this report when it is available to the new Parliament so that we will have all the information at our disposal.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Nevertheless, Mr President, Commissioner, Parliament can go no further.
Eighty of these involve transfers from the cooperation procedure to the codecision procedure in areas such as transport, the environment and social affairs.
Changes in the legal bases are also recorded, notably concerning matters covered under the old Article 43 - agriculture - and which now come under the title covering public health.
I believe that this report responds to these ideas.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must congratulate Mrs Ana de Palacio.
For some 20 proposals, Parliament's involvement changes from a simple ruling to codecision.
Parliament has already made its views on a number of these proposals clear, and the Commission has incorporated some or all of these into its amended proposals.
We believe it is very important to ensure that the people of Europe do not feel that the Community's decision-making powers have been constrained as a result of the entry into force of the Treaty or because of the parliamentary elections.
It is therefore essential to carry on with the legislative work as usual.
It is worth mentioning that some cases call for swift action, particularly the three concerning approval of the conclusions of the negotiations on Agenda 2000.
I certainly appreciate the goodwill Parliament has shown in dealing with all urgent pending matters - especially those relating to Agenda 2000 - at this part-session despite the pressures of time.
In conclusion, I should like to emphasise that in view of the institutional calendar and the political circumstances which have resulted in the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam coinciding with the advent of a new Parliament and a new Commission, it will be for the incoming members of both these institutions to pursue dialogue on this issue with the Council.
Thank you very much and congratulations once again, Mrs Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Dispute between the EU and the USA The next item is the statement by the Commission on the WTO dispute settlement procedure for the dispute between the European Union and the United States.
Mr President, I addressed the REX Committee on this subject on 13 July and the issue was subsequently debated at the General Affairs Council of 26 April.
With regard to hormones, as you know the definitive risk assessment which the Commission initiated last year after the appellant body ruled against us, will not be completed before the expiry of the reasonable delaying period which was allotted on 13 May.
But, the Commission received an interim report from the scientists last weekend and we shall be having a first discussion of it at our meeting tomorrow.
I should stress that there is no reason whatsoever for a new urgent decision to be taken on public health grounds or for there to be any kind of panic.
So the question now that we all have to consider is not what shall we do to protect public health, which is adequately protected, but, rather, what implications do these latest reports have for the handling of the WTO issue?
The data now available since the weekend may represent an important addition to the debate on this issue.
The Commission decided last week - with the consent of the Council of Ministers - not to appeal on either the substance of the issue or the so-called systemic question, but we do intend to pursue the latter issue, the systemic issue, in the panel which the EU brought against Section 301 of the US Trade Act.
On the substance of the issue, our intention now is to change our regime in order to comply with the WTO panel ruling.
My meetings were followed by discussions at official level.
We are looking at the various suggestions made by the panel established at the request of Ecuador to ensure that we amend our system in a WTO-compatible way.
But if we are unable to do so we will clearly have to propose those changes which we ourselves believe will make our regime compatible with the WTO rules as interpreted in the latest rulings.
Last week the Council adopted the proposed regulation regarding aircraft noise but also decided, taking due account of the views of Parliament, to delay its application for one year.
We will naturally continue to defend European interests vigorously, but we want to avoid unnecessary and potentially damaging trade disputes with the US.
Commissioner Brittan, once again you have made the position very clear, and indeed you have also dealt with the various trade disputes in which we have been engaged with the United States for quite a number of months, if not for years in some cases.
All these cases, these trade disputes, in which we are at present engaged with the United States or with Canada, are in principle test cases, in which the boundaries set by the World Trade Organisation are being scrutinised to see how much independence and autonomy countries actually have to determine their own policies in particular fields, whether it is consumer protection, whether it is health care, whether it is a question of how policies with respect to developing countries can be implemented - as in the banana case - or whether it is about standards.
What bothers me is how we are going to be able to work together in the future and how in the new trade round we are going to be able on the one hand to agree on more common standards, while on the other hand guaranteeing a greater degree of independence and autonomy in the self-determination of regions and countries.
That will not be very easy; indeed we have already discussed in the committee several times how this is to be achieved.
This hormone case will be the test case for the European Union.
At the moment, I am very unsure of how we can react in the light of the answer which you have given.
The United States is insisting on one point of view, firstly with bananas - an issue which has most likely been resolved in its favour - and now with hormones, where it is extremely difficult to draw the picture in such a way that it will attract the sympathy of those outside the European Union, because the trade disputes we are talking about here only involve 2 % of our joint trade.
Sir Leon, our experience of working with you over the last few years has been extremely positive, because during the transatlantic trade disputes you have worked very closely with the European Parliament.
I should like to thank you very much for that, but you alone are not the Commission and the Council.
The European Union and the United States, Canada, New Zealand and Australia each have one vote in the WTO, but hundreds of developing countries, who are waiting in the WTO and hoping that their interests will also be taken into consideration, must not be sidelined by ongoing disputes between the European Union and the USA, because there are other fundamental problems too.
I should also like to call on the Socialist Group to support the PPE Group's line on this issue.
Today we have tried to combine the various opinions held in the European Parliament in one joint motion, to allow Europe to speak with one voice on this important matter.
Mr President, the main point for my group is that we have concluded an agreement under the terms of the WTO and must abide by the legal rulings which have been given.
In my view, in the banana affair, which you dealt with so well, the European Union must pursue its action against unilateral legislation before the WTO.
The interim report and the concerns voiced in the Transatlantic Consumer Dialogue considerably consolidate our position on the matter and, as Erika Mann mentioned, it is important not to make any concessions at this stage.
This is what we have repeatedly stated and pointed out in the past: the use of sex hormones disturbs the hormonal balance in children at this particularly sensitive time.
That is what we should say in the WTO negotiations, and we should raise the issue of our European way of life and ensure that we are able to keep it.
Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, in this trade war concerning bananas and hormones there is a sting in the tail which, as we all know, affects European businesses and economic sectors which have nothing to do with the sectors involved in the dispute.
For example, the battery and accumulator industry is incurring extremely heavy losses, amounting to millions and millions of dollars, as a result of the 100 % duty rates imposed under the terms of this war.
It was 20 years ago, Sir Leon, when colleagues of yours did this in your country, the United Kingdom, and look where that got us with BSE.
You, the Commission, repeatedly told us this, did you not, when we were in favour of comprehensive labelling and wanted that in Parliament.
Ladies and gentlemen, at this late hour, there are bound to be some problems of comprehension.
But people cannot be forced to reach agreement and, therefore, we have to envisage the possibility of not reaching a comprehensive agreement.
Therefore, we will continue very hard and are committed to putting four proposals to the Council by the end of the month, with agreement or in the absence of agreement from our trading partners.
The answer is no!
I can tell you that the possibility of sanctions from the United States on this is much more serious, and therefore it is acting very much in the interests of European consumers, European individuals and European employment to say that it is sensible that these findings should be put into the public domain as fully as possible.
The vote on these will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon.
Regrettably, the Commission never shared our enthusiasm.
In the end, we had to wait for an edict from the European Council in Vienna before the Commission came up with a concrete proposal.
The question now is what Parliament thinks of the proposal currently before us.
Naturally, we are all happy to say where our priorities lie, especially in the run-up to the elections.
We have adopted seven amendments in the Economic Affairs Committee, Commissioner.
So we conceded that, but it is too much for us to accept that the Council can only grant authorisation on the basis of unanimity.
Madam President, I do not think I have ever spoken in Parliament as late as this.
It takes the shine off things a little to have to deal with a proposal which I have always strongly advocated in these kinds of circumstances, and in a 'like it or lump it' situation.
But it may offer a solution in the area of services at local and regional level.
I believe that a reduction in VAT precisely in the service sector at local and regional level could be beneficial, and at any rate increase the employment rate.
Madam President, things on the employment front in the European Union are looking a little better.
The rate of unemployment recently dipped below 10 %, but naturally we are not dancing in the streets because it is still far too high.
I hope he will show a little flexibility over the amendments this evening.
In the Netherlands, for example, the number of shoe repairers was decimated between 1992 and 1998 as a result of the high rate of VAT on their work.
I am grateful to the rapporteur for spelling out these effects in Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
I support the amendments which have been tabled, and I hope that the Council and the Commission will do so too.
In making this proposal, the Commission is responding to a request made by the European Council in Vienna in December 1998.
I note with satisfaction that the Thyssen report broadly supports the approach proposed by the Commission.
However, it is my duty to draw your attention to the fact that authorisation to apply a reduced rate is a measure concerning harmonisation of legislation on value added tax, which is covered by Article 93 of the Amsterdam Treaty, the former Article 99.
I should also like to inform you that, thanks to the German Presidency, today in the Council the working party examining this proposal met for the first time and I think there are grounds for reasonable optimism.
Finally, Madam President, this proposal, which I hope will prove very good for jobs, will also help to dispel certain doubts about the tax coordination work done by the Commission and the European Union.
Thank you for the support you have given us this evening.
Madam President, I too would like to thank Parliament and the Members who have taken the floor this evening for the staunch support they are giving to our endeavours to coordinate taxation.
The next sitting will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
