Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is probably the last time that we will be holding this debate under Article K.6.
Once the Treaty of Amsterdam comes into force, our debate will not only be based on a new article, it will also be far more limited in scope, as it will only be concerned with police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
I would now like to refer to a few practical points.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think that today's debate on Schengen has come at just the right moment at the start of the German Presidency of the Union, which also coincides with Germany's Schengen presidency.
This is of crucial importance, because it is the time when, under the Schengen Protocol, the Schengen acquis must be transferred to the Treaty of Amsterdam.
On the one hand, we are naturally delighted that a number of Member States have taken the lead in establishing the free movement of persons and an area of freedom, security and justice in practice, but on the other hand we have always regretted the fact that this has happened outside the EU structures.
The inclusion of part of the acquis in the first pillar will pave the way for the communitarisation of this policy and will enable us to take measures to tidy up 'la nébuleuse Schengen ', as my predecessor used to call it.
Thirdly, there is still a major debate going on about whether to include Schengen in the first pillar or the third.
The integration of the Schengen acquis into the Treaty, and in particular how it is divided between the first and third pillars, will have important implications for Parliament's future involvement and the future development of all European legislation on security and freedom.
I think that these now need to be put into practice, and that in defining the Schengen acquis the opportunity must be taken to publicise it, to involve the European Parliament and the national parliaments more, and to provide the public with better information about their rights.
I would also point out that we feel that the future of the Schengen information system is of crucial importance.
I would simply say that the Supervisory Authority has uncovered some very serious problems relating to data finalisation, the removal of data and refusal of access to the Schengen area.
Thank you, Mrs Van Lancker.
In January 1998, the Council reacted to the influx of migrants from Iraq and the neighbouring region by adopting a comprehensive new action plan.
In order to counter these developments the Council, acting on a proposal from the Netherlands, decided in December 1998 to set up a high-level group to formulate proposals for joint measures for a number of countries which seem likely to be the source of a massive influx of illegal immigrants.
Last year there was a preliminary discussion of a Commission proposal for an agreement governing the admission of third-country nationals to the territory of Member States.
This is a very important proposal that would come under the new EC powers included in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I have already mentioned the Dublin Convention that came into force in October 1997.
This brings me to the draft Eurodac Convention, and I am pleased to report that the Council did indeed reach political agreement on this in December.
The protocol that will create the necessary legal basis is still being negotiated.
The progress made at the December Council meeting gives grounds for hope that the work will soon be concluded, which I regard as a matter of urgency.
In this context, the committee set up under Article 18 of this Convention adopted a work programme and a declaration with the intention of improving some of the practical aspects of the implementation of the Convention.
As far as we are concerned, this is a sine qua non .
In order to facilitate the checks concerned, in December the Council accordingly adopted a joint measure setting up the FADO electronic image archiving system, providing for a rapid exchange of information on both genuine and forged documents.
The Council has also adopted texts governing Europol's external relations with third countries and third bodies and the receipt of information by Europol from third countries and third parties.
The joint supervisory body has reached agreement on its rules of procedure, which are now before the Council for approval.
The most important activities in this field were the preparation of a drug strategy for the period after 1999, the UN General Assembly special session on drugs, and the development of regional initiatives in Latin America and central Asia, both centres of the drug trade.
It has emerged from the Member States' progress reports on the continued implementation of the joint measure on the approximation of laws and procedures that many Member States have, at national and European level and also within the Schengen arrangements, further strengthened measures aimed at achieving close cooperation between police, customs services and judicial authorities.
Implementation of the joint measure on new synthetic drugs was carried forward, and a detailed report on these activities was presented to the European Council in Vienna.
A group of experts on the Pre-Accession Pact, which consists of representatives of the 15 Member States and the 11 applicant countries, meets regularly for mutual exchanges of police experience and to draw up a joint strategy, in conjunction with Europol, to identify the main dangers and develop effective countermeasures.
There is also the joint measure of 29 June 1998 establishing a mechanism for collective evaluation of the transposition, application and effective implementation by the applicant countries of the acquis communautaire in the field of justice and home affairs.
The remit of the joint evaluation working party is to prepare and subsequently update, by analysing all available information, a collective evaluation of the situation in the applicant countries regarding the transposition, application and effective implementation of the acquis communautaire in the field of justice and home affairs, working in close cooperation with the K.4 Committee.
This ensures that in particularly sensitive areas such as checks at external borders or the fight against organised crime, experts can monitor whether the standards flowing from the European Union or Schengen acquis are being achieved, and where there may still be room for improvement.
During the year the existing cooperation under the TREVI system was systematically extended and now includes the USA and Canada, the Mediterranean countries participating under Euromed, countries such as Norway, Iceland, Switzerland, Turkey, Morocco, Russia and Ukraine, while in special cases such as the fight against drugs it also extends to the countries of Latin America and central Asia.
Schengen cooperation consists of a balanced system of measures which guarantees freedom of movement in the Schengen area and at the same time reduces the security risks inherent in ending controls at internal borders.
As Mrs Van Lancker has already commented, the development of Schengen cooperation has reached an important turning point.
Germany has always firmly supported this objective and will ensure that the necessary effort continues under its EU presidency in the first half of 1999.
Now let me say a few words about defining the Schengen acquis .
One of the tasks still to be accomplished is dividing the Schengen acquis between the legal bases of the Treaty establishing the European Community and the Treaty on European Union.
The planned cooperation structure is a good way to take account of these Nordic states' legitimate interest in participating in the process.
The transition protocol commits them to adopting the acquis in its entirety.
Schengen's carefully balanced association of freedom of movement and security will only carry on working if it requires the same of all Member States.
To conclude, I would like to say just a few words about the focal points of the German Schengen presidency in the first half of 1999.
Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank you for this opportunity to discuss this interesting subject with you here today, a subject of great importance to the citizens of the Member States of the European Union.
Mr Nassauer, I would like to start with a few general comments about relations between the Council and the European Parliament.
Both the British and the Austrian Presidencies had an opportunity to present their work programme for the next six months to you and to discuss it with you.
Depending on the area of competence, these work programmes were explained in detail and discussed with the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs or in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
There was also an exchange of views between the presidency and Members of Parliament on aspects of mutual interest in the fields of justice and home affairs.
And in each case the presidency has conveyed Parliament's views to the relevant Council body.
I would like to add that in December 1998 the Council consulted the European Parliament on a project which has a very special role to play, namely an action plan for the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice, which your resolution also touches upon, albeit from a particular point of view.
This action plan is intended to point the way ahead and broadly determine how we proceed in future, in the first five years - you yourself, Mr Nassauer, said five years plus x - after the Treaty of Amsterdam has come into force.
Let me say this again: you can rest assured that the German Presidency attaches great importance to improving relations between the Council and the European Parliament still further.
We think it was very positive that throughout the year the European Parliament demonstrated considerable interest in work in this field.
Lastly, I would like to talk about the conclusions of the Council of 19 March last year.
A key event in the field of judicial cooperation on civil matters was the adoption by the Council of the Brussels II Convention on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters, and the signing of this convention by the Member States.
It is also important to note that in connection with this convention the Council adopted a legal instrument simultaneously signed by the Member States concerning the interpretation of the convention by the European Court of Justice.
This legal instrument is not only important as a means of taking matters further forward, but also in that it highlights the importance of the European Court of Justice.
I believe that emphasising the significance of the European Court of Justice in this way is important as a means of furthering the concept of judicial control and thus also of constitutionality in the European Union, in exactly the same way as in all the Member States.
Important work on judicial cooperation in the field of civil law was launched in relation to revising the Brussels I and Lugano Conventions.
The Brussels Convention of 27 September 1968 lays down uniform rules for the Member States on international jurisdiction, lis pendens conditions, recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters.
The Lugano Convention of 16 September 1988 is similarly structured but, as you know, there are differences of detail.
So the aim of these negotiations is to achieve an important step towards establishing the area of freedom, security and justice which the Member States want to create together.
In July 1998, a Council working party met to consider the requirements for creating a legal instrument on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations.
The convention adopted by the Council on 16 June 1998 provides that judgments no longer subject to the right of appeal may in certain circumstances be enforced in a Member State other than the state of residence.
In the field of combating fraud and corruption, by adopting the joint measure on corruption in the private sector in December 1998 we have managed to create a new basis for combating corruption in business in the common market under criminal law.
I would like to draw special attention to the launch of the European Judicial Network and the adoption of a joint measure on money laundering, the identification, tracing, freezing, seizing and confiscation of the instruments used in and the proceeds from crime, and the adoption of a joint measure under which the legislation of all the Member States will make it a criminal offence for any person on their territory to participate in a criminal organisation, regardless of where it is located or pursues its criminal activities.
As you know, the deadline for implementing the recommendations in the action plan is the end of 1999.
The Council will then have to reach a decision on the follow-up to this work and on how it links up with the new action plan on the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice.
I would now like to say a few words about the action plan on the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice.
The process of drawing up this new action plan was the focal point of the Council's work in the second half of 1998, making it the centre-piece of the Austrian Presidency.
As you know, the Cardiff European Council called upon the Council and the Commission to present proposals to the Vienna European Council on the best means of implementing the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam concerning an area of freedom, security and justice.
A document was presented to the Vienna Summit in which an attempt was made to pinpoint the changes and progressive innovations contained in the Treaty of Amsterdam, or in other words its added value, and to draw up a work programme for the next two to five years.
The Vienna European Council approved the action plan and stated that it would give the field of justice and home affairs a new dimension after the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, thus creating a concrete framework for developing activity in this field.
At the same time, the European Council decided that progress to date should be assessed at the Special Justice and Home Affairs European Council to be held in Tampere in October 1999 and that that meeting should set further guidelines for EU action in the field of justice and home affairs.
I am convinced that the Tampere Special Council will give us an opportunity to make significant further progress with discussions in this field and I hope that the German Presidency can count on the continuing support of the European Parliament in achieving this objective.
The European Parliament elections are about to take place, and it will be important to enter into a dialogue with our citizens about the progress we have made and the potential of a European legal area and common security area.
We should all be aware that a key factor in driving Europe as a whole forward is the enormous interest shown by Europe's citizens in the common legal area - which will mean additional and common rights for all - and also in the common European security area.
I think that is your objective, and it is also the objective of the German Presidency.
One of my major goals last year was to give substance and intelligibility to this vision in the communication which I forwarded to the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament.
Mr Nassauer notes in his report that not one single legislative instrument was approved in this field during 1998.
It gives us more scope for action in the fight against organised crime.
The Commission will also be playing an active role in this task.
This work took on new momentum following the special session on drugs organised last year by the United Nations in New York.
A number of applicant countries are involved in the process.
The PHARE programme is an important tool in this respect, as is the education and exchange programme.
To a large extent, the Commission agrees with the analysis prepared by the rapporteur, Mrs Van Lancker, and her recommendations concerning the integration of the Schengen acquis .
I think this would go against the spirit of the new Treaty and is therefore totally unacceptable.
Terrorism, bribery, corruption, fraud and the sexual exploitation of women and children are just a few examples of crimes which arouse disgust throughout the Union.
As regards the enslavement of women and the sexual exploitation of children, over a period of several years we have only succeeded in raising the issue to its present level.
An important aspect of our work is increasing people's awareness of how Europe functions in practical terms in the fields of justice and home affairs.
They already participate in numerous projects, but now they should also be initiating their own.
The decision to hold a special top-level meeting in Tammerfors later in the year is proof of this.
At the same time, support for cooperation should be deeply rooted.
An essential condition for establishing an area of freedom, security and justice is that our work should have strong popular support.
We must therefore commit ourselves to initiating a lively and sustained dialogue between the EU and its citizens.
Twenty-one proposals for conventions, joint actions and other instruments have been discussed in the Justice and Home Affairs Council during 1998.
The Commission has systematically sent copies of all its initiatives to Parliament at the same moment they were sent to the Council.
This includes both Commission initiatives and proposals submitted by the Member States.
Five Commission initiatives have not yet been finalised.
This is partly occasioned by the fact that the statements by the two German Ministers took up some 50 minutes.
With the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty, and this was another point made at the European Council in Vienna, Schengen must be incorporated into the European Union as quickly as possible.
Perhaps we could be given more detailed information, maybe in writing, on this and on the operation of the Schengen information system.
Mr President, I am sure you are aware that our thoughts are elsewhere at the moment, which is a great shame given the importance that should be attached to this debate.
The Liberal Group as a whole is in favour of her proposals and, once again, we join her in deploring the difficulties that the Member States are having in coming to an agreement on the definition of the Schengen acquis .
It would be unfortunate if these difficulties could not be overcome in such a sensitive field as the movement of persons.
It goes without saying that the European Parliament must be informed of the substance of Schengen and consulted on the draft decision that will allow the acquis to be integrated into the Treaty.
It is a matter that we feel is fundamental, and I welcome the initiatives that you announced in this field.
The timid approach that is the root of many obstacles in the field of free movement of persons must give way to a wider vision that focuses on the requirements of the vast area of freedom, security and justice to which a great majority of us aspire.
This would allow the involvement, at least in this area, of the United Kingdom and Ireland, who are signatories of the Europol convention and, for obvious geographical reasons, are outside the Schengen area.
On behalf of my group, I of course welcome the German Presidency's objective of improving international cooperation in criminal affairs as well as the decision of the Member States to harmonise their visa policies and to introduce without delay a computerised format for residence permits for third-country nationals.
With regard to assessing the operation of Schengen, we also welcome the progress that has been made, in particular in the accession of Italy and Austria, and we agree that it is important to encourage the involvement of the United Kingdom and Ireland in the areas covered by Title IV of the Treaty.
Overall, apart from these various points, we will vote for these two reports.
In this Schengen area that is being created, there should be a clause making it possible to implement common policies on the socio-cultural integration of immigrants, avoiding any discrimination against people or groups due to race, colour or religion or due to national, social or ethnic orientation.
The Schengen responsibilities must be incorporated into the Union's policies, as provided for in the Treaty of Amsterdam, but they must also be subject to the supervision of its institutions in order to ensure that they do not turn into an instrument for resisting immigration.
The same can be said for the transparency and democratic supervision of the decision-making procedure.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention a specific problem, but one that is no less important in the creation of this Schengen area of freedom and justice: the protection of personal data, which must be guaranteed without exception in any democratic society.
The incident in the Belgian SIRENE office, where personal data were removed, is proof of the lack of sufficient protection for databases and the need to take clear measures to guarantee effective protection in this respect.
The goal of the operation is still to set up this area of freedom, security and justice, and this is worth repeating, insofar as nowadays more importance is attached to increasing the number of bolts, fortifications, barbed wire and protective walls than to explaining to citizens the measures to be taken and the point of a Europe without borders, this Europe that is behaving more like a club for rich people who intend to continue to increase their wealth.
Commissioner Gradin drew attention to the fact that we were perhaps simply not very fast.
Mr President, in its day, the Schengen Agreement caused a stir in France because, having been negotiated in the utmost discretion, it was disclosed to our citizens somewhat inadvertently, proving once again that Europe and transparency do not go well together.
In practice, all these problems point to a reality: Schengen disregarded the facts and they are now catching up on Schengen and on the European Union.
Mr President, as this debate on Article K.6 of the Maastricht Treaty is most likely the last one before the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, it is no longer the time to bemoan, once again, the slow pace, the inefficiency and the lack of transparency and democracy of the operation of the third pillar.
The President of Parliament made an excellent summary of the situation on 16 October at a conference in Avignon, when he said that an evaluation of the initiatives and proposals of the last few years bears too great a resemblance to Dante's hell, in that it is paved with good intentions.
He also said that a huge number of conventions that were signed have not been ratified and it is reasonable to doubt that they will ever come into force.
The President was illustrating, in a concise but extremely exact manner, a major concern expressed by our committee in Article 23 of the Nassauer resolution.
The members of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs invite the Commission to present, in good time, the proposals that are essential for transforming these acts into Community measures as from the entry into force of the new Treaty.
Mr Nassauer's resolution recalls the terms of the resolution of 12 December 1996, for which I was rapporteur, which detailed the demands that we made then to the Council for more genuine and more complete information, for systematic consultation, and for our points of view to actually be taken into account.
Nor is it acceptable that the Council, having taken the official decision, on 19 March 1998, and following our repeated demands, to publish an interim report at the end of each presidency, that is every six months, has not done so.
You see, the problem is that the Council always agrees, in words, but the necessary actions do not follow.
If a report was presented beforehand, there could be a real debate in the House.
I would therefore like to pick up just two points which I consider especially important in this context and which need to be followed up.
Thank you, Madam President-in-Office.
Mr President, we have made this request under Rule 119 because we assume that the vote on the motion of censure is the more significant one.
Mr President, I would like to oppose that proposal on two grounds.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your Parliament has just given its opinion by means of a resolution that sends a clear and firm message to the Commission.
It will shortly take a position, in all sovereignty, on the question of confidence.
This is an important moment in the life of our institutions.
As I said, the message to the Commission is a clear one, and I understood it fully.
Today the European Parliament has strongly reaffirmed its authority and its monitoring role.
Each time it is Europe that loses out.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I have now been involved in political life for thirty years.
I have always thought of that as a privilege, but also as an obligation to absolute integrity.
I respect taxpayers' money and, with the help of Parliament, I am more determined than ever to continue the fight against fraud.
Mr President, I want to express my welcome and thanks to all those who voted with our resolution this morning.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 70 signatories of the motion of censure who come, I would like to point out, from all the political groups in the House and represent almost all the peoples of the European Union, maintain, with conviction and determination, their motion of censure against the entire Commission.
If you answer 'no' to this question, then you must vote for censure.
Ladies and gentlemen, never in the history of our Parliament will your vote be of such importance!
By voting for censure, Applause you will strengthen the credibility of our Parliament, you will give Europeans a renewed confidence in their institutions.
From now on, you are going to have to work with Parliament.
Applause Mr President, this week the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party raised consciousness inside and outside this House of the fact that the rules of engagement for the democratic control of the European Commission by this Parliament are self-evidently inadequate.
Our instrument of naming names was perforce indelicate since no proper Treaty-based alternative yet exists to hold individual Commissioners publicly accountable before this Parliament for the political management and conduct of European affairs and subject them to sanctions where and when they fall short.
Applause Politically we believe that this Commission is dead in the water.
We have decided, Mr President of the Commission, to turn your shield of collegiality into our sword of parliamentary accountability.
For Europe, in good faith and in good conscience, the ELDR Group believes this Commission should go.
Applause Mr President, the Union for Europe Group is unanimous in deploring the serious management errors made by the current Commission and the previous one, as revealed in audits carried out by the Court of Auditors, internal enquiries and enquiries carried out on the ground by the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Our group condemns the lack of cooperation and transparency that the Commission has demonstrated for too long towards both Parliament and the Court of Auditors.
Applause in order to remind the Commission that the European Parliament's monitoring powers must be respected because they are the only real means of protecting the citizens, the European taxpayers.
Applause Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to say that we hope that the only winners in these votes and decisions by the European Parliament will be the citizens of Europe, European democracy and transparency, an element that is absolutely necessary, whether we are in the run-up to or in the wake of elections.
I must add that, as regards this joint statement by my group, there were differences of opinions and conflicting ideas, as has happened in other groups.
So we say that the Commission does not have our confidence and we should vote en bloc for the motion of censure.
Applause Mr President, the resolution that has just been adopted is a good text.
We note the comments made by President Santer, who has recognised the errors that have been made and has promised reforms.
Applause Mr President, there is a difference between blame and accountability.
Mr Santer is a prisoner in his own fortress.
Applause Mr President, we have taken up a position against granting the discharge and we have raised the issue of the legality of certain operations in various questions.
As far as we are concerned the Commission and Parliament ought to become increasingly transparent and cooperative with each other in the interests of the people of Europe, because these are the two institutions appointed to establish not only the euro, but also that political union without which there will never be an economic project and the fight against unemployment will remain a dead letter.
We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion of censure on the European Commission (B4-0053/99).
Parliament rejected the motion of censure on the Commission Mr President, it was unfortunate that during the procedure the President of Parliament did not allow me to speak, although I had requested the floor in plenty of time.
I am thus also expressing my rejection of the entire process.
Since December when the majority of Members of the European Parliament, including the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations, refused to grant discharge to the Commission for the implementation of the 1996 budget, due to various management errors, fraud, and a general lack of transparency, we have observed in the House a whole series of diversions and excuses aimed at avoiding the logical consequence of that act: a vote on a motion of censure.
Firstly a resolution was tabled that was aimed specifically at certain Commissioners, with the purpose of defusing the risk of a general vote of no confidence in the Commission.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations considers that the Commission's errors are sufficiently serious, evident and repeated to warrant a motion of censure.
We welcome the fact that our motion has received the support of 232 Members of the European Parliament (against 293), which, taking account of the usual discrepancies between public opinion and Parliament, must demonstrate that an overwhelming majority of citizens support us.
In adopting the motion for a resolution by the PSE, ARE and GUE/NGL Groups with 319 votes in favour, 157 against and 54 abstentions, Parliament has demonstrated its authority and capacity for control, as noted by the Commission President.
On the contrary, it requires ambitious reform of the Commission's administrative and financial practices and a rigorous investigation of all the accusations of irregularities made in the last few weeks in order to find out whether or not there is anything to be censured.
The reports containing the results of this investigation will be presented very shortly, by 15 March.
The rejection of the motion of censure tabled by the I-EDN Group, after the Socialist Group had withdrawn its motion, was also an important moment.
The results of the vote on this motion of censure - 232 in favour, 293 against and 27 abstentions - show that there are political forces keen to weaken the Commission in this final period of its mandate.
During this crisis, the Portuguese socialists have constantly tried to defend the interests of Portugal and the overall interests of Europe, which would certainly not have benefited from the fall of the Commission a few months before the European elections in June.
We believe that any suspicion of irregularities, waste and fraud should be investigated, either by the new independent office for the combating of internal fraud or by the national police authorities.
In such cases, the Council should be called upon to make use of Article 160 of the Treaty, which states that any Member of the Commission can be compulsorily retired by the Court of Justice, on application by the Council or the Commission, if he has been guilty of serious misconduct.
We shall follow very closely how the Commission keeps to the action plan we have adopted today.
I voted for the Socialist, GUE and ARE joint motion and against the PPE, ELDR and Green joint motion.
The naming of two Socialist Commissioners was clearly politically motivated.
The Socialist joint resolution calls for Article 160 of the EC Treaty to be used to get rid of duff Commissioners.
In any democratic national government, ministers who fail to answer the sort of serious charges that have been levelled at some Commissioners would have to resign or face the sack.
No political system can operate without a reasonable understanding that its executive is honest and competent.
The Commission must now ensure that it introduces proper management practices.
The Commission has slipped back into a pre-democratic way of thinking.
I just hope that in view of this vote the Commission will at least have the decency to accept responsibility for its actions and that the Commissioners who stand accused will resign.
Mr President, the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations took the initiative, through Hervé Fabre-Aubrespy, of a motion of censure following the malpractice discovered in the functioning of the European Commission because we consider these errors to be neither accidental nor individual.
The inevitable consequence of this is fraud, and this is the reason for our motion of censure.
The European institutional system has, for a long time, declared the Commission to be the guardian of an interest that is above that of the nations.
It has refused to allow the Commission to be monitored, and has used a lack of transparency as a deliberate strategy for achieving integration, and through its central figures has moved around considerable sums of money.
We are appalled to see that this little world has been granted considerable powers in initiating legislation and managing Europe.
I voted for censure.
The Commission prefers the tutelage of experts to real parliamentary monitoring and Parliament is surrendering its monitoring powers temporarily, but once again, and it goes on, from one temporary surrender to the next.
I regret, Mr President, that the Commission and some groups have taken part in this game.
It is because I want strong European institutions for a strong Europe that I voted for this censure.
D66 is in favour of a strong Commission and a strong Europe.
This Commission has relinquished its independence by placing its future in the hands of a committee of experts.
Mr President, the French Socialists refuse to grant a free rein to Jacques Santer's Commission.
Throughout this crisis of confidence between the European Parliament and the Commission, the French Socialists have firstly tried to secure the collegiality of the Commission and observance of the presumption of innocence.
The French Socialists deplore the fact that the President of the Commission took so long to express the solidarity of the college and to make proposals to Parliament in terms of methods to improve the management of the Commission.
The fight against fraud, corruption and irregularities must be pursued with determination, and the means of doing this must be strengthened.
The Commission must have at its head a strong political figure.
The resolution that we have just passed opens the way for this, but the Socialists would like to merit this crazy escalation of events with having revealed the urgent need for a reform of the institutions of the Union before any enlargement can take place.
Mr President, while I am very critical of the Commission's way of working, I have abstained, along with other colleagues in the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, from the vote on the resolution on discharge for the 1996 financial year and on the motion of censure because I do not agree with any of the texts presented.
Mr President, it was my unshakeable European conviction that made me vote for censure of the Commission.
This vote is justified especially by the fact that the Commission did not comprehend, or is comprehending too late, the following reality: the Maastricht Treaty and the future provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam make the European Parliament into a true political institution which has a duty to assume its political responsibilities.
The monitoring committee set up by paragraph 1 of the text of the Socialist resolution is placed under the tutelage of the Commission and of Parliament.
That is unacceptable.
The ultimate priority today was to re-establish in the institutional balance the authority of an institution that is, when it is in agreement with the European Parliament, the driving force behind progress in the European Union.
My vote responded clearly to that challenge.
The answer to this question has to be either yes or no.
Today's events have demonstrated that there is still an unfortunate lack of democracy in Europe's institutions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group is divided, as all the groups are to a greater or lesser extent.
Last night, at 9 p.m., a debate was opened here on an own-initiative report by my friend and fellow countryman, Mr Areitio.
Moreover, can we cast an individual stone at any of the Commissioners when we know perfectly well that the College of Commissioners is exactly that, a college, a single unit, and that - whether we like it or not - those are the rules and we have to respect them?
As I said to my group, the Philistines are of no importance to me, neither those in my group nor in the others.
Mr President, I voted against the motion of censure, remembering that Talleyrand said that all that is exaggerated is insignificant.
After the vote on the firm resolution on an in-depth reform of the administrative culture - and I hope, not only that of the Commission, but also that of Parliament, for example - after the undertaking, which was just as firm, by President Santer to deal with all the cases of fraud, mismanagement and nepotism so that those responsible can be punished at whatever level, voting for censure would be exaggerated.
The Santer Commission has indeed taken on its political responsibilities.
It has indeed completed the introduction of the euro and I hope that after the shocks that the euro has already undergone in the last few days, for which certain sorcerer's apprentices in this Parliament and their political policies are responsible, I hope that after this vote the euro will once again become a strong currency serving the citizens of the Union.
The Commission is stronger, having come through this test.
The Commission engaged in a diabolical process, at the end of which it has not gained our confidence.
Mr President, I did not vote in favour of censure, unlike most of the French members of my group.
This is why I did not join in with the 'Villierite' manoeuvre that was guided more by a rejection of Europe than by any other motives.
A fortnight after the launch of the euro, our Parliament and our Europe deserved more.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, where do we stand now? 232 Members have voted for the motion of censure, and 27 have abstained.
And that is precisely why I and many others have refused to express our confidence in the Commission.
The Commission cannot ignore this vote.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a co-signatory of the motion of censure I of course voted for it and I believe that the large number of Members who supported the motion - about 40 % - makes it clear that the Commission no longer has the support of a broad majority.
The fact that there was in effect a grand coalition between the majority groups makes the large number of Members who supported the motion of censure all the more significant.
Considering that in comparison with the BSE motion of censure the number supporting the censure vote has almost doubled, there is every reason to claim that confidence in the European Commission has eroded.
Moreover, I would like to note that the Christian Democrats of the PPE and their allies, along with the Socialists, make up a real block that supports the Commission in and against everything.
The current motion of censure has as its direct cause the refusal by Parliament to grant discharge for 1996.
Furthermore, the Commission has put forward a programme with an appropriate timetable to tackle the problem of fraud in cooperation with our own Parliament.
Finally, Europe is at an extremely important stage.
In order to ensure calm and stability and to avoid an institutional crisis, I have voted against the motion of censure.
The Luxembourg Socialist Members of the European Parliament supported the Commission, while expressing their criticisms and their serious concerns regarding the management of certain financial and administrative affairs.
It is for this reason that we welcomed the eight-part plan presented to Parliament by President Santer on Monday.
The measures for financial and administrative reorganisation advocated in the Socialist resolution are along the same lines as the plan put forward by the President of the Commission.
Unlike some, who took advantage of the vote on discharge in order to weaken the Commission, the Socialists have always insisted on the need for a Commission that remains strong and operational right to the end of its mandate.
The Socialist motion of censure was a motion of confirmation of the Commission.
President Santer had himself requested it, the day before the vote on discharge, in December, in order to clarify relations between Parliament and the Commission.
Without this political initiative on the part of the Socialists, the measures announced by Jacques Santer would never have seen the light of day.
Moreover, the debates on this motion have led to the formation of a coalition in the European Parliament that is hostile to the Commission.
This irresponsible coalition has damaged not only the prestige of the Commission, but also the European Union itself, as a result of its extraordinarily relentless attack on a Commission whose political record, at the time of the introduction of the euro, is largely positive.
The vote of censure against the Commission is a political vote against lack of transparency, maladministration, bureaucracy, the democratic deficit, arrogance towards the European Union's citizens, and the networks of companies and consultants that feed like parasites on the Community budget which is financed by the European taxpayer.
It is a political vote for a strong Parliament in the European Union, which can intervene decisively and boldly in what is going on.
To vote for censure is to defend the credibility of the institution of Parliament, which has been treated with contempt by the Commission, the latter being more willing to give information to the press than to the committees of the European Parliament.
To vote for censure is, above all, to defend the interests of the citizens and the electorate of Europe, whose money has been misappropriated and squandered by a silent and secretive technocratic institution that has so far been incapable of doing its duty.
It is in accordance with Finnish interests that a properly functioning Commission continues to maintain the balance of power between the large Member States and the smaller countries in the final round of the Agenda 2000 talks, in which our country has important national interests to protect.
The information that has been given to Parliament in the last few weeks, especially that given to the Committee on Budgetary Control, prevents me from maintaining my confidence in the political management of certain Commissioners.
Parliament has weakened itself by entrusting its task of monitoring the Commission to a committee of experts.
The June Movement and the People's Movement have only voted to name individual Commissioners because the largest group in the European Parliament said that it would only vote for its own motion of censure if there was a majority in Parliament in favour of criticising a named Commissioner.
Mr Santer is a prisoner in his own fortress.
This lack of rigour, which leads to waste and damages the interests and the image of the European Union, is in itself a reason to express our lack of trust in the Commission.
For example, the attitude of the British Government in operation 'Desert Fox' is a violation of Article J of the Treaty, and with regard to the 'Echelon' affair, the Commission quite simply refuses to give an answer.
Censuring the Commission is not a solution in itself, but it is the necessary condition for change.
I voted for the motion of censure, because through his actions President Santer has undermined confidence in the Commission to such an extent that - regardless of the decision by Parliament today - it has made its position politically untenable.
As a Liberal and a devoted friend of Europe, I would like to use my vote to help restore the confidence of Europe's citizens in the EU institutions and the European idea.
My hope therefore is that the Commission's President, Mr Santer, will soon be replaced by someone who can restore confidence in the Commission, and in the Union and cooperation in Europe as a whole.
I voted against the motion of censure because I believe that my personal goal of efficient European administration and the concomitant economical use of budget resources can only be achieved if all the European institutions work together to create a new European-level administrative structure.
The members of the Greek delegation in the Group of the European People's Party felt a sense of great responsibility in voting against the motion of censure that remained after the withdrawal of the previous motion by the European Socialist Party, which was a stillborn attempt to impress public opinion.
Thus the Commission as a whole has assumed responsibility for all the criticism which has been directed at the Commission by the Court of Auditors, Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and a large number of Members of Parliament.
We therefore voted in favour of the motion of censure against the Commission.
Confidence in the present Commission has therefore been permanently damaged, as demonstrated by the result of the vote, 232 to 293.
The Commission has had time enough to root out these problems, as the European Parliament decided to defer the discharge back in March 1998.
In addition to the European Court of Auditors there is another powerful monitoring body, the European Parliament's own Committee on Budgetary Control.
Our citizens have a right to expect a transparent, fair and hard-working Europe which manages the funds entrusted to it with due care.
The Socialist proposal to appoint a committee of independent experts to examine how the Commission detects and deals with fraud, mismanagement and nepotism provides a basis for rooting out these unacceptable practices.
Between 1989 and 1992, the European Commission blithely allowed Great Britain to poison millions of cows. 146 000 British cows were destroyed without Brussels batting an eyelid.
In any case, the risk was knowingly taken to contaminate millions of human beings.
The motion of censure of 20 February 1997 concerning mad cow disease was not passed.
Also, in 1992 the European Commission, going beyond its powers, did not hesitate to secretly sign the Blair House agreement with the United States, an agreement that sacrificed the agricultural interests of Europe and of our farmers.
On top of that, in the Central American bananas affair, the Commission in Brussels, on its own initiative, made a gift of 12 billion francs' worth of annual customs duties, to the sole benefit of three American multinationals: Chiquita, Dole and Del Monte.
However, for the 3.9 million francs of humanitarian funds for the Balkans and for two of Edith Cresson's friends, hidden away in her office, the European Commission is finally inciting disapproval.
President Santer has accepted reforms proposed by the leader of the EPLP, Alan Donnelly.
To have voted for Mr Fabre-Aubrespy's motion of censure to sack the Commission today, at the critical juncture when the Commission needs to be capable of taking major decisions on Agenda 2000 and reform of regional grants, could have thrown this decision-making process into paralysis.
Today's vote constitutes an unprecedented political rejection of the Commission, even though the majority for censure could not be achieved, although only by a few tens of votes.
Despite the manoeuvres of the two main groups in the European Parliament that were completely opposed to censure, 232 Members (out of the 552 who are present), including all the French Communist and allied Members, and the great majority of the GUE/NGL Group, voted for censure.
This demonstrates the strong discontent that is developing in the Union with regard to the ultra-liberal choices, the excessive role and the arrogant practices of the Commission.
The GUE/NGL Group also wanted to outplay the manoeuvres from the right-wing, attempting to release the Commission from its responsibilities by solely accusing two Socialist Commissioners.
In support of the new situation, we will continue to work towards a progressive reorientation of European construction and for transparency and democracy within the institutions.
The European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control must be able to complete its investigation into the suspicions of malpractice by the Commission relating to the 1996 discharge.
In addition, we must make an agreement of trust among the EU's institutions - the Council of Ministers, the Commission, and Parliament - as Chancellor Gerhard Schröder of the Federal Republic of Germany, the country currently holding the EU presidency, has proposed.
The reason that I am voting today for censure of the Commission, as I also did at the time of the BSE crisis, is to express a precise political position without discrediting any one Member of the Commission, which is not our responsibility.
The Commission has on three occasions demonstrated its inability to deal, transparently and in the interests of European citizens, with such fundamental and varied issues as BSE (public health), international relations (the GATT, NTM, MAI and P&amp;T agreements) and the budget (on several occasions).
It seems to me to be incoherent and dangerous for the future of European construction to continue to give our confidence to a Commission that is unceasingly arrogant on a day to day basis, but which says it is sorry and promises to change when sparks fly, without ever fulfilling its promises.
I do not want to grant political confidence to an institution that is too often only concerned with ultra-liberal aims, in contempt of the aspirations and needs of the citizens of Europe.
The arrogance with which the President of the Commission has received Parliament's criticism is incredible and unacceptable.
By rejecting the motion of censure tabled by 70 Members from all political standpoints, the European Parliament has covered up the fraud and serious irregularities in the European Commission, and has therefore lost all credibility in the eyes of its citizens.
On this occasion, the National Front has unanimously reaffirmed its vocation: to defend the interests of our native countries and the freedom of the peoples of Europe and in particular of the French.
I voted against the PPE Group's resolution and for the PSE Group's resolution for the simple reason that my group's resolution would have destabilised the Commission at a time when Europe is in need, not of additional problems, but of strength and courage to overcome problems.
I voted for the Socialist resolution because it asks for a committee of inquiry to shed light - as quickly as possible - on the fraud and unscrupulous actions committed in the Commission.
President Santer and the large majority of his Commission have my complete confidence.
I want to give the Commission the opportunity to correct its mistakes, to make those at fault face up to their responsibilities and to emerge stronger from this crisis.
With this vote, I am expressing to President Jacques Santer the confidence I have in him and my confidence in the building of a strong, transparent and democratic Europe, a Europe that will know how to avoid fraud and malpractice in the future.
What we are voting on indirectly is to grant the Santer Commission discharge for 1996, so I shall be voting for the discharge and thus expressing confidence in the Commission presided over by Jacques Santer.
This has been a difficult decision for me too, as the European Court of Auditors' report quite rightly drew attention to the sloppy way certain Commissioners and some of their officials carried out their work.
Although the European Court of Auditors and the European Parliament have repeatedly called for improved and more rapid checks, it is obvious that the Member States do not have the will to act here.
In the hope that this will never be necessary again, I shall, as I have already said, vote to grant discharge to the Commission under Jacques Santer.
We did so on the basis of the responsibility we have assumed as representatives of the citizens of Sweden and of the rest of the Union.
The credibility of the current Commission has been seriously damaged.
However, we are convinced that only a new Commission can restore confidence in the institution and implement the structural reforms, the new set of rules and the openness which the situation demands.
For the first time in the history of our Parliament, a motion of censure against the European Commission has obtained a number of votes which is close to a simple majority, and these votes come from all the political groups and all the Member States represented in the House.
The extent of this vote of no confidence, which gained 232 votes in the only real motion of censure, which was tabled on the initiative of the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations, powerfully demonstrates our people's rejection of the way in which Europe is currently being run.
The repeated scandals that tarnish the Commission in all its fields of intervention are not a matter of chance: they are the result of a system that the Member States have allowed to develop, the structure of which breeds corruption.
This system could be considered to be an actual distortion of democracy, because the result of it is that the responsibilities entrusted by the people to the governments that they elect are in fact carried out, through the Commission, by subcontractors that are not monitored by anyone: consultancy firms, ad hoc service companies, and so on.
Yes, we do need to review the European institutions, but this review needs to be in-depth: that is what we mean when we talk about the need to build 'another Europe'.
The solution does not lie in unmonitored sub-contracting, which leads to wastage and fraud at the expense of the taxpayers in our Member States, nor does it lie in constructing a federal super-bureaucracy.
The Member States in the Council must forcibly regain control of the Commission.
Their past laxity, in thoughtlessly allowing a body to develop outside any control, by shirking their responsibilities and giving in to the Commission's bulimic appetite for power, has endangered the future construction of Europe.
The current system has shown itself to be incapable of reforming itself and incapable of taking account of the desire for reform expressed by the European Parliament: we only have to look at what became of the conclusions of our first two committees of inquiry.
The Commission only finds the energy to condemn those within it that advocate transparency, from Bernard Connolly to Paul van Buitenen.
The author of the report put forward an excellent proposal, now referred to as paragraphs 26 and 27 of the Elles report.
The Socialist Group wanted to close the debate and tabled a motion of censure which it itself was not prepared to vote for.
The committee of experts is a capitulation by the European Parliament.
The motion of censure tabled against the European Commission did not have adequate grounds.
I was therefore unable to vote in favour of the motion of censure.
Public opinion has received a very negative impression of the European institutions.
We have also forgotten about the spirit and letter of the Treaty on European Union.
Equally, the European Parliament has power to vote for a motion of censure to prevent the European Commission from continuing in office.
The launch of negotiations to enlarge the European Union to include the countries of Central and Eastern Europe will lead us to a united Europe, a revolutionary institutional model and a factor for global peace and prosperity.
The debate on Agenda 2000 is also underway and will put Europe in a position to face the challenges of the next seven years successfully.
This does not prevent us in the European Parliament from continuing with our task of strictly monitoring all the Commission's activities, and this includes the demand to improve its management structures.
I would therefore like to know on which of our Rules of Procedure the withdrawal of this motion of censure, with more than 63 signatories from the Socialist Group, was based.
Thank you, Mr Happart.
Both the Commission and the Council are represented.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I regret that this interesting debate and your equally interesting statement have been overshadowed by today's other events.
I believe that we need to provide support measures to prepare for a common European border protection system, because I feel that we will need such a system in the long term.
The Austrian Presidency was fairly receptive to this idea and I hope that you will seriously consider this project, which would be situated in the border area between the EU and the applicant countries.
The Austrian Presidency and the European Parliament have carried out some important preparatory work in this area too.
We can already see the unreasonable effects of the Dublin Convention when the principle of the first asylum country is applied to countries which have different criteria for granting asylum.
Unfortunately, we can also see how this motion for a resolution defends the totally unreasonable document produced by the Austrian Presidency, which is one long attack on anything that represents a humane and responsible refugee policy.
As far as Schengen's integration into the Treaty is concerned, the negotiations must be open and involve both the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
There are two trends in the two proposals we are considering which are decisive for our group, for me personally and for the movement I represent in Denmark.
Mr President, it is not easy to say everything that needs to be said about these two important reports in just two minutes.
We all know that this does not happen often, although it should be a regular occurrence, and I hope that we will continue to have a Council presence during our debates.
In terms of the report on Schengen cooperation, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work, as it is a very difficult subject.
And I would thank him, in particular, for the way in which the vote unfolded in committee.
It has been said that the Schengen acquis is vague.
The Schengen acquis will continue to change right up until the last moment before it is incorporated at European Union level, and its Executive Committee will continue to do its job.
And I should like to give you an example of this.
The minimal progress we have made in this area, compared with the headlong progress we have made in the financial, economic and many other spheres of Community activity, is now causing serious problems.
And the fact that two or three existing EU Member States will not be part of Schengen creates complications which will need to be resolved.
The influx of people seeking asylum from certain of these eastern European countries at the present time calls into question the situation in certain of these countries and makes it urgently necessary for them to introduce effective legislation to protect their ethnic minorities.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Treaty of Amsterdam improves the running of European policy on justice and home affairs.
In other words, in terms of the fight against crime, and asylum and immigration policy, we see a lot of declarations and few actions.
The facts demonstrate just how important the Schengen security system really is.
So Schengen has led to an improvement in security.
This is also proof that the Schengen security system, as already implemented by 10 Member States, is sound.
Mr President, it is understandable that many states in the Schengen zone have been undecided about accepting the institution of a passport-free area in its entirety.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to thank those Members who have stressed in their speeches that Schengen is of course a two-part system.
Incidentally, we are not only doing that as part of our EU presidency, we are also trying to do this bilaterally, and in my capacity as Germany's Minister for the Interior, if you will allow me to mention this in passing, I am also holding various meetings with my colleagues from the applicant countries, with a view to progressing these matters.
It will probably not be possible to present a report before the meetings, but I am more than willing to make an oral report after the formal Council meetings.
Given that there have been quite understandable complaints that adequate information on the action plan has not perhaps always been published in good time, then this would seem to be a good opportunity to reiterate comments made here in Parliament.
I would like to emphasise once again that in 1998 Parliament was consulted 15 times and provided with information seven times on justice and home affairs matters, in the hope that some of the criticism expressed here could be tempered somewhat.
If we weigh these various issues against each other, it emerges that there are certain fields in which national sovereignty plays an even greater part than in others.
Applause Thank you, Mr President-in-Office.
That is indeed completely out of order, Mr Mendes Bota, being both contrary to our Rules and unlike our excellent interpreters.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place this evening at 5.30 p.m.
Our present discussion is not intended as a repeat of that debate, but is designed to deliver the following clear message: in this House, among the European population and throughout the world there has been perfectly understandable criticism of the bombing raids by the United States and Britain.
Secondly, the Kurdish organisations reached an agreement in Washington.
We in this Parliament wish to urge the Kurdish organisations to uphold this agreement, to set aside the argument that interests no one - except perhaps some Kurdish political leaders, but certainly not the Kurdish population and certainly not the Western world - to cooperate and to represent very clearly the interests of the Kurds.
In addition, we should do everything possible to ensure that the entire population suffers as little as possible from the policies of Saddam Hussein, from military actions and from the sanctions.
It was Saddam Hussein who broke the agreement with Kofi Annan.
Saddam Hussein is essentially an Arab version of what Hitler was in our part of the world.
For that reason, if the House adopts the resolution, which is a good one, it should reject the three amendments, the only real purpose of which is to undermine and water down this resolution.
The fact that Saddam Hussein backs his authority with weapons given to him by the West does nothing more than to highlight our distinct lack of conscience.
Mr President, let me do a rather unusual thing in the European Parliament and respond to the previous four speakers, not a thing that people often do.
Since the Gulf War in 1991 the European Union has been the largest donor of humanitarian aid to Iraq, having given aid to the value of EUR 200 million.
ECHO earmarked EUR 10 million for the first eight months of 1998 and another EUR 4 million for the period from October 1998 to 1999.
This attitude may well threaten the implementation of humanitarian aid programmes financed by the European Union.
As far as the Kurdish conflict is concerned, we must welcome the rapprochement of the two rival Kurdish factions in northern Iraq as a result of the 1998 agreement on a system of power-sharing, and elections are now being prepared in order to set up a Kurdish regional assembly.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The shooting down of two cargo planes chartered by MONUA, causing the death of 23 people, represented a new level of disregard for all the international agreements and institutions.
The patience of the international community is wearing thin.
Mr President, the situation in Angola is extremely serious, and the resumption of the civil war is particularly worrying.
We must be very firm in showing our disapproval of this situation and our determination in appealing for peace.
Thank you, Mr Nordmann.
Mr President, we had hoped for peace in Angola.
I believe we must take serious note of the UN Security Council resolution, which calls for the enforcement of sanctions against UNITA.
On three occasions she tabled motions for resolutions that were not accepted by this House, and she therefore considers that Parliament must also bear responsibility for the current situation in Angola.
She also says that, in her opinion, the deep mistrust between the government and UNITA, which has a historical basis, was aggravated by the 1992 massacres and that this is the fundamental reason for the conflict in Angola.
But much more serious is the fact that, the state administration having been extended, this consists not of administrative officials but of the police and the army, which are destroying all the UNITA headquarters and killing or arresting all the leaders of this organisation.
This obscures the fact that there is actually a cruel dictatorial regime in power in Luanda and that both sides should really be treated alike, as they are in fact treated in some respects by the United Nations.
This oil trade ought to be stopped in exactly the same way as we are now calling for a halt to the trade in diamonds.
I believe it is important that both sides are treated equally.
Mr President, despite all the United Nations' efforts, the situation in Angola is deteriorating again.
I hope that the United Nations will not relinquish its efforts and that MONUA will stay on after 26 February.
The international community must continue to provide support, but it will not be easy to maintain donors' commitment to Angola.
Mr President, we firmly condemn the resumption of the war in Angola, which constitutes a setback in the peace process, and we believe it is necessary, as emphasised in the resolution we are debating, to start applying the Lusaka protocol and the resolutions of the United Nations Security Council again.
We are not going to have a debate within a debate, but if you want to make a personal comment in response to an earlier comment, please carry on.
What I said was the result of a report compiled by a delegation of the European Parliament that had just visited Huambo in Angola.
Mr President, the European Commission shares the view that the resumption of fighting in Angola is clearly very unfortunate and that any attack against planes not involved in military operations is unacceptable.
The Commission believes that the European Union will only be able to adopt further sanctions through a UN Security Council resolution.
The European Commission has, of course, allocated and financed humanitarian aid to help the more vulnerable sections of the Angolan population in various areas.
The implementation of these programmes has also been partially affected by the deterioration of the political and military situation following the resumption of the armed conflict.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
The people of Indonesia are entitled to this.
I hope that the new government will start to work in a genuinely democratic manner and will install a new, legitimate authority that is able to take action.
The military are responsible for new acts of violence, new disappearances and new political imprisonments, and recently in Alas, the hope of the Timorese died along with a still unspecified number of people.
Mr President, East Timor is once again on our agenda at a time when three important events are occurring.
Firstly, there is the greater isolation of Indonesia due to the change in the official position of the Australian Government on East Timor, applauded by almost all the Australian political parties and criticised only by the Indonesian Government.
Indonesia is becoming increasingly isolated in its claim to continue its military occupation and in its attempts to force the integration of East Timor into its territory.
Bishop Ximenes Belo recently confirmed the arrival in the capital of East Timor of thousands of Timorese who have been forced out of their houses through violence and terror.
Thirdly, there is the refusal to accept a visit from a delegation from this House.
This House has also had an important role to play in the debate on this issue by highlighting the problems of Timor and the violations of human rights.
Obviously we support this motion for a resolution but I regret that it does not contain a proposal made by Mr Janssen van Ray that, at the time of the elections in Indonesia, a referendum should be held in East Timor on self-determination.
We therefore repeat the demand for inquiries and visits to East Timor, which Indonesia has refused this House since November 1991.
Mr President, President Suharto fell from power in Indonesia last spring, but just six months later Amnesty International has found that promises relating to human rights given by the new president have not been kept.
Western Sahara Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a slow process of progressive pacification in Western Sahara.
So it is vital for the European Union to urge the Moroccan Government and the Polisario Front to cooperate fully with the United Nations in the holding, without further delay, of a free, fair and impartial referendum on self-determination for this region, which has witnessed so much fighting and suffering in the past.
There is a real possibility that the United Nations may decide to pull out of illegally-occupied Western Sahara at the end of this month and at this moment in time Kofi Annan is preparing a report to submit to the Security Council by 22 January.
Morocco - present again of course in the gallery - cannot be bothered to have meetings with certain people in the European Parliament but is very effective in lobbying, in corrupting and even in acts of burglary in this building.
Let us make sure that we are fully behind the United Nations and the commitment of Kofi Annan and James Baker and that we can see an end to this conflict.
Mr President, one difference between Angola and the Western Sahara is that there is a cease-fire in the Western Sahara.
A cease-fire, however, is still a step short of peace.
That was what we had hoped for, we expect it to take place this year, and Kofi Annan seems to be emphatic about this, as his last visit to the region showed.
This means that we in the European Union are now in demand too and will have to give this process decisive political and logistic support.
We call on the Council - and the Austrian Presidency gave many encouraging signals in this matter - to ensure that the referendum is guaranteed and that the humanitarian aid is continued until then.
In spite of this, we must prevent feelings of impatience on the part of the United Nations, the international community, the Polisario Front and the Moroccan Government.
The Polisario Front agreed to implement all of these proposals which come as an indivisible package.
The United Nations Security Council has also recognised this.
In its resolution of 17 December, it welcomes the agreement of the Polisario Front and urges the Government of Morocco to implement the United Nations settlement plan.
In order to ensure that it is carried through, that it is to the holding of a referendum on self-determination in December 1999, we have to frustrate the attempts by the Government of Morocco to block the process.
We need to support the compromise resolution in order to send a signal to the Council and to the governments of the Member States and to support the efforts of the Secretary-General of the United Nations in ensuring the success of the referendum process.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish that the President-in-Office was also here to listen to this debate.
I am not going to remind the Commission of something it is already aware of: the importance of the Security Council meeting and the latest resolution, which, in reality, Mr Fabra, already reflects a degree of impatience on the part of the international community.
I would also like to remind you of what the Security Council says and what we are all aware of: the Polisario Front has already accepted all the measures being proposed by the Secretary-General, and is also responding to the Houston agreements and the Secretary-General's proposal.
Mr President, I believe we all want peace in the Western Sahara, and for that reason we probably all support the purpose of this resolution.
These people cannot simply be excluded from a referendum; similarly, those who are living in the refugee camps in Algeria must also be enfranchised.
The territory of the Western Sahara belonged to Morocco for many centuries before it came into Spanish possession.
Mr President, during the last part-session we held a debate with the Council after 10 Members asked an oral question.
It seems as though the referendum is going to be delayed by another year, but this year is crucial.
Mr President, I want to express the full support of my group for the compromise resolution, but above all full support for the referendum process in progress in Western Sahara and for the undertakings given to the United Nations by Morocco, the Polisario Front and the individuals involved at this time in this fragile part of the world.
Mr President, Commissioner, what we are seeing here is a clear imbalance between Parliament's insistence on the issue of Western Sahara and the Council's silence.
I therefore believe that the Council should be aware that political pressure - along with cooperation - is essential to ensure visibility in this conflict and to help put an end to this situation.
Mr President, trafficking in children in Guatemala is a lucrative business.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is clear that some people are getting rich through the most despicable and revolting form of trafficking that exists: the trafficking of children.
Mr President, this problem of the illegal trafficking of children in Guatemala, or children who come from Guatemala, could be on a much wider scale involving many other developing countries.
However, what is certain is that the root of the problem can often be found in the developed world, where there are well-structured and experienced trafficking networks that are involved in the trafficking of children, women and human organs.
The United Nations mission in Guatemala has the express task of ensuring respect for human rights there, and I believe it is important to highlight the fact that Guatemala forms part of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
Mr President, international adoptions doubled in Guatemala in 1997: over 2 000 at an average cost of USD 15 0-20 000.
President Pastrana has given us renewed hope and has injected fresh impetus into the peace talks.
I would like to ask the Commissioner a question about the peace process.
A number of ECHO projects are running in the Comunidades de Paz, an organisation of villages that were built a year ago at Apartadó and Rio Sucio in the north of Colombia.
I know that you cannot give me an answer straight away, but perhaps you could think about this, and I will contact you about it later.
I would also like to ask the Commission, if possible, to explain how the European Union would be involved in the construction of these areas of peace.
Mr President, there can be no peace without human rights.
Agrarian reform has to be implemented, and economic and social justice must be established.
The Pastrana government - and we congratulate them on this - are using the strength inherent in a new government to open negotiations with the strongest of the warring factions, with all the difficulties this involves.
We can but hope that negotiations with the other groups will follow, that the paramilitary groups as well as the guerrillas will stop the kidnapping, hostage-taking and killing and that the armed forces finally come to realise that their function is not only to defend the power of the state in a military sense, but also to defend democratic and humane practices.
But it is even worse and even more horrific for its people.
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that we all welcome the peace proposals, but it is impossible for there to be peace when, as other Members pointed out, more than 100 peasants, including women and children, have been killed indiscriminately in the last few days.
Mr President, since Thursday, 7 January, between 100 and 150 people have been killed in a series of brutal massacres carried out primarily by the AUC paramilitaries.
So, whilst welcoming the peace talks between President Pastrana and the FARC guerrillas, which began on that day, Thursday, 7 January, we have to condemn the fact that the paramilitaries are seeking to sabotage these peace talks.
The Colombian President has committed his government to taking decisive action against these illegal paramilitary forces.
I ask the Commissioner, in closing this debate, whether he could commit himself to making urgent representations to the Colombian Government to discuss the need for immediate and decisive action to be taken against the paramilitary groups to protect the fragile peace process and prevent future tragic loss of life, in particular during the peace talks of these coming weeks.
Our group believes that the European Parliament, and the European Union itself, can play an important role in the peace process in Columbia by adding an international dimension to the support for the process and by providing whatever help might be of use to the parties involved.
Sierra Leone Mr President, we are dismayed and appalled that the civil war has broken out again in Sierra Leone.
We had hoped that a stable peace could be established between the government and the Revolutionary United Front once the President and the civil government were restored to office in March 1998.
We should do everything in our power to re-establish peace, and we call on both parties to agree a cease-fire without delay, to open negotiations - and I believe we must support these negotiations - to respect human rights fully and to recognise the international human rights conventions.
Mr President, everything has already been said in this House about the legitimacy, albeit untoward, of President Kabbah and the illegitimacy of the RUF and the military rebellion.
Mr President, Commissioner, and unfortunately in the absence of the German Presidency of the Council, we are all terrified.
There is no doubt that the international community has a responsibility in this matter.
But if his freedom meant that his supporters would not act with such brutal cruelty and that the supposedly civilian government - which shoots members of the military junta without allowing them any right of appeal - would not respond in the same way, then some progress would have been achieved.
Two excellent Spanish journalists, Javier Reverte and Alfonso Armada - and I am sure there are excellent journalists in other countries - have recently published very good books on sub-Saharan Africa, and they have asked us all to be understanding.
I believe that we must be understanding, but we must also demand that the armed citizens in Sierra Leone at least behave like human beings.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important that this resolution has been brought before Parliament, because it may play a part, however small, in re-establishing what is currently lacking in Sierra Leone, as in so many other countries of sub-Saharan Africa, and that is a minimal sense of statehood.
In fact, any semblance of a state has now been lost in that zone.
On 8 December 1998, the ambassadors of the European Union troika in Jakarta met President Habibie to gain first-hand information on his plans to implement the measures taken by the People's Consultative Assembly in relation to the political and economic reforms, and, in particular, its plans to hold democratic, open, free and fair elections.
President Habibie confirmed the following dates: there will be elections on 7 June 1999 and the new members of parliament will be sworn in on 29 August 1999.
The European Union is confident that a final agreement will be reached on the United Nations proposals for a statute of autonomy.
In relation to other East Timor issues, we have informed Parliament on a number of occasions that there is a specific cooperation programme with East Timor, which is, for the most part, implemented through NGOs and the churches in the region.
With regard to Western Sahara, the European Union's general position is based on the statement by the Presidency of the Council on 29 December last year.
The Commission shares your concerns regarding the serious problems in Guatemala involving the trafficking of children and illegal adoptions.
We have been following this issue carefully - not only in Guatemala, but also in other countries - and, as far as Guatemala is concerned, a series of specific programmes have been implemented with a view to finding a solution, or part of the solution, for this section of the population.
To be specific, there is a programme in Guatemala costing EUR 2.5 million that acts on three levels.
In this respect, I would also mention - not only as regards Guatemala, but in general - all the problems related to the trafficking of children, child prostitution and paedophilia, as well as other problems involving third world countries, such as the trafficking of organs.
The Council's position and thus the European Union's position is set out in a statement that was made on 8 January 1999.
I would once again stress that it is very difficult for the Commission to take part in such debates since, apart from telling you what you already know - that we have a Council position, which you will undoubtedly say is of no use - there is very little I can add.
I am therefore in favour of continuing to provide funding, and I will put forward a proposal to that effect.
The European Union as such is not an international player in the process, although it is true that the Commission delegate was invited to the ceremony marking its beginning.
In response to your comments on Sierra Leone, Mr Robles Piquer, the Commission is following events there very closely, particularly the recent fighting between the rebel forces, including the Revolutionary United Front, and the soldiers from the old Sierra Leone army supported by the ECOMOG regional intervention troops.
With other partners, the European Union has condemned the recent attempt by the rebels to overthrow President Kabbah's legitimately elected government for the second time in two years.
I think that in the case of Guatemala, for example, Casa Alianza is already being financed by the Commission and is an active member of the European Network on Streetchildren Worldwide, which has also been funded by the Commission in the past, so it should not be a problem.
If so, I would ask you to make the Presidency of Parliament aware of it so that it can examine this issue and put forward a proposal regarding the Rules to solve this problem.
The President cut the speaker off I have been very indulgent but I cannot allow you to go on any longer.
Mr Marín, do you wish to respond?
But it is the Council that must take the final decision.
If my memory serves me correctly, I would say that within Latin America the same problem exists in Brazil, where there is another programme, and we also have further programmes for Columbia and four or five other Latin American countries.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
I believe the Council should be present, because we parliamentarians have addressed remarks to the Council on several occasions, and it ought to know what we are saying.
I would therefore ask you, Madam President, to raise in the Bureau our wish as Members of Parliament that we should be holding a joint sitting on these matters, at which the Commission speaks but the Council is also aware of what is being said.
The Commission and the Council - and again we mention the Council - must give full support to this process and we appeal to them on this count.
What we are discussing here is a resolution on the peace process in the Philippines, the process of establishing peace between the government and the National Democratic Front.
This takes us back to the institutional conflict between the Commission and the Council.
But that is a political issue.
The call for land reform is addressed to the Council.
Thank you, Mr Telkämper.
Madam President, Commissioner, I welcome the fact that the Government of the Republic of the Philippines and the National Democratic Front of the Philippines have been engaged in building a peace process.
In this context I would certainly like to underline the proposal contained in paragraph 4 of the compromise text, which urges these two bodies to provide whatever support and assistance is necessary to facilitate the peace negotiations.
As a result, three projects costing a total of EUR 21 million are currently being implemented with a view to encouraging and consolidating the peace process between the Philippine Government and the NDF.
Moreover, the Commission is currently drawing up a project costing EUR 14 million to strengthen the communities affected by the agrarian reform in the four provinces in the centre of Mindanao.
In accordance, too, with the aim of the Philippine Government, the project will be aimed at the Muslim communities, particularly the rebel repatriates who have become beneficiaries of the agrarian reform of approximately 37 communities.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place shortly.
Our resolution deals with the transfer of 250 jobs from Venray in Holland, and over 500 jobs from Mitcheldean in the United Kingdom, to Ireland.
However this resolution is not an attack on Ireland or the Irish; nor is it an attack on the peace process.
The joint resolution on behalf of the Socialist Group, the Christian Democrat Group and the GUE Group deals with two major separate issues.
First is the failure by the Xerox Corporation, an American-based multinational, to adequately consult with the workforce, particularly in Mitcheldean and with local government in both locations.
The company claims they have followed the letter of the law, but testimony from the workforce in Mitcheldean, two of whom were seated in the gallery today, suggests that the spirit of the law suffered from gross abuse.
The second issue we deal with is the more general concern about the possible use of European aid to shuffle jobs around Europe.
We are very much in favour of job creation with a rising 20 million unemployed in the European Union, but Xerox is an example - by no means the only one, by no means the worst and, unfortunately, by no means the last - where, on closer inspection, what are claimed to be shiny new jobs being created turn out to be a mirage.
Fruit of the Loom recently moved on to richer pastures.
We have good cause to complain and to protest about this case in particular, but we also have a responsibility to use Parliamentary power to change the rules to protect tomorrow's victims as well.
However, to target the creation of jobs for others, particularly in a region like Dundalk, which needs economic stability to copperfasten the process of peace and reconciliation, is unacceptable.
However, in Ireland we refuse to be cast in the role of villain because of one or two high-profile relocations in recent years.
Structural Funds are not a factor in these type of packages.
Our state aid to industry is reasonable and permissible and has been approved by the Commission.
How can you call in effect for a realignment of taxes in the Member States while such a move is opposed by your own government?
The Irish Government has reached an agreement with the European Commission with regard to regulating our corporation tax regime.
We have discussed doping, and today we are faced with an even more serious matter, the individual case of a company.
Imagine how many company cases could be brought before this House and would convert it, as it is now, into a Parliament for unions and bosses in which no-one has the documentation and no-one can judge by the evidence.
This is why I invite our colleagues to vote in favour of the amendments from the ARE Group and I welcome the fact that there are still Americans who have confidence, who come to invest in our countries and who carry out restructuring when it is necessary.
Madam President, the resolution before us on the relocation of a major company from one Member State to another brings us face to face with a familiar but fundamental problem.
The Commission knows about this and acknowledges that it is a problem, but up to now it has done nothing about it.
However, this issue was discussed at the last two Industry Councils and on both occasions the Commission explained the measures that have been taken to reduce the incentives that Member States can offer to companies to make them move from one area to another.
These guidelines will enter into force at the end of 1999.
Secondly, the recent multi-sectoral guidelines on regional subsidies to large investment projects may reduce even further the levels of subsidies for large projects.
As regards the specific question of Community funding, Parliament should note that since 1 January 1998 the European Regional Development Fund has not provided any subsidies for local investment in Ireland.
Therefore, no subsidies for the new Xerox plant in Dundalk have been cofinanced by the ERDF, nor has it received any subsidies from the European Social Fund.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will take place shortly.
VOTES (continuation) We live in an internal market operating within the European Union where there is free movement of goods, persons, services and capital across the territories of fifteen Member States covering a population of close to 340 million people.
However, there is no common VAT system operating within the European Union at this time, and the present lack of uniformity in this regard has led to fragmentation of the workings of the single market operating across fifteen different fiscal areas.
VAT is one of the areas covered by the second phase of the SLIM initiative (Simpler Legislation for the Internal Market) in which the European Commission has shown considerable interest.
As part of the ongoing work to improve the common VAT system, the European Commission has put forward proposals concerning the right to deduct VAT costs that have been incurred.
The European Union must introduce fair and definitive rules governing the common VAT system based on the principle of a single place of taxation and deduction.
In many instances these proposals will add to the administrative burden of businesses, especially small- and medium-sized enterprises.
From a European perspective, the main purpose of this charter would be to ensure that European companies and organisations can fully participate in the opportunity offered by the Internet and electronic commerce so as to avoid premature and conflicting regulations and to ensure that the interests of consumers are safeguarded at all times.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy of Parliament is right to endorse the European Commission's proposal for an international initiative for the Internet and electronic commerce.
Information technology has made extraordinary strides in recent years and the advent of the Internet has brought the benefits of IT into many homes and businesses in recent times.
The rights of consumers must be of paramount consideration for the European Commission and the European Parliament at all times.
From an Irish perspective I welcome the recent initiative by the Irish Government which seeks to make Ireland the centre of electronic commerce in Europe in the very near future.
For the same reason, I have long supported the creation of an international Internet Charter, and I therefore welcome this proposal from the Commission.
I am voting in favour of this report today.
Strengthened international coordination will assist the fight against pornography on the Internet and protect consumers taking advantage of the electronic marketplace against credit card fraud.
It was Tony Blair who reached a ground-breaking agreement with British Telecom to connect every school in Britain to the Internet.
A recent survey found that 29 % of British adults now have access to the Internet.
Recitals D and H and paragraphs 2 and 5 of the resolution call for exactly the opposite.
Commercial communications play a key role in the EU.
The Commission has now decided to adopt a number of measures which will make it easier to offer commercial communications services across borders, but not of course at the expense of the general interest.
In Ireland the local post offices play a very important role as a contact point for people, especially the elderly.
The Luxembourg Socialists have always stressed the social and economic importance of the postal services and the need to provide quality services.
This evaluation must be based on the Commission's feasibility studies, but also on Parliament's own analysis, in cooperation with the postal services in the Member States.
It is clear that the evaluation must take into account not only short-term profitability, but also the consequences for employment, the social benefits for all consumers, and efficiency for the economy.
This is the manner in which the Luxembourg Socialists will approach any other moves towards liberalisation on the part of the Commission.
Just one year ago, on 15 December 1997, we were adopting a framework directive on postal services.
This is why we think that, before any changes are made, we need to know the effects of the regulations that are in force.
The results of such a study would enable the European legislatures in the various countries to have highly precise information in order to be able to judge whether it is really necessary to take new measures, and to what extent.
Annual debate pursuant to Article K.6 Mrs Van Lancker must be congratulated on what has been exemplary cooperation in this sensitive area.
One example is the extradition legislation in Norway.
The Nordic Council should go through the legislation to find areas which involve Schengen in order to achieve a common Nordic harmonisation.
Approximation between our countries with regard to a concept of justice would be welcome, exactly as has taken place in Scandinavia.
The Socialist Group voted for the Nassauer resolution on Article K.6 because this resolution, as amended in committee and in the House, places emphasis on various points that we consider to be fundamental: the slow pace of the work towards implementing the area of freedom, security and justice and integrating the Schengen acquis into the Treaty; the delays in ratifying fundamental acts; and the failure of the Council to sufficiently take note of Parliament's demands with regard to being informed and consulted and its opinions being taken into account.
As this paragraph disappeared in favour of Amendment No 4, which is more neutral, we did vote for the final text, despite the adoption of Article 19, which we would also have liked to have removed.
We felt that it was necessary for this report to be adopted in order to urge the Council to make up for the delays that it denounces and to take into account Parliament's demands on relations between Parliament and the Council.
This astonishing statement sheds a very dangerous light on Articles 61 onwards of the Treaty of Amsterdam and could be sufficient cause for France to halt the ratification of the Treaty in order to find out more.
In particular, we would find it intolerable if the Council working group, which is currently considering the division of the Schengen acquis between the first and third pillars, were to block the Schengen safeguard clause.
This clause must be introduced in its current form and without the slightest restriction into the first pillar, notwithstanding the recitals of the Schengen Protocol, which, absurdly, seem to state the contrary.
Madam President, Robert Debré, the renowned pediatrician, used to say that our children are our eternity.
Now, in the construction of Europe, children and families are the ones who are most forgotten in the mechanisms that are being put in place for cooperation and solidarity.
It is also unacceptable that 250 million children worldwide are at work, and that we in the developed countries buy, at a low cost, some of the products made by those same children.
It is unacceptable that more than a million children are used for prostitution and for the perverse satisfaction of western tourists.
While we were having what is certainly an important political debate these last few days, a few Members among us have been considering a very delicate matter, that of the Lancelin-Tiemann affair in which children were kidnapped by their father because procedures are not harmonised between two countries.
I would also like to point out that, in order to implement this European strategy, I advocate the adoption of guidelines for action in favour of children drawn up with the partners in government after consultation with Parliament and in close collaboration with family organisations and solidarity organisations working directly or indirectly to improve the social integration of children in Europe.
On 24 November last year, the Committee on Women's Rights unanimously supported my opinion.
The Member States do not need the Community in order to have an efficient family policy.
The Committee on Women's Rights is therefore against the rapporteur's proposals calling for a European Council of Ministers on family policy, and all the other proposals for a special family policy at European level.
All that Europe can be responsible for is ensuring that, when new policy measures are introduced, account is taken of their effects on the situation of families in the Member States.
The Liberal Group is against any European interference in family matters, and will therefore support only those paragraphs that are aimed at providing better protection for children.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the start of my speech I should like to thank the rapporteur for her willingness to compromise, because that is the only reason why the House has now been presented with a report that we in the Socialist Group are able to support.
We undoubtedly had problems in the initial stages, because I need hardly say that many things have already been decided here by Parliament in a similar manner.
Let me mention just three statistics: 30 % of all parental leave in Sweden is taken by fathers, in Germany the figure is 3 %, and when the data were collected in Greece, only three men - yes, three men - were on parental leave.
What could be more important to us than our children?
The subject can be described as European in scope, because families in Europe are in similar situations and have similar problems.
The report deals with the protection of families and children.
The family is an essential element of quality welfare.
It is of course important for each of us in our own countries to ensure that people can combine work with shared responsibility at home.
With 18 to 20 million unemployed people in Europe, our children are naturally affected.
Madam President, it is fortunate that we have reports to discuss in this House like the Hermange report, and I would say the same about the Sainjon report that we adopted yesterday.
It is fortunate that in discussing these reports and adopting these resolutions, we can find justification for some of the reasons for our presence in this House, having deserved - if this is what we deserve - the vote and representation of our voters.
We feel that it would actually be very appropriate for there to be a closer connection between the subject of the protection of families and children and the social consequences of a specific economic strategy and the interests that this serves.
We have therefore tabled two amendments in order to specifically strengthen this aspect, as we feel it is necessary, and to contribute in a small way to improving the motion for a resolution to be adopted, without causing any imbalance.
This comprised two large buses going to the seaside once a year with 150 people aboard.
I suspect that many other Members may feel the same.
In our view this is primarily a task for the Member States, the regions and the local authorities, as other people have said.
I shall be putting forward a proposal on this subject to Parliament shortly, but it is still being translated at the moment.
We approved the fight against child labour in the Sainjon report, so we do not need to keep coming back to it in other reports.
Madam President, I congratulate our colleague, Mrs Hermange, for the work that she has done and especially for the very extensive explanatory statement which enables us to consider the family from every point of view and to see how it is in fact at the heart of the reality of European life and how it should be at the heart of all sectorial policies.
Family policy is therefore not so much a policy in itself as a concern that should inspire all those who think about any aspect of economic, social and cultural life in the various countries of Europe.
I will leave the question of discussing a common family policy for the Community for the explanation of vote on 28 January, and I would just like to emphasise certain points that were watered down in the final report that was presented to us due to compromise amendments.
Madam President, it is very encouraging to see the European Parliament taking an interest in the future of the family as a basic social unit.
I will not expand too much on this subject, as others have already done so before me.
I would simply like to propose going to Brazil, for example, to see what becomes of children there who are from broken or single-parent families.
Today, Madam President, I would like to deal with only one of the many issues, but one that affects just about all children and that has a very profound influence on them.
That issue is violence on television, and I am surprised that this serious problem has not been dealt with in the report.
Scientists have observed a correlation, and sometimes even a causal relationship, between the violence in the images seen by children and their level of aggression in real life.
There is more and more violence on television.
In the space of 40 years, the number of murders has multiplied by one thousand.
Also, you should be aware that in the days following the portrayal of a suicide, the rate of real suicides among adolescents increases by 13.5 % among girls and 5.2 % among boys.
This illustrates the need for better cooperation between law enforcement agencies in various Member States.
The Commission notes the requests made in the resolution, although it admits that issues relating to the family are still the responsibility of the Member States themselves.
Although the Community has no direct responsibility in the area of family policy, it is paying increasing attention to the analysis and understanding of the social and economic repercussions these new trends and social changes have on families.
These are based on the different ideas of the role of the State in economic and social life, the family's position in society, its rights and obligations, the roles of men and women within the family and the principle of the rights of the child.
However, the family has always been highly valued and will continue to be highly valued in all the countries of the European Union.
Issues that directly affect the family include the changes in the composition of the workforce, the new forms of labour organisation, the restructuring of social protection, and the changes in the distribution between men and women of tasks involving the care of dependents.
The recommendation on child care suggests that we should adopt initiatives that aim to provide child-care services for parents who work or who are still undergoing training, that pay greater attention in the workplace to the needs of workers with children and that encourage men to participate in caring for children.
The employment guidelines for 1999 put even greater emphasis on the issue of reconciling family and job responsibilities as an integral part of the European employment strategy.
Thank you, Mr Marín.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 28 January 1999 during the part-session in Brussels.
I commend these proposals to you because they result from intensive consultation with over 100 businesses, trade unions, NGOs and academics, to whom I offer my thanks and from whom I have seen the growing consensus for systematic dialogue and agreement between companies and all those who their business affects.
We have already consulted the ACP, and the firm conclusion is that what is needed is a developmental approach.
Let us use these already existing powers more effectively, and please note our commitment to multilateral agreements with the governments of developing countries themselves.
Yet 42 of the top 100 multinationals are based in Europe, only 35 in North America.
The cases you describe relate to glaring and despicable abuses.
We shall have to make every possible effort to scrutinise international law for ways and means of developing a code of conduct that will justify the conviction on moral grounds of the European firms which violate these principles of human rights.
On the other hand, we shall have to take care - and this is a point that has frequently come to my attention here in Parliament - to exercise our responsibility for keeping our reports within the legal bounds we have set for ourselves.
We must realise, however, that it is Utopian to call for a European legal framework governing EU-based companies with worldwide operations, and that such a framework would even be illegal because of its extraterritorial character.
We cannot condemn the Helms-Burton or D'Amato legislation for claiming extraterritorial jurisdiction, and then think that we can introduce the same sort of thing here.
For that reason, Mr Howitt, I should be glad if you would exercise some flexibility and tolerance at the vote in plenary tomorrow, otherwise I believe the form in which you wish to organise the vote will be unacceptable to many Members, at least to those in the European People's Party, even though you undoubtedly have a legitimate case.
The subject of the report is not simple, because of its obvious implications in dealing with the presence and activities of European firms operating in developing countries in terms of respect for the principles, standards and aims linked to recognition of fundamental human and social rights.
It is simply - although we are well aware that this is not a simple thing - a matter of wanting to guarantee effective respect, by European firms, for international and European standards which already exist but are often simply ignored or actually violated.
It is a matter of creating a solid European political and legal base which strengthens and increases the credibility of the Union's commitment and that of its Member States to affirm those standards at international level without hiding behind the easy alibi of always leaving it to other authorities to shoulder the burden of taking action.
First, there is the conviction that, especially in the age of globalisation, it is necessary to promote and integrate different intervention instruments to guarantee and promote human, social and economic rights, respect for the environment and sustainable development.
Secondly, there is the conviction that the actions of the various players operating on the international scene - regional and international organisations, national and local authorities, civil society organisations, companies - while differing, perhaps profoundly, in motivations and aims, are equally important in terms of their real impact on the actual situation of individuals, the local community and the people.
In this context it is very important to support the process, already underway, of companies operating in third countries setting up their own voluntary codes of conduct.
Finally, development cooperation policy and economic cooperation policy in general must be able to respond to principles and aims which are diverse, yet consistent.
Of the various proposals contained in the report being debated today, the one I consider central is the European Parliament's request to the Commission and the Council to put forward proposals on developing an appropriate legal basis for establishing a European multilateral framework governing companies' operations worldwide and to organise, for this purpose, consultations with those groups in society which would be covered by that code.
If we succeed in doing that, I think the European Parliament will have made no small contribution to promoting a vision of the world and of international relations which corresponds to the expectations of the citizens of Europe and the developing countries, who are right to look to Europe as a positive factor for fairness and development.
If we look at these flagrant abuses that have been allowed to occur on the one hand and the many valuable global contributions of European companies on the other, we must surely have reason to hope that we can reach a solution in the end and bring about a reduction in the number of cases that we have been so loudly lamenting today.
The numerous declarations that have already been made in this area were one of the reasons why the committee members from my group did not necessarily see it as a priority for the committee to produce this report on its own initiative and why we were initially opposed to dealing with this subject at the present time.
However, we cannot support certain proposals in the report.
The rapporteur measures with extraterritorial effect covering human and workers' rights, the environment and the prevention of corruption.
It is an excellent idea to create a legal basis for this, Mr Howitt.
A model code of conduct is a necessity.
The cooperation you propose in the new global agreement with the ACP countries is important, and represents another addition that we support.
We are also in favour of stepping up the initiatives at European level.
To borrow loosely from Brecht, first bellies are filled, then comes morality, and we know that capital is a great shark, and when it makes a killing in international business, the leftovers are few.
Madam President, a short while ago we were talking about the protection of families and children, and now we are talking about the sustainable social and economic development that should form the basis for this, not just in the West but also in the developing countries.
Operating standards deserve constant attention, particularly when they relate to trade with developing countries.
We need to put an end to exploitation in these countries.
Madam President, I would largely endorse the congratulations to the rapporteur, but I would like to look at what this report means for the future, because I think it is an important document that will now trigger an entire debate on this issue.
Take Shell in Nigeria.
This too was not covered in sufficient depth, and in future I think it is important to involve firms both large and small in the debate.
The need for such a code has become obvious from the large number of incidents or even disasters in the third world for which a number of firms have been responsible in recent years.
These are all problems that we can prevent from happening in western Europe because we have legislation and a reasonably good inspection system, but the developing countries do not have this sort of legislation.
Shell now has a code of conduct, but it has also told us that the Canadian and American companies in Nigeria do not follow it, and this has led to distortion of competition.
If things were so simple that it was possible to increase prosperity quickly in developing countries by means of conventions, declarations, international conferences and sanctions adopted by third countries, then there would be no poor countries and no conditions for workers which we would consider substandard.
However, I think the report lacks sufficient understanding of this process; instead, it portrays international investment more as a means of exploitation which needs to be regulated.
Madam President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the production of this report.
It is not acceptable that at one and the same time as we improve the quality of life internally within the European Union that some EU firms are breaching health and safety rules or exploiting labour and are causing serious and permanent damage to the environment in developing countries.
They are in fact complementary to one another and should form the basis of our strategy in this particular area.
But coordinated support is needed to ensure that governments of developing countries can incorporate standards that are already accepted internationally into their own national legislation.
This is why I think it would be useful to draft a European code of conduct which could help to ensure the better harmonisation of voluntary national codes of conduct on the basis of international standards.
But it is important to recognise that the impact of liberalisation on the international community has both positive and negative effects.
Madam President, there is no shortage of conventions, charters and declarations containing standards on labour rights, human rights, minority and indigenous peoples' rights, the environment or the fight against fraud and corruption.
The ILO, the UN, the OECD, the FAO, the WHO and the World Bank can provide a suitable ethical and legal supply of standards as the starting point for determining a European code of conduct intended for European enterprises operating commercially in developing countries.
These practices are an attack on the rights of people in fragile social situations, and involve, in particular, women and children who are subject to actual practices of forced labour.
The governments of developing countries must be made take responsibility for the implementation of standards that respect fundamental labour principles and rights.
Madam President, I would first of all like to thank Mr Howitt and Parliament for their initiative and their action to increase the protection of the rights of workers throughout the world and, in particular, those in developing countries who work, either directly or indirectly, for European companies.
Over recent years, public opinion has been very sensitive towards these issues and progress has been achieved, thanks to the action of the European Parliament at times.
I am thinking specifically of the initiatives - which were then implemented by the Commission - always to include a system of incentives as regards, for example, the Generalised System of Preferences in the so-called social and environmental clauses.
The conference was followed by a seminar in November, which looked at issues involving the monitoring of codes of conduct and social standards, and by a visit to the United States in December 1998.
As regards the legal basis for establishing a European framework governing companies' operations worldwide, the Commission believes that priority must be given to incentive schemes and measures involving a participative rather than a repressive approach.
We have always thought more in terms of positive discrimination and incentives rather than sanctions.
As a result, to maintain some degree of logic, since we opposed the extraterritorial measures advocated by the United States Congress, it would be difficult for the European Union to apply extraterritorial laws even if they have what I believe to be noble objectives, such as social protection and the protection of the environment.
As regards the possibility of creating a European monitoring platform, it is true that the Commission had not included this in its conclusions of the November seminar.
This is a very sensitive issue because if we establish a monitoring system, it will have to be extremely objective and neutral in order to prevent situations from naturally being judged according to economic interests, a company's interests or simply political interests.
In any event, we are already taking action here, and I hope that we can continue to do so.
Thank you, Mr Marín.
The debate is closed.
