I tabled this question on 7 April.
And finally, I shall mention the last point in relation to this issue of the importance of scientific innovation.
We believe that this is important for certain research sectors so that they can increase their competitiveness.
We are also putting forward another proposal aimed at guaranteeing the European Union's right to the knowledge resulting from work carried out where the cost borne by the Community is higher than 50 %, and not when it is below this figure.
Finally, another basic question remains at this second reading, which arises as a result of the growing awareness in our Community of potential fraudulent activity.
We have seen this happen recently in some of the decisions made by this very House in relation to some highly sensitive issues, such as humanitarian programmes.
And I would like to refer to the fact that, with the implementation of the fifth framework programme, we can introduce amendments that will detect possible irregularities and thus take the appropriate measures that are necessary to eradicate them.
The Commission's response to this suggestion surprises us because it says that we lack the legal framework to enable such decisions to be taken.
So we do not understand its negative response when it is evident that these issues need greater attention.
Mr President, we are therefore proposing these measures in the hope that the Commission and the Council will accept them and that they will be voted for in this House.
Mr President, I believe that the rapporteur clearly explained the amendments approved in the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy and I shall therefore not go over them again.
We have often spoken about ways in which we can link scientific research and social and economic cohesion.
And in relation to the fifth framework programme, I have to say that it is precisely those areas that have an impact on the dissemination of results that are scarcely accepted and considered from a budgetary point of view.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should firstly like to thank the rapporteur for the exceptionally constructive and enjoyable manner in which we were able to cooperate.
It is of course Articles 4, 8, 10 and 12 which are at issue here.
I should simply like to say that the research contracts under the fifth framework programme and the dissemination of research results are at least as important as the content of the fifth framework programme itself.
I believe that if we include a number of proposals of this kind in the contracts for the fifth framework programme it will prove all the more effective and efficient.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Liberal Group supports the initiative of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy to submit for second reading all Parliament's amendments which were not accepted by the Council.
The provisions of Amendment No 5 can solve this problem.
The research market changes very quickly and the results of research must also be put to use very quickly.
Although I imagine that fraud is rarer in the field of research than elsewhere, there must be vigilance in this area too.
Mr President, firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation and also for completing the report early enough to allow it to be used in the areas of the consultations on the fifth framework programme specifically relating to small and medium-sized companies.
Finally, I would urge that we should use a flexible definition of the term SME, as in the framework programme.
Mr President, the application process for research projects is a difficult and awkward one, so it has to be made easier and less cumbersome in order that SMEs are also better able to participate.
Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, as this is a very important part of the whole fifth framework programme, which we will hopefully be implementing on schedule.
I had the opportunity to speak at greater length about the Marset Campos report at first reading.
In the Council, Portugal, together indeed with the majority of Parliament, defended the importance of maintaining the definition of SMEs at the level of 500 workers.
The Council did not agree, and in its common position of last June it adhered strictly to the definition of SMEs contained in the 1996 recommendation at a level of 250 workers.
And the question is an eminently political one, concerning the role that must be given to SMEs in the execution of the framework programme and its individual programmes.
Thus today we have a text which takes into account both the experience gained from past framework programmes and the objectives of the fifth framework programme.
The Commission understands Parliament's concerns, which are embodied in the amendments tabled at second reading.
The Commission also considers that for other amendments, such as Amendments Nos 3, 4, 5, 8 and 9, the rules of participation and dissemination do not constitute the appropriate legal instrument to make them acceptable.
The rules of participation and dissemination are an essential phase in the context of the next framework programme's implementation.
As regards the definition of SMEs, there is indeed a common position from the Council.
However, the Commission has undertaken to look further into the matter so that we can find the best possible solution and definition, in order to ensure the maximum possible participation by SMEs in research and technology programmes.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to congratulate the Commissioner on the publication of this framework programme.
I therefore believe that we must ensure that energy policy plays a more prominent role and that subsequently a contribution can also be made to achieving the Kyoto objectives.
This also means that the energy sector must play an important role in this respect.
It is therefore important for Commissioner Papoutsis to have an instrument available, in relation to his colleague Mr van den Broek of DG I A, in order to also impose horizontal coordination.
The legal bases were of course necessary for the two other smaller programmes: ETAP and SURE.
We therefore hope that the Commission will report regularly to us on this aspect of the implementation of the gas and electricity directive, because we believe this to be of key importance.
It is also important in relation to our cooperation agreements with other countries of Eastern Europe, particularly Russia and the Ukraine.
Forty companies in the European Union are involved in this very imaginative project.
Here is an opportunity for European industry to make a huge contribution, not only to its own balance sheet but also to the clean use of coal in other parts of the world.
The cost is tiny.
The potential for European industry and the scope to promote clean combustion of solid fuel is huge.
We have three main objectives here: to help third countries to define, formulate and implement energy policies, to promote industrial cooperation on energy between our Union and third countries, and to coordinate the European Union's external activities in the field of energy.
Moreover, the way in which the Commission is carrying out this task is quite remarkable, Commissioner.
What defines the specific character of the programme, to which we are very committed, is that it constitutes a forum for exchange and a source of experience and knowledge that helps third countries to control their production and consumption of energy.
This increase in energy consumption is going to continue, certainly at a moderate pace in the OECD countries, but more rapidly in Asia and in Latin America, and, to a slightly lesser extent, in the Mediterranean basin.
It is obvious that helping South America or Asia to draw up more reasonable energy policies that are more environmentally friendly can only be beneficial to the planet as a whole, and this directly concerns our security.
This is why I have asked in an amendment that the contribution to SYNERGY be fixed at 18 % of the total amount earmarked for the Framework Programme for Energy, as otherwise funds could be cut further.
It may appear less important when compared to other big programmes such as Save and Altener, the two other major components of the Framework Programme for Energy, but that would be forgetting that SYNERGY alone is responsible for the external aspects of energy policy.
Mr President, when we talk about energy, we are talking about a way of life and a policy of security.
If we do not want this kind of dependency on imports, we shall have to implement urgent measures for energy production in the EU area.
If nothing is done, there will be no alternative but to rely on production in these regions.
Now the Commission has produced a common framework programme for the various energy programmes.
The framework programme presents measures connected with pollution in an unsatisfactory way, and in particular pays too little attention to the fact that energy-saving schemes can help us try and have an impact on people's lives.
I suggest that when the Commission reports back for the first time on the implementation of this programme, the whole thing should be reconsidered.
The most important of them is Altener, which we will return to in the future, though personally I think it is going to be very hard to achieve a 12 % share for renewables in total energy production, if nothing is done.
In this context, I would say that, when the euro is in place, any sudden rise in energy prices would represent a risk not only for energy policy but also for monetary policy.
We do not have time to debate this now, but I believe that it is clear.
It has already been said that the cost of this programme is relatively low.
Let us suppose that approximately ECU 150 billion is spent on energy investment per year in the European Union.
If the figure I have estimated is correct, this programme constitutes 0.03 % of total investment in energy.
All environmental problems, or at least 80 % of the major problems, are in some way linked to energy.
We must use less energy in our production processes, and you have the task of working for everyone - and this House will also endeavour, through its Committee on Budgets - to ensure that more economic resources are allocated.
Spain's external dependency is around 70 %, and whatever little there is - be it good or bad -, we have to use.
Therefore, Commissioner, the issue of coal needs to be examined in depth, especially since we are continuing to use it: 50 % of the electricity produced in the world is generated by coal.
In any case, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and the Commission - DG XVII - on their work.
I would also of course like to congratulate all this morning's rapporteurs on their excellent reports.
It will not be possible to achieve the Kyoto objectives without new resources for research into new energy technologies.
Furthermore, Agenda 2000 identifies SAVE and Altener as priority programmes.
Ladies and gentlemen, the future energy situation of Europe and the world is being principally determined by the environment issue.
The Liberal Group has been arguing for an integrated approach to energy and the environment for many years.
What is even more astonishing is the very awkward attempt in the form of the SURE programme to edge nuclear energy into the normal energy sector.
One speaker mentioned a figure of 70 % dependence for energy as a whole: oil 90 %; coal 80 %; gas 40 %.
The nuclear lobby was too strong.
My part of the world is entirely suitable for this, as it is for wind energy which has been very little developed - indeed, we could take a leaf out of Denmark's book with regard to its development of wind energy.
In the last year the UK Nuclear Inspectorate spent 136 days in Dounreay in my constituency.
They came out with 23 grave criticisms of Dounreay.
Recently the House of Commons was told after the event that Dounreay had taken in waste from Georgia in the interests of the safety of Europe.
It turned out that when it got there the license to reprocess had been withdrawn by the Nuclear Inspectorate, which had spent 136 days complaining about the discharges into the sea, into a waste shaft and into the land.
It turns out that in June of this year it was admitted that the government had sent 73 kilogrammes of weapons-grade material to Aldermaston for military purposes.
Apart from a zero contribution to CO2 emissions, renewable energy sources offer long-term security of supply and remove the element of threat from the geopolitical context.
It is my job to express our group's position in this joint debate on energy.
The Framework Programme is based on three main objectives: providing a stable legal basis for the actions carried out by the Union; strengthening the coordination of all actions under the authority of the Commission's Directorate-General responsible for energy; and setting up a new framework for the coordination of activities in the energy field under other Community policies concerning, among others, the Structural Funds, external aid programmes and research programmes.
Our group will support the rapporteur's proposals aimed firstly at guaranteeing closer monitoring of the implementation of the 1996 directive on electricity and the 1998 directive on gas, with a view to ensuring the complete success of the internal energy market, in the interests of both European companies and households.
Mr President, it is obviously a good thing to achieve a high level of security, in the nuclear field as in all other fields.
The conclusion seems obvious to me: we need to stop, progressively of course, but we do need to stop, using nuclear power.
Mr President, congratulations to the rapporteurs and Commissioner Papoutsis, who has not had an easy task here.
It has been very interesting to hear so much consensus this morning.
I feel extremely European after hearing more or less the same speech in 11 different languages, albeit with some differences of emphasis and with different views, clearly, on nuclear matters.
The budget is inadequate.
Not all aspects of energy are included in this framework.
Some of the Euratom aspects are missing, as well as research, structural funds, MEDA and large aspects of PHARE and TACIS.
I have said before that the Euratom Treaty was a very efficient way of promoting nuclear energy, on which we have varied views.
I hope the Commissioner will do some work on this.
It is quite absurd to have two separate Treaties dealing with something as fundamental and complicated as energy.
If the aim is a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, the only feasible solution to the basic energy question is nuclear power and renewable energy sources.
Mr President, in my view we have before us two major tasks facing society in the energy field.
The first is to stimulate environmentally friendly energy sources which are sustainable in the long term, especially biological energy resources, for example wood fuels, pellets, briquettes and biogas, in order in that way to achieve sustainability in energy use.
The EU cannot continue to hold the nuclear power industry in its embrace indefinitely, but must break loose and set its sights on development and the future and on renewable energy sources.
In order to arrive at a share of 12 % or even 15 % in 2020, we need more in the way of tax and agricultural policy.
Coordination and integration by means of a framework programme is desirable in order to coordinate the individual energy programmes.
Mr President, the decision concerning the future use of energy in Europe is one of the most crucial questions facing the European Union.
The most important point is that wars are currently being waged for energy resources, and as these energy resources are depleted the number of wars will increase.
Even in recent weeks we have heard of reactor problems in France, the quintessential nuclear state, where even security of supply was not guaranteed.
A power station which converts renewable energies into electricity requires the local fire brigade in case of emergency.
Mr President, if we are to integrate into a framework programme the wide range of activities in the spheres of international cooperation studies and analyses, renewable energies, energy efficiency, efficient use of solid fuels and nuclear safety, we clearly need an appropriate strategy for developing the sector.
Since the van Velzen, Soulier and Adam reports deal individually with the programmes in question, and very competently, I will say only that I hope to see the programmes that are currently in force, including the ALTENER and SAVE programmes, incorporated in the first framework programme for energy, although I know that some members of the Council are opposed to this.
Whether such programmes are incorporated in the framework programme or not, they should in any case be given an increased budget, since convergence in this sphere is far from complete and cohesion in Europe should include energy as well as economic and social matters.
I will end by saying, on the subject of including the environment in the co-decision procedure, that I think it would be preferable if the programme had both Article 235 and Article 130 as its legal bases.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for trying to bring together various elements of European energy policy.
I think we must also provide significant support for the efforts made by countries no longer using nuclear energy to move away from this type of energy completely.
We need legislative proposals to supplement this programme, firstly on energy taxes, and secondly on the promotion of renewable energies through a pan-European electricity supply directive.
But the European Commission should firstly be congratulated for presenting this multiannual framework programme for actions in the energy sector, which is an attempt to coordinate and focus the work of the various sectors in a coherent way.
However, Commissioner, I would like to use the time I have left to make a few general remarks on coal research because I think it gives us cause for concern.
In this technological sector, as in many other industrial sectors, both the medium and long-term prospects need to be borne in mind, and in this respect the situation is uncertain at the moment.
And here we are discussing the fifth framework programme.
The Commission's proposal for the framework programme on energy is vitally important for the future development of a Community energy policy.
Secondly, the creation of a coherent, complete and flexible framework for all activities in the context of energy policy.
The creation of a productive internal energy market would certainly make a major contribution towards that.
On the one hand, that too requires an integrated approach, but on the other hand it requires better means for coordination and cooperation between the parties involved.
That brings me to the main objective of the framework programme on energy, which is to ensure the cohesion, transparency and productivity of coordinated action in the context of our energy policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission will agree with many of the amendments you have tabled.
As far as enlargement is concerned, I completely agree that energy has an important part to play in the enlargement process.
For that reason the Commission accepts Amendment No 5.
As for liberalisation of the energy market, I quite agree that particular attention must be paid to the application and monitoring of the directives, and I can therefore accept Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 4.
I cannot agree with the proposal to establish a separate programme on the monitoring of the internal market.
Moreover, monitoring of the internal market will be part of the ETAP programme.
However, the whole of the rest of Amendment No 9 is acceptable.
Amendments Nos 3, 6 and 11, which seek to improve coordination and transparency, are also acceptable.
But the Commission can accept the first part of Amendment No 8, and Amendment No 7 too with one small change of wording.
I also wish to say that while I do not disagree in principle with the contents of Amendments Nos 12, 13, 15 and 16, we consider that they are already covered by the programme, so we prefer the existing wording.
In addition, we cannot accept Amendments Nos 17, 19 and 21 since they conflict with the Commission's views on nuclear energy, while Amendments Nos 18, 20 and 22 are not compatible with the statutory provisions of the Treaty.
We also cannot accept Amendment No 23, because it is already covered by the initial proposal.
So long as this form of energy exists, it is our duty, the European Union's duty as it emerges from the Euratom Treaty, to ensure that the maximum degree of safety is achieved.
In any event, as you will be aware, we in the Commission are also striving to promote new forms of energy, to establish a new energy balance for the future.
Now, as for Amendment No 4, the objective of analysis relating to renewable energy sources is very important, but it is already covered by the special action of the Altener programme.
However, there must be coordination between the ETAP and Altener programmes in that sector, and in that sense, of course, the Commission undertakes to supervise the best possible coordination between those two programmes.
The Commission also accepts Amendment No 6 with a few minor changes of wording, concerning industrial cooperation with the CIS countries and Russia, in other words the countries which can benefit from the operation and use of the TACIS programme.
In our view, there is a need to stress the fact that this cooperation should lead to the application of equivalent and high-level safety standards.
We can accept Amendment No 12 in principle, but we think it is already covered by Amendment No 7.
Thanks to Parliament's efforts, the Energy Council on 13 November will be able to carry the framework programme on energy forward substantially, taking due account of the political aspects of the subject.
I look to the adoption of final decisions by the Council in relation to the framework decision and the ETAP, SURE, Synergy and CARNOT programmes, as indeed I look to that Energy Council for confirmation of the political will to support the SAVE and Altener programmes.
The debate is closed.
I would also like to reaffirm my support for our colleague's relevant proposals.
I have already explained how I voted and the importance of implementing a specific policy in the fight against pollution-related diseases, and therefore the fight against pollution.
This summer was once again marked by peak levels of pollution in many cities in the European Union.
The cases of pollution that France has seen in the last few weeks are not, in my opinion, particular to France and cannot be considered as purely a French problem, but as a European or even a global problem.
Patients with rare diseases do not only live in the EU; besides we do not want the Commission to have powers in this area too.
However, we must approve the Community approach that our colleague Guido Viceconte wants to launch in the field of rare diseases.
The common sense, which in this case is not at all a derogatory term, involved here responds to a logic linked to the small number of people affected by this type of disease, some of which are particularly serious.
Europe must therefore intervene.
Finally, I think that the proposal to involve all those affected by rare diseases in this programme is a step in the right direction, and could help families and volunteers, who are often left to fend for themselves in their daily lives.
I would like to congratulate Mr Viceconte on his excellent report on rare diseases, which I fully support.
I completely agree with his analysis of the importance of this issue and the urgent need to establish a true Community programme in this field.
In fact, the issue of rare diseases, like that of orphan drugs - which will soon be discussed in committee in Parliament and, I hope, in the House before the end of the legislature -, is indeed a matter of public policy.
The sufferers themselves are 100 % affected!
This constraint, this responsibility, must of course be accompanied by support that stimulates research in these areas.
Finally, in order to avoid the inevitable scattering in terms of Community programmes, we have to tackle the issue of comitology.
The mysteries of this clandestine science do not interest us here.
What is important is that we adopt the management methods that will enable us to finance projects according to their quality and not according to the nationality of the participants.
I therefore think it is essential that we have parliamentary monitoring and greater transparency.
Diplomas, certificates and other professional qualifications are recognised in different ways depending on whether a person chooses to work in their country of origin or in another country of the European Union.
Considerable progress has been made since the directive of 8 February 1996, especially in the legal and medical sectors.
It is therefore time to put an end to this inequality that each year prevents many young people from exercising their right to free movement.
The fight against unemployment and to create stable jobs is the permanent concern in the majority of the decisions that the European Parliament takes with the Commission.
However, although considerable progress has been made in this field, I wonder about the conditions in which those who have had their qualifications recognised are going to be able to practice their profession.
Problems with taxation and the freedom to reside in another Member State are very real and do not seem to be improving, at least in some countries of the European Union.
Too many people in the past, including constituents of mine, have faced in effect discrimination because they happened to earn their qualifications in another EU country from the one where they would like to work.
The single market we are still waiting to see operate in all its aspects for capital, goods and services is also supposed to apply to people seeking work in another EU country than their own.
In practice though we see bureaucratic hoops put in front of such people which they are then asked to jump through - perhaps being required to undertake a new course in their adopted country in order to practise a profession they are already trained in.
I think, too, that we should be pleased with the fact that in its common position the Council has taken over almost all the amendments adopted by our Parliament at first reading.
We must realise that these amendments all deal with fundamental issues, including, notably, the definition of 'manager of an undertaking' and the Commission's obligation to present a report after five years on the implementation of the directive.
This is an essential objective, as it plays a very specific role in achieving the principle of free movement of people within Community territory.
Marset Campos recommendation (A4-0324/98) Madam President, we have just voted on the Marset Campos report on the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the research programme and I would like my vote against Amendment No 6 to be shown in the Minutes.
It is bizarre that the Council has not reached agreement with Parliament on openness in the fight against fraud.
Parliament's proposals have been long-fingered by the Council and Commission and we cannot tolerate this.
If this constant timidity on the part of the authorities, but also on the part of the investors, continues, Europe cannot hope to play a significant role in the new technologies sector.
I also support the rapporteur's desire concerning the absolute need to be transparent in the fight against fraud.
Finally, I agree with Pedro Marset Campos that simpler mechanisms should be set up in order to strengthen and coordinate more efficiently the teams taking part in the projects.
I hope that the Council and the Commission will take account of these remarks, since their only aim is to improve the existing mechanism.
Whitehead report (A4-0334/98) I would like to reiterate the position I previously expressed in this Hemicycle: without consumer confidence in products and services, the internal market cannot operate properly.
However, this harmonised approach to the protection of consumers, to their right to redress and access to justice, and to the introduction of effective international methods of monitoring and inspection requires an increase in the Community budget.
What is more, the imminent entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam and Article 153 also call for this increase because without it both the scientific committees and validation checks would not operate with the necessary rigour, which would be disastrous for the consumer.
The Europe of citizens is, in many regards, the Europe of consumers, and for this reason I shall also vote in favour of developing a sustainable food policy in the interest of consumers.
Martin report (A4-0290/98) We thank the rapporteur for a thorough job on an important report.
Although in favour of clearly defined areas where single judges can sit, the proposal is uncertain and its scope unclear.
The scope of the proposed decision can be extended without further recourse to the European Parliament or the Council.
A ten per cent increase in efficiency will not solve the vast problems facing the Court and the Community justice system.
A more radical and urgent overhaul, including an increase in the number of judges and the introduction of specialised chambers, is necessary.
I therefore voted against the proposal.
The proposal of the Court of Justice to change the working procedure in the Court of First Instance is welcome.
I cannot vote for this report because I think that a reduction in the number of judges in the Court of First Instance could easily jeopardise legal security.
If this entire politically important and sensitive sector cannot be governed by provisions which take environmental considerations into account, no EU legislation should be formulated at all in this area.
The intention of the proposal is to standardise and streamline the EU's energy policy.
The report of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy boosts these intentions as far as the centralisation of energy policy and the strengthening of the EU's powers in the field are concerned.
A key reason for this is that I think the report wholeheartedly accepts the EU's electricity and gas liberalisation directives.
Thus the option of pursuing a national energy policy has demonstrably been abolished by the EU in favour of free market forces in a field which, for environmental and supply-related reasons, must be subject to extensive democratic control - and as far as I can see it is only the national parliaments and authorities that can exercise that democratic control effectively.
van Velzen report (A4-0335/98) We voted against Mr van Velzen's report today.
In our opinion the production of nuclear energy should be phased out, and programmes that promote it should be rejected.
Adam report (A4-0339/98) The intention of the CARNOT programme is to support the exploitation of solid fuels - especially coal - in such a way that emissions of carbon dioxide and other pollutants are minimised.
It is an excellent objective, but is it enough in the long term?
Unfortunately it has become a bad habit in this Parliament for every rapporteur to seek an increase in the field with which he or she is concerned in the report in question.
Soulier report (A4-0322/98) The aims of the SYNERGY programme are a) to assist in the definition, formulation and implementation of energy policy for third countries; b) to promote industrial cooperation between the Community and third countries in the energy sector; and c) closer coordination of the Community's external activities in the energy field.
To support third countries in the definition of an energy policy stands out as a very sensible thing to do.
However, it is more difficult to see anything sensible in the EU sacrificing resources for the other areas.
We support the principle behind the multiannual programmes in the energy sector which are being discussed today, and all efforts towards research and development in this area.
Greater emphasis must also be given to innovative forms of energy production and renewable energy sources such as solar energy, wind energy, hydropower and biomass, as real alternatives to nuclear power.
Joint motion for a resolution on Kosovo Madam President, unlike the last part-session the result of today's vote on Kosovo was very welcome, and I congratulate the groups on this.
This was rejected by such a large majority that we can say that this House has now voted strongly in favour of military intervention in Kosovo on the grounds of the current legal situation.
Joint motion for a resolution on migrants Madam President, in my speech yesterday on the issue of illegal immigration from the South, I explained to our House why, in the opinion of the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations, the reform provided for in the Treaty of Amsterdam could aggravate the problems instead of resolving them.
It must be understood that, in a united European area in which there are no controls on people at internal borders, as proposed by the Treaty of Amsterdam, the overall level of security will always be that of the weakest link in the chain.
It will still be cheaper than keeping these non-integrated people in our societies.
We abstained from the vote on the joint resolution because we cannot support the formulation of a common EU immigration and asylum policy on the basis of Title VI of the Treaty on European Union.
I voted in favour of this resolution because of the many positive proposals contained in it to tackle the problem of illegal immigration, both by increasing the security of the external borders of the European Union and by curtailing the activities of criminal organisations assisting and promoting illegal entry.
I believe it is also important that the Belgian Government has finally abolished the harshest aspects of its asylum policy.
But the death of Semira also confronts the European Union with its responsibilities.
It is also not the first time that the European Parliament, together with many human rights organisations, has sounded the alarm about the tendency for Europe to adopt an increasingly severe asylum and refugee policy.
In this context, I do not believe it makes much sense to once again debate all the European Parliament's positions in defence of a more humane asylum and refugee policy.
The Council can itself take the initiative, and I am very pleased that Commissioner Gradin has supported us in this during this week.
Madam President, I ask you to allow me to make a point of order because the Portuguese, and therefore European, writer José Saramango has just been awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature.
A foreigner who is to be expelled leaves via a detention centre.
I fear that few of our colleagues will have been curious enough to go and see what a detention centre is really like.
A foreigner to be expelled is first and foremost a security and public order issue.
Well, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that has got to change.
It is in our name that these barbaric acts are carried out, and in our name that these terrible deeds are done.
Madam President, on behalf of the PPE Group, I should also like to say that we are deeply shocked by the tragic death of Semira Adamu.
This must take into account the right of political asylum as laid down in the 1948 Geneva Convention, but also the commitments made within the European Union and the Schengen zone.
I believe there are two elements, two lines of approach, which must be stressed: asylum and immigration policy must be founded on the best possible organisation of authorised immigration and the granting of protection to those in danger or in need of protection.
However, the need to respect human rights when doing so is of essential importance to the organisation of asylum and immigration policy in all its aspects.
This respect must be present during the asylum procedure and when removing persons illegally present in a country.
But we must also acknowledge the fact that the Belgian Government assumed its responsibilities following the death of Semira Adamu and congratulate the Belgian Government on seeking to adapt its policy and render it more humane.
Xenophobia has become an epidemic in our continent.
This should come as no surprise in a Union where for years the right of asylum has been systematically undermined.
Madam President, once again we must denounce and condemn the use of violence in forced expulsions of immigrants by security forces in certain Member States of the European Union.
Nonetheless, we know that this tragic event is nothing more than proof of the repressive aspects of the immigration and asylum policy implemented within the European Union.
In this connection, we would like to state that we believe that any asylum policy that is developed within the European Union must be inextricably linked to the Geneva Convention.
Finally, I would like to stress and reiterate once again to this House that the immigration and asylum policy must be based on political measures of solidarity and not economic measures.
Madam President, on 22 September, a young Nigerian woman died in Belgium, smothered by indifference, smothered by violence, smothered by selfishness.
She was 20 years old and had fled Nigeria because she was being forced into an arranged marriage.
What she did not know was that our countries are too often insensitive to suffering and to personal or collective tragedies.
In my country the greater part of rejected asylum-seekers, which means asylum-cheaters, if you will pardon the expression, are not repatriated but disappear into illegality.
These people have to work in the most difficult circumstances and deserve every support.
The fact that they are also being maligned by the former Foreign Minister, the socialist Mr Tobback, I see as nothing short of scandalous, because it was not the police force and not even the Vlaams Blok , but the socialist Mr Tobback, the big boss of the socialists who are here today, who described the refugees, and I quote from his book 'Black on White', as 'gulls who come to rest on a rubbish tip here because that is easier than fishing at home or farming the land'.
We cleared our consciences through the Treaty of Amsterdam by deciding that, in the five years following its ratification, minimum rules would have to be adopted in this sector.
In so doing, Europe would show that it is not only an economic machine, but that it is also capable, when united, of facing the difficult challenge posed by the attraction our society has for those who flee their country of origin due to its political regime, poverty or the violation of fundamental rights.
If Europe does not do its duty, if the Council of Ministers does not progress on this issue, there will, unfortunately, be other Semira Adamus.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that my colleague Mrs Gradin gave the House a clear and lengthy account of the Commission's position last Tuesday, I will refrain, if I may, Madam President, from repeating my colleague's words and merely express my personal sadness at what occurred.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I spent the whole of the first week of September in Slovakia as a member of the international team assessing the pre-election situation there.
A smooth transfer of power, the speedy formation of a new government and an energetic approach to the necessary reforms in order to come into line with our acquis must make it possible for Slovakia to be recognised as a candidate Member State.
This is indeed the result of the elections which were successfully held on 25 and 26 September.
This also allows us to make a new evaluation of Slovakia and to have a new discussion on the question of whether it should be included in the first group of accession countries.
We hope that not only the incoming government but also the political parties which are now negotiating will clearly understand that this programme of political reforms is also very important to the European Union, because over the past year the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council have all stressed the need for a number of these reforms.
But there is a certain time problem to which I would draw attention.
Formally, the Commission's screening reports are to be published on 6 November.
The Commission will clearly not have enough time to pay sufficient attention in these to the new political situation in Slovakia.
The transition in Slovakia no doubt comes too close to the Vienna summit, and the Vienna summit will not be able to take a decision on whether or not Slovakia can be included in the first group of acceding countries.
The Council would then be able to decide under the German Presidency whether or not to include Slovakia in the first group.
It would be a very bad signal from Parliament, from the European Union, if we were to keep Slovakia waiting until December next year after everything we have asked of it.
Madam President, the elections which took place in Slovakia on 25 and 26 September have caused a major upset.
The Slovak population has demonstrated political maturity by voting out Prime Minister Meciar and giving the Democratic Coalition a majority vote.
There are grounds for hoping that a strong and stable government will now be formed quickly.
However, there is a strong chance that it can create a government which fulfils the Copenhagen accession criteria, particularly in terms of achieving institutional stability as a guarantee of democracy based on the rule of law, of respect for human rights and of respect for and the protection of minorities.
The political change in this country favours the integration of Slovakia into the European Union and represents a welcome element of stability in Central Europe.
Madam President, the European Parliament has repeatedly expressed its dissatisfaction with the progress of democracy in Slovakia, which was also the reason it was not included in the first group of accession countries.
The elections in Slovakia were fair and correct, as I observed for myself.
The question for us now is whether the Union is capable of responding to this situation quickly and firmly and of assessing it appropriately.
My group believes it is possible to bring Slovakia into the first group sooner, particularly given that the new forces of democracy could use all the support they can get not only on the path to democracy but also on the path to Europe.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not usually one for debates involving associated countries on Thursday afternoons such as this, but today really is a welcome exception after the excellent decision made by the Slovak electorate.
In my opinion, it is crucial that this has given a very clear signal in favour of Europe.
We expect appropriate parliamentary monitoring of the secret services.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, 84 % voter turn-out speaks for itself.
I myself was in Slovakia for three days as election observer, and the enthusiasm of the Slovak people when they went to the polls was tangible.
Another vote took place at the same time as these elections and had a very low turn-out, yet 84 % voted in the election involving the 17 parties that stood, so we know that the Slovak people had both practical and emotional reasons for voting the way they did.
Madam President, although this has already been said, there is reason to note that the Slovak people have realised that in a democracy it is possible to change the future of one's country.
I am not entirely happy on that point, having heard certain first reports from Slovakia.
Madam President, in March of this year Parliament expressed its concern at the political situation in Slovakia.
The departure of President Kovac followed by the appointment of Prime Minister Meciar created an even more worrying situation.
Unfortunately, under Meciar the country turned its back politically, legally and economically on European standards, its political situation excluding it from the first group of potential EU Member States.
The situation is worrying, as both before and during the elections the opposition had one thing in common above all else, namely their opposition to Meciar.
In this, they need the political and financial help and support of the European Parliament.
We should now do everything in our power to enable the Slovak people, good people who have survived a tough history, to join the European Union as soon as possible.
Madam President, the Slovak people have demonstrated, through their high turnout and their civil and peaceful behaviour on the occasion of the recent parliamentary elections, a firm commitment to democracy and a willingness to use this democratic opportunity to bring change to political life in the Slovak Republic.
The Commission encourages Slovakia to make full use of the opportunity thus created to address the problems highlighted in the Commission's opinion of July 1997 which have hampered its accession process.
As you know, the Commission is currently preparing the first regular progress report.
Thank you, Commissioner Pinheiro.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Taslima Nasreen was awarded the Sakharov Prize here for her work, for her political commitment and for her commitment to human rights.
She received the Sakharov Prize, lived in exile for four years and has now returned to Bangladesh where she is being persecuted.
We are alarmed that fundamentalist parties such as Jamal-e-Islami in Bangladesh have been holding demonstrations against Mrs Nasreen since 14 September and demanding that she be executed.
So Taslima Nasreen's life is once again in danger.
Madam President, as other Members have already mentioned, after four years of being away from her country, Taslima Nasrin has returned there for personal reasons, perhaps to visit her mother whose health has deteriorated or because she missed her country.
I therefore believe that it should be very important for the European institutions to exert considerable pressure, in this case, on the Bangladeshi Government to prevent fanatics from killing a woman who has defended human rights in general, and the rights of women in particular.
The defense of human rights in general and the rights of women are of great importance to this Parliament, especially in those countries.
The Commission, or the Council, on its behalf, should apply severe pressure on that country in order to prevent something from happening.
My group supports the appeal to the Malaysian Government to stop this behaviour and calls on the Council and the Commission to apply human rights as the essential criterion in its relations with Malaysia.
Madam President, the arrest of Anwar Ibrahim, former Deputy Prime Minister and heir apparent to Mahathir Mohamad, along with 11 associates, demonstrates the short shrift that is given to democratic freedoms and human rights in Malaysia today.
A draconian set of laws threaten dissidents and journalists who speak out and people like Lim Guan Eng, an opposition MP, are already in jail for sedition; Irene Fernandez, head of a women's organization, is on trial for publishing allegations of abuses in immigration centres; Param Kumaraswami, a UN special rapporteur, faces a $25m defamation suit brought by two Malaysian companies, and the government refuses to recognize his immunity.
We are deeply concerned about the economic crisis and its impact on the peoples of Malaysia and all south-east Asia, but we must continue to raise our voice against the flagrant abuse of fundamental political and human rights.
Of course, the Anwar case also shows us that something is wrong with Malaysia's basic laws.
It has already been stated that under the Internal Security Act people can be detained without a warrant, for an investigation period of up to 60 days, if they are suspected - only suspected, mind you - of threatening Malaysia's national security or economy.
Furthermore, the Minister of Home Affairs may issue a detention order of two years without any significant reason.
We must protest against this and stand up for this man.
Some people have been imprisoned on these grounds, and we call upon the government to act in a constitutional manner and to release these people immediately.
I want to mention that during the first year of the new President there were 260 public hangings, hundreds of secretly-executed political prisoners; 7 people stoned to death in public, not to mention those stoned to death in secret.
As we know, the vast majority of patients in hospitals are women.
The fact is that Iran has changed very little in recent times.
Salman Rushdie's death penalty has not really been lifted.
Mr President, the reason for this resolution on Iran is that once again two death sentences have been passed on Baha'is in the country.
The first appeal in this resolution is an appeal to Iran not to take this road once again and to allow some religious freedom and certainly not murder people for their religious beliefs.
Because Iran is now showing two faces to the world.
Mr President, in view of what my colleagues have said, I find the situation in Iran worrying because we have sufficient information to imagine what turn political events might take.
Mr President, one of the things that fill me with pride at being a European and belonging to the European Union is the clear stand we have taken and continue to take in this part of the world against the death penalty.
It applies of course not only to the exposed group associated with the Baha'i movement, but also to a great many other people who are being put to death by the Iranian authorities.
Capital punishment in the United States Mr President, we are calling for the death sentence on Rocco Derek Barnabei, due to be carried out on 28 October in the American state of Virginia, to be commuted or at least for a stay of execution to be granted.
Rocco, a young man of 31, the grandson of an Italian emigrant, was accused of killing his fiancée in 1993.
Furthermore, the resolution of 3 April 1998 of the 54th UN Commission calls for a moratorium on executions with a view to complete abolition of the death penalty.
Mr President, this year, for the second year in succession, the UN Commission on Human Rights passed a resolution calling on those states which still have the death penalty to impose a moratorium on executions with a view to abolishing the death penalty.
But it is still worth emphasizing that there are two sides to the case of Rocco Derek Barnabei: one is the European Union's overall, clear, precise and agreed condemnation of this barbaric punishment over many years, and the other is the rights and wrongs of the individual case, it being understood that we refuse to accept the legitimacy of the death penalty.
Leyla Zana Mr President, by awarding the Sakharov Prize to Leyla Zana, our Parliament has taken a clear position against the violation of human rights in Turkey and in favour of a negotiated and political solution to the Kurdish issue.
In this situation, our Parliament must not only demonstrate its human and brotherly solidarity with our colleague Leyla Zana and all those who are the victims of repressive measures, but it must also reaffirm its total support for all the forces that are fighting in Turkey to achieve democracy in that country.
I find it outrageous that a country that aspires to join the EU should imprison people because of their political beliefs.
So I hope Parliament will recognise the importance of the resolution put forward by our GUE Group colleagues and that it can form the basis for creating the conditions to get the Turkish government properly involved in these issues.
Georgia Mr President, we have already discussed various human rights issues at length.
It wrote a report, which was adopted by the UN, calling on the Georgian Government to put an end to this scandalous situation, particularly with regard to the three people I have named in the resolution.
I only hope that the resolution is adopted in its current form, because I believe it can really achieve something.
As we have seen, the signing of partnership, cooperation and interim agreements does not automatically improve the human rights situation in the partner countries in the manner provided for by European Commission of Human Rights.
Although the Commission always claims that these agreements are necessary in order to help improve the human rights situation, this is not the case.
Mr President, the Commission has followed the case of Taslima Nasreen very closely since 1994 when she was obliged to leave her country to escape prosecution and death threats.
Article 1 of the new cooperation agreement to be concluded with Bangladesh makes clear reference to respect for human rights and democratic principles as laid down in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
This programme will be implemented by different NGOs specialised in human rights issues.
With regard to the resolutions on Malaysia, the Commission deplores the recent events in Malaysia, in particular the arrest of Deputy Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim under the so-called Internal Security Act, which allows for indefinitely renewable detention without trial.
Therefore, the Commission associates itself fully with the declaration made by the presidency, expressing the Union's concern about these incidents and calling upon the Malaysian authorities to guarantee the rule of law and to respect the human rights of Anwar Ibrahim and other detainees.
The Commission has instructed its delegation accredited to Malaysia to follow closely developments in that country.
In the case of Iran, the Commission is concerned at the continuing grave violation of human rights of the Bahai and calls on the Iranian authorities to refrain from pronouncing death sentences on the grounds of religious belief or apostasy.
However, I must say that we were satisfied with the clarifications of the Iranian Foreign Minister in New York on 24 September last concerning the death threat (fatwa) on Salman Rushdie.
The assurances given are a very positive step to remove one of the impediments to better relations with Iran which are being pursued in the new European Union-Iran dialogue.
In the case of the United States, the Commission believes that the legal system contains the guarantees necessary for a normal and objective discharge of justice, with particular reference to the right to a proper defence and the existence of appeal procedures.
First, contrary to the suggestions in the draft resolution before us today, there is no execution date set in this case and it is likely to be some time before one is set.
Nevertheless we will continue to be attentive to this matter and we shall reiterate to the United States, as we have done so often, that we are absolutely against the imposition of the death penalty.
The new condemnation of Mrs Zana by the Ankara State Security Court on 17 September is particularly worrying as it has inevitable consequences for the situation of freedom of expression in Turkey.
As you are aware, the Commission closely follows all aspects of the situation of human rights in Turkey.
In this context, the Commission fully agrees with the conclusions of the European Council held in Luxembourg in December 1997 which recalled that: 'strengthening Turkey's links with the European Union also depends on that country's pursuit of the political and economic reforms on which it has embarked, including the alignment of human rights and practices on those in force in the European Union...' In all its contacts with the Turkish authorities, and despite the decision taken by Ankara to suspend any political dialogue with the European Union, the Commission is determined to continue to express its concerns on these matters.
As for the situation in Georgia, the three prisoners referred to in the motion were condemned in 1995 for murder and terrorist acts.
They are now serving 20 years in prison.
The Georgian Parliament and Ombudsman are actively monitoring this.
The Commission takes the view that Georgia has made important progress in strengthening its democratic institutions, especially its parliament, but that it must continue to reinforce the rule of law.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Levi Strauss affair is demonstrating once again how devastating the effects of a badly controlled globalisation can be in human, social and economic terms.
The restructuring plan announced by Levi Strauss provides for the closure of four of its 12 factories in Europe.
Three of them are in Belgium and one in France, in La Bassée, a village in Nord/Pas-de-Calais, a region that is already severely affected by unemployment.
Let us not forget that on top of the very painful human consequences of these site closures, an entire local economy is going to be turned upside down.
It is true that a procedure has been announced for consulting the works councils involved, but this consultation is obligatory due to a directive that obliges multinational companies to consult union representatives prior to any restructuring.
However, allow me, in this respect, to express my doubt as regards the effectiveness of the pseudo-solution of the 35-hour week, as is proposed in France.
We are therefore dealing with a de facto relocation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for some time now multinationals like Levi Strauss have no longer lived inside our societies but outside them.
Back on 14 July, the European Parliament stated that the Commission's plan for this sector was insufficient and should be more practical and above all more concrete.
I should like to point out that Mr Vandemeulebroucke, who will be leaving the House after 18 years, has just made his final speech.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Levi Strauss, the jeans manufacturer, wants to close three factories in Belgium and one in northern France by the end of the year, with the result that 1 461 people will then lose their jobs.
I should also like to point out that in 1997, Levi Strauss recorded net profits of more than BEF 430 million at its Belgian factories.
It is a company which is perfectly able to keep open its factories in Belgium and northern France.
What is more, the workers in Belgium and northern France have themselves made the necessary efforts to secure their jobs.
Together with my colleagues Gérard Caudron and Anne Van Lancker, I have tabled a motion for a resolution, because there is European work to be done.
Mr President, Levi Strauss intends to close various factories in Belgium and France and to cut 1 461 jobs.
Secondly, we call upon the Commission to request that companies that have received subsidies from the European Union budget or the Member States' budgets should refund what they have received in the past five years if these companies have undertaken mass redundancies despite having made a profit.
Thirdly, we call upon the Belgian Government to finally introduce implementing regulations for mass redundancies so that sanctions can be imposed in the case of closures and redundancies which are not carried out correctly.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Tuesday 29 September 1998 will be known as Black Tuesday among the workers at Levi Strauss, because in a single morning 1 500 people were sacked, despite the repeated assurances by management throughout the year that there would be no job losses.
It is dishonest to submit to the workers a redundancy proposal when that proposal is already a company decision and simply remains to be implemented.
Companies also have a social responsibility, which is something that Levi Strauss has totally forgotten in this case.
Following on from Renault in Vilvorde, Levi Strauss has chosen the destructive route, which is an even more unacceptable decision since the workers have made major efforts to improve productivity.
In this context, we must undoubtedly welcome the response from the workers in all the group's European factories, and their demonstration on 5 October, which reduced the management's attempts at division to nothing and meant that some initial results were achieved.
Mr President, let me first of all express the regret of the Commission at the proposed closure of four units of Levi Strauss in Belgium and France and the loss of more than 1 400 jobs.
Let me also give you complementary information on some aspects related to Levi Strauss's announcement and, in particular, on the way in which things are being conducted.
The Levi Strauss management engaged last week in discussions with worker representatives, both at national and European level, and worker representatives are apparently now preparing proposals with a view to finding alternative solutions to the closure or to the dismissal of the workers likely to be affected.
The Commission will, next year, evaluate the way the European Works Council Directive is working, and how issues like this are dealt with will inevitably form part of that evaluation.
Anticipation of changes in the market and their effects within companies is crucial.
This requires much more permanent, employment-geared and forward-looking information and consultation procedures, compared to the formality of much of the present rules in this field.
But, if there is no agreement among them, the Commission will put forward a proposal for appropriate legislation in this area.
But we will try to comply with the one-month period laid down in the resolution, although even one month is very short.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, on 27 June of this year Glyn Ford and I attended a vigil outside the US Embassy in London to protest against the United States Government's failure to pay its dues to the United Nations.
The fact that we now have cross-group support for this resolution shows the intensity of feeling which exists in this House against the iniquitious failure to pay by the United States.
The United Nations is a very important global organization.
Its responsibilities have increased with its peace-keeping role and I know from my own experience in Sri Lanka from where I brought thousands of documents about disappeared people, that the United Nations needs more money.
When Alex Smith and myself delivered the documents on disappeared people in Sri Lanka, only four people in the United Nations were working on disappearances for the whole world.
The budget of the United Nations should be increased, not decreased in this very unfair way by the United States.
Mr President, I rise on this subject with more than my usual ambivalence.
While I accept that the behaviour of the US Congress is reprehensible, I am more interested in the detailed problems which face the reform of the United Nations, and the whole governance process at global level.
There is, at present, a report before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy looking at the whole question of UN reform and UN governance.
I doubt also that it is going to move one single vote in the US Congress, even if someone as distinguished as Christine Oddy shouts at them across the Atlantic.
I commend the resolution to the House, but I hope the House will return to it with greater wisdom and thought, and perhaps with an occasional new idea at some stage during the rest of this mandate.
We think that it should be more independent, more transparent, and that it should work towards removing the right of veto.
Many of us would like to say to the United States: look here, Article 19 of the United Nations Charter states that whoever does not pay will have no vote, and just for once, we could adopt the same attitude as they usually do and tell them that they have lost their right to vote.
But do not worry, we are all very benevolent and democratic in this Parliament and we will not deny the United States its vote.
Mr President, the US political strategy in this area is dangerous.
Mr President, Bill Clinton can pile all the blame in the world on Japan, the American Congress or the crisis in the world's financial system.
The fact is that Japan, despite its domestic difficulties and in a climate of sharp recession, meets its international commitments and owes nothing to the United Nations; the fact is that the political pornography novel between President Clinton and Congress has only recently escalated; the fact is that, only four months ago, the stock market euphoria and the expectations of world economic growth remained high, just as the American economy was in excellent health.
Unfortunately, the current political weakness of the American Presidency, which discredits that country in the concert of nations, offers no guarantee that this situation will be resolved in a positive and prompt manner.
But the pressure of the international community on the United States, headed by the European Union, must not flag.
Mr President, as you know, the Community contributes substantial funding to projects carried out by the United Nations' funds, programmes and agencies.
Moreover, the Member States of the European Union pay what they owe in full, promptly and without conditions, and the European Union makes a point of insisting that the other members of the United Nations comply in the same way with their international obligations.
The current payments crisis undermines the efficiency of the United Nations, jeopardises current endeavours to reform the organisation and is extremely unfair for other contributors.
On 31 August 1998, the United States owed the United Nations 1, 613 billion dollars, accounting for 60 % of the arrears owed to the United Nations.
The American Congress has adopted legislation authorising the payment of 926 million dollars.
In all events, even if these measures were carried out, only 57 % of the United States' arrears to the United Nations would be covered.
The European Union has taken steps in connection with this matter and the Presidency, the Member States and the Commission will continue to raise the issue with the American administration and with members of Congress whenever the opportunity arises.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
After the vote on Slovakia Mr President, in my hurry to join the vote I pressed Mrs Reding's button instead of my own.
Mr President, I can only presume that in Mr Cassidy's hurry to join the Socialists he forget to tell us.
EU fusion design teams are in place in San Diego, Naka in Japan and in Garching in Germany.
The staff provided by the other members of JET were temporarily seconded from their national laboratories and all received temporary Euratom contracts.
They will constitute a model for a possible JET staffing system after 1999 with a new legal structure.
The notion that staff pay and conditions in a project largely financed by the Euratom budget should be decided by a body which is completely unaccountable to one half of the budgetary authority, namely the European Parliament, is simply unacceptable.
The Committee on Budgets has added its opinion on this report, but it is not as stringent as we would normally expect of this committee.
The Socialist Group welcomes the Commission's proposal for the alteration to the JET statutes.
The situation regarding staff goes back for a good number of years.
Perhaps we ought to reflect that the terms of employment for various people may at that time have seemed reasonable, and were certainly accepted by all the people that were employed, but that was 20 years ago, perhaps more.
The arrangements that will - possibly - apply beyond December 1999 I think are quite reasonable.
However, since a lot of comments have been made, perhaps I ought to say that there are some of us in this House who believe that the fusion programme should continue.
I have never had any difficulty in getting any information about the project at any time.
I have to admit that the most recent report I have on the advice of the JET Scientific Council is a little bit difficult to understand.
We believe that they have worked very hard, that they have worked very successfully.
It is particularly cunning since the future of fusion research, once the current phase of JET ends next year, is clouded in uncertainty.
The only certain aspect seems to be the consistent prediction that fusion will come good as a major source of renewable energy in 50 years time.
Twenty years ago it was going to be happening in 50 years time.
For example, proposals in this House for a Common Members' Statute would expose Members of this House to criticism from national members of parliament in their own country if MEPs were to be paid significantly more.
A substantive change is the introduction of a new system of providing staff to the project as a response to the findings of the Court of First Instance that certain aspects of the existing system are unlawful.
Your Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy and the Committee on Budgets has approved the proposal without modification and I am confident that you will follow their recommendation and support our proposal to approve amendments to the Statutes of the JET Joint Undertaking.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m.
It was signed on 16 December 1991, and its aim was to consolidate and extend the existing close relations between the European Economic Community and the Republic of San Marino.
That was in 1991.
An interim agreement on trade and a Customs Union was signed in Brussels on 27 November 1992 and entered into force on 1 December 1992.
We should not forget that this again took a relatively long time.
I myself was appointed rapporteur in February 1997.
The report was completed by June 1997, but it lay around again for a year, until 3 June 1998, without anyone really doing anything about it apart from Parliament, I would stress.
A further aspect which we must mention today, and which we must also welcome, is the fact that San Marino is one of the few small states in Europe to have always refused to become a tax haven, and for this reason it has always had good relations with its larger neighbour, Italy.
The European Parliament delivered a favourable opinion on the agreement on cooperation and the Customs Union as early as 9 June 1992.
A positive opinion of the European Parliament marks an important step forward in the conclusion of a long ratification process and brings nearer the actual implementation of the agreement.
This agreement, signed in December 1991, should be the centrepiece in the process of deepening and broadening our relations with San Marino.
Besides its customs and commercial provisions, the agreement allows for a widening of cooperation in different areas, including social policy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m.
However insignificant our Bureau considers this report on the five year statistical programme to be, the overall effect of this is that we are discussing it today at an evening sitting and will vote on it tomorrow, Friday, when not even half of the Members of this House will be present.
I know about this as rapporteur for the SLIM programme, which aimed to simplify statistics for cross-border trade in the internal market.
As rapporteur, I have been in a situation where European organisations, such as COOP or even Comité Vins, have begged me to compile statistics on, for example, how much white wine or red wine is exported from Rioja to Bavaria.
Be that as it may, we must not forget that political decisions of the utmost importance are going to have to be made during this programme which runs from 1998 to 2002: the reform of the common agricultural policy, enlargement of the EU, and the operation of the single currency, which will require highly harmonised statistics on the convergence criteria for the euro zone and compliance with the Stability Pact.
By my calculations you exceeded your time by 20 % but since you are always so entertaining we do not mind.
Mr President, statistics can be quite tedious, but they are also immensely important.
Eurostat usually produces the statistics on which the decisions we take are based.
The Commission document says: 'this present level of resources cannot satisfy all needs'.
In the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy we have concentrated on the parts dealing with research and technological development and with energy questions.
One of the important points to which we draw attention is that Eurostat must be accessible when it is a question of disseminating information within the research community, on what has been produced and how it can be used in different contexts as an innovation indicator.
They apply to statistics on active or passive measures for labour market policy.
Thirdly, I would draw your attention to Amendment No 15, which relates to Article 2 of the draft decision.
I have repeatedly stressed that it is in the interests of citizens and companies for economic growth to be ecologically acceptable.
I hope that Parliament, the Commission and the Council will now take this aim seriously and no longer regard the Treaty as a paper tiger on this point.
The accession of the Central and Eastern European countries is a major challenge.
Eurostat must ensure a complete gathering of statistics in this field of policy and in other key areas.
Moreover, we cannot confine ourselves to the flow of goods in a world in which other economic flows are assuming increasing importance, including the provision of services and capital flows such as foreign investment.
At all events, a correct balance must be found between the need to provide the most extensive possible information, and the need to refrain from excessively burdening companies, particularly small and medium enterprises, and citizens in general.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the five year statistical programme contains a series of interesting projects.
During the period of the preceding programme, demand for harmonised statistics increased greatly, particular in relation to the convergence criteria.
However, as many speakers have already mentioned, this creates an enormous bureaucratic burden for many small and medium-sized enterprises.
Just two days ago, Parliament decided that the burden placed on companies as a result of the European Central Bank's statistical reporting requirements must be kept to a minimum.
Mr President, it is immensely important, perhaps the most important element in the report, that Eurostat is being called on to provide sex-related statistics.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs was looking for better unemployment statistics and labour market statistics.
I wonder whether, as I hope, Eurostat and this network could in the future cooperate, so that we could get common definitions and could get the authorities actually to supply the information needed.
The Commission welcomes this commitment.
You share the convictions held by other institutions of the European Union that the successful democratic operation of our institutions is not possible without good Community statistics.
If further evidence were needed, you would only need to look at the report approved during the last meeting of the Commission on the possible modification of the own resources system to see the importance of having reliable and comparable statistics.
During the last five-year statistical programme, the first priority centred of course on statistics relating to the convergence criteria, which were completed on time and with the necessary quality to serve as a basis for the decision taken on 2 and 3 May this year.
However, the Commission cannot support Amendments Nos 5, 7 and 8 and, in part, 9, for the following reasons.
Amendment No 5 is redundant in the light of Amendment No 4.
It should be pointed out in this connection that the scientific independence of statistics experts is one of the fundamental principles embodied in Council Regulation No 322/97 regarding Community statistics.
The principle is likewise embodied in the new Article 285 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Amendment No 8 would not appear to be relevant since the 'other spheres' referred to are covered by the programme in question.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasise the importance of this new Community Statistical Programme for 1998-2002.
The Commission welcomes the excellent cooperation between our two institutions, which augurs well for the imminent implementation of Article 285 of the Treaty of Amsterdam providing for the establishment of the co-decision procedure in the sphere of statistics.
This was clear, indeed, when EUROSTAT had to publish its statistics for Economic and Monetary Union, and departed from a specific decision of the Commission, not just for the purposes of that particular exercise, but as a point of honour in its usual practice.
I agree that Amendments Nos 4 and 5 overlap.
If they are not necessary, all the better, but, if it appeared that they were needed, then it is better to say that we want the required resources to be available.
As far as Amendment No 9 is concerned, I think, Mr President, that there is a misunderstanding.
I therefore think that there is a misunderstanding here.
With regard to Amendment No 7, I would say that presenting an evaluation report is entirely the Commission's responsibility.
Moreover, before the reports are presented, they will be submitted not to the Economic and Social Committee but to the European Advisory Committee on Statistical Information in the Economic and Social Spheres.
Finally, these opinions will be passed on to Parliament at the same time as the report.
The debate is closed.
