Following the vote on the objections to Item V, ' Nuclear weapons' ) Mr President, I would just like to complain in the strongest possible terms that the majority in this House did not seem to understand how important it was that the European Parliament allowed their voice to be heard before the UN General Assembly when a very large majority decided in favour of commencing negotiations on the abolition of nuclear weapons.
European Council on 13/14 December in Dublin and the situation in Serbia The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on preparations for the European Council meeting in Dublin on 13 and 14 December 1996 including the situation in Serbia.
Mr President, in two days' time the European Council will meet in Dublin for the second time in the past six months.
These have of course been the six months of the Irish presidency of the Council of Ministers and they have been both busy and eventful.
At the same time those Irish Ministers who have been involved in the Council of Ministers, including myself, have had their domestic responsibilities to attend to.
My colleague Minister Gay Mitchell will remain in the Chamber until the end of the debate.
In my address to this House last July I outlined the priorities for the Irish presidency.
The final and most significant test of this priority will start at 10 a.m.
The momentum of progress towards the third stage of EMU has been maintained throughout the Irish presidency.
Our aim is to present substantive conclusions at the European Council on three issues - the proposed stability pact, the new exchange rate mechanism and the euro - and that this outcome will further underpin confidence that the third stage of EMU will begin on schedule.
Ecofin Ministers will meet in Dublin tomorrow to look again at the possibility of completing the package.
The Ecofin Council reports that the key elements for the new exchange rate mechanism are agreed, although finalization of this process awaits the establishment of the European Central Bank in 1998.
As far as legislation for the euro is concerned, the progress made by the presidency is in advance of that called for in the change-over scenario agreed at Madrid.
The European Council will be able to record virtual completion of this work, even if adoption of the actual regulations must await the creation of the European Central Bank in 1998.
It is now recognized that action at Union level must complement action taken at national level to address the unacceptably high levels of unemployment in all Member States.
The European Council will also have the opportunity to note developments in the pact of confidence on employment which was proposed by President Santer.
As this House is aware, some elements of the pact, especially those involving large extra expenditure, did not find favour in the light of the current necessity for fiscal restraint.
A key priority of the Irish presidency has been the chairing of the intergovernmental conference.
To that end it requested the presidency to prepare a general outline for a draft revision of the treaties.
We have organized the work of the conference with a view to fulfilling this ambitious mandate.
The outline draft treaty, which has been prepared on the presidency's responsibility, reflects that input and the ambitions for Europe which the European Parliament is bringing to bear on the negotiations.
The draft presented by the presidency could be said to address five main challenges.
First, the development of a Union in which people's fundamental rights are fully respected and in which they can live without fear of threats to their personal security.
In this regard we have proposed very significantly strengthening the means at the disposal of the Union in the fight against international crime, including terrorism, drug trafficking and offences against children.
As regards respect for fundamental rights, we have proposed texts which would reaffirm that the Union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.
Thirdly, the development of a coherent, consistent and effective external policy for the Union in all its aspects: the common foreign and security policy, including its security and defence dimension, and strengthening the Union's ability to act in external economic relations.
Fifthly, consideration of how the treaty should be amended to allow for the development of what has come to be called flexibility or enhanced cooperation which is certainly one of the most important issues at the conference.
In almost all cases our proposals are in the form of draft treaty texts, the exceptions being those areas where we have accepted the general view that it would be preferable not to put forward treaty texts at this stage.
In such cases we have emphasized the importance of the issues and have dealt with them in detail including setting out options which a view to the further work of the conference.
The security of the citizen and especially personal security is a matter of vital importance.
The Justice and Home Affairs Ministers took rapid action and agreement was quickly reached on a number of joint actions to enhance police and judicial cooperation in combating organized paedophilia as well as the trafficking in women for the purposes of sexual exploitation.
The Irish presidency placed strong emphasis on the fight against drug trafficking and drug addiction.
The European Council will be able to record very substantial progress on the action programme on drugs, including measures to protect the external borders against drug smuggling and the adoption of the Community programme against drug dependence.
The presidency also sought to foster a sense of common purpose in the fight against drugs, both within the European Union and among its international partners.
It will also discuss stepping up the fight against organized crime and seek to give an impetus to cooperation between the Member States in this vital struggle.
I also expect that it will call for the early ratification of the Europol Convention by the Member States by the end of 1997 at the latest.
In addition the common challenge of combating international organized crime, in particular in relation to drug trafficking and trafficking in persons will be the focus of the discussions with the associated countries of Central and Eastern Europe together with Cyprus at their meeting with the European Council on 14 December.
The external challenges and responsibilities which the Union must address have become increasingly complex and demanding over time and each presidency is challenged to respond.
While many issues were the subject of action in this area under our presidency, three particular matters will be the focus for discussion at the European Council and it is to these that I now turn.
The special meeting of the European Council in Dublin on 5 October discussed how the European Council could further enhance its role in and support for, the peace process at the time of heightened tension in the Middle East.
In the meantime the Union has considerably intensified its efforts in this regard.
I travelled to the region directly after the October meeting in Dublin and a full troika visit took place from 10 to 12 November.
Ambassador Moratinos has been appointed as the Union's special envoy to the region with a broad mandate to engage with parties and has now taken up his duties.
The ensuing return of hundreds of thousands of Rwandan refugees to their homeland brought about a radical change in the nature of the crisis and in the parameters for the deployment of humanitarian assistance with appropriate military support under UN Security Council Resolution 1080 of 15 November.
The Union responded to all stages of the crisis in full cooperation with the UN, the OAU, regional leaders and other members of the international community.
The temporary multinational force for humanitarian purposes sanctioned by the UN resolution with Canada as the lead country is currently setting up its headquarters in Kampala, Uganda.
A phased, progressive and flexible plan for deployment has been worked out and agreed by participating countries.
Under this plan the MNF's role will evolve to match the changing circumstances in Eastern Zaire and its deployment will proceed on a step-by-step basis in the context of the overall objective of facilitating the delivery of humanitarian assistance and the orderly, voluntary repatriation of refugees and displaced persons.
The MNF is liaising closely with the international humanitarian agencies under the leadership of the UN humanitarian coordinator in ensuring that it plays its full part in assisting the agencies and their work in Eastern Zaire.
The critical challenge remains to ensure the delivery of health in the best and most effective way possible to those still in need in Eastern Zaire and to facilitate the orderly voluntary repatriation of refugees and displaced persons.
These include inter alia the reintegration of hundreds of thousands of returning refugees in Rwanda, rehabilitation and the promotion of reconciliation in that country, the continuation of the process of democratic transition in Zaire, the development of the peace process in Burundi and the rehabilitation of those areas, including Tanzania, which have hosted refugees in such large numbers for the past two years.
In this regard, I welcome the Commission initiative in undertaking to draw up a strategic and comprehensive plan of action for EU assistance to the Great Lakes region covering a broad range of areas.
The Dublin European Council will take place exactly one year after the signing in Paris of the peace agreement for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
It is timely on this significant anniversary that the heads of state and government should review the peace process to date.
The recent London meeting of the peace implementation conference has established a detailed programme of action aimed in particular at accelerating the implementation process in areas where progress has been slow.
The European Council meeting in Dublin will provide a valuable opportunity to review progress with regard to the Commission's ongoing preparations for enlargement.
As we speak, the first WTO ministerial conference is continuing in Singapore.
I should mention also that an EU/US Summit will take place on 16 December in Washington.
It is expected that this meeting will assess progress on the implementation of key priorities under the EU/US action plan as well as the overall development of EU/US relations.
When I addressed this House last July I said that the Irish presidency coincided with a time of great challenge for the European Union.
The European Council in Dublin on Friday and Saturday will be stepping stone toward meeting this challenge.
Finally, I should like to take this opportunity to thank the European Parliament for its constructive engagement with the Irish presidency of the Council of Ministers during our term.
It is fair to say that both our major institutions, Council and Parliament, are engaged in the same process.
I mentioned earlier that in the context of the discussions of foreign ministers at the Dublin European Council, I envisaged an exchange of views on the worrying situation in Serbia, in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
I am aware of Parliament's request for a statement of this matter and in response I can report that on behalf of the Union, the presidency has issued three declarations on the situation there, most recently on 4 December, expressing our concern over the undemocratic annulment of some local election results by the authorities, deploring the authorities' action in silencing independent broadcasters, demanding that Serbia respects the rights of the people to protest peacefully and urging that restraint be exercised.
On 6 December the General Affairs Council decided that in light of developments in that country to postpone the extension of the autonomous import regime to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The Dublin meeting should send out messages of confidence and dynamism.
The Dublin European Council could be a turning point setting us directly on the last stage of our journey towards the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference and the definitive introduction of the single currency.
Mr President, it should be possible to reach a political agreement in Dublin on all the technical elements necessary for the introduction of the single currency.
The Ecofin Council has almost settled the questions relating to the legal status of the euro and to the relations between the 'ins' and the 'pre-ins' or the 'outs' .
As for the stability pact, agreement at the Ecofin Council in Dublin tomorrow seems to me to be within reach.
The remaining differences are over a single major point: how deep must a serious recession become before a Member State is exempt from penalties in a situation where its deficit exceeds 3 % of its gross domestic product?
I have every confidence that a good number of Member States will keep their appointment with the single currency, with economic prospects improving, the underlying situation remaining sound, business confidence rising and the political determination of Member States being more evident than ever.
Banks and financial institutions are getting themselves ready.
The first financial products expressed in euros are already being announced.
Member States are receiving their rating, their stability rating with respect to the euro and, even in Member States not obliged by the Treaty to introduce the euro, the business world is positioning itself so as not to be sidelined by the single currency.
The single currency is not an end in itself: without it, the potential of the internal market could not be fully exploited and without the optimum functioning of this market we shall not benefit from all the advantages of growth and job creation.
Which brings me to the second great issue of the Dublin Council 'the confidence pact for employment' .
But we can do better, we must do better if we are to benefit from the contribution made by the single market.
Of course, unemployment is still much too high, but where would we be without the hundreds of thousands of jobs created by the dynamism of this market, the largest in the world?
That is why I shall be submitting to the Amsterdam European Council in June 1997 detailed proposals for completing the internal market, proposals which should come into force at the same time as the single currency on 1 January 1999.
They are already negotiating a contractual European framework for work organization and flexibility.
All these elements, Mr President, show that the pact is being progressively realized in concrete terms and that the challenge of unemployment can only be met by a large number of interrelated actions.
Many actions are already going ahead in Member States: the Union's action is beginning to take effect.
I am sometimes surprised by the failure to emphasize the need for a consistent, on-going overall strategy which can only succeed at Union level.
I ask the European Council to take this message to heart, to broadcast it loudly and clearly and in this way to mobilize all forces within the dynamic context of the Union.
Mr President, may I now deal with the third great issue on the agenda of the European Council, namely the Intergovernmental Conference.
The framework document presented by the presidency for the revision of the Union Treaty has considerable merit.
Moreover, the document attaches great importance to citizens by emphasizing the need for a Union closer to their daily lives and more heedful of their concerns.
This also goes for the other subjects aiming to make the Union more visible, more comprehensible, more efficient and therefore more credible both internally and externally.
For the Commission, the text is an appropriate basis for the continuation of negotiations.
The question is premature because at this stage it does not represent an agreement between Member States.
The European Council has decided that the Intergovernmental Conference will end at Amsterdam 6 months hence.
This does not give us much time for such a weighty task as institutional reform, for some of the most delicate issues confronting the Intergovernmental Conference.
Let us not forget that one of the important objectives of the Intergovernmental Conference is to prepare the Union for new members and to ensure that it will remain operational when it has twenty, or even more, Member States.
In this connection, I note that those who until now have most opposed the ideas of institutional reform are the most ardent champions of enlargement.
The Union could not do so satisfactorily with the Treaty in its present form and those who think that this would be a feasible option by returning to outdated ideas - like that of a free trade area - have a very curious perception of the real world.
The European Union is not the enemy of national sovereignty; on the contrary, those who wish to assert such sovereignty in the world of today and tomorrow can only do so through a strong and influential Union.
It would be premature to expect a thorough discussion of the presidency's text at the European Council.
However, it seems to me desirable that the Heads of State and Government should unambiguously reconfirm the timetable and, most of all, the ambitions of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr President, I have restricted myself to the three great issues on the agenda of the Dublin European Council; about each of them, I have expressed wishes that I consider to be realistic given the considerable progress we have been able to make thanks to the Irish presidency.
The President-in-Office of the Council has rightly just emphasized the credit Ireland can claim for the enormous progress it has made in the fight against drugs and crime.
The success of the next European Council will in large measure be attributable to the quality of the Irish presidency.
My group congratulates the Irish presidency on its very significant efforts.
This Parliament must now spend some time examining and analysing the 140 pages which make up the draft proposals, which will be formally presented to our government leaders on Friday, taking account, of course, of the outcome of that meeting.
With each suggested change in the Treaty there is a justification written by way of introduction and, above all, written in plain, easy-to-understand language.
My group wants, as well, to welcome the positive elements in the draft proposal.
We specifically draw attention to the inclusion of an employment chapter which aims to give the same political priority to the issue of job creation in the European Treaty, as the Maastricht Treaty gave to EMU and a single currency.
It would be a most powerful first positive message for reform of the Treaty if the Dublin II summit were to reach immediate agreement on this new competence, designed to demonstrate that our Europe respects citizens or residents whether white or black, Christian, Jew or Muslim.
It is nothing short of the fundamental bedrock underlying the lives of millions of our people; that is, peace and stability on our continent.
We hope that at Dublin our governments can come together and seek a higher level of ambition for the European Union and its future.
Mr President, ' Die Politik ist keine exakte Wissenschaft ' .
The proposals of the Irish presidency under the title 'Outline for a draft revision of the Treaties' are the distillation of views and opinions gathered from a myriad of discussions, debate and seminars at political and official level with academics, NGOs and social partners, a process that began under the Italian presidency and gathered momentum during the last six months.
In theory, nobody should be against it but I suspect there is much disparity in some areas, especially under the third pillar.
The first priority - the plight of the unemployed - is also our first priority.
I have no doubt that the Irish presidency is only too well aware that its draft document is embarrassingly weak on the vexed question of the veto and qualified majority voting.
I know it is in full sympathy with the views of this Parliament but it sees the draft document as a realistic or pragmatic acknowledgement of what is politically attainable at this stage.
Those who do not believe in the federal Union foreseen by our Founding Fathers must consider whether they are entitled to bring this movement to a halt and ultimate collapse or whether they themselves should go.
To those who would say that this is an unreasonable approach - and there will be some - let me quote the wisdom of a fellow Irishman, George Bernard Shaw. 'The reasonable man adapts himself to the world: the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the Dublin summit about to start, the situation in Europe is somewhat paradoxical.
Europe is experiencing a kind of crisis of weariness and is in danger of getting bogged down in debates that are too technical, like those about the best exchange parities between the future single currency and its component currencies, or the still more impenetrable debate about the future stability pact.
Our citizens expect the Heads of State and Government meeting in Dublin quite simply to breathe new life into the Union.
It is more than ever necessary to reaffirm the main objectives: more prosperity, more jobs, more security, more consideration for the preservation of our environment and for the values of freedom and democracy on which our society is built.
Basically, what we expect from the Heads of State and Government, who form the European Council, which is the authority with the greatest democratic legitimacy in Europe, is that they map out the prospects for a democratic, generous and prosperous Europe, guarantor of internal security and world peace, corresponding to the vision of the peoples wishing to join us.
It is precisely because these peoples have been too long deprived of what today is the basis of our pact and our values that we must preserve and reinforce this heritage so that we can share it with them to better advantage tomorrow.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Minister, the great achievement of the Irish presidency - which must be wholeheartedly congratulated on it - was to produce a text all the more accurate in that it reflects an unsatisfactory situation.
The Single Act strengthened the institutions and set up the single market.
The Maastricht Treaty, despite its weaknesses, organized the stages and the implementation of the single currency and required, in an article referring to Article B, the full preservation and development of the Community's achievements.
Could not the ministers of the fifteen Member States recover this splendid consensus to remind people that the European construction is at an important crossroads in its history, that it will show itself worthy of the hopes that it still inspires in public opinion by setting up a fair, solidly-linked and democratic society, that it is in the name of these principles that it should open itself to countries asking for admission, that the instruments necessary to succeed in this great design are efficient and democratic institutions.
The fact is that there will be no common foreign and security policy without sufficient relaxation of the unanimity rule, in other words, without the abolition of the veto.
The majority of the European Parliament shares that opinion.
Mr President, our Group, which is made up of unpragmatic elected members, would like to make known its great concern regarding the forthcoming European Council meeting in Dublin.
There are undoubtedly novel and positive approaches, such as the increase in judicial and police cooperation, the fight against racism and discrimination, new environmental protection requirements in Community policies or the increase in transparency on the part of the Council when it legislates.
There is, in the proposal, no mention of the objective of full employment nor any reference to the means necessary for the application of common jobcreation policies.
Nor is there any mention of safeguarding public services and, much to our surprise, there is no proposal for the introduction into the Treaty of the protocol on social policy, while consolidation of citizens' right to free movement is put back until 2001 without there being a reference to the Union becoming a party to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
Attempts are being made to make progress in the areas of defence and military integration without a simultaneous advance in matters of foreign policy.
We are also critical of the confirmation of the model and the time periods relating to the single currency and we would ask the European Council to embark upon a public and wide-ranging debate in which all the various positions are included and a dialogue to discuss this single-currency model and its consequences, particularly with regard to employment.
Mr President, such debates cannot continue in the same elitist manner, amid central-bank directives or via opinions in the press given by former Heads of Government or former Presidents of the Commission.
It is absolutely essential that the conditions necessary to enable citizens to acquire in-depth information and to take part in the institutional system be established.
When I read the Council's proposals for the Dublin conference I feel like the child I have been describing.
These plans and projects are not the answer to our wishes.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank the Irish presidency for having fulfilled, in a very reasonable time, the mandate it was given during the informal European Council on 5 October and for having produced a readable and well-written document which takes stock of the state of negotiations.
I also take this opportunity to protest against the cynical attitude to the text shown by leading representatives of certain governments, and not minor ones either, who have strongly criticized the Irish presidency's document, when they share the responsibility for the lamentable situation in which the IGC finds itself.
And it is the same for the composition of the Commission and the weighting of votes in the Council.
Furthermore, is it acceptable that a new method of veto should be introduced for national political reasons in areas where majority voting is now possible?
But allow me to question the implications of rapid development in defence and military integration without simultaneous progress being made in foreign policy.
I am still convinced that the possibility of enhanced cooperation will nevertheless have to remain open, by being compatible with the Union's objectives, and by respecting the Community's achievements and the single institutional framework.
Mr President, I am not going to talk to you about the problem of unemployment which, I imagine, helps to keep you awake sometimes.
Neither am I going to talk about the IGC, nor about enlargement to the East, nor about the necessity for the veto - being personally convinced to the contrary - nor about the right to secession.
With such a stability pact, with whose help you hope to create a single currency and a single budgetary policy, we shall end up with a situation in which it will be impossible to compensate for different economic levels between States by adjusting either the budgetary or monetary floodgates.
And that is what Germany is about to do by abolishing its tax on capital and reducing its marginal rate of income tax.
We have a ruling from the Karlsruhe Court of June 1995 which is based on the freedom of taxpayers to act to determine whether such and such a tax is too high.
Include the single currency and the single budgetary policy in your revised Maastricht Treaty, and include a ceiling on compulsory deductions, like the Karlsruhe Court is in the process of doing for Germany.
I have received fourteen motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure: seven motions for resolutions relating to the European Council and a further seven relating to the political situation in Serbia.
Many of the questions raised by the Maastricht Treaty have never been answered and we have now reached the point when European citizens are undergoing a crisis of faith in the very structure of Europe.
Unless this climate is reversed, that mistrust will lead to more general problems which will threaten the vision of those who created this truly unprecedented experiment that we call the European Union.
The mandate given to the Irish presidency in Florence was to submit to the IGC a first general draft Treaty.
A Europe without discriminations, without different speeds of development, would be a Europe which respected its citizens.
The upgrading of the European Parliament and the strengthening of its role in more sectors of Community action are aims which will secure more effective citizen participation in developments.
The guarantee of territorial integrity and the protection of external frontiers, will give impetus to the CFSP and promote the principles of cooperation in that context.
However, we cannot all advance together if some European citizens feel that the Union will not be behind them if they encounter dangers.
This document clearly states that in future there should only be three decision-making procedures and that the co-decision procedure should be the general rule for legislation.
I am especially glad that in their letters President Chirac and Chancellor Kohl stated that qualified majority decisions would be the rule in the Council, that certain exceptions could be made but that majority decisions would be the rule.
If we regard these as key areas in relation to achieving greater democracy, transparency and ability to act and in preparation for enlargement, then I think this combination may really have given us a chance to make progress in this area at the IGC.
That is why we have to reject the idea of a Pillar 1B or whatever it is called and demand full participation by the Commission, Parliament and the European Court of Justice here in order to have genuine constitutional and democratic controls.
The directly elected European Parliament has no direct influence on 50 % of the budget.
If it comes to the point where, against every rule of logic, the areas of the second and third pillar are also designated as compulsory expenditure, in order to reduce or even obviate any chance of Parliament having decision-making powers there, then I must tell the Member States that in this regard I would say that in Parliament's view an intergovernmental conference that came to that conclusion would not have come to a satisfactory conclusion.
We should ask the Dublin summit to give the Netherlands presidency of the Council a special mandate to simplify the Treaties.
Mr President, firstly I would like to thank the President-in-Office and the President of the Commission for the contributions they have made here today.
I wish to offer my very sincere thanks to the presidency for the draft document for the IGC which is an excellent document.
The summit in Dublin this weekend must address the key issues confronting the Union at the present time and set down guidelines for the work of the institutions on these issues for 1997.
First and foremost it must restate the commitments to establish a single currency in 1999 and the advantages which this currency will bring to most of Europe's citizens.
I hope that such a pact will reassure those who are concerned about the effects of a single currency on their jobs and businesses and on their savings.
The Maastricht Treaty allowed for the creation of Europol as an intelligence-gathering agency on the illegal drugs trade.
The Union must orientate its activities to initiatives such as this if it is to respond to the needs and issues of concern to its citizens.
The creation of a single European market has largely removed the restrictions on the free movement of capital, goods and services throughout the Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister Mr Hervé de Charrette has spoken of the mediocrity of the Irish draft.
Thus, the French statements about the European social model and about the defence of public service appear simply to be empty boasts.
The Intergovernmental Conference is meaningless because it is not exploring the objectives of society or the objectives which would create an ambition for Europe in the world.
And the Conference is meaningless because governments hold on to their positions of power, barricade themselves behind their privileged positions of power and mean to continue managing Europe without its citizens.
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about Serbia, which is indeed also included in the terms of reference of this debate.
I believe that the European Union - both the Commission and the Council and Parliament - can and must play a key role in the democratization of Serbia.
We must make it clear to the opposition and the government in Serbia that a process of democratization, which must be linked to reconciliation both with Bosnia and with Kosovo, offers the only chance of concluding association agreements with the European Union.
There can be no democratic future for Serbia without reconciliation with Bosnia and Croatia, without democratic civil structures and without rights for all the minorities in Serbia.
Once the opposition and the government realise that, this region will have a future that is marked not by war and hatred but by cooperation and mutual respect.
That said, it is important that the European Union should send a clear, unequivocal message to the communist regime in Belgrade, a message as clear as those it once sent to the apartheid government in South Africa or to the dictatorship in Chile: all trade relations will be broken off until such time as the sacrosanct rights of opposition are recognized and the fundamental democratic freedoms reinstated.
However, there are areas in the document which I am a bit worried about.
It seems that the concept of full employment, work or employment opportunities available to all who want to work, must remain at the heart of European policy.
Indeed, in its recent report on global employment trends, the International Labour Organization said that full employment is still an attainable goal, so I do not know why that wording is not used in the draft Treaty.
In Ireland we have seen the benefits flowing from adherence to the Maastricht criteria in terms of our public sector finances.
A similar set of criteria on employment policy can only be good for Ireland and for Europe.
I could only find one reference, on page 46 of Chapter 5, to social exclusion.
I appreciate that there must be, and there is, a good emphasis in the document on security and safety of the citizen, but we also need sound social policies at European level to alleviate the misery of the everyday life of many of our citizens.
Serbia is now paying the price for the fact that, unlike all the other successor states, it did not have to comply with the 1991 Badinter criteria in order to be recognized.
On my last visit to Belgrade in June many Serbs said to me: you are concerning yourself with the rights of Albanians in Kosovo.
The democracy that needs to be established in Bosnia also depends on democratic conditions prevailing in Belgrade.
Mr President, the European Council in Dublin is beginning in a climate of high hopes for the future of the European Union.
We have only just received the draft of the Treaty on European Union presented by the Irish presidency, and already the various foreign ministries are taking action to go further, to take the very necessary additional step that will enable the Dublin Council to produce specific, efficient results that are essential in the interests of European integration.
The matters being dealt with are still very numerous and fundamental, but I should like to remind the House that what is necessary is to concentrate on the institutional reforms and on internal and external security.
Although it is true that the strengthening of the present weak state of integration cannot and must not be obstructed, it is equally true that, by substantially improving the efficacy of the decision-making process, we shall be able to present the public with a Union which is more dynamic and more consistent in its operation.
We would also emphasize the need to adopt as soon as possible the necessary legislative provisions for the issuing of the euro, and regulations which will guarantee economic convergence and monetary stability within the area of the single currency, thus enabling the European Union to pursue a coherent and comprehensive economic policy.
And then the grand design of the final years of this century - the single currency and cooperation between our united peoples that was so dear to Jean Monnet - can finally become a reality.
Mr President, at this moment of the emergence of a draft Treaty on the IGC, are we to find once again that, contrary to assurances we have heard this morning on citizenship and democracy, a review of the Euratom Treaty has been neglected?
The intensive efforts of the Member States to fulfil the Maastricht criteria are currently leading to a massive rise in unemployment and undermining social standards.
This situation is compounded by the fact that the citizens are quite inadequately informed on the question of the introduction of the euro because the information campaign so far on the introduction of a single currency has been conducted in a remarkably one-sided manner.
Mr President, when our Minister for Foreign Affairs presented his plans for the Dutch presidency a few weeks ago we were very disappointed.
And then the third pillar, cooperation in the field of justice and interior affairs.
The latter is also urgently necessary, for the European Union will only be able to achieve its aims if the citizens are adequately involved in the decision-making, with the help of the European Parliament as also of the national parliaments, on a basis of subsidiarity.
We also support all the efforts to strengthen internal and external security.
For only if the democratic structures in former Yugoslavia are safeguarded can the fragile Dayton peace accord survive.
At last we are seeing some action in the Great Lakes and a nudge to the Dutch presidency on sovereignty.
And finally, traffic in Europe has recently come to a standstill because of industrial action in France, Denmark and Greece.
Mr President, despite the fact that the question of institutional power has not yet been discussed by the Intergovernmental Conference, the text of the draft treaty from the presidency shows that there is a desire to transfer more power, on very critical issues, from the Member States to the EU.
With regard to employment, the proposed committee and its recommendations will have very little weight against the iron wall of convergence policies which are currently raising the levels of unemployment in the European Union.
They avoid mentioning the single currency, when the question of additional institutional arrangements is being debated at length every day in the newspapers.
Euthanasia by extending qualified majority voting in the Council, thus removing any power from the national parliaments of minority countries.
Euthanasia by the transfer of intergovernmental jurisdiction to the first pillar, thus considerably reducing the powers of national parliaments on very sensitive subjects.
Mr President, I should first like to pay tribute to the Irish presidency for the work it has accomplished within the Intergovernmental Conference.
The text it proposes to the Dublin European Council clears the ground as regards the questions raised, the positions held and the available options.
The Irish draft will also enable some progress to be made in areas which have not been tackled so far.
The protection of fundamental rights is affirmed and a penalty clause for violation of these rights is very rightly provided.
This is due in the first place to a problem of method.
It will be objected that nothing can be settled before the British general election.
True, but nothing prevents other governments from progressing in the meantime.
The truth is that the British Government serves as a pretext for the inertia of other governments and that the British Government has nothing to block because nothing is moving forward.
Chancellor Kohl and President Chirac felt obliged to take some initiative in this major debate on the future of the European Union.
Affirming the wish to make progress in the area of a common foreign and security policy and in that of police and judicial cooperation is a good thing.
Thus, there is nothing, not a word, on employment or on the major issue of the coordination of economic policies to produce more growth in Europe and thus to provide a more solid base for national employment policies.
The Chirac-Kohl letter expresses a wish to extend majority voting and co-decision for the European Parliament.
But no details are given about the field of application of these two reforms and, in particular, the greatest vagueness is maintained over the co-decision procedure for the European Parliament.
The Dutch presidency will therefore take over the work in January without a real political mandate and it is very difficult today to see how it will succeed in injecting some momentum into the negotiations and moving them forward.
But if the negotiations do not get off the ground during the Dutch presidency, there is a risk that there will be a final agreement on a minimum draft treaty.
I think that, if we do not succeed in reducing the gap between the single currency and the two other great issues, namely the fight against unemployment and the political progress of the Intergovernmental Conference, that if - let us not deceive ourselves - the Conference ends up with a minimum result, that if we do not progress sufficiently towards political integration, the success of the single currency itself may be compromised.
In the last few days the President of the Commission and the Conference of Presidents of the European Parliament have met on the financing of the MEDA programme.
My question is as follows: does the Commission intend to respect and apply totally the letter and the spirit of the European Parliament's resolution of 19 September 1996 on the political situation in Turkey?
Mr President, we offer our warmest thanks to the Irish presidency for the efforts it has made in a very difficult situation.
Many positive points have already been made, but we must be honest and say that the overall result confronting us today is still not satisfactory.
I think the real political question is this: will the Intergovernmental Conference succeed in forming a political counterweight to monetary union?
Monetary union represents the greatest transfer of political sovereignty since the Community was founded.
The risk is that this transfer will be a transfer from the nation States to bodies which are not democratically and politically accountable.
Restoring the institutional balance is an absolute necessity for a new democratization, because the reforming of the Institutions also means, of course, the construction of political union and the restoration of the balance between the Union's Institutions, enhancing the supervisory and legislative role of the European Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the summit in Dublin on Friday and Saturday is coming at a very difficult time for the European Union both politically and psychologically.
In that respect, the letter from Chancellor Kohl and President Chirac is most encouraging.
Mr President, although the European Union will in a few years' time have a common currency, a single monetary policy and a supranational central bank, the converse is that fiscal policy, and in particular the tax component, will certainly be much less coordinated and, probably, to a large extent still inconsistent.
This will create very serious problems: an imbalance in political terms and as regards the balance of power between monetary policy and fiscal policy, as indeed other Members have already emphasized; threats to the success of the single currency and the smooth functioning of the internal market; the continuance of situations of unfair fiscal competition, with adverse effects on the movement of goods, services and production factors; and adverse effects on employment, since the focus of the tax burden is tending to shift away from mobile factors - capital - to less mobile factors such as labour.
We can therefore fully endorse the recent efforts and new approaches by the Commission where tax matters are concerned.
Even though the immediate aim is to guarantee the smooth functioning of the internal market - an indispensable prerequisite for the success of the single currency - and to reduce the adverse effects of unfair tax competition by introducing new instruments of coordination such as, for example, a code of conduct, it would seem that the time has come to make a real move towards abolishing the principle of unanimity in tax matters in favour of less cumbersome decision-taking arrangements.
On the subject of the IGC I would like to express my appreciation of the Irish presidency's action on this subject.
I also like the proposals in the field of openness and transparency.
We are also concerned about the internal security pillar which might well be put on a Community footing but at the same time stays within the intergovernmental remit as far as decision-making is concerned.
There is increasing concern in the Netherlands about the liberal policy of the current government on drug tolerance.
Mr President, we are currently seeing Europe forced to continue its endeavours regarding the European structure amid the complex but ordered work being carried on by the institutions.
It is my belief that all the institutions must react against this.
Public opinion must be very clear about the fact that all those proposals which are aimed at furthering integration are marks of progress and advance, whilst all those aimed at simple cooperation lead solely to inefficiency and stagnation.
In this field, also, I feel we have to react against certain proposals which have a tendency to misrepresent the institutional model.
And the third element I would like to highlight, Mr President, is the fact that recently - I would say over the last few years rather than the last few days - the European Council, which has an extremely important role to play, is attempting, in a way, to diminish and override the role of the Council of Ministers.
It seems to me that this is a further negative signal against which this House must react.
Mr President, the Irish presidency has made a strong impression in the area of justice and this is important.
The Irish presidency has made strenuous efforts in the fight against the traffic in narcotics and against crime.
It would be more sensible if the resolution, like the PPE resolution, had a Third Pillar heading and contained more than just one point in support of this fight.
Responsibility now rests with the governments of the Member States.
This delegation is honouring us with its visit on the occasion of the fourth interparliamentary meeting with the relevant European Parliament delegation.
I sincerely hope that this fourth meeting will mark a new stage in the necessary rapprochement between our countries and peoples and I wish this delegation every success in its work and an excellent stay in Strasbourg.
European Council on 13/14 December in Dublin and the situation in Serbia (continuation) I will be very brief in responding to the debate.
First of all may I thank Members for their contributions and their kind comments on the work of the Irish presidency.
In particular, in relation to the Intergovernmental Conference, I would like to reiterate that the Intergovernmental Conference can only go as far as the 15 Member States agree that it should go.
We have to bear in mind in being ambitious that whatever happens has to be ratified in the 15 Member States, in some cases by national parliaments, in other cases by referendum.
So we must take into account the reality of the situation.
The Intergovernmental Conference establishes how we conduct this interdependence in the future.
But if we are serious about peace and stability in the Union then we must also ensure that that same concept applies within the Member States, within the rural areas, within the urban areas of the Union.
I agree with those Members here today who raised the question of social exclusion and unemployment.
We can do more and we can reach higher levels of employment.
I am sure in each of the Member States there are examples from which each of us could benefit by having perhaps some European cooperation.
Supplementary education to assist in a targeted way people living in communities suffering long-term unemployment, supplementary training for those people, finance for one-to-five person job creation enterprises in those areas, estate management - because of people's living conditions, often in highrise local-authority flat complexes - and environmental improvement: it is like five fingers fitting in a glove.
I believe it is important, particularly for those of us in this House, whether we are Socialists, Christian Democrats, or whatever our political beliefs, who believe in encouraging enterprise, but also social justice.
I do not believe there is enough talk about social justice.
We must encourage enterprise but we must also encourage and create a greater sense of social justice.
Indeed the source of the drugs problem lies in the countries where drugs are grown in large numbers, and some countries produce more illegal drugs for importation into our Member States than all their legal products added together.
We have 18 million people unemployed. (Applause) Unless we do something to tackle this problem, the problem of drugs is going to continue to be with us.
Crime and unemployment are not just matters for Member States.
These issues are primarily matters for Member States but the European Union has a role to play in tackling these problems as well.
We must achieve success in dealing with the concerns of the citizen on an EU basis.
I will count Dublin II a success if we make progress on all of these issues. (Applause) Mr President, I have no intention whatsoever of starting up the debate again, even though the benches are much more crowded now than they were just now when the President-inOffice of the Council made his report and presented the work of the Dublin European Council.
The first issue mentioned by several speakers just now relates to Serbia.
The Commission - it goes without saying - is very concerned by the deterioration in the situation in Serbia following the annulment of the local election results in several large Serbian towns.
In this context, the European Union should maintain pressure on the Serbian authorities to conform to fundamental democratic principles.
Any improvement in bilateral relations between the European Union and this country seems to be ruled out as long as no just and democratic solution to the problem has been arrived at.
Under these circumstances, it is understood that the Commission will propose to Council preferential unilateral import arrangements for 1997 for the countries of the former Yugoslavia, excluding the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Nor has the European Union received a favourable reply to its request for a presence in Kosovo, similar to that accorded to the USA this year.
Kosovo nevertheless remains a central question and as long as the problem remains unresolved full normalization of bilateral relations between the European Union and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will be impossible.
The 19 September 1995 resolution on Turkey will be respected by the Commission both in the letter and the spirit.
Mr President, I would like to thank the President of the Commission for his specific declaration that the Commission intends to respect and apply the spirit and the letter of the resolution of 16 September 1996.
I shall reply very briefly.
The debate is closed.
Votes Madam President, before passing to the vote, I should like in my capacity as rapporteur to make a few comments about certain amendments.
Lastly, I have to tell you that only three of the amendments adopted in committee were passed by a large majority: Amendments Nos 1, 5 and 10.
May I finish by indicating to you, Madam President, that a number of amendments are inadmissible under the terms of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure.
I should like to point out that the common position is an excellent common position as it incorporates 80 % of Parliament's amendments.
Madam President, I would like to say that this is a historic moment for the development of the European Internal Market, since it opens up new and great perspectives for energy policy and for Europe's economy more generally.
I would like to thank the European Parliament for approving the Council's common position on the internal electricity market.
I consider this to be a very major and important success for our common effort, which has at last brought results after negotiations lasting many years.
This is also a major success for Parliament, granted that 80 % of the amendments it tabled at first reading have been incorporated in the common position.
A new stage in the development of the electricity market is beginning today in Europe, and I believe that it will constitute a very important positive message for the internal natural gas market, which will be addressed in the coming months.
Madam President, I would like to correct my vote on Amendment No 14.
Madam President, I feel the significance of the vote on Amendment No 14 was sufficiently clear, since our Group had requested a roll-call vote.
Madam President, in the vote, you referred to Amendment No 11 and on our list of votes it was numbered 14.
When he spoke this morning about the preparatory work for the Dublin European Council, the President of the Commission welcomed the provisions included in the draft framework treaty, saying that the Commission found that it contained a good number of its ideas.
In fact, the draft treaty being presented in Dublin indicates a strong desire to make nations surrender their sovereignty.
These guidelines are quite appalling.
We would like to see the fight against unemployment being given the same prominence in the new treaty as EMU was given in the Treaty of Maastricht.
In the view of the Labour Party policies relating to immigration, border controls and asylum are for the UK government and the British Parliament to decide in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
Jacques Santer's employment package, which demonstrably created some movement, is not conceivable without respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
If the employment situation in Europe is to be improved in the long term, changes to the macroeconomic framework conditions, such as moderate wage agreements, reducing subsidiary wage costs and low interest rates, can only be a part of the answer.
They are in haste because they fear that what they have built may be torn down by the farmers' blockades, the lowered blinds of SMEs, the demonstrations by strikers, workers and employees, who are rising to their full height in all the European countries against the consequences of the Maastricht Treaty, against the forthcoming stability agreement, the new convergence programmes, and the new and worse version of the Essen decisions on employment.
Situation in Serbia At a time when public opinion in Western Europe and in Parliament is quite rightly dismayed by the events unfolding in Serbia and is justifiably concerned about their possible extension, I should like to explain my personal refusal to take part in this vote.
Firstly, in my opinion the Union - and particularly our Parliament - has for five years had a partial and unbalanced approach to the Yugoslav crisis.
The permanent demonization of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has clearly not served the cause of an equitable and durable peace in the region.
Secondly, I believe very sincerely that the support given to the claims for autonomy by one part of the population in Kosovo will inevitably lead to a demand for independence from this region and to a risk of changing the international boundaries between Yugoslavia and Albania by force.
Serbia rightly considers Kosovo as being at the very heart of its national history.
Desama recommendation Once again, this House is being told about the electricity Directive, or more precisely about the common position adopted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June last.
Today, I add my vote to the motion for a resolution tabled by the GUE Group calling for its rejection.
I also know that a majority of my colleagues will not commit themselves to endorsing this resolution.
For all that, I wish to congratulate my colleague Claude Desama, an ardent defender of public services, who has been able to curb liberal pressure to set up the internal market in electricity.
The common position of the Council is based mainly on the idea of deregulation.
No precaution has been taken to safeguard the public interest or energy independence.
This Wednesday 11 December at midday, the European Parliament had to come to a decision, on second reading, on the common position of the European Council of Ministers concerning the 'internal market in electricity' adopted in June of this year.
This is an important and sensitive issue, particularly for the French, but also for everyone committed to the public service and to independence.
While paying tribute to the enormous amount of excellent work done by the rapporteur, Mr Desama, and while noting the great progress made over five years in the direction of public service and energy security, I now wish to say, as a French socialist Member of Parliament, that the common position of 15 European ministers and governments is unacceptable as it stands.
We Spanish socialists voted in favour of the common position, since competence in the electricity sector is being introduced in an orderly manner and the principle of public service and territorial cohesion is safeguarded.
During the debate, the spokeswoman for the Spanish People's Party denied that this article would have a negative impact on Spanish coal production.
Responsibility for the future of the Spanish coal-mining sector lies in the attitudes adopted by the Spanish People's Party.
A considerable amount of work on the draft proposals on electricity was done both in the European Parliament before the decisions were taken and at each stage of the legislative procedure, thanks to the personal involvement and tenacity of the rapporteur, Mr Desama.
However, the text before us today at second reading, watered down during the Energy Council meeting on 20 June 1996 in a compromise presented to us as unalterable, destroys the balance that the European Parliament wished to impose.
There is a wish to deregulate rapidly without taking into account the true nature of the sector, without real safeguards for the public service which matters greatly to us and which forms one of the building blocks of our society.
In order to defend these public interest services, particularly those related to electricity, Parliament used its legislative powers to amend the Directive proposed by the Commission.
I regret this deeply.
The final text, about which I remain critical, gives better guarantees to European citizens than the initial terms of the Directive and this is due to pressure from the European Parliament.
The present government has two years to adopt this law.
France can, if it wishes, keep control over its distribution network while progressively opening up production to competition for 20 % of the market.
The report contains many good proposals, Article 3.3 and Article 10.1 for example.
Legislative programme I welcome the publication of the Commission's programme for 1997.
It is imperative, therefore, that the Commission's programme addresses the serious credibility problem that faces the EU with regard to how we are perceived by European citizens.
European citizens do not see the Union as relevant or providing answers to their problems.
Successive opinion polls have confirmed that third pillar issues such as combatting organized crime and unemployment are high priority issues upon which we have to concentrate our energies.
Mr President, this morning we awarded the Sakharov Prize, this afternoon we are having a debate on human rights.
As it does every year, Parliament is considering a report on European Union policy on human rights in third countries.
As every year, we have before us numerous violations of human rights perpetrated in too many countries; the horror of tortured political prisoners, of millions of children turned into slaves, of women treated as inferior beings, of silenced journalists, etc., etc.
The European Parliament has long been increasing the number of initiatives aimed at improving respect for human rights throughout the world.
The resolutions we have adopted at each sitting - 139 since January 1995 - the inclusion of clauses on human rights in the majority of agreements with third countries, the insistence with which we call on the Commission and the Council to include human rights in their actions and policies, all these are noteworthy and encouraging efforts.
However, in many countries worldwide the situation is very far from being satisfactory and the question put to us today is to know how the Union can do more.
The first set of reforms is legal.
The Community and later the Union have in fact improvised a human rights policy without it having a sound legal basis in the Treaties.
The Treaty of Rome was silent.
The Maastricht Treaty mentioned human rights but as a philosophical objective.
It needs to specify the legal force of these rights it talks about.
All things without which, in the words of Robert Badinter, human rights risk becoming an academic exercise.
A second set of reforms concerns the specialized administrative services which Union agencies must be given in order to acquire the expertise and professionalism needed for acceptance as an authority in a field as complex as human rights.
Without calling their excellent work into question, we must accept that an organization as large as the European Union should be in a position to back up the positions it takes through its own knowledge, of high quality, and through rigorous working methods.
Now we have to recognize that the Union - I am thinking mostly of the Council even though in this respect the Irish presidency largely escapes this criticism - but in general the Union and in particular the Council have not always shown a clear willingness to defend human rights when the Union has been faced with a concrete situation.
The hesitations in Bosnia, Chechnya, Rwanda, Zaire, but also in Turkey, China and elsewhere, show how difficult it is to act, for either prevention or cure.
Foreign policy has always been an expression of the interests of Member States and determined by the balance of economic, financial, political and military forces.
The inclusion of moral concerns, in this case humans rights, in a foreign policy which by its nature is outside the moral field cannot be easy.
In addition, the Union needs to be fully convinced of the vital importance of the fight for human rights.
It should be understood that what is involved today is the future of our civilization and its humanist values.
Of course, this civilization has not had only good sides to it.
Europe has sometimes bred horror but it has also been the scene, the crucible, where this basic idea, the dignity of every human being, was forged.
Since the Second World War, Mr President, human rights have been the bedrock on which Europe is being built.
Defending human rights in the world means fighting for the dignity of every human being and guaranteeing the right of peoples, and not their masters or exploiters, to benefit from the fruit of collective work and effort.
We should not pander to economic interests or the advantages linked to commercial or other policies and overlook human rights, especially when it is a matter of weak peoples fighting mighty oppressors, such as Indonesia.
Mr President, at this crossroads in history, as the millennium comes to an end, in the face of progress in terms of democratic conscience and universal solidarity, despite regular slides back into barbarity, let us make human rights a distinctive goal of civilization, the hope for personal dignity and that of peoples a factor of development per se.
Let us make the year 2000 (a proposal by the PSE group which the rapporteur has accepted) the universal year of human rights.
The question is how we are going to carry our work forward.
The political approach is, as she says, plagued with difficulties but deserves further consideration.
Happily, as the European Parliament we have the freedom of action needed, and we must continue our role of speaking out against what is unacceptable.
Mr President, this report expresses a development and opinion which has formed since two world wars in Europe and which has very solid foundations.
The Commission rightly argues in its communication on its longterm policy on China that any action must first and foremost produce results.
The ministerial meeting of the WTO in Singapore is an excellent opportunity to put respect for basic human rights on the agenda of multilateral trade negotiations.
Consistency also means that the Union's industry must also respect a code of behaviour in international business affairs which is similar to the Union's own rules.
Presence in Nigeria, for example, is not a licence to breach human rights.
The Council must also be able with a qualified majority vote to suspend treaties because of infringements of human rights.
Finally, Mr President, transparency.
Our criteria for our policy on human rights and its implementation must be uniform.
But at least some reforms, such as a reference to human rights in the revised Maastricht Treaty and a condition relating to human rights in agreements establishing external relations, would be extremely important.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we too welcome the report.
In our view, human rights questions are too important to be misused as arguments in what are often merely one-off political debates, which degrades them.
We therefore appeal to all the groups to approach this question jointly and we hope that the various political groups in this Parliament are not constantly divided up like the characters in the old Western The Good, the Bad and the Ugly , with each attempting to present itself as the decent one.
Thirdly, childhood has its own inalienable rights, meaning that no-one - no parent and no authority of any other kind - can deprive a child of its right not just to life but to a life worth living.
If we can make progress in these three areas, perhaps we shall succeed in acquiring a positive conception of human rights.
Mr President, it may quite clearly be asserted that, nowadays, virtually every country in the world appears to accept fundamental human rights as a reference value, yet there are still many flagrant violations of these rights throughout the world.
Hence my Group, convinced that the defence of human rights is an essential condition for achieving genuine peace between peoples, shares the stance formulated by Mrs Lalumière in her report.
Yet nor can it restrict itself to a mere denunciation of such violations.
The European Union must be capable of assuming the responsibilities which come with its commitment to peace and the defence of human rights.
We therefore also support the relevant measures proposed by the report with a view to improving the European Union's system for protecting fundamental rights and freedoms and conducting preventive diplomacy in the service of peace and to promote human rights.
However, we would be happier if, alongside civil and political rights, economic and social rights and cultural rights, the rights of national minorities were also included.
The defence of man's inalienable dignity - both individually and in terms of a group of people who feel that they form a community - is a political imperative which concerns us all and which the European Union and all the individual Member States also must be capable of recognizing to its full extent if it wishes to remain faithful to the spirit of the founding fathers and, by virtue of this fidelity, fulfil its obligations vis-à-vis history.
It is important to provide ourselves with an instrument that is consistent and effective, both legally and politically, and capable of converting a sometimes ill-founded profession of faith into consistent acts equal to the values about which we declare ourselves to be uncompromising.
I note with satisfaction that she invites us, in the resolution, to supplement the existing arrangement with a new instrument, in the form of a code of conduct for European firms operating in third countries which would oblige them not to be accessories to grave violations of human rights.
Let us make sure that it causes recalcitrant countries to think twice before flouting, more or less with impunity, the principles and values dear to us.
Mr President, year after year, report after report, not just signals are expected from Europe but strong and firm political action so that human rights shall make headway throughout the world.
Similarly for Turkey, which has still not released Leyla Zana, Sakharov prizewinner 1995, nor her colleagues, the former Kurdish members of parliament, and which proposes an antiterrorist law, a terrible censorship of a press already plunged into grief by the unpunished murder of journalists.
Here again, let us suspend financial aid and make our cooperation conditional upon respect for human rights.
If it does not want to be a bitter disappointment to the rest of the world, Europe must play every card it has in its hand - and it has many - in every part of the world where it has any influence.
New institutions will add little to the activities already being undertaken by the Union, the UN, the OSCE or the Council of Europe, not forgetting Amnesty International and other NGOs.
The report rightly emphasizes the link between democracy and human rights, and the need for a universal concept which embraces the rights of national minorities, refugees, women and children, and the right to a healthy environment.
I welcome also the call for minimum social clauses in trade agreements to protect the rights of children, prisoners or to combat other forms of slave labour.
This pattern should stop as it undermines the work of the EU and this Parliament.
Minimum standards should be adhered to and agreements suspended where there is clear evidence of widespread human rights abuses.
But at what price?
At the price of selling the dignity and honour of Malagodi, Einaudi, Ugo La Malfa, who can no longer rise in revolt!
I would like to highlight two aspects which I feel are fundamental and upon which we should reflect both in our work in Parliament and in our relations with the other institutions.
The first aspect relates to the assertion made in paragraph 13 concerning assessment of the evolutionary character of human rights.
They continue to develop and we have to acknowledge this, that is to say we have to carry out an ongoing assessment of progress achieved in terms of human rights not only in our own countries but also in third countries with whom we maintain relations.
This idea and the idea of critical dialogue complement each other very well, and both ideas should be applied to all those programmes which are currently being implemented, by which I mean PHARE, TACIS and MEDA, and others connected with Turkey, Israel, Algeria, Belarus or Iran.
The second aspect - the idea of the democratic clause - is very directly related to this idea of an evolutionary nature, that is to say we must not view the democratic clause as having a sanctioning character, rather as an aid to extending and assisting the consolidation of something that is very rare in the history of humanity: democracy and respect for human rights.
Human rights have not improved in Turkey since the introduction of the custom's union, they have got worse.
The presentation of the annual report on human rights is one of the European Parliament's initiatives which enables a major dialogue between the institutions on human rights issues.
It goes without saying that the Commission lays great store by the respect of human rights, both inside and outside the Union.
The Commission has on previous occasions discussed human rights clauses in agreements between the EU and third countries with you.
The Commission regularly discusses human rights on the international and world-wide scene.
In our communication of last July, for example, on the relationship between international trade and labour standards we produced an in-depth analysis of the possibilities of placing these standards on the agenda of the World Trade Organisation.
These standards concern in particular the abolition of forced labour, slavery, child labour and the promotion of the freedom of trade unions, together with the right to collective labour negotiations and nondiscrimination in employment.
Strengthening democracy and respecting human rights are high priorities for the European Union, especially in countries undergoing change.
For monitoring and coordinating purposes the Commission has since 1994 been producing annual reports on the main guidelines followed in the use of these funds.
These reports contain a separate account of each individual budget line, an account of the sector on human rights, democracy and development and a general account of all human rights budget lines.
The Commission shares the particular concern of the European Parliament on matters such as freedom of expression and freedom of the media.
As this is a fundamental factor in democracy and civil society which plays an important part in the protection of human rights, our specific actions are aimed at promoting this freedom.
I would like to tell you about a very busy conference on the freedom of the media in former Yugoslavia organised recently by the Commission in Brussels where the Commission again promised an important sum - in this case some ECU 10 million for 1997 - precisely to support and encourage the free media in former Yugoslavia.
The Commission fully agrees with Parliament that this coordination should be intensified and we are acting accordingly.
You know that President Santer has taken upon himself personal responsibility for the sensitive field of human rights.
With a view to improving internal coordination there are also regular meetings of the directors-general in the Commission involved in external relations.
We also have an interservice working party 'Human Rights' in which all the Commission services dealing with human rights are represented.
One of the most important events in the promotion and protection of human rights in the world was undoubtedly the signing of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights on 10 December 1948.
We had thought of that some time ago and are also trying in conjunction with the United Nations to work towards having 1998 as the year of international protection of human rights.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
Casini, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, on improving the law and cooperation between the Member States on the adoption of minors.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur on measures to protect minors in the European Union I am particularly pleased that this report has come on the agenda on the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of UNICEF.
Their offspring are therefore primarily children of working parents.
At the same time, a policy geared to children's rights should be introduced in all areas and account should be taken of aspects relating specifically to children in all legal acts and initiatives.
If we vote and decide on this report today on the 50th anniversary of the foundation of UNICEF, this act would represent a future guarantee that we will pay particular attention to the problems of children in the activities of the European Parliament.
In order to encourage political participation by children, we call on the Member States to assist in the formation of youth parliaments at local, regional and national level.
telephone helplines, which already exist in some Member States.
The European process of integration also affects the situation of children.
The report also calls for psychological support and assistance to be given to children who are the victims or witnesses of acts of violence.
Adequate protection and humanitarian aid must also be given to under-age refugees from third countries.
To enable them to do so, we must make education accessible to all children living in the territory of the European Union, irrespective of social origin or nationality.
In particular, today's debate means that we all assume responsibility for the future of our children, undertake to act to the benefit of the children, to be their advocates, to introduce a new way of thinking in the Community in response to social, economic and political changes and to give children a status appropriate to their needs.
Children must be able to participate in this process as equal partners.
Again, when we say that children's rights and interests must take precedence over those of adults, we are trying to apply the principle of solidarity whereby society must offer some of its own strength to strengthen the weakest.
We must, then, say an unyielding 'no' to all forms of violence against children, and a loud, clear 'yes' to children's rights, the rights of all children, of every race and colour - I recall, incidentally, that 1997 is to be Europe's Year against Racism - in whatever condition they may be, and throughout their development.
The modern institution of adoption is one way of providing one of a child's most basic rights: the right to a family.
This phenomenon lies behind the sharp increase in international adoption in all our countries, which is presenting major difficulties not only for the adoptive parents but also as regards the transparency of procedures, the risk of serious abuses and, most of all, the balanced development of the children concerned.
On the other hand, international adoption is a subject of direct concern to the European Union.
We must say 'no' to contractual forms of adoption; it is necessary that the intermediary function in international adoption should always lie with authorized bodies.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the theme of the protection of minors in European countries has both a legal aspect and a much wider aspect that I have attempted to develop in my opinion for the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media.
It seems to me that the family is an institution for the protection of the young that we have a tendency to forget.
There is some contradiction, I find, in being afraid that social cohesion will disappear, and in seeking a high degree of social protection for wage-earners and then neglecting what in my view is the basis of social cohesion: family cohesion.
I have heard rather too many fine words on the protection of minors and the importance of the family.
I must say that we in the Committee on Women's Rights have discussed on various occasions in the last few years the dangers facing minors not just outside the family but also inside it.
There is absolutely nothing wrong with that and I even think it is a precondition for giving equal treatment of men and women a proper chance.
We cannot demand the traditional family back because of occasional excesses for these also happen in traditional families.
Mr President, I have the honour to present the thoughts and proposals of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs concerning the problems raised by international adoption.
First of all, we have to agree on a basic principle, namely that it is children who have the right to a family and not adults who may be claiming the right to have a child.
Any political decision must be based on this principle.
The second principle to be highlighted is that it is preferable to allow a child to develop in its own environment.
International adoption should not be considered if this principle cannot be translated into reality.
The fight against criminal schemes like these requires several measures, the first being that European countries and third countries who provide children for adoption should ratify and put into practice the Hague Convention on cooperation over international adoption.
The second measure is the inclusion in national legislation of a provision that all public or private legal entities providing children for adoption must receive the prior approval of the relevant national child protection organization.
Third measure: any full adoption must be based on formal proof of legal abandonment of the child.
Fourth measure: the illegal entry of children must be combatted by very close collaboration between the forces of order and by the systematic use of existing means, including the Schengen Information System and Europol.
By fighting against criminal trafficking and helping adoptive families to give a child love and protection, we shall make international adoption a tremendous act of solidarity towards children lacking a family.
We need to shift resources to our children and also to shift our interest to the children in all our societies rich and poor.
He treated them as if they were his property, he deceived them and he took them to a very bewildering situation in a country and a family which they can barely understand.
The best condition for effective protection of minors is and remains the family.
In some parts of our large towns only 10 % of families have any children at all.
It forms the guarantee for minimum legal standards.
It has provided valuable impetus and really does represent a milestone in the further development of the rights of children, although it is confined to obligations upon the states and does not formulate any specific rights of children.
The report says that children's rights must be enshrined in the Maastricht Treaty.
Mr President, the two draftsmen have presented important proposals for making child protection a priority of Community policies, by seeking to put an end to the law of silence, to sex tourism, etc.
Some are using this noble cause as a Trojan horse in an attempt to put their own ideology before children's interests.
I hope Parliament will quickly take a more serious line, because otherwise it will forfeit any right to become as angry as it did in Brussels in September following the terrible events of the summer.
My group's vote on these texts will depend on what amendments are adopted.
It comes at a time when trafficking in minors and their use for unlawful purposes undermines the image of intercountry adoption.
So I welcome the fact that both reports make proposals on what can be done at this stage.
One is to preclude all discrimination against new forms of long-term relationships, as called for in paragraph 2 of the Casini report, which also includes homosexual partnerships.
Secondly, my group considers it equally as important to talk in plain terms here and not to talk of the right to life when the issue is the inviolability of living beings.
Mr President, in a day devoted to human rights, it seems to me a good thing to bring children's rights into the debate.
The first requirement is to harmonize legislation and to ensure that international conventions are applied.
For, beyond problems of maltreatment, of economic or sexual exploitation, it is our duty to reaffirm the right to education, an education that is fulfilling and which allows people to fight properly against inequalities and educational failure.
In addition, we must promote an open family policy which takes into account family trends today and a coherent, actively-directed social policy in order to fight effectively against poverty and exclusion, whose ravages among the young are only too well known to us.
Mr President, it is high time to regard a child as a person in law.
Society seems to be aware of the existence, even in various European Union countries, of maltreated children, paedophile rings and child pornography.
In fact, in some paragraphs, such as U and V, the report criticizes the lack of information and debate about sexuality.
The report defends sexual preference, the freedom to fulfil oneself, and the abolition of any difference in legal status between children born outside marriage and those born within it; it is also in favour of the free movement of children of residents of third countries, an extremely dangerous idea because it will allow entire families to come and settle down in any country.
The apparent dismissal of the very concept of the family from this report is totally amazing.
Whereas the development and protection of the child - and everybody recognizes this - seem to be the avowed aims of the report, it distances itself entirely from, and even abandons, the family framework, the pre-eminent framework for the integration and development of children.
How, then, can we claim to protect children when their natural environment and their emotional reference point are being destroyed.
We have therefore decided to vote against this report, and I find it very dangerous, Mr President, that the constant wish of the Community is always to control everything, to regulate everything.
Indeed I would say to Mrs Zimmermann that it was very interesting this morning to meet the group from Focus on Children and to take part in their presentation.
The debate is timely because not only is it the 50th anniversary of UNICEF but it coincides with the debate we had here this morning on the new revised Treaty, which was presented by the Irish presidency.
As you know, the rapporteurs commenced their work long before the horrors of that Dutroux case became known.
The Irish presidency equally, right from the outset, saw the need to prioritize the fight against organized crime and trafficking in persons.
In this regard I am very pleased to see the express reference in Article K.1 of the draft Treaty to common action between Member States to combat trafficking in persons and offences against children.
However, in common with most Members in the House, I hope that the eventual outcome of the IGC will see a shared competence in this area between Parliament and Council under the Community pillar and the insertion of a separate Treaty provision dealing expressly with the rights of children.
Accordingly I am fully convinced of the need for a two-pronged approach: we need action at Community level where that action is appropriate, but extra regulation, whether it is supranational or at any other level, does not mean extra protection in practice.
What we require is that we as parliamentarians should have the political will to bring the necessary improvements into the national laws.
Mr President, several colleagues have referred to the success of the recent Council of Justice Ministers and the progress made by them on the issues we are debating here today.
The reason why this progress has been made is because clearly now, particularly following events in August in Belgium, there finally exists a political will to do something to improve the rights of children within our Community.
Adoption is a very delicate issue in all of our countries and in some of our countries it has very clear constitutional implications.
Mr President, the two reports we are looking at today have one point in common: the priority given to children's rights.
I would even add that the greater interest of the child must be the most important consideration.
The Casini and Zimmermann reports have the merit of having been produced and of highlighting the problems of adoption, of the protection of minors' rights and the legitimate rights of children.
Since the events that shattered my own country, Belgium, the European Parliament has shouldered its responsibilities.
The Council and Commission have finally tabled the first practical measures aimed at greater protection for children.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against the trade in human beings and more especially in children will henceforth come under the authority not only of Member States but also of the European Union.
Whether it is the arrest of a link in the chain of an international paedophile ring or of an illegal adoption network or, still worse, of traffickers in organs, what is happening shows us that the European Union must more than ever put every effort into this.
Adoption by a single person, in my view, is a different matter.
If the right moral, economic and social conditions do indeed exist - a point which the rapporteur also emphasized - adoption by a single person is preferable to the child's being abandoned or entrusted to an orphanage.
However, the first necessity in order to make adoption more effective in helping children is to make the legislative procedures clearer and simpler, not only in order to avoid unreasonable difficulties and bureaucratic delays within the Member States but also in order to regularize the system of international adoptions, which in some cases hides neither more nor less than a straightforward trafficking in children.
Mr President, Europe abandons children, we abandon children.
I do not mean by that that other European citizens and families abandon Europe's 120 million children - although they do - whether they are talking about child abduction, child prostitution or poverty, which strikes hardest at children who do not have enough to eat.
Firstly, there is no mention of children in the Treaties; nor in the Irish draft IGC revision are we proposing to give children their proper status.
Notwithstanding the solemn declaration of the recognition of children's rights, children are sometimes regarded, even in current attitudes, from a very different viewpoint, as something to be exploited, a resource for parents, advertising, the labour market, organized crime.
There is no such thing as a right to adoption!
A constant observation among these children is that psychological problems manifest themselves from adolescence in varying degrees according to the capacity of the adoptive families to welcome them, but always in relation to deep cultural differences when the children come from distant countries.
The wrench between the two civilizations in which these children have lived, whether Koreans, Sri Lankans or Zaireans, is real, even though they only have an imaginary vision of their country of origin.
It is important, to my mind, that our Parliament should urge countries in the Union, and also other European countries, to facilitate the adoption of their residents and ensure that the trade in children practised by a growing number of third countries is stopped.
I welcome the proposals in the report on strengthening laws against sexual exploitation, proposals on combating the proliferation of sex tourism, but also we need to go further.
I also welcome paragraph 32 of the report which calls on Member States to remove all differences between the legal position of children born to unmarried couples and those born to married couples.
The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child must form part of the democratic reference framework.
Mr President, I must start by congratulating Mr Casini.
I am in complete agreement with the views expressed in his report, especially when he says that the purpose of adoption must be to provide a family for a child who lacks one.
I am very glad to note that, in this evening's debate, everyone has been able to agree with this principle, and I venture to hope that, in due course, this principle really will be followed through to become a reality in every Member State.
She has now concluded that everyone agrees with her that adoption can only take place in traditional families.
Mr President, the two reports currently under discussion are about children's rights, their right to be children, to grow up and to develop in stable conditions and about their right to a family.
I am referring to all abandoned children who lack basic security.
This document was used as the basis for a programme of action decided upon at the World Congress against the Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children in Stockholm, in August this year.
The fight against sexual exploitation of children and child pornography is a central issue in this.
Thirdly, a report on action to combat child sex tourism.
Mr President, there has also been significant progress in the legal arena.
The Council of Ministers decided, at their meeting on 29 November, to make sexual exploitation of children in all its forms, trade in children and possession of pornography illegal.
The Council has also decided to extend the mandate of the European Drugs Unit so that it is not restricted to illegal immigration but also covers the traffic in people.
The Council has also decided on a special programme of action in support of concrete cooperation projects to combat the traffic in people and sexual exploitation of children.
So, Mr President, I turn to the report by Carlo Casini on international adoption.
We all agree that a child has a right to a family, which should, in the first instance, be their own biological family.
We must always keep sight of the interests of the child in cases of adoption.
The 1993 Hague Convention provides a good framework for such cooperation.
It regulates contacts between the competent authorities in the country of origin and the country of adoption.
So far Eight Member States have signed the Convention but only one, Spain, has ratified it.
I hope that the Members in this House will help this Convention come into force in our Member States.
If this were already in place the relevant legal documents in an adoption process would be available more quickly between Member States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
That meeting will discuss the future of Europe, the IGC, and I would contend that the acquired rights directive is one of the key elements in the construction of social Europe, an important part of the dimension which I hope will be reaffirmed in those discussions in Dublin at the weekend.
This is a 1977 directive which attempted to assure employees in the European Union that the Union was concerned with protecting their rights at a time of economic change due to mergers, takeovers and privatization from the public to the private sector.
It became clear from many of those judgments that the directive applied to all Member States and to almost all situations concerning takeovers, mergers and transfers of undertakings.
It is worth recalling that in those discussions we had in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment and finally in Parliament itself - and I was looking at last January's debate in preparation for tonight - the position was clearly indicated that the original revised directive, in particular Article 1(1), and the weakening in our judgment of the exclusion of contracting-out from the directive, was a major concern to the committee and to Parliament as a whole.
After the discussion in Parliament Commissioner Flynn went back to the Commission and obtained an undertaking that the Commission would accept the deletion of this and reversion to the original directive coverage in terms of the definitions of an undertaking.
Since then the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment and the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights have been discussing the rest of the directive, and that is the final result of the report before us tonight.
However, we are not totally inflexible on that and I am willing to have discussions on those amendments with Members before we vote on the report tomorrow.
Finally, I conclude by paying tribute to the people who worked with me on this report: Stephen Hughes, chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, who is in Singapore representing us at the WTO, Sue Waddington from the committee and from the Committee on Women's Rights, Christine Oddy from the Legal Affairs Committee, the staff and secretariat of the Social Affairs Committee, and also the Commission.
I hope that after the rest of the debate tonight we can get a good response and vote it tomorrow.
The legal device whereby the transfer of some function of an undertaking, business or part thereof does not in itself constitute a transfer and consequently the rights of those working there are not protected, is an exceptionally dangerous order that could lead to a series of figurative transfers whose only purpose would be to do away with working peoples' acquired rights.
The Directive must define very clearly indeed the meaning of a transfer and its protective orders should apply to any type of transfer that affects working peoples' rights.
As for deviations in the event of insolvency, it must be made clear that work contracts cannot be terminated or amended without the employees' agreement and that of their representatives.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights I find myself in a difficult situation since I did not obtain majority support on some points I consider extremely important.
The first is the question: what constitutes a transfer?
If this situation were retained, it would have serious consequences for the economy and further increase the unemployment figures in the Member States.
I cited research undertaken by the Equal Opportunities Commission in the United Kingdom which had examined the gender impact of the transfer of activities.
But the Women's Rights Committee has proposed a further amendment which has gained the support of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment which, in the light of experience, we regard as very important.
In Northern Ireland currently, as a result of contracting out of national health services to a private company, over 500 staff, mainly women, went on strike for two weeks in October of this year because the new contractors have cut their pay, have introduced unequal pay between men and women doing the same work, have introduced differential rates of pay for workers in different parts of Northern Ireland and have brought in job-seekers to break the strike.
Following the initiative of the Commission on local development and employment and the conclusions of the European Council at Cannes and Madrid, the Florence European Council invited all Member States to select, where possible, regions or cities as candidates for participating in pilot projects concerning local and territorial pacts on employment with a view to implementing such pacts in the course of 1997.
As announced at the Florence European Council, the Irish presidency organized in Dublin on 11 and 12 November a conference on local employment initiatives.
There was also agreement that territorial employment pacts should reflect the institutions and traditions of different Member States.
While there are many useful examples in the Member States, notably my own, of strategies to mobilize support for local economic development and employment creation, at this stage it is up to individual Member States to judge whether it is desirable to promote such projects.
As it happens, I am the Minister responsible for local development in Ireland.
We have expanded from the 12 to 38 pilot schemes in every designated disadvantaged area in Ireland.
I am so enthusiastic about this that I really believe that this is something which should be available in every Member State and, not only that, it has application in the 11 applicant states.
So I would like to see a centre of excellence, and certainly I would like to see the experience we have in Ireland shared with other Member States.
It is not for me to lecture other Member States on how they should go about their business but there is an OECD report on local development in Ireland and I would commend it to any Member State to read.
This is an integrated approach which has targeted areas of greatest need, is tailored to the needs of the area and, in my view, has an application in all the disadvantaged areas - rural and urban - throughout the Union.
It is such an excellent scheme it could qualify immediately and start the processing going.
I just wonder whether he would like to give me a couple of comments on my questions and a general observation on the preparedness of the UK.
It is not for the Council to dictate to Member States what they do but I am so enthusiastic about the whole area of local development and territorial pacts that I personally would be disposed to becoming a persuader in this whole area.
But, certainly, I have raised this matter with individual ministers in the UK.
I appreciate that you do not want to lecture another Member State, but it may be news to you that according to the European Commission there are going to be at least 60 proposals for territorial employment pacts from at least 12 Member States next week in Dublin.
My understanding is that if the British Government did change their minds at a later stage, they could hope to participate in the territorial pacts as other Member States have done.
Although there are similar programmes in Member States, the whole partnership approach which has been stressed in the Santer package - which I believe strongly draws on the Irish experience - is unique in the sense that it empowers communities and, crucially, requires communities to take responsibility.
I really do think this new approach should commend itself to all Member States.
Question No 3 by Bernd Posselt (H-0921/96) Subject: The situation in the Northern Caucasus What is the Council's assessment of the current political situation in Chechnya, Ingushetia and Dagestan, and what plans are there for humanitarian aid for 1997?
The Council believes that considerable progress has been achieved towards a peaceful settlement of the conflict in Chechnya.
The decision by President Yeltsin, again on 23 November, to withdraw all Russian troops from Chechnya is also significant.
The Council has also noted the intention to hold presidential and parliamentary elections in January next year.
The Council is convinced that the OSCE assistance group in Grozny can make a valuable contribution to maintaining the dialogue established between the parties, promoting full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and ensuring access for international humanitarian aid.
ECHO, the European Community humanitarian office, has allocated over ECU 7.4m during 1996 to international aid agencies and NGOS in Chechnya and the Northern Caucasus.
In total over ECU 33.7m has been disbursed to support humanitarian activities in the region since 1994.
At the third meeting of the humanitarian aid committee on 31 October 1996, Member States approved a ECU 2.2m package which represents the last phase of ECHO's global plan for 1996.
The global plan will cover a four-month period until the end of February 1997.
First, will the Council arrange for observers to be at the elections in Chechnya on 25 January?
When it adopted the directive abolishing fiscal frontiers as from 1 January 1993, the Council decided to end duty-free sales to intra-Community travellers.
The Council was aware of the economic difficulties and social repercussions which might have arisen in the sectors concerned when duty-free sales were abolished for intra-Community travellers.
For that reason, it authorized the continuation of such sales for a transitional period ending on 30 June 1999.
At the meeting of the Ecofin Council on 11 December 1996 the presidency suggested that a study of the economic and social impact of the ending of EU duty-free should be carried out by the Commission but some Member States did not support this suggestion.
Another implication for island states is that the cost of air flights could increase.
I would like to know, in the time that you have left, would the Council be prepared to look at ways in which this particular deadline could be avoided and examine possible alternative policies to compensate for any negative impact in the regional area and the tourism area.
But really it is contradictory for the Council on the one hand to be talking about initiatives to create employment and then to go ahead with a policy which will create unemployment to the tune of 140, 000 job losses.
May I ask the Minister to confirm whether or not it is correct that only two Member States indicated a positive response to the initiative?
My understanding is that we would need at least a qualified majority vote in Ecofin to review and carry out the report along the lines I have suggested and that did not appear when it was put by the President-in-Office.
However, we will go on trying to achieve the necessary consensus on this because it is a matter of concern to a number of Member States.
I think the very least we could do is have a study carried out so that we would base our decision on facts as they affect the citizen of the Union.
Question No 5 has been withdrawn by the author.
When can we expect a clear decision on this matter?
This does not mean that nationals of those countries do not need visas to enter certain Member States.
Question No 7 by Jonas Sjöstedt (H-0934/96) Subject: Eurodac register The Council's written answer to my question at the October part-session concerning Eurodac (H-0815/96) is very evasive about the content of the register.
I must point out that discussions on the draft Eurodac Convention are at a relatively early stage and unfortunately this means that there is no definitive information on the two issues in question which I can give the honourable Member.
After the Justice and Home Affairs Council had established in November 1995 that it is technically feasible to set up an automated system for exchanging and comparing the fingerprints of asylum-seekers, the Italian presidency presented a preliminary draft convention in March 1996 concerning the establishment of Eurodac.
Since then, the Council has not entered into detailed discussions of the draft convention but gave instructions at its sessions in March and June 1996 for the relevant preparatory bodies to pursue their work.
The work is ongoing and has involved exploring many complicated legal and technical problems including data protection.
However no conclusions have been drawn by the working party, let alone the Council of Ministers itself, on any particular age limit below which fingerprints to be stored in Eurodac would not be taken from young persons, nor on whether data should be deleted from Eurodac once the person in question has been allowed to settle in a Member State.
There is a proposal for an age limit, 14 years old, at which refugee children may be fingerprinted.
It is difficult to foresee when proceedings within the Council's specialized bodies will result in a text for approval by all delegations.
This practice varies from a minimum age of 12 years in some states to an 18-years minimum in others.
As I have pointed out in my reply to the question, the Council has not entered into detailed discussion of the draft convention, so that sort of detail has not yet been considered by the Council.
As I have already indicated, no conclusions have been reached on the question of the minimum age at which asylum applicants should be fingerprinted and it is difficult to foresee when proceedings within the Council's specialized bodies will result in a text approved by all delegations.
So most of these questions are very much in their embryonic stages and have not reached the stage where the Council has considered them.
In adopting the regulations on the structural funds in July 1993 the Council determined the criteria that would be used to determine which regions would qualify for Objective 1 status, the most underdeveloped regions in the Union.
These regulations are in place until 31 December 1999.
It would at this stage be premature to speculate on the details of the rules that will govern the application of the structural funds after 1999.
The Council will in good time re-examine the regulation on a proposal from the Commission before the current set of regulations expires.
While this is not directly related to the honourable Member's question, he will recall that the Commission in its communication to the other institutions of the Union, including Parliament, of 20 March 1996, on structural funds and employment, indicated its intention, in full compliance with the existing regulations governing the application of the structural funds, to take into account the employment creation aspects of structural policies under all the objectives.
I wonder if he would now say - having regard to the fact that we have already had public statements from Commissioner Wulf-Mathies and from President Santer with regard to the need to prioritize unemployment and efforts to get rid of unemployment and in particular long-term unemployment within the Member States - that the Council at this stage should perhaps ask the President of the Commission to come forward with proposals to start drawing up the guidelines that will be necessary after 1999.
There is therefore still more than three years to go before a new set of rules will be required.
The Council has agreed to revise the rules in question before 31 December 1999 on the basis of a Commission proposal which, I am sure, will be made well in advance of that date.
The issue which the honourable Member raises in his question will no doubt be of interest when the time comes to discuss the new structure of the funds.
One of the concerns I would have is that I would want to reach the objective which the honourable Member raises, of highlighting in the areas of greatest need the combatting of unemployment by the maximum use of structural funds.
I welcome the President-in-Office's statement on that because, as the Socialist Group's regional spokesperson, I think we must not go down the road of only identifying our target in unemployment.
In fact, in the UK we have the highest employment-creation rate but we also have the highest poverty rate in the EU.
It may be three years but three years is a short amount of time.
In relation to the other question which she raises in relation to GNP per capita rather than GDP per capita, this is not something on which the Council has taken a view, for reasons that are obvious.
GNP, because it allows for profit, repatriation and also for external debt interest payments, is a better measure of the income which is available within a country or region.
The Council will, in good time, re-examine the regulations on a proposal from the Commission before the current set of regulations expire.
It would be premature at this stage to speculate on the details of the rules that will govern the structural funds after 1999.
The proposition put forward in the honourable Member's question is one that will no doubt be addressed as soon as the debate on the new structure of the funds intensifies in the run-up to 1999.
Indeed part of my own constituency in Dublin which some might think is a favoured region is one of those.
In some parts there are very high levels of unemployment, maybe as high as 75 %.
The improvement in Ireland's position is welcome and is a tribute to the successful implementation of our stabilization policies over a number of governments and to the productive use which has been made of the EU structural funds, which have has enabled us to make our economy grow.
In particular, transparency has been encouraged through the systematic organization of press briefings by the presidency in conjunction with the Secretariat-General of the Council in advance of Council meetings.
In addition, ten open debates took place in Council meetings during Ireland's presidency.
Arising from the implementation of the code of conduct of 2 October 1995 which provides for public access to the Minutes and statements in the Minutes of the Council acting as legislator, and the Council decision of 20 December 1993 regarding public access to Council documents, the presidency will continue to ensure that all applications for documents are given full consideration.
The Council is at present reviewing the implementation of the code of conduct with the aim of ensuring the maximum effectiveness of the system in the future.
In addition, the Intergovernmental Conference is discussing the question of transparency.
However, under existing rules governing access to documents, the Council cannot make all compromise proposals on legislative texts under discussion in the Council available to the European Parliament or third parties.
Finally, regarding contacts between the Council and Parliament, the honourable Member will be aware of the number of appearances made by representatives of the Council before committees of Parliament - around 40 to date - as well as the regular attendance of the presidency at part-sessions of Parliament.
These occasions provide both sides with an opportunity for constructive debate on issues of major importance as well as ensuring that they are kept up-to-date with each other's views on a wide range of topics.
Before I get onto my supplementary, since this is his last occasion in the Chamber in his present office I would like to thank and congratulate him on the very informative way in which he has dealt with this Parliament and, in particular, his willingness to engage in debate and discussion with Members here.
However, be that as it may, your response to my particular question leaves an awful lot to be desired because you did, at the outset, list the want-to-bes - what you want to see happening and what you think is the emphasis for what will happen in the future.
The existing rules governing access to documents can only be amended, as I understand it, by unanimity in Council.
Compromise proposals are essentially negotiating positions of Member States.
However, we are reviewing the situation and the Intergovernmental Conference is looking at the question of transparency.
So I would not rule out some change in the future but it would require a unanimous decision of the Council to make that change.
In my own country legislation is made by a bill being presented to Parliament often after there are secret document exchanges between civil servants and ministers.
However, the whole question is a sensitive issue which must be agreed to by all Member States.
An important step in the direction of greater transparency was the agreement of the new code of conduct on 2 October 1995 which provides for public access to the minutes and statements in the minutes of the Council acting as legislator.
I would also mention the systematic publication of the results of votes taken by the Council acting as legislator and the decision of 20 December 1993 on public access to Council documents.
Question No 11 by Luciano Vecchi (H-0943/96) Subject: Political initiatives for peace in Somalia Five years after the fall of Siad Barre's dictatorial regime, Somalia has not yet been able to establish a new political system that can build a future for the Somali people.
It considers a negotiated settlement to be the optimum means of resolving the current conflict in Somalia and of ensuring peace, reconciliation, security and a return to normal life for the Somali people.
In its approach the European Union is maintaining strict neutrality towards the various factions in the belief that Somalia will not be able to take its proper place in the international community until a government emerges that is broadly representative of all its factions and entities.
Notwithstanding the continued conflict in certain parts of Somalia, further positive progress has been made towards consolidating the peace process at the meeting of Somali leaders which was hosted by President Moi of Kenya in Nairobi on 9 to 15 October.
The European Union welcomes the valuable contribution being made by President Moi as a further step towards consolidating the fragile peace process in Somalia.
The European Union is committed to giving its continued support to the peace process and the combined efforts of EU partners, the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, President Moi, the United States and other members of the international community in support of a successful outcome.
Along with its continued efforts in support of a lasting political solution to the current conflict, the European Union remains committed to contributing as the main international donor to the ongoing reconciliation and reconstruction process in Somalia.
The European Union remains ready to support economic development and recovery in Somalia once peace and representative government are restored.
I must confess that, despite the major economic and financial effort that has gone into this operation with Somalia - an effort with which the Union has steadily pressed ahead in recent years, which we regard in a positive light and to which, incidentally, the European Parliament has made its contribution - I believe that a major problem still exists, a serious shortcoming with regard to the Union's political initiative in its dealings with Somalia.
I believe that, especially at this stage, as a further means of persuasion for the extreme factions, in particular those grouped around the son of the former General Aideed, to cooperate in the construction of a future territorial settlement for Somalia, it is of the utmost importance to show that the European Union is involved, is following the matter closely and has a political and cooperative proposal of its own for that country.
The honourable Member raises a question which of course is of concern to the Council of Ministers and to the Member States.
As I said in my earlier reply, the EU remains concerned at the failure of the different factions in Somalia to reach an agreement on peace and on the establishment of a national government.
The EU welcomes the progress made at the Nairobi summit and will continue to encourage and support the initiatives of the UN and the OAU.
First I would recall that the present Swedish legislation on the importation of spirits is a derogation from one of the principles of the internal market.
I would remind Members in this context that the Commission very recently presented to the Council a proposal for the postponement of the derogation from 31 December 1996 to 30 June 2002.
The reasoning behind this proposal was that the Nordic countries could experience budgetary and social difficulties if the existing derogation ended this year.
At its meeting on 2 December last the Council came to a solution which would permit Sweden to maintain its derogation until 30 June 2000, with a possibility for review of this date, and for Denmark and Finland to maintain their derogation until 31 December 2003, with no possibility of a further review.
The Council would like to take a decision on this before the end of this year.
I thank the representative from the Council for their answer.
I would point out that the Council decided that any postponement of the date would require unanimity, and in doing that they have given a further derogation to Sweden until 30 June 2000, with a possibility for review of this date at a later stage.
The arrangement arrived at by compromise in the Council of Ministers is a very generous one from Sweden's point of view.
The draft resolution will be formally adopted at a Council meeting before the end of 1996.
This concerns the standard regulations adopted by the UN some years ago which affect all sectors of society including leisure, education and employment.
The fifteen Member States of the EU are among the richest countries in the world.
In the resolution to be adopted by the Council and the representatives of governments meeting within the Council, Member States reaffirm their commitment to the 1993 UN General Assembly resolution on standard rules for the equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities.
As the primary responsibility for action in this field rests with Member States, the resolution calls upon all Member States to adapt national policies where appropriate, taking into account inter alia the need for empowering people with disabilities, mainstreaming the disability perspective into all relevant sectors of policy formulation and removing barriers to full participation.
An important aspect of the draft resolution is to call on Member States to endeavour to involve representatives of people with disabilities in the implementation and follow-up of relevant Community policies and actions in their favour.
In addition, in relation to the Intergovernmental Conference, the general outline for a draft revision of the Treaties proposed by the presidency reflects broad support, though not at this stage unanimous support, for including a general non-discrimination provision in the Treaty.
The presidency document also reflects proposals to amend the single market provisions of the EC Treaty to take special account of persons with a disability.
The document notes that such references could be made, for example, in Article 127 or Article 100a of the TEC.
Question No 14 by Tommy Waidelich (H-0946/96) Subject: Future sources of finance for trans-European networks There are a serious problems with the funding of trans-European network projects.
It is true that this concerns an issue of subsidiarity but the current problem is that some Member States have such a poor economy that they are unable to finance the network.
It further believes that there is an urgent need to intensify efforts to promote a comprehensive political settlement in Cyprus under the aegis of the United Nations and has called on both communities to engage constructively in this process.
The European Union is actively supporting the efforts of the UN Secretary-General's special representative to this end.
It is a problem that affects a whole population group, and one which arises in various ways from time to time.
I might remind the House that the Irish presidency appointed an Irish Ambassador as EU special envoy to try to assist in resolving the problems which the honourable Member refers to.
The reality is that the European Union has not given itself the facility with which to do that.
The whole common foreign and security policy area is under examination at the Intergovernmental Conference and I hope that it will allow for the Union to be more effective and to have the instruments available to it to act as a Union in trying to resolve problems of this kind.
I can assure the honourable Member that it is one which has concerned this presidency very much and indeed the envoy appointed by Ireland will remain in office under the Dutch presidency.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 16 and 17 lapse.
Or does the Council uphold a strict interpretation of Article 223 which implies that policy on arms does not fall within the sphere of the institutions of the EU?
The provisions of Article 223 do not, as the honourable Member notes, constitute a reservation of competence in favour of Member States but a safeguard clause.
Article 223, and in particular Article 223, paragraph 1b, provides that the Treaty shall not preclude a Member State from taking such measures as it considers necessary for protection of the essential interests of its security which are connected with the production of or trade in arms, munitions and war materials.
In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 223, the lists can be amended by the Council on the basis of unanimity on a proposal from the Commission.
Questions in relation to armaments policy are already the subject of work and discussion by two Council Working Groups, POLARM (the European Armaments Policy Working Group) and COARM (the Conventional Arms Exports Group).
I did write a letter to Commissioner Bangemann immediately after the speech that I refer to.
The provisions of Article 223 do not constitute a reservation of competences in favour of the Member States, but rather they are a safeguard clause for Member States, who may invoke them on security grounds.
Question No 19 by Robert Evans (H-0973/96) Subject: Health and safety conditions for construction workers What measures is the Council taking to ensure that Directive 92/57/EEC and other health and safety legislation concerning construction sites are adhered to within the European Union?
The Council attaches the utmost importance to the full and accurate transposition of Community legislation by each Member State and to the effective application of national legislation transposing Community legislation.
This position is clearly set out in the Council Resolution of 27 March 1995 on the transposition and application of Community social legislation.
I should also add that, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty, it is the Commission's duty to ensure that Community legislation is applied by Member States.
Moreover, the Council would stress that the provisions of Chapter 3 of the Euratom Treaty on health and safety and the directive laying down basic safety standards for the protection of the health of workers and the general public against the dangers arising from ionizing radiation, which has reinforced health protection by laying down stricter dose limits, apply in all the territory of the European Union.
I would also say to the honourable Member that if the question involved Community competence it would be for the Commission as guardian of the Treaties to ensure compliance with Community legislation.
However, it is my understanding that a Member State can derogate from ICAO instructions which means that they can refuse the overflight without permission of their aviation authority.
As the author is not present, Question No 21 lapses.
The Council made an important step forward concerning reconstruction aid to the former Yugoslavia by adopting Regulation No 1628/96 on 25 July 1996 which sets up a new framework for financing reconstruction activities in these countries beyond what was possible through the existing PHARE regulations.
Paragraph 3 of this article defines more precisely what is meant by legal persons of a state benefiting from the PHARE programme.
This type of operation could already be carried out under the PHARE regulation, namely in the context of the essential aid programme, EAP, set up after the first donors' conference on Bosnia and Herzegovina in December 1995.
I thank the honourable Member for his very kind closing comments.
In relation to this particular question, I am aware that he has played a signal part in campaigning to bring about the changes that have taken place.
After all, a few days ago we heard from the Serbian foreign minister that this region is now fully incorporated in the territory of the present Yugoslavia and that no special status can therefore be envisaged for this oppressed region.
I would like to know whether the Council can take can take special measures in this regard.
Nevertheless I want to thank the rapporteur, Hugh Kerr, very warmly for this report and for the arduous negotiations.
There is hardly any other subject here in Parliament, I think, that is so complex but also so important in its details or that has such far-reaching implications for working life in Europe.
We consider this particularly urgent, especially in Germany but also in Austria, because more and more transfers of undertakings are taking place not within the EU but to Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary.
Over that period, following intensive discussions in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, the Commission withdrew its original proposal for a new directive and replaced it with a proposal to amend Directive 77/187/EEC.
The most difficult problem is how to balance the interests of the employees concerned and the interests of the employers who have taken over.
Another difficulty resides in the differing legal situations originally pertaining in the Member States.
I hope that after two years this will clear the way for a sensible solution.
Our Group does not endorse the majority of the points contained in this new directive, because it moves undertakings farther away from genuine internationalization of the market.
In conclusion, we do favour the principle of guarantees for workers in contracts of employment, but without premature disclosure of transfers between undertakings.
The ultimate objective must be to enable undertakings to engage in a more extensive dialogue and to establish a genuine single market.
In my country it has often been the employees who on suspension of payment and threatening bankruptcy have played a very positive role in trying to save the undertaking or parts of it.
Firstly, it must be absolutely clear that an employee's pension rights are protected in the event of a transfer of an undertaking or business.
I commend the excellent quality of this report.
In September 1994, as you all know, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council directive with a view to revising and replacing the Council Directive 77/187 on the safeguarding of employees' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings, businesses or parts of businesses.
The revision had a three-fold objective: to reshape and clarify the current directive's scope and definitions in the light of the relevant case law of the European Court of Justice; to allow for greater flexibility in the event of transfers in the framework of insolvency proceedings with a view to ensuring the survival of the undertakings concerned; and to improve the information and consultation requirements, in particular, in transnational situations, and to reinforce the status of employees' representatives.
These include, amongst other things, the definition of the transfer in the first sub-paragraph of Article 1(1), the extension of the directive's scope to sea-going vessels, non-standard employment and non-profit making undertakings, the provisions concerning transnational transfers, the reinforced acquired rights of employee representatives, the need to establish the joint liability of the transferer and transferee, and certain miscellaneous provisions.
I am particularly glad to announce now that after a fruitful debate and very lengthy discussions of a most detailed nature, the Commission is ready to accept, in full or in part, fourteen of the seventeen amendments adopted by the Social Affairs Committee and that I can propose to the Commission that we should adopt one of the seven amendments tabled to the House as well.
I should like to analyse the amendments one by one in the context of the three main objectives envisaged by the Commission.
As regards the non-application of the directive to the transfer of only activities and functions, which our two institutions found to be the most contentious point, the Commission will honour its decision of 7 February 1996 following Parliament's resolution of 18 January 1996.
It will therefore delete the second sub-paragraph of Article 1(1) and table the future text as a proposal amending, not replacing, the current directive 77/187.
The Commission can therefore accept Amendments Nos 1, the title, 2, first recital and 4, the second sub-paragraph of Article 1(1).
The Commission also welcomes the principle of joint and several liability as between the transferer and the transferee proposed in Amendment No 5, the second sub-paragraph of Article 3(1).
However, to improve legal certainty and to avoid needless legal disputes, such liability will be limited to the obligations which arise and fall due before the transfer.
Extending the material scope of the directive to supplementary company or inter-company social security schemes would hinder rather than facilitate the transfer of undertakings as going concerns.
The Commission considers, however, that the impact of restructuring processes upon supplementary social security schemes should be the subject of further research and intends therefore to carry out a comprehensive study on this particular issue.
There seems to be some cover there, and we will do a comprehensive study on the whole issue.
Amendment No 19, Article 3(4)(a) which is new, introduces a necessary safeguard clause to rule out any fraudulent practices prejudicial to employees' interests.
Amendment No 7, Article 4(3), which improves the Commission's text, can be taken on board.
We find Amendment No 8, Article 4(4), which clarifies the Commission's text, fully acceptable.
Amendment No 10, Article 6(1), is new.
I welcome a clarification in this direction which is consistent with the negotiating powers accorded the employees' representatives by Article 4(3) as revised.
The Commission considers that its proposal is clearer and more coherent.
The Commission is prepared, however, to amend its text to make clear that the transferors' and the transferees' obligations to inform applies from the moment that the transfer concerned is contemplated.
The Commission endorses the spirit and objective of Amendment No 12, Article 6(4)a - that is new too - which caters for situations where the decision leading to the transfer is taken by a natural or legal person who is neither an employer nor a controlling undertaking.
Amendment No 13, Article 6(5) rejects the threshold of 50 employees, introduced by the Commission proposal and maintains the current text.
Amendment No 3, which introduced a recital to justify such a move, argues that, pending future harmonization in the field of information and consultation of employees in national undertakings, this issue should be addressed through the future framework instrument.
On some of the miscellaneous provisions: Amendment No 14 - that is, Article 8 - can be accepted, not as a replacement for Article 8 of the proposal, but as a separate new provision so that it is fully in line with the implementation measures put forward in my social action programme 1995-97.
The second sentence, however, becomes superfluous in the light of Article 9 of the Commission proposal.
I very much welcome Amendment No 15 - Article 8a, which is new - in the wake of the Commission's communication on racism, xenophobia and antisemitism of 13 December 1995.
Amendments Nos 16 and 17 are consistent with Amendments Nos 1 and 2 and should, for this reason, be accepted.
Amendments Nos 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 and 25 will be rejected as they are either incompatible with certain amendments we are ready to accept or they introduce derogation clauses which endanger the directive's aims and objectives.
To sum up at this juncture, the Commission can accept fully or in part 15 amendments: Amendments Nos 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 19 and rejects nine others, one concerning a new recital and eight concerning operative provisions.
Together with the new amended proposal I intend to submit to my colleagues in the coming weeks a memorandum on the interpretation of the current transfer directive with a view to providing guidance for employees, their representatives, employers and European citizens at large, on the correct interpretation and application of this crucial piece of legislation.
I have a consultation debate going on at the moment within the framework for the debate on the future of social security and its provisions.
It says something for the consensus that exists in the House this evening.
Therefore each case will be taken on its merits.
Finally, I would like to underline the importance of the proceedings that are taking place here today.
They are important to the whole future of social policy and the modernization within a new context of adequate flexibility and improved standards of protection.
Commissioner Flynn, allow me to express my regret that I cannot address you in your proper Gaelic name as a leader of a tribe in Gaelic.
If anyone had any doubts about the importance you attach to the question which has been discussed, I think that your exhaustive answer on each and every point has not left us any margin to continue nurturing that doubt.
The only problem is that unfortunately you have taken some 14 minutes, whereas five minutes are provided for Commissioner's answers.
I just want to convey my appreciation to the Commissioner for his very comprehensive response and particularly the idea of sending out a memorandum of clarification, which is very necessary, particularly for the courts, to clarify exactly where the Commission is.
I think this has been an excellent example of Parliament and the Commission working together and I hope that the Council will receive it in that light.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow morning.
Mr President, Commissioner, to be able to come into force the revised version of Lomé IV and its financial package have to be ratified by all the national parliaments and also obtain the assent of the European Parliament.
France is reducing its aid by 12 %, Germany and the United Kingdom are making even less effort.
As for the United States, it is beating all records by cutting its contribution by 28 % in a single year to a level that barely amounts to 0.1 % of its GDP.
And even this reduction in aid is no more than the most visible aspect of the appalling and dangerous deterioration in North-South relations.
It is in this context that we, the members of Parliament's Committee on Development and Cooperation, have tried to quantify the achievements and failures of Lomé IV.
I also ask you to refer to the working document attached to the report, in which I mention a number of lines of thought regarding the great achievements of Lomé which I believe should be retained and caused to bear fruit in the future.
The first idea is that the results of this revision of the Convention, and of the laborious compromise on the financial protocol arrived at by the Member States, are disappointing.
So the 'yes' vote we are asking you to give must not be construed as approval of Lomé IV.
This brings me to the second key idea of the report.
You need to know, and make it know, that the fourth Convention of Lomé will in all probability be the last.
And no one can say what will succeed it after the year 2000.
It therefore seems essential to us to set out clear requirements in good time for the aftermath of Lomé, because the future will be decided now.
This is the third main thrust of our report.
We also stress the need to guarantee our partners foreseeable development aid.
In other words, a medium- and long-term plan for cooperation that really meets the main priorities of the development.
Mr President, by establishing a permanent basis for its relationship with the South in keeping with such principles, Europe would at the same time help to offer renewed hope to its partners and itself regain that grand design which it so sorely lacks today.
Thank you, Mr Wurtz, for those introductory remarks.
In all countries, even the least developed, respect of democracy is an inviolable value and a condition for growth in an open and demanding world such as the one we live in.
In our cooperation with the ACP countries we should also welcome other forms of progress made in terms of what we are analysing, succeeding in bringing about, against a background of tough restrictions, an overall increase in financial support (unparalleled by other rich countries in the world), and improving the efficiency of our action, introducing greater coherence, better coordination and closer complementarity between the Community's development policies and those of its Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Lomé Convention is the European Union's development aid instrument par excellence .
There are three points I would particularly like to stress.
The training of personnel will be particularly important.
Secondly, we approve the changes to Article 129 of the Convention enabling ACP countries to request EIB intervention.
Finally, let me stress the great tourist potential of these countries and the need to develop this job-creating sector.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism shares the rapporteur's view that the European Parliament should give its assent to this revised convention.
Mr President, our rapporteur has rightly taken the opportunity offered by this assent procedure to sound the alarm regarding the deterioration of the Lomé process.
The Committee on Fisheries has also taken this opportunity to state its serious concern regarding this situation.
The fisheries sector is essential to the development of our partners in the South.
First of all, it stresses the value to the fisheries sector of the principle of decentralized cooperation, as proposed by the Commission text, and hopes that, within this new framework, consideration will be given to the possibility of tailoring a special programme of decentralized cooperation to the fisheries sector.
The Committee on Fisheries reminds the Commission of its concern regarding guarantees of product origin.
It calls for the responsibility for this guarantee to be transferred to the services that issue the EUR 1 certificates, rather than being left in the hands of the Community importers, which is already the case as regards the guarantee of the health quality of these products.
Finally, the Committee on Fisheries is very seriously concerned at the impact of the proliferation of specialized free-trade or SGP agreements, whose provisions are sometimes counter to the interests of our ACP partners.
A report of the United Nations Development Programme this year highlights the following: the assets of the world's 400 billionaires exceed the combined annual incomes of countries with 50 % of the world's population.
The poorest countries with 20 % of the world's people have seen their share of world trade fall between 1960 and 1990 from 4 % to less than 1 %.
With regard to the impact of AIDS on Africa, for example, projections show that by the year 2000 life expectancy will have fallen from 62 to 47.
Each year some 15 million people, 1, 700 human beings per hour, die from poverty-related causes.
At the same time where the ratio of the share of the global income of the richest 20 % vis-à-vis the poorest 20 % has doubled from 30 to 1 to 60 to 6, official development aid as a percentage of per capita income has decreased from 0.54 % 15 years ago to 0.27 % today.
Could I also say that bringing this report, this initiative, to the European Parliament when we do not have any say in the budget whatsoever is a repeat of the nonsense and a repeat of the charade?
Could I say that the important principle of partnership which is at the centre of the Lomé Agreement is a very unequal partnership.
Nevertheless, we are at the end of an era, we are involved in a valuable discussion.
Mr President, can I begin by thanking the Commissioner for the enormous amount of work he did to obtain the agreement on Lomé IV in what were very difficult circumstances.
He advocates a yes vote on the revised version of Lomé IV and its financial protocol, even though he has sound reservations in doing so.
The ACP/EU Agreement was built on a partnership of equality between the partners, but there has been a growing feeling in the ACP countries that the partnership is becoming a very one-sided affair, with the EU imposing its will on the ACP nations because of cutbacks in financial aid both at multinational and binational levels.
I hope the ACP nations will have a major input into that document and I am sure that regional cooperation will play a major role.
What started out as a midterm review turned out to be a fairly major change in the way that Lomé operates.
Punishing countries like Zambia by withdrawing aid because they have changed their constitution could lead to the destabilization of one of the few stable states on the African continent.
ACP nations in many instances must do more to help themselves.
Aid is only part of the answer, trade is a vital element.
I feel sure I need not remind the House that the 70 ACP states have a total population of 600 million, and that the latest financial protocol, set at ECU 13, 000 million, represents a benefit to each individual inhabitant of a mere ECU 20 over five years.
However, it would be unjust to blame the Lomé Convention for the endemic poverty which characterizes a number of ACP states.
Indeed, it is unanimously acknowledged that the Union's development aid has no parallel anywhere in the world.
The objectives stated in the Lomé Convention, despite all our declared ambitions and statements of goodwill, will be achieved only if the Union equips itself with appropriate financial and supervisory resources, and, at institutional level, takes upon itself the necessary powers to conduct a common foreign policy, to improve the political dialogue with the ACP countries and define a new approach to this partnership.
Regarding the decentralized cooperation defined in Title III of the Lomé Convention, I should like this apostil to be more explicit, especially regarding the substantive, organic, formal and financial powers of the French overseas departments, which are integral regions of the European Union in a position to benefit from their geographical situation by concluding agreements with the ACP countries.
As far as principles are concerned, the changes relating to the institutional political framework and to the commercial and financial rules seem to us to be an improvement.
Mr President, the debate on the European Parliament's assent to the amendments to the fourth Lomé Convention comes at a very difficult time as far as the European Union's development cooperation policies are concerned.
At this very time, the debate has opened, on the basis of the European Commission's green paper, on the future of the Lomé Convention.
At the same time, the majority of the industrialized countries are continuing to reduce their commitments to the less developed countries.
The Lomé Convention is, for the present, the most important world-scale instrument of North-South cooperation.
We must, however, also send out a strong signal for the future.
The Lomé Convention must undergo a radical process of change, in which the concepts of partnership, political dialogue and global cooperation are maintained and strengthened.
The impact of globalization on the poorest countries needs to be controlled within the framework of a new commitment to equity and justice worldwide.
I am reassured to find that with Article 366 we now have a solid instrument for protecting human rights.
Nevertheless, as we saw today from the most recent UN documents, at least the world population growth, which is most marked in the developing countries, is not rising to the extent that was feared.
I wish to begin by paying tribute to the European Parliament, to rapporteur Wurtz and the Members who have taken the floor during this debate, and telling them that I go along with everything they have said, with virtually no exception, and in particular understand the concerns for the future that they have voiced.
As for development cooperation, the European Parliament has always been at the forefront and always supported the Commission.
But it is no longer possible to accept that the Commission makes proposals in which the debate is left to a group of interested parties without enabling all other players in the development field to take part and help to make the basic proposals.
I think that the work on revising the Lomé Agreement show that it was necessary to hold a debate so that the roots we have put down can be made even deeper, so that the efficiency we have achieved can be enhanced, so that certain arguments used in the debate eon the revision of Lomé IV, within the European Union, could no longer be used in the future.
This is an important moment but perhaps the decisive moment will come soon, when we have to put forward proposals for the future.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
Public health was my main point of departure in drawing up my report.
It is not surprising that the Commission's proposal, which does after all go back to 1994, has been overtaken by new scientific evidence and the results of the most recent studies are reflected in Amendment No 36.
You reckon that implementing the bathing water directive in the United Kingdom will cost £4 billion.
A good example of that is the island of Jersey, in your own country, where sewage treatment with ultraviolet radiation costs £2 million as against the earlier estimated cost of £11 million.
I would like to hear Commissioner Bjerregaard on the subject of the costs of this directive.
I have to say that the 1980 directive was not well implemented because it was over-complex and confusing and, as a result, we now have new standards.
We brought forward the time which Member States have to implement the lead parameter from 15 years which the Commission suggests to 10 years.
No responsible individual in the European Union believes that lead should be in the water supply in any quantity.
As far as pesticides are concerned, we have reintroduced the total pesticide parameter because it is the best and safest way to ensure health protection against pesticides reacting with each other as cocktails.
I said there was pressure to improve health but what is more important is that the pressure is realistic.
I recognize that there are people who do not want to find a middle way but in the interests of all the citizens of Europe, not just a favoured few, we have to do so.
In conclusion, the amendments we are tabling suggest that we want a proposal in line with Parliament's house style.
While everyone may be interested in lead and pesticides, there are other technical issues involved as well.
Mr President, good quality bathing water is important for public health, the environment and tourism and this proposal represents a step forward.
But I regret that the rapporteur did not accept our proposal to introduce 31 January as the deadline for the publication of the water quality directive.
Consumers are entitled to be informed in sufficient time on the quality of bathing water and water for recreational purposes at their planned holiday destination.
Early booking is important in tourism and 15 May, as proposed by the rapporteur, is just too late.
I think 15 May is a typical example of a bureaucratic approach, devoid of reality and so a missed opportunity.
Finally I wish to pay tribute to the efforts of my country, the Netherlands, where the central government and the water sport organisations are working together to reduce discharges from water sports into the external water.
First of all this is done by extending the scope of application of the directive to cover all areas where bathing is not prohibited.
The quality of bathing water plays an increasing role in the battle for tourists.
And in the longer term strict quality standards is an economic benefit.
That is why it is also in the consumers' interest that bathing water is monitored in the same way everywhere and the results published in an understandable and uniform manner.
If measurements show that polluted water forms a threat to public health then the Member States should prohibit bathing in the relevant area.
With regard to its practical application, it has unfortunately transpired that some Member States found themselves in considerable difficulties, so much so that, after various amendments, it was not until 1990 that the directive was accepted in all Member States.
What is needed, then, is simplification of the regulations, and that is something that can be done, partly thanks to the major advances since 1976 in physicochemical analysis and, especially, microbiological analysis.
Another difficult point is identifying the areas in which the checks should be carried out.
The Commission's introduction of the new definition of bathing water as water in which bathing is not prohibited and is traditionally practised by large numbers of bathers restricts the number of areas to be monitored.
We shall not be voting for the PSE's Amendment No 16 because, if it were approved, it would extend monitoring and analysis to cover all the Union's thousands of kilometres of coastline, including unfrequented areas.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the review of Community legislation on water quality, and in accordance with the Council's conclusions of December 1993, the present proposal introduces substantial changes by comparison with directive 80/778 which is currently in force.
It aims, in fact, to guarantee better protection of human health and, for the first time, lays down a number of minimum quality requirements for drinking water throughout the Community.
Although on the one hand it is fair to say that this proposal does tend to simplify the present directive by adjusting the reference parameters concerning contents of lead, boron, copper, etc., on the other hand it is necessary to stress how little attention was paid, during the discussions by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, to certain fundamental aspects of the utmost importance.
The problem with the drinking water directive is that it is, at one and the same time, a minimum directive and a directive in which water is regarded as a commodity.
In our view the majority of the amendments tabled and approved in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection should be accepted so that the directives are properly applied.
Until 1990, not a single Member State had incorporated the bathing water directive properly and acceptably into their national legislation and there were multiple application problems.
It is also necessary to take an overall view of the problem.
A year or more ago, in the hearing held in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the need to take account not only of the quality, but also of the quantity of water, was already recognized.
I would also like to mention here that not long ago, in my own country, over 20 deaths and 200 cases of illness were caused by water-borne legionella bacteria.
So it is essential to revise the directives to guarantee water quality in Europe, which is under serious threat today.
Mr President, there are two types of compelling argument in favour of amending the 1980 Directive on drinking water.
The Commission itself acknowledges as much in its latest report.
With regard to one particular parameter, or rather one family of parameters, radioactivity, no limit value has been set and I would draw it to the attention of the House that, contrary to what was said in committee, there is also limit value for radioactive elements in the corresponding Euratom Directive.
I hope these proposals will be interpreted not as a sign of peevish radicalism but, quite simply, as evidence of our concern to improve the health of Europe's citizens.
Little mention has been made of the fact that 21 years down the road this directive is still applied in very different ways.
Not only is there a major difference between the countries in the way they define what bathing water is, but standards of water quality leave much to be desired.
That is why we need a clear directive on the quality of bathing water where little scope is left for individual interpretation.
The Environment Committee accepted amendments to extend this to all water used for recreational purposes.
As a number of things have already been said, I should like to address my remarks more particularly to the Commission, expressing my amazement that it ventures to propose what seems to me a totally unrealistic, by which I mean particularly low, standard of 10 ìg of lead per litre of water - but it says that this standard must be applied within 15 years.
I, being more consistent, propose that we should do better - that we should reduce the permitted content of lead in water intended for human consumption from the present 50 ìg per litre to 25 ìg per litre within five years.
Perhaps we may hope to have such knowledge in five years' time, if the European Commission puts its mind to it.
Finally, I should like to make it clear that it is particularly important to harmonize the methods of sampling and monitoring lead concentrations; because the fact is that at present the methods for monitoring the concentration of lead in water are not harmonized.
We really should consider these problems of copper and lead in drinking water much more in their context.
We all know that the WHO standard of 10 ìg per litre is one that applies to babies.
Mr President, drinking water must be clean; drinking water must not only be healthy, because then we immediately find ourselves in an assessment of what people are able to tolerate before they fall sick.
That is why drinking water must be clean, and this is also the starting point for the drinking water directive as it applies today, but which so many countries have completely ignored for many years.
Drinking water is polluted in almost all Member States, but we do not protect people's health, or the environment, by relaxing the limit values in order that Member States might better comply with the directive.
As the Commission knows, the European Parliament has strenuously defended the purity requirements of the current drinking water directive before the Commission and the Council of Agricultural Ministers who wished to approve new pesticides, even though it was known that these would find their way into the drinking water cycle.
The limit values which the Commission has proposed are too high.
I can well understand why, at a certain point, a rapporteur felt tempted to change the legal basis to 100 A.
The design of the directive proposal prepared the ground for this, in that it recommended that the Commission should take account of the Member States' wish for greater protection of the environment.
The combined limit value for pesticides must be re-instated.
This combined limit value stipulates that there must be no pesticides in drinking water.
Unfortunately we find the pesticides we are looking for in Denmark itself.
The combined limit value is our guarantee of a ceiling for total pollution.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of our directives had already, for the first time, imposed minimum quality requirements for water intended for human consumption.
The European Commission has presented a proposal for an amended directive intended to ensure greater protection of consumer health.
It contains two essential measures to improve water quality: a reduction in lead content and a reduction in pesticide levels.
A fortiori, the cumulative level of 0.5 ìg per litre for all substances has no foundation whatever in public health practice and is in any case inapplicable.
This is why I am asking the House to approve Amendments Nos 104 and 105 which I have tabled on behalf of the UPE Group.
The way the Commission has watered down the directive goes directly against the will of the consumers, who are unequivocally demanding more stringent standards of protection of drinking water.
So I once again strongly urge the Commission to ensure that the total limit value is firmly enshrined in the common position.
I think the European Parliament must send out a clear signal here too.
We are not in favour of the proposal from the Committee on the Environment to double the limit value for the carcinogenic trihalomethanes to 110 microgrammes per litre, in excess even of the Commission proposal.
For all these carcinogenic substances, the German drinking water regulation sets a limit value of 10 microgrammes.
I believe limit values are always a political decision too, and that is a political decision we have to take today.
The Commission has used the WHO's standards, but since the WHO is an organization which operates at a worldwide level, and primarily among the poorest countries, our target level in the EU should be significantly higher.
The absolutely universal need for water and the impact of water on the health, culture and welfare of the human race are legendary.
So it is quite understandable why the WHO has reduced its guide-value for lead in drinking water from 50 microgrammes to 10 microgrammes.
So there is certainly no option but to replace lead pipes and lead fittings if we want to comply with the value of 10 microgrammes of lead.
The Commission is suggesting a transition period of fifteen years, the rapporteur, who is unfortunately not present, ten years.
I would however like to point out that this directive will have a very heavy economic impact, and that our group has proposed that the final deadline for compliance should be put back by five years, while at the same time a system of incentives is introduced to reward those who are the first to comply with the new regulations and parameters contained in the directive.
Mr President, I would say that the European Parliament is issuing its opinion today in favour of a healthy revolution which is related to the quality of life, in this case drinking-water.
Emphasising the Commission initiative, I wish to welcome the work done by the rapporteur, Mr Collins.
But I think that he has taken a fair stance in favour of increasing water quality models and because overall his report take the right approach.
In England, in 1988, a similar accident occurred, in Cornwall.
We defend the switch of copper content from chemical parameters to indicative parameters, with a 2mg/litre limit or 2000 microgrammes/litre, reducing those set out in the 1980 directive.
The framework planned is sufficiently restricted and, in my view, it is wiser to integrate copper into indicative parameters rather than chemical ones, along with arsenic and other elements.
Mr President, there is no question about it: water is essential to our lives.
It is up to you, Commissioner, to be rock-hard in your insistence that these parameters, both quality parameters and emission parameters, are implemented.
The reaction by Doeke Eisma, that some colleagues here want opting-out clauses for the event that things become too expensive after the directive enters into force, shows quite clearly that there are weak points in European water policy.
It is not by chance that a fundamental aspect of the new directive is the reduction of the maximum lead content from 50 micrograms to 10 micrograms per litre, admittedly within a reasonably long timeframe, because lead is a toxic element.
When the Commission representative was asked what the bathing waters directive would cost, he said it would cost a negligible amount given that it would come on top of the 1976 directive, and that was the major cost.
I would like to know what the Commissioner thinks about that.
They represent a part of my country which is spending or partly spending some £3 million in all as a country to bring bathing water up to the standards of the 1976 directive.
I think it is important that this Parliament should be honest with the people of Europe about the cost of what we are recommending.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after we have just talked so much about costs I would like to start with a point I had actually intended to raise at the end, namely the lead content of drinking water.
I cannot overemphasize how important the revision of the directives is from the point of view of countries which have for years been applying scientifically more advanced methods.
Mr President, I feel it necessary to divide my answer up into two sections, because there are a number of amendments to which I am obliged to respond; so I will first make a few comments on the proposal regarding bathing water.
The main purpose of this proposal is to simplify and improve the present directive both with regard to citizens and with regard to the authorities of Member States.
Amendments Nos 6, 17, 22, 27 and 29 must be altered somewhat and can therefore only be approved in part.
On the other hand the Commission cannot approve Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 13, 15, 16, 19, 20, 25, 30, 32, 38 and 39.
It is not possible, at this point in the debate, to give reasons for rejection in individual cases.
Our inability to accept Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 8 is due to the fact that they alter the main thrust of the directive, with the result that the focus is turned from the environment and health to tourism.
The Commission notes the well argued request for the guaranteed quality of areas of water for recreational purposes.
However, this does not mean that it would be a satisfactory solution to extend the area of application of the bathing water directive to cover other areas of water used for recreational purposes.
Finally we come to Amendment No 14 which is aimed at integrating the bathing water directive in a general framework directive on water policy.
The wish for a general framework directive for water was proposed in the summer of 1996 after consultation with the parties affected by the integration of all water related legislation into a consistent policy.
The Commission has therefore come to the conclusion that the bathing water directive represents an independent contribution to integration of the health and environment policies, and for the tourism policy in its own right.
There has also been extensive discussion with regard to the scientific basis for certain parameters such as faecal streptococci and enteroviruses.
Many other comments could be made about the proposal, but I will leave it at this and express my thanks for the treatment of this subject.
I trust I have covered the main points in the comments expressed in the debate, and will now move on to comment on the proposal relating to drinking water and revision of the drinking water directive.
The main purpose of the proposal is to simplify, update and improve the existing directive from the point of view of both citizens and of authorities in Member States.
From the citizen's point of view by ensuring that the standards are high and in accordance with the latest scientific knowledge and by making the directive more transparent, so that we can ensure that the public is regularly informed about the quality of the drinking water supplied to them.
The Commission has worked hard to achieve what in my opinion is a good, well thought out proposal which makes up for deficiencies in the existing directive, at the same time as maintaining and, in many cases, improving the high level of protection.
There are 13 amendments which the Commission is able to approve in principle, namely Nos 6, 10, 17, 19, 26, 39, 41, 44, 45, 47, 58, 65 and 77.
In general the Commission cannot approve amendments which, in its opinion, cannot function or which would make implementation unreasonably difficult.
That is why we cannot approve Amendments Nos 8 and 9 which require the assurance that water reclamation areas are protected from pesticides and nitrates.
Amendments Nos 22, 23 and 24 are aimed at removing the reporting procedure that must be used if a Member State wishes to lay down more stringent standards or additional parameters.
I cannot stress strongly enough that the purpose of the reporting procedure is not to prevent the use of more stringent or supplementary standards, but simply to ensure that such standards are not used in such a way that they act as trade barriers and thus prevent functioning of the internal market.
Amendments Nos 12 and 34 are aimed at introducing a new factor and a new article containing provisions on materials that come into contact with water.
However, this is primarily a matter for directive 89/106, the so-called building materials directive, but we must define the precise relationship between these two directives more clearly at a later point.
The committee procedure proposed by the Commission is procedure II.
Amendment No 37 would mean that the committee procedure was completely removed.
That effort, of course, took up 18 minutes, thank God!
Mr President, I am very pleased with the Commission's answers but I have one question.
Will you please only address questions to the Commissioner, and not make comments about Members who are not in Parliament at this time.
Mr President, I am of course not untouched by the charming appreciation of the Commissioner of the rapporteur Mr Eisma and myself.
Mr President, I am naturally sorry that it should have taken 18 minutes, but because of the great number of amendments to which Parliament requires a response, it is simply impossible to make it any shorter.
That is why we laid down a procedure which was initially very strict, but which on occasions can result in incorrect information.
We would very much like to go into this at greater depth and in writing, because it is also our wish, of course, that the figures be made available as soon as they possibly can, but this is not possible with the procedure currently laid down.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 10.00 a.m.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the Commission's communication on the wise use and conservation of wetlands, the European Union is acquiring its own policy, and will I hope go on to set up the necessary legislation for the preservation and conservation of the wetlands that still remain.
Though the European Union itself is not a contributing party, Community action for the conservation of wetlands begins with the first action programme for the environment.
However, I will not go further into all this, but would like to stress how important it is to implement already existing Community measures for the preservation and conservation of wetlands, such as: the implementation of NATURA 2000; -fulfilment by the European Union of its obligations under international conventions to which the EU is a party; -the incorporation of the policy on the wise use of wetlands; -in the European Union's other policies and activities; However, Mr President and Madam Commissioner, let me make some other points which I consider supplementary and very important if we are to save the 'water-holes' which until only a few years ago, for lack of correct information and knowledge, were regarded only as sources of 'noxious influences' against health and the environment.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all of us know, if only because we have passed through them at least once in our lives, that wetlands exist throughout Europe, and, I am very glad to say, they are all different.
The responsibility for their use and conservation rests exclusively with those who live in them and use them, and so it is of course necessary to protect them not only in the general interest of the Member States but also with a view to the special interests of those who maintain them and live off them.
Only a combined action by the various partners is guaranteed to be effective - all the more effective in that the various partners have different objectives.
Agriculture, fish-farming, forestry, hunting, respect for property - these tourism-related qualities are more important criteria than those reflected in various directives or conventions such as RAMSAR, Habitat, Natura 2000, etc., which are far more restrictive.
For this reason, in the spirit of this motion for a resolution, we shall be voting in the same way.
The need, then, is to come up with a specific system and a specific financial instrument which will allow profitable activities to be continued despite the extra costs associated with the specific constraints of these ecologically sensitive and fragile environments.
A specific policy appropriate to the diversity of the wetlands, and sustainable, with compensations offsetting the constraints, a 'wetlands' section within the framework of the PESCA programme, the inclusion of a 'wetlands' component in the PHARE and TACIS programmes, and the management of Europe's wetlands in partnership with the ecologically related African wetlands, as recommended by the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in Windhoek.
Our committee also emphasized the need to learn the lessons of the OGAF-type agricultural and environmental programmes already undertaken, especially in the United Kingdom and France, which absolutely must be perpetuated by releasing the necessary financial resources.
I fail to understand how the Commission and Member States can imagine how the wetlands can be preserved and protected without extra funds.
The lack of specific funds will unfortunately be translated into lack of action.
There is no coherent legislation in this field.
She also mentions the various directives covering protection of natural areas and wetlands, like Directive 79/409/EEC on the conservation of wild birds and the 'Habitats 43' Directive.
There is a debate going on in Greece between those in favour and those against, because they think there should be water in the Thessalia valley and that the agricultural resources there should be exploited.
Wetlands in Spain have been seriously affected, like the Santoña marshes or the river Eo - the frontier between Galicia and Asturias, very close to where I live.
So a fundamental point in trying to prevent the deterioration of the wetlands is for the European Union to control the funds it grants to the various countries extremely well so that they are not used for the very opposite of what we are defending here.
The West Canvey, Bowers, Pitsea, Fobbing and Mucking Marshes all together form an extensive interlinked area of wetland totalling more than a thousand hectares.
They are home to large populations of wintering birds including some 300 to 400 black-tailed godwit, and provide habitats for rare plant life such as the 'least lettuce' , one of only two locations in the UK.
Yet in 50 years over half of these rare wetlands have been lost.
Nearby landfill waste sites may now contribute economically to the management of the wetlands but long-finished sites such as Westwick at Canvey remain a scar on the environment whilst leachate and pesticides from agricultural uses are an ever-present threat to the quality of the water.
Over the last 15 years our local authorities have acted to arrest the decline but they do not have the resources to do more.
We encourage initiatives like that of Thurrock, Basildon and Castle Point Councils, which cooperate together in protecting land, much of which has a single watershed.
This is a great problem in the Baltic Sea.
Investment in wetlands, primarily designed as traps for nitrogen and phosphorous could become a reference point for corresponding initiatives in Poland and the Baltic States, through the PHARE programme for example.
It is time for a new attitude from the European Union and the Member States.
I therefore welcome the European Commission's communication and this report.
In my country the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds has identified 354 wetland sites where the amount of water being extracted threatens their very future.
The sites identified as being at risk include Berrow Dune and the River Yeo.
We must act now to safeguard their future.
The first step should be to bring the North Somerset Levels and Moors into the environmentally sensitive area.
Governments must phase in charges for taking water from our rivers.
That would soon encourage the water companies to take a more responsible attitude.
Over half of the EU's water areas have recently disappeared or been adversely affected by urban development, partly through thoughtless use, but also through deliberate exploitation of the environment.
The same applies to their economic and social functions.
The Community's general objectives for these areas are simple, but at the same time ambitious.
The Commission is pleased to note that Parliament's draft decision supports these general aims.
The water area policy must be integrated into policies for the various areas of action.
These three complementary elements of EU legislation will provide a basis for implementing the objectives that are laid down for the preservation of water areas.
The Commission would also like to continue the assessment of plans and programmes if investments can be supported from the structural funds.
Let me say in closing that I greatly appreciate the fact that the resolution is the result of cooperation between four of Parliament's committees.
The debate is closed.
