Madam President, this report about the agreement on nuclear cooperation between Euratom and the US deals with two issues which have been, and I hope and trust will remain, very important to everybody in this House.
This is a fundamental issue for this Parliament.
It was in that spirit that this Parliament demanded that it should continue to be informed and involved in this and similar international agreements on nuclear cooperation, including consultation before the conclusion of the final agreement with the USA.
I am therefore calling on the House as a whole to remain as firm on its demand for democratic control on this level of EU decisionmaking as in March of 1995 and on other occasions when dealing with similar agreements.
Concerning the substance of the agreement with the US, the main issue is nuclear cooperation.
What I am proposing in the report and my amendments is to seek parliamentary consensus on the explicit issue of democratic control of nuclear agreements.
I welcome the cooperation on nuclear safety with reservations regarding nuclear proliferation and nuclear transports and plutonium stockpiling already outlined.
The stage directions for this theatre of the absurd were, of course, set out in the Euratom Treaty.
Of course what we want is for the European Parliament to be better informed, for us to be able to express our concerns, our interests, especially during the course of the negotiations.
We have reflected that concern too in our resolution.
The budget for the Euratom Treaty is also huge, and needs to be subject to democratic scrutiny by the European Parliament.
It actively encourages reprocessing at Sellafield and La Hague and increases plutonium production.
Ireland is already at considerable risk from reprocessing at Sellafield and by the year 2010 Sellafield will have reprocessed 545, 000 kilos from waste nuclear fuel.
This will be reprocessed, creating 160 times the amount of radioactive waste it started with.
I want to return to the matter of democratic control of other nuclear agreements.
At least we must have Parliament involved in these nuclear agreements in future.
Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to wish Nuala Ahern luck with her report which, on significant points, tightens up on the agreement which must now be considered.
The need for the European Parliament's involvement is particularly important in view of the imminent agreements between Euratom and third-world countries.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when reading our colleague's report I had the feeling of attending a play of the Absurd school, possibly written by Dürenmatt or Berthold Brecht.
Here I am referring to points e) and f) which insist on the unilateral approach taken by the United States, at least since 1978, on the lack of reciprocity which exists and the fact that, in nuclear matters, there is still an imbalance between the United States and Europe in terms of forces and the diplomatic relationship.
Secondly, we are told that this agreement was not negotiated democratically, that the Parliament was completely sidelined and that points 4, 5 and 6 of the Resolution demonstrate very well to what extent information obtained by the European Parliament is really completely insufficient for us to be able to judge the conditions in which this agreement is to be applied.
Thirdly, we are told that this agreement is going to develop the plutonium economy, something which is also feared, and that safety standards, in many areas, are lacking, in particular when it comes to air transport.
Our conclusion, after this avalanche of criticism which can be found in the explanatory memorandum and also in the opinion of the Rex Committee, in point 9, is that we welcome this agreement, without the slightest reservation.
That is why, as far as we are concerned, we shall not be voting for this text, and we shall take this opportunity to express our astonishment that, when it is a matter of agreements between the United States of America and Europe, first of all we are nearly always told that these agreements are unbalanced and that, despite that, we should nonetheless vote for them.
As you know, this agreement came into force on 12 April 1996.
The report deals first with the involvement of the European Parliament on the basis of the Euratom Treaty.
Some countries have opted for reprocessing.
The Euratom Treaty does not impinge on the right of any Member State to choose whether or not to use nuclear energy, or to choose whether or not to reprocess spent nuclear fuel.
Therefore an agreement on nuclear reprocessing concluded with a third country in implementation of the Treaty cannot possibly impinge on the policies of any Member State of the European Union.
The safeguards imposed by the agreement are those provided for in the Euratom Treaty and imposed by the International Atomic Energy Authority in the framework of the agreements concluded between the Authority, Euratom and the Member States of the Euratom.
These measures, which we have already taken, and the cooperation framework mean that the European Union has the most stringent safeguards in the world, a fact which is widely acknowledged by the international community.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
Chile has been able to overcome many of the difficulties of a political nature which every country must tackle in recovering liberty following a long and terrible dictatorship.
The European Parliament is aware of the current difficulties of an institutional order in Chile but 1998 is going to be a key year, and it is going to be a time for showing the confidence of the Member States, the Commission and the European Parliament in Chile's future; now we are holding this debate on the new framework of relations whose final objective will be the liberalisation of all commercial links.
The agreement keeps open essential questions: the timing and method for switching to the final phase.
The European Parliament welcomes the fact that there is a clear reference in the more complete version of the democratic clause with its treatment of human and social rights and the environment.
This compromise, Madam President, will enable us to insist on the need for agreement on the right to unconditional justice and I regret that, once again, I must ask the Chilean authorities, always sensitive to the opinions of the European Parliament, to find a solution to the case of our fellow-citizen, Carmelo Soria, so that we can close for good this case which has been kept going by his family and on which the European Parliament has made declarations on many occasions.
When we debated this in committee, many of us had mixed feelings about the present situation in Chile because of our historical knowledge of that situation.
This discrimination has existed since 1985.
Madam President, before further ado I should like to express the satisfaction of my Group at the certain approval of the Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and Chile, by this Assembly.
It is a new-style preparatory agreement and does not include any clauses for a positive compromise in order to open commercial negotiations and the step to the final stage, which keeps open essential questions for future association between the European Union and Chile: how and when to proceed to the later progressive liberalisation which will involve reciprocity in terms of all commercial trade links.
There is no explicit provision for the possibility of extending this agreement to other southern South American countries, and on the contrary, it is a major step that in the Inter-Regional Framework Agreement between the European Union and Mercosur there was no attempt to deal with the need to cooperate in terms of public contracts and Chile has agreed to the inclusion of this in the agreement.
In any case, the European Parliament should in particular highlight the fact that the said democratic clause or human rights clause has been introduced into this agreement.
This really does show how weak parliamentary political dialogue is, given that there is not even any mention of the European Parliament in the agreement.
Madam President, the Liberal Group will be endorsing the framework agreement with Chile today.
Madam President, our Group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, attaches extraordinary importance to this dialogue with Chile and this decision by the Council to sign a cooperation agreement with Chile, which will very shortly be converted into an agreement for political and economic association.
We know that the same is true of other parts of the world, in other nations which are demographically more important with which we have agreements.
General Pinochet, whose hands are stained with blood, who is politically and morally condemned by all of the international community, who is persona non grata in many countries in the world, because democrats refuse to accept him in their country, still has an important position in Chile - not dominant but important - which means that he is able directly to appoint some of the senators and is able to influence judicial authority to a great extent.
This appeal for shared values comes up against the real fact which means that the Chileans are unable to exercise democratic values, and people who have committed crimes in the past are not being brought to justice by any means in the near future.
There are many examples of this, most important of which is the Carmelo Soria case.
We know the name of the owner of the newspaper, he is Mr Víctor Pey, but he was unable to get the Chilean courts to restore to him a newspaper in which he holds 100 % of the shares, robbed from his office in a military raid.
These are small examples - and a very big example in the case of Carmelo Soria - concerning human rights abuses.
Madam President, when I went to Chile in September 1995 with the South America delegation, I was almost bombarded by human rights and environmental groups.
Madam President, following the agreement with MERCOSUR it is also important that our political and economic links with Chile should be maintained.
Although there will be no question of a free trade zone between the European Union and Chile in the immediate future, the rapporteur indicates in her report that agriculture will play a key part in future negotiations on free trade.
The Commission recently published a communication on the WTO aspects of the European Union's preferential agreements with third countries.
First of all, it is important to have this agreement with Chile in a framework which is characterised by the loss of competitiveness of European industry, reflected in the loss of market quotas in industrialised countries.
Against this background, relations with Latin America in general and Chile in particular are of particular significance.
Secondly, I agree with the rapporteur over the special significance of disagreement just as Chile seems to be abandoning its model of variable geometry in terms of relations with other countries in order step up its relationship with Mercosur.
Nonetheless, we should support this report and I once again congratulate Ana Miranda on all she has done.
The fact that this anniversary can be celebrated shows that democracy is alive in Chile.
The reform process in Chile is by far the most advanced and stable in Latin America.
Speaking from a national point of view, let me also say that Germany is likely to conclude the implementing procedures for the agreement in the near future and is trying to ensure that Chile-EU relations continue to develop in a positive direction on the basis of this agreement.
Mr President, Chile is undoubtedly the Latin American country geographically most distant but closest to the heart of the European Parliament in political terms, something we found out at the time of the referendum and which we also experienced when we were fighting for democracy in the country.
The signing of this agreement will bring about a substantial change in our relations with Chile, in the framework of the European Union's new strategy orientated towards the redefinition of all of our relations with Latin America as a whole.
The new agreement with the European Union is based on this practical reality and recognises the special role of Chile in the southern region of Latin America.
It also sets a final objective which is a very ambitious one: the establishment of political and economic association between the parties.
In the context of the application of the first stage, the parties - the European Union and Chile - held a first meeting of the Joint Committee, on 16 December 1996, in order to work out precisely the institutional mechanisms needed for the agreement to function and the first meeting of the Trade Sub-committee is scheduled to be held later in the first half of this year.
I cannot accept that the problem of the environment is not dealt with in this agreement since the problem of the environment is seen as a vital element of the concepts of cooperation in terms of sustainable development which we are working on with the Chilean Republic.
There is news on this and relations have been established, in terms of negotiations, on the basis of the agreement reached with the Chilean delegation at the latest meeting of the Rio Group and - within the Rio Group - the first institutionalised relationship with Chile in Noordwijk.
At same time, in the second half of 1998 or first half of l999, there will be a high level meeting, as provided for in the agreement, in order to carry out the final arbitration and, as of that date, begin final negotiations for the progressive and reciprocal liberalisation of all trade.
I do not conceal the fact that we are also carrying out this operation because this is one of the rare cases of the world - Mercosur plus Chile - where the European Union is a major economic and trade partner and the main investor, even ahead of the United States and Japan.
The Chilean government bill, due to be presented to the Chilean parliament, in our opinion breaks WTO rules.
The President of Chile promised, in talks with Sir Leon Brittan, that he would correct the government bill to bring it in line with WTO regulations.
We have explained to the Chilean authorities that the fact of opening a panel does not necessarily create a political problem or create a problem of diplomatic or other understanding.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises and especially 'micro' firms of 10 employees or less are those most at risk from inadvertent or unplanned legislative burdens.
The report encourages all those involved in launching and developing significant directives to have their eyes more widely open about the consequences.
I hope Commissioner Papoutsis will agree that tightening the internal procedures of the Commission will help it to do its own job better as well and that our report will contribute to the studies which he has set in motion in this area.
In this House too, better-prepared impact assessments should help our own rapporteurs in highlighting the most significant parts of new measures and prioritizing those for debate amongst our colleagues.
It is important to keep these under review and the report also gives an opportunity for those affected by legislation to review it several years down the line, not to assume that legislation is something once and forever.
We have drafted this report precisely to help the Commission's work in this field.
Mr President, the Committee on the Environment is in favour of strengthening the system of business impact assessment.
It is a report which can be welcomed and supported by my Group.
This report fits in with what we have been trying to achieve in all those areas and meets something that President Santer himself has said, which is to do less, but to do it better.
Small businesses in towns like Dudley, Halesowen, Stourbridge, Smethwick and Wolverhampton, in my constituency are all the time aware of the legislative requirements that are made of them.
The consumer has to pay for that and in the final analysis this is a major obstacle to competition.
Mr President, I would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report.
This report will enhance our role as legislators.
The Liberal Group will support the core of this proposal because it is the real issue.
Mr President, it is quite clear that the current fiche d'impact system is totally unsatisfactory.
It is true that the assessments in this report concern the impact on undertakings and the economy, but the planned strengthening of the system will automatically also have an indirect effect on the social and environmental sectors.
It seems to me that defining a fiche d'impact purely in business terms is extremely dangerous and totally irresponsible.
Mr President, I would like first of all to thank and commend Mr Mather for his report.
The business impact assessment system was introduced in 1986 and at first was made applicable to every legislative draft proposal.
The Commission's proposal for a Council regulation on the protection of the industrial plan is a good example of a case where business impact assessment reveals the frequently conflicting interests of various business activities.
I am particularly pleased that the European Parliament considers that the Directorate General for Enterprise Policy should continue to coordinate development of the business impact assessment system.
As you know, the Commission is examining the impact of particular aspects of legislation in the framework of the SLIM initiative with a view to achieving simplification and cost reduction and, also, in order to reduce the administrative burdens on specific economic activities.
The vote will take place today at 11 a.m.
Aid to shipyards The next item is the debate on the proposal for a Council Regulation on aid to certain shipyards under restructuring and amending Council Regulation (EC) No 3094/95 on aid to shipbuilding (COM(97)0132 - C40153/97-97/0113 (ACC)).
As the proposed rapporteur I could have guaranteed that I and my colleagues would finish our report in the course of the next month.
Nevertheless, in the interest of those concerned, I voted for urgency yesterday.
In the whole legislative section we are dealing with the different, specific situations in three of our Member States, which we must also evaluate differently.
Amendment 12 is designed to make it clear that this state aid is the last aid that can be granted to the shipyards concerned.
We are concerned with structural problems in Greece and Spain, and in particular in Germany, in the Land of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.
This shameful situation is currently being fully investigated by several committees of inquiry and by the public prosecutors in Bremen, Bonn and Schwerin.
Mr President, I would like to follow on from the point that Mr Cox has made.
The first point is: will he guarantee that not one penny of this subsidy will be given as an employment subsidy in any of the three countries mentioned?
A majority of the House's members voted in favour of the urgent handling of the Commission's proposal for new state aid to a number of shipyards in Germany, Spain and Greece.
The Commission has brought and won legal actions against Member States which have paid out unlawful state aid to shipyards.
Mr President, this proposal is being handled on the basis of the wrong principles.
Mr President, I asked the Commissioner whether or not there had been consultation with the shipbuilders in the other Member States which will be affected by this.
I should like to ask the Commissioner to answer as to whether or not his services have talked to the other shipbuilders and what effect he feels the subsidy will have on jobs in the other Member States?
Mr Kroupa and his colleagues are here to make preparations for the next meeting of the Joint Parliamentary Committee which will be held in June.
The Socialist Group will be informing the President of its candidate when our bureau decides. (The proposals were ratified) Mr President, we are voting on the conciliation report of what was successfully concluded to create the single market in pressure vessels.
A transfer of 562 million ECU which poses no problem to any of the parties.
It has, therefore, finally proposed a share-out of the increase in the Structural Funds and Cohesion Funds over two budgetary years: 500 million carried over to 1998 and 500 million carried over to 1999.
Waiting for the final position of the Council, the Committee on Budgets, through the Tillich report, has proposed that we should accept the Commission proposal by a vote with qualified majority.
In the absence of an agreement in plenary session between the European Parliament and the Commission, the transfer could not have been carried out and should have remained where it was: the one billion ECU should have been carried over to 1998 and the re-budgeting on 1999 of the 562 million ECU earmarked for structural activities and not used in 1996 would not have been possible.
This leads the Committee on Budgets to say that these 562 million ECU will be 'lost' , since they will be handed back to the Member States.
Our Group tabled an amendment taking up the Council's proposal, an amendment which was judged to be inadmissible when in fact, quite obviously, it was a qualification of the annex mentioned in Article 1 of the proposal for a resolution.
This refusal to examine a proposal enabling the Member States to make real economies in 1998 illustrates perfectly the scant interest which the European Parliament takes in States' interests and those of taxpayers in our different countries.
Certainly, no-one claims that drift nets are harmless and without impact on resources - no fishing technique is - but it is also clear that this insistence on eliminating the spadare gives the impression that Italian fishermen are being made the scapegoat for a wider crisis, which they are certainly not the most responsible for.
Today, while regretting an emergency debate which has prevented us from having the necessary far-ranging debate, I tabled amendments to call for an extension of the seventh directive, to reiterate the importance of shipbuilding, to demand the principle of parity between the Member States, to declare the OECD agreement on this matter out-dated and to increase the rates of possible aids in all Member States of the European Union to bring them in line with the reality of the market.
However, the proposals made by the European Parliament are an improvement on the initial text.
Pradier report (A4-98/97) We welcome the report and agree with the rapporteur that it is extremely important to find a solution to the problems which have arisen in connection with the development and use of the Internet.
The report gives two possible solutions.
Finally it seems to me reprehensible, as has been the case in Denmark for instance, that the Internet can be used to corrupt others.
Lindqvist (ELDR), Eriksson, Sjöstedt and Svensson (GUE/NGL), Gahrton, Holm and Schörling (V), in writing. (SV) The signatories to this explanation of voting have abstained from voting on Mr Pradier's report.
With an interpretation such as this we cannot support point 36 in the report at the vote.
Before the restructuring, extensive national aid was channelled into the industry to strengthen national competitiveness against the shipbuilding industry in other countries.
As a result of this unfortunate aid policy the industry's capacity for development was hampered and the shipbuilding industry in several countries went under completely.
Today, the fleet flying European Community flags is declining, in terms of the number of people employed, as jobs are being lost in the sector, all of which has harshly affected certain Member States.
The standards in the maritime industry must be raised but we must also make an effort to increase competitiveness by lowering the financial burden on our operators.
It seems to me that particularly in the intra-Community markets, in an ever widening Europe, maritime transport can be competitive and offers considerable advantages in comparison with road transport for transporting large quantities of goods; it also has a smaller environmental impact.
McCarthy report (A4-126/97) Mr President, I would just like to thank those Members who voted for my report.
It is sad they resorted to personal attacks when my report very much reflects the views of people in the regions.
In the General Election in a week's time people in the regions will judge the government on their inability to deal with regional policy issues.
British Conservatives are voting against the McCarthy report on three points of principle.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has drawn up a letter of opinion which shares many of the concerns of this report.
Between 1994 and 1996 ECU 910m was committed from the European Social Fund (ECU 3m over - which came from additional appropriations under Objective 1).
It is appalling that the UK did not take up the Objective 4 funding opportunities between 1994 and 1996, but I welcome the fact that this has now changed.
In Kent people have complained about this in the Objective 2 area of Thanet and for INTERREG II and other programmes!
Fernández Martin report (A4-128/97) We agree with the spirit of the report that there are problems in many of the EU's fringe regions.
I voted for the Fernández Martín report because it sets out extremely well the problems related to ultra-peripheral regions.
The Fernández Martín report shows that the declaration appended to the Treaty on European Union while recognising the structural features of certain regions of the Union, an essential condition for forming the concept of ultra-peripheral regions, is insufficient as a legal base in order to adapt Community law to the specific reality of the ultra-peripheral regions.
Ahern report (A4-74/97) Although the new agreements for peaceful nuclear cooperation, signed in November 1995 between Euratom and the United States, is recognised as an important stage in trans-Atlantic cooperation on questions relating to nuclear safety, nonetheless it is true that this text includes certain ambiguities, in particular concerning the reasons why certain parts of the agreement may remain in force following the expiry of its formal duration.
The European Parliament should remain vigilant concerning the sensitive points of the agreement, in particular the generic consent which may only be suspended by the Americans in specific cases, or the non-interference by the United States in international monitoring arrangements.
After all, the European Parliament is the sole guarantor of transparency and democracy in this area, the nuclear issue, which is so vital for the European Union.
The agreement between Euratom and the USA brings with it a great danger of creating a global plutonium society with an increased risk of the spread of plutonium, MOX fuel, waste products and other radioactive material.
From a democratic point of view, the agreement has come about in an unacceptable manner, behind closed doors and without an open and democratic discussion.
Mahern report (A4-413/97) Mr President, I voted against the compromise amendments of the PPE and PSE to the Mather report.
One of the best ways of doing that has since 1986 been business impact assessment.
The rapporteur's remit was to improve the way in which business impact assessment worked and make it into an efficient instrument for measuring the effects of legislation on small businesses.
As this, in my view, is a positive development, I have voted for the report.
