I was delayed for 24 minutes this morning and 38 minutes last night waiting for someone to come along with a card.
Applause Mr President, before moving to the election of a President of this House, I should like to ask you to confirm that Annex I of our Rules of Procedure is being abided by.
Pursuant to Rule 13 of the Rules of Procedure, nominations for President of the European Parliament must be made, with the consent of those concerned, by a political group or by at least thirty-two Members.
Mr President, for the first time in ten years, we shall actually be voting for the President of the European Parliament without any of those prior agreements between social-democratic and socialist groups which always seemed to represent, to my mind, a kind of condominium, stifling democratic debate.
Applause I agree, Mr President, but as you know, here it is all politics.
I am sorry, Mr Wurtz, but I am afraid that I must cut you short.
I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure, a candidate must obtain the absolute majority of the votes cast in order to be elected in the first three ballots.
This confidence is rather overwhelming, but I would like you to know that I shall do all that I can to prove worthy of it and also in order for us to work wonderfully together, as we have done until now.
And now, I would like to say to Mario Soares that we have competed against each other in a very democratic and good-natured way, and as for the election result - well, that's life in politics - it certainly doesn't diminish the enormous respect I have for him, which is shared by our whole Assembly.
Honoured Madam President, I should like to congratulate you most warmly on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
That is why we are able to say today, wherever we happen to be sitting or standing here in this Chamber, that if there is such a thing as political justice, right here in this European Parliament too, then this political justice has become reality with the election of Nicole Fontaine as President of the European Parliament.
The European Parliament has come a long way since 1979 and, in Nicole Fontaine, we have the person we need to carry the powers, authority and honour of this Parliament forward to a prosperous future.
I wish Nicole Fontaine the best of luck and every success, and she will always be able to count on the largest party in this House, which made this proposal from a sense of political duty and for the sake of democracy.
In this, you can count on our loyal support and friendship, and I hope that in the Bureau too, given the commitments which await us, we will be able to do our best, not only to make Parliament work, but also to take Europe forwards.
Madam President, I too would like to congratulate you, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left.
That is why we have been unable to vote for Mário Soares, even though his past life and background strike a chord with me.
I believe this is James Provan.
Indeed, since the election will not take place first thing tomorrow morning, I would ask you to defer the deadline to ten o'clock this evening for example, or as far as I am concerned, even to midnight, but to make it no earlier than ten o'clock this evening.
Mr Swoboda, I think that we can be even more accommodating and I suggest, if you have no objection, the time of nine o'clock tomorrow morning.
