Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the European Union there are still more than eighteen million people registered as unemployed.
The communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on a European strategy for encouraging local development and employment initiatives, of 13 June 1995, also contains, in addition to an excellent analysis, important proposals, which will have to be implemented in all Member States of the EU as quickly as possible, if governments really are serious about reducing unemployment.
Thirdly, these local employment-initiative options, which are promising from the cost-benefit point of view, need an effective set of framework regulations and financial instruments, for example: service vouchers, which are payment instruments that can be used to obtain certain services and which have already been used successfully in Belgium and France; joint local placement funds for a particular urban or rural area, which bring together savers and project executors; changes in the treatment of operational expenditure vis-à-vis capital expenditure in terms of public accounting procedures, in order to facilitate investment in human resources; better formulation of European Union structural policies, for example through the simplification and rationalization of programmes.
It was for this reason that I proposed my only amendment, because I regard financing by means of a possible one-off tax on CO2 energy as somewhat uncertain, because in the long term, if it is successful, it will make an ever-decreasing contribution to the funding each year, and because unilateral reliance on this tax would place at risk the financing of local employment initiatives.
The Commission has calculated that an employment policy geared to satisfying new requirements could create between 150 000 and 400 000 jobs a year in the Union.
It is a pity that this debate has been divorced from the other debates on jobs.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this document, local development and employment initiatives have finally achieved Europe-wide recognition of their importance as an essential instrument in combatting unemployment.
The 10 % that has so far been spent on local employment initiatives is nowhere near enough.
I would be looking for a figure of 25-30 %.
In the document, seventeen areas are defined in which new jobs could be created.
Structures in rural areas must be expanded and consolidated.
A job in a household is worth just as much as a job in industry.
Women work in several households and in none of them are they subject to national insurance, so they are unable to obtain pensions insurance and social security.
In general, the UPE Group is completely in agreement with the Commission communication on the European strategy of incentives for local development and employment initiatives and the well-drafted Schiedermeier report which fleshed it out and improved it.
In truth, the Commission - fulfilling its role of carrying out research into the interest and operations of these initiatives and the creation of the necessary stimuli for their creation and development in the Member States and defining the most appropriate areas, especially in the tertiary sector, where new opportunities for employment could best be explored - has made a major contribution to the necessary search for local job creation potential.
Along the same lines, this report calls for more Commission intervention, either by coordinating actions, disseminating or exchanging past experiences or acting as the main vehicle for bringing about fresh employment initiatives, or else by lending financial support for the creation of small companies on a local level, for their material needs, infrastructure and developing and training the management.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, we have here an interesting communication from the Commission.
We can also see what the framework conditions are.
It is high time that the coordination of specific measures by the Community and specific measures by the Member States, the encouragement of small and medium-sized enterprises, the more effective use of the structural funds, and the effective implementation of educational programmes, from LEONARDO to LIFELONG LEARNING, were expanded so as to include an important area, namely that of local development initiatives.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are now debating on a European strategy for local development and employment initiatives calls for our full agreement.
I would actually say it is stimulating for anyone who deals with local and regional development in our countries.
Madam President, the debate on this report has been encouraging.
Madam President, I would like to repeat what I said in my report.
I am worried about two aspects of the Commission's work, which I otherwise appreciated because it was preceded by an excellent investigation, excellent research work and a very interesting cultural study.
In this case, therefore, as regards this subject, this project is not giving employment to women, whereas women are the main beneficiaries of these services, including in particular those women who normally provide them because they possess skills which they can then make available to society.
A very high level of debate has taken place here this morning and it is very encouraging for me and for the Commission to get such strong support from the House for our proposed European strategy to encourage local development and employment initiatives.
As you know, following from the Commission's White Paper on Growth, Competitiveness and Employment of 1993 the Essen Summit defined an action programme and a structured approach to fight unemployment.
From our point of view, these local initiatives are, of course, of major importance for several reasons.
Mrs Klaß made the very important point that of the 17 areas of potential that had been identified the care sector, in particular in its reference to rural development, is a very important feature.
Secondly, there is the question of training and technical problems which arise, amongst other things, from inappropriate initial training, outdated skills and working conditions in certain traditional sectors and a lack of training in new technologies.
We believe that public authorities and administrations have an important role to play in establishing a framework favourable to the creation of new jobs.
We believe that institutions, at all levels, can and must play their part in the creation and promotion of that coherent framework to encourage the development of local employment initiatives.
There is support being given to national measures which benefit local initiatives, particularly via the structural funds.
A lot of comment was made this morning about better use being made of our existing financial resources and I support that point of view strongly.
The strategy for encouraging local development and employment initiatives was conceived as part of the larger framework designed by the Essen European Council to fight unemployment.
Even though much remains to be done, I am convinced that this strategy for encouraging local development initiatives is a promising way to fight unemployment.
We have often looked at the bigger issues; now we are coming down to recognize that the great potential exists in local development, local initiatives and the encouragement of voluntary and smaller groups in our Member States.
This Article 6 money is pointed directly at new job opportunities, new innovatory ways of doing things and I feel that we have here the genesis of something special and long-lasting and effective in so far as job creation is concerned, and I thank the House for their support this morning.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11 a.m.
This first extension of common transit was explicitly provided for by the European agreements, on which the European Parliament expressed a favourable opinion, within the framework of cooperation aimed at bringing the customs systems of these countries closer to those of the Community by the introduction of a 'bridging' system between the transit regimes of the Community and of these countries.
The accession of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe to the Common Transit Convention is therefore fully in line with these countries' strategies leading up to accession to the European Union.
These candidate countries will of course receive the same technical assistance as the new contracting parties which enabled them to accede to the Convention on 1 July last in the best conditions of preparedness.
Lastly, in the context of the battle against transit fraud, I wish to emphasize, as I reminded the Ministers of Finance of the Community and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe on 8 July, that every European association agreement is accompanied by a special protocol on mutual assistance in customs matters.
It is in this context that the customs authorities of the contracting parties implement the administrative cooperation which is essential for the proper application of the systems in question, particularly by using the fraud-prevention machinery placed at their disposal.
Mr President, we have heard from Commissioner Monti that the decision to extend the Common Transit Convention to the Visegrad countries was taken by the EC/EFTA Joint Committee in 1996 in Interlaken.
Thirdly, has the Commission undertaken any negotiations with any other associated countries with a view to their accession to the Common Transit Convention and will these countries be required to wait longer than the Visegrad states before acceding to the common transit system?
It presumes that the reform of the transit system will be completed before the next extension of the common transit system.
Unfortunately, however, just as we have problems in the common transit procedure, we clearly have common transit problems between the Breydel and the Berlaymont that we must sort out.
The question was simply, when the Commission itself had recognized what a bad state the Transit System is in, was it necessary, at that moment, to complete the accession process, even when the situation in the candidate countries had been reviewed?
This is not going to do anything to reduce the problems, and the longer the committee of inquiry lasts, the more we are convinced that this step, at this particular moment - and I emphasize at this particular moment - was the wrong one.
Concerning the question where, we keep being told about Interlaken and it may be that Interlaken was the place where decisions were taken - high-level decisions taken by lower-placed officials.
The investment was high.
Enough is enough or, as Aristotle said, ananke stenai .
Because he told the committee of inquiry on 26 March that there would on no account be further problems in connection with the whole system now so familiar to us.
It reminds me, for example, of the debates we had here in Parliament on GATT.
At the same time this same Commission thinks, and this is the nub of our debate, that the Community transit system can be extended beforehand and unconditionally.
I would like to read out the text of the oral question to which I was asked to give a reply. ' On 1 July 1996 the common transit system was extended to Poland, Hungary and the Czech and Slovak Republics, despite the Commission admission that the system is in a state of crisis, that there are rising levels of fraud and that the system is in need of fundamental reform' .
I am fully prepared to answer, as is my duty, any other questions concerning the past and the Visegrad countries within the context either of the committee of inquiry - I am always at the disposal of the committee - or here in response to specific questions pertaining to those matters.
The debate is closed.
In 1994, after the terrible accident to the ferry 'Sea Empress' , we called for a European regulatory framework to be set up which would be consistent with the international rules.
Langen report My position of principle is that the rates of value-added tax must be allowed to vary from one Member State to another and must not be harmonized.
Just as the report says, there are at present differences in levels of value-added tax, the explanations for which are of course to be found in the Member States and in the ways they finance their public sector.
Colino Salamanca report I voted against this report for the following reasons: 1.I am completely opposed to the institution of any new support mechanism in agriculture.
With reference to the effectiveness of the European Union's structural measures, I have to point out that Greece was the only one of the Objective 1 countries whose GDP, expressed as a percentage of the Community average, fell over the course of the implementation of the first CSF from 50 % in 1989 to 40 % in 1993.
For reasons of principle, Parliament should always endeavour to appoint a rapporteur who does not have any special interest in connection with the question under discussion.
For reasons of principle, Parliament should always endeavour to appoint a rapporteur who does not have any special interest in connection with the question under discussion.
While paragraph 6 of the resolution does criticize the fact that a greater share of the investment in transport networks has been in road rather than rail infrastructure, I think this criticism could have been more strongly worded.
Schiedermeier report The Commission's communication on the European strategy for encouraging local development and employment initiatives is a very positive document which usefully illuminates and supports the activities pursued by all of us, as elected representatives, in the fertile area of local job creation.
And it is our friend Mr Schiedermeier who produces this report.
Not all these things can be dealt with in the same way.
European cooperation can help to build a framework and infrastructure, but really nothing more than that.
If this were not so it would be impossible to explain why, within a European economic area a country like Belgium should have an unemployment rate - almost 15 % - more than twice that of its neighbour, the Netherlands, which has less than 7 % unemployment.
Lest there be any doubt I would add that employment in Belgium is being ruined by a Social-Christian Democrat government which does nothing but think up new taxes and levies and which has already succeeded in pushing up gross wage costs to the highest level in the European Union.
