Resumption of the session Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a very happy New Year, and declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 19 December 1997.
On Friday, Mr President, José Ignacio Iruretagoyena, a local councillor in Zarautz, was murdered.
The Spanish people have repeatedly held demonstrations on this question.
Mr President, the Group Union for Europe fully agrees with the comments just made by our Spanish colleagues.
If the French President gets involved in this discussion it seems to me that the Commission as an institution cannot remain silent.
Mr President, all I know about this case is what I have read in a few press agency telexes this afternoon.
I think it is important that the European Commission gives an explanation of this in the European Parliament.
As you know, the Commission has the right to make a statement, according to Rule 37 of our Rules of Procedure.
There are two main points on which the Committee on Transport and Tourism disagrees with the proposals of the Commission: firstly, the Committee on Transport does not accept on the one hand the Commission proposal for immediate and unlimited liberalization of access to the railway network, and on the other, the proposal for a posteriori settlement of any problems that may arise on account of total Big Bang-like liberalization.
Quite the contrary, the Committee on Transport is of the opinion that open access to the railway network must come about not all at once but progressively, step by step, in parallel with the taking of necessary accompanying measures such as those implemented in air and sea transport and telecommunications.
The second point on which the Committee on Transport disagrees is on social policy: the Committee on Transport feels that the White Paper is short on recommendations of how to face the problems that will arise for working people, and also on the safety of rail transport following the completion of open access.
For this reason and in this regard, in our resolution we stress the necessity of there not being a beginning or an end point which would be determined by a single port of call, especially in the initial phase of the creation of rail freeways.
We must also be aware that the rail network of continental Europe still essentially reflects today the disagreements and differences that were prevalent in Europe in the nineteenth century.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has been studying the social issues connected with the general revitalization of the railways.
We can agree that we need to assure open access to that rail network, particularly for international cross-border freight.
We all know that in Europe in general and, unfortunately, in my country in particular, the railways are facing ever deeper crises.
The statistics bear this out: over the last 25 years, the railways have lost 58 % of goods and passenger transportation, while road transportation has increased by 150 %; the passenger share has dropped to 4 % of overall transportation, and the goods share to 9 %.
The Rotterdam-Genoa freight freeway is now doomed to failure.
The previous speaker said it: road transport has increased by 150 % and rail transport has decreased by 75 %.
Mr President, the revitalization of the railways is a necessity, given the structure they provide within our societies.
The rail transport sector has already lost 500, 000 jobs in Europe since 1985.
Mr President, the revitalization of the railways is of crucial importance to the sustainable society in Europe.
The emissions of CO2 in particular are not getting any less, as we think they should, but in fact are increasing.
The White Paper's proposals for freight freeways can be called thoroughly positive.
Priority for the development of these freight freeways will have to be primarily centred on transalpine transport, and on increasing freight transport between eastern and western Europe, so that there will finally be a proper solution to the problem.
Mr President, the White Paper conveys very clearly the precarious position of the European railway companies.
In 1970 the share of rail transportation in the total movement of goods within the European Union was still 31.7 %.
In 1994 this share had dropped to 14.9 %, less than half!
In addition, in the near future, an even greater increase of goods transport is to be expected.
Despite the fact that there has been one internal European market since 1993, the railways are still of a very markedly national orientation.
But we have to bear in mind two issues.
Secondly, the social consequences should not be absorbed by the European Union, but by the Member States.
The Sarlis report does at least suggest that a European solution to the social problems is required, but it thereby raises false expectations.
The restriction requested in paragraph 7 on freight weight and the speed limits for road transport does not make rail transport any more efficient.
The report by the Committee on Transport and Tourism to which my colleague Mr Sarlis has given his best efforts, shares the analysis made in the White Paper, but displays some reticence when it comes to the speed of the necessary restructuring.
But Commissioner Kinnock is right.
However, noblesse oblige .
An antisocial market economy has no place in the profile of a European Union.
To conclude, political discussion about transport policy is interesting, but no less interesting are the opinions of other participants in the debate.
The freighter can expect little from rail transport over the coming years.
In supporting the introduction of rail freight freeways, I see this as a first step towards the creation of open access on Member States' rail networks.
In my own constituency of Dublin, transport congestion must be tackled as a national priority.
Irish Rail needs major investment and modernization.
Mr President, railways and environmentally-friendly and long-term sustainable means of transport must be one of the most important areas which we as elected representatives can devote ourselves to in the European Parliament, and of course in other parliaments too.
But we must, as representatives of the peoples of the EU, decide whether we want to concentrate on railways more than on aircraft, motorways and bridges, such as the Öresund bridge in Sweden.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the White Paper presents the European Commission strategy on the revitalization of the Community's railways.
My group agrees that the Commission should draw up as quickly as possible the schedule for the gradual liberalization of railways in the European Union.
Secondly, railways in Europe have problems, administrative for the most part in the west, but also problems of development and integration in the east and, chiefly, the south.
We need to take into account the degree of difficulty faced by the railways in Europe and in the individual Member States at the moment.
We therefore need to assume this responsibility, and we should do so above all as the left.
The Sarlis report before the House today, Mr President, is a truly valuable contribution to the debate about revitalizing the railways of the European Union.
As both the Commission and Parliament agree, major changes are essential if the railways are to survive as a significant and essential means of transport throughout Europe, as we all want for every sensible economic, employment and environmental reason.
On the first point, I accept that market forces should be introduced progressively in order to give the railways time to adapt and for the Community to be able to put a comprehensive framework in place.
It will also cover state aids not only in the rail sector but in land transport generally.
In addition, in the first half of this year there will be two proposals covering transport as a whole with particular relevance obviously for rail: one relating to the extension of the working time directive to all transport workers and one in the form of a White Paper on infrastructure charges in transport generally.
The fact that freeways are operational and capable of showing their potential for making rail freight competitive with other modes, despite the inhibitions of tradition and the reservations still held in some quarters, is a tribute to all who have worked for progress.
To conclude I warmly welcome this report and I am sure that this Parliament will consider the forthcoming proposals in the same positive way as it has the White Paper on revitalization and indeed the communication on rail freight freeways.
If railways succeed in doing all that, they will succeed in giving themselves a full and prosperous future.
I should also add that I am delighted with the Commission's response to the report, and that Parliament recognizes this response, from what I have gathered from the interest shown in the Committee on Transport.
There is a delicate issue here: that these work agreements may be judged to contravene article 85 of the Treaty.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Directive 92/14 prohibits the operation of all Chapter 2 aircraft in the European Union as from 1 April 2002.
The common position deserves positive response on the point of uniform interpretation of the Directive in all Member States.
about half of its cargo despatch, because only 11 out of the 43 African aircraft which now fly to Ostend appear on the list of exemptions.
The Council did not accept the amendments from the European Parliament on this issue.
It is really unacceptable that the Council and the European Commission wish to place Saudi Arabia on a list of exemptions.
If we do want to work with this list, then it offers the opportunity to differentiate between richer and poorer developing nations, as proposed by the European Parliament in the Van der Waal report.
I call on this Parliament to support these amendments, which aim to put an end to this unjust preference.
In this connection, an amendment is tabled that refers to the OECD classification, and should therefore exclude the Saudi Arabian navy from the benefits resulting from the measure relating to polluting aircraft that do not make a noise and that are more than 25 years old.
After all, we are talking about aeroplanes which are not just a noise nuisance, but which are on the whole more than 25 years old, and in this context I am of the opinion that even a country like Saudi Arabia should not receive special treatment.
The subject matter of these negotiations was of course the technical eligibility of the aircraft on the basis of the criteria laid down in article 3 of the directive, and the designation of countries as developing nations is completely in accordance with criteria laid down by the relevant international organization, the OECD Development Assistance Committee.
First, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2 and 3 which are useful technical adjustments to the annex.
In addition, the aircraft included in the annex meet the criteria laid down in Annex 3 of Council Directive 92/14 as amended by this directive.
Finally, the Commission would like to point out that because of the limited use of the aircraft concerned, the inclusion of Saudi Arabia in the list has a very marginal effect in terms of increased noise nuisance around airports, although naturally we regret any impact of that kind.
The debate is closed.
The European Union now needs its own space policy, not only in relation to others, but to bring that European added value to European space cooperation policies as a whole.
Of course, it will not be Parliament that defines this policy, but the Commission, who have made the first step through this interesting communication, and the Council.
The second condition is that the Member States and the European Union must devote more public funds to the establishment and development of space policy.
Firstly, the maintenance of a high level of technological competence through an instrument such as the Fifth Framework Programme, but also through our participation in a number of great scientific adventures, such as the space station, for example, and many more.
I am thinking in particular of China and India.
Finally, I would like to draw the Commission's attention to the need to develop the means for space education.
There have been moments of great interest in recent months, such as the Mars Pathfinder voyage, the successful launch of ARIANE 5 and, now, that of Lunar Prospector.
I have suggested in my report that the Commission ask for a European Council on "space' , at least to sound it out.
He contrasts the position in the United States and the European Union in terms of jobs, spin-offs and the development of a scientific culture.
It is one which has driven people in the past into physics, and it is very serious if we have a diminution in the number of people studying that subject.
I myself come from a region which has always played an important role in the aviation and space industry and where today everyone recognizes that only through European cooperation will we be able to maintain our competitive position vis--vis the United States, or at least have a chance of recovering it.
I believe that all aspects of the problem have been examined here in an appropriate manner.
We in the Group of the European People's Party will also lend our full support to this report.
The European space market is fragmented.
European and transatlantic cooperation in space activities is an absolute must.
My second point concerns the position of the European satellite industry.
The sector has been growing by 10 % each year, and contributes to the creation of jobs.
As a result of this, the satellite industry is losing an increasing market share to the United States.
Secondly, as far as large international cooperation projects in space are concerned, on the question of the Casini space project and its 'sweep' past the earth, we think the European Parliament should call on the ESA and NASA to cancel this planned 'sweep' past the earth for safety reasons, since the probe is in fact equipped with 32 kg of highly radioactive plutonium.
The density of this report is an advantage because it enables us to focus our comments.
Allow me first of all to state two preconditions.
The first is that there still seems to be a strong temptation to compare European space policy with that of the United States, in particular by comparing public commitments and by noting the private sector's contribution.
Perhaps we should remember that the United States is one single state, albeit federal, and that the European Union is made up of fifteen countries, with all the cultural differences that this entails, as well as differences in terms of representative role and weight in science and technology, in research and development relations, and in priorities.
The second observation is that it seems difficult to separate the components of a dynamic discourse which specifies spheres of cooperation and spheres of competition - in terms of healthy competitiveness - as well as policies of partnership, in particular with the United States but also with Russia, on the question, for example, of very heavy launchers, or with emerging countries such as India, China or Brazil.
That said, I would like to mention the need to strengthen the social dimension of European space policy.
The question of application is therefore essential, and the question of social utility crucial in itself.
If we make progress in earth observation it is to improve our awareness of the balances in the ecosystem and of the need to conserve them.
For my part, I see that in Guyana and in Kourou, all along the road, there are billboards proclaiming, "Kourou, European space terminal' .
The social conditions in our countries demand it.
But technological advance and the development of new activities in the field of space research will certainly not be financed by the commercial sector.
The British or Austrian Presidency could demonstrate its receptiveness to the technological development of Europe by convening a separate meeting of the European Council, in addition to that of the ESA-Council of Ministers, in order to discuss the theme of a European space policy, as recommended by the rapporteur.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start my comments on Mr Desama's report on Europe and space by thanking and congratulating him for the enormous amount of work he has put into this within the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy.
Along with some of our colleagues, in spite of certain lobbies, fashions and, above all, caution, he defends the industrial and technological interests of Europe, its research and its appropriations, not to mention the safety of our energy.
I am, furthermore, working at this moment on industrial competitiveness in Europe, and I know the importance of public appropriations for research and the importance of space in our operations, our strengths and our European industrial hopes.
Firstly, on the need for the revival of investment; on the delays and the catching up needed in some areas; on the need for concentration of the industry; on the place of the Fifth Framework Programme for research in its operations; and on the strengthening of our technological and economic potential in order to improve the technological competence and the financial capacity of the space industry, both military and civil.
Yes, Madam President, I will say once again that it is a good report, and very important for Europe.
Let us never forget - I am finishing, Madam President - that if the European space industry is flourishing commercially today, it is because, in its time, there has been some true political and public will, particularly in France.
The report properly reflects the sustained interest which this Parliament has taken in space policy issues over the last 19 years.
The report also has the virtue of asserting the importance of an effective European role in the variety of activities that are needed to ensure, in the words of paragraph 6 of the report, that our Community and industries can 'boldly go' towards development which is commensurate with modern needs and opportunities.
That, very obviously, is in our economic, industrial and security interests, and as several Members of this House have pointed out in the course of this very good debate, it will also help to improve the quality of life of people everywhere in a very great variety of ways.
As our Communication and this report made clear, responding to the challenges of developments in space policy will require leadership and vision, and everyone involved in national governments, industry, research and in the European institutions needs to be imbued with a sense of urgency.
We will further employ research and development resources in the framework programmes and in the telecoms trans-European networks and, of course, we will provide the modest support that is available for infrastructure development through the trans-European networks' budget.
As the House will know, the primary contributor to space research and development is the European Space Agency, whose annual budget for this specific area is equivalent to that of the whole of the European Union's framework programme.
Together with my colleagues Edith Cresson and Martin Bangemann, I am therefore committed to ensuring that the Fifth Framework Programme will focus on supporting activities in the three main areas dealt with in the Commission's Communication and, indeed, focused on in the report being considered by the House tonight: satellite communication, navigation and Earth observation.
One of the key points in the report now being considered is that the private sector should not be expected to substitute for public money in the development of major space-related technologies.
Indeed, as honourable Members will know, and as Professor Desama said, the one on telecommunications is already available, the Earth observation plan will be available later this year and I am happy to say that the satellite navigation action plan, for which I have responsibility, will be produced later this month.
As many honourable Members here will be aware, there are several sensitive areas to deal with, including financing, the question of how the European contribution should relate to the existing United States' and Russian military base systems, and what forms of organization we need in order to run and to regulate the European component of satellite navigation.
I look forward to discussing that action plan in this Parliament, especially in view of the support given to a European approach to satellite navigation in Professor Desama's report.
The Commission fully shares this Parliament's commitment to an active and comprehensive European policy for space, with the European Union and its institutions promoting a forward-looking European perspective and cooperating with Member States and other institutions to make a reality of the vision which is increasingly shared.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, I am raising a preliminary question to this debate, in accordance with Rule 128 of our Rules of Procedure.
In fact, the proposal for a decision in the report and the amendments of the Rules of Procedure included are inadmissible, both for reasons of procedure and for reasons of substance.
This seems to me an essential reason for a referral back to the Committee of the draft amendment of the article.
Thus it seems to me somewhat paradoxical that the European Parliament should reduce motu proprio its own rights in this affair.
The first concerns the text proposed to the House.
The European Parliament will have a role to play in this procedure.
But I would like to underline that Parliament intervenes on two occasions and that, in my opinion, this double intervention constitutes a whole, from a political point of view.
The first intervention takes place when Parliament expresses its opinion on the reports of the Commission and the European Monetary Institute, which will be ready on 24 March 1998.
There will probably be a vote on the conclusions on 30 April, or even earlier, but in any case sufficiently close to the weekend of 1 and 2 May 1998 to be available for the Ecofin Council on 1 May.
If this first intervention on the part of Parliament is not anticipated in the Treaty, then the second, on the contrary, most clearly is, as I emphasized at the start.
It is, in fact, obligatory and it must therefore take place according to a procedure that must be marred by no uncertainty, due to the risk of invalidating the whole of the process towards monetary union.
These constraints are not born of our imagination, but they have been imposed on us as a precondition that cannot be ignored, following the exchange of letters between the President of Parliament, duly mandated by the Conference of Presidents, and the Presidents of the Council and the Commission.
In this way, Parliament will not have access to the recommendations of the Ecofin Council until the morning of 2 May.
The vast majority of the Committee therefore opted for an oral procedure, without amendment, with a block vote on the list of countries to take part in monetary union.
I am therefore convinced, Madam President, that the text we are proposing to Parliament is in complete accordance with the wishes of the vast majority of our Parliament to bring this extraordinarily complex and important task of completing monetary union to a successful conclusion.
This amendment is an amendment by the Green Group requesting, instead of a block vote, a separate vote on each country on the proposed list of monetary union participants.
Madam President, I request that the House kindly approves the text as proposed by the vast majority of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and I would like to end by highlighting the excellent collaboration of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure with the Legal Service, but above all with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Madam President, I will be brief.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that speaking for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs as well as for the PPE I both welcome and support the rapporteur's report.
It stipulates that the European Parliament is to make known its position on the Finance Ministers' proposal.
However, this proposal will not be drawn up until the evening of 1 May.
As a result of this, a written procedure will not be possible and we shall be obliged to state our position to the Finance Ministers' proposal at this special sitting of the European Parliament on 2 May, which will presumably take up the whole morning.
On 25 March, the European Monetary Institute and the European Commission will submit their recommendations.
Here I am in no way underestimating the urgency of the situation, and the special circumstances which mean that Parliament very quickly has to adopt a position on the recommendations of the Ecofin Council.
It seems to me to be very important that Parliament is able to adopt a discriminating position prior to the final resolution of the Council on the introduction of monetary union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report proposed to us by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, is legally questionable and politically inappropriate.
I have given two reasons in a minority opinion, which appears in the report.
The opinion that is requested by article 109j of the Treaty, an opinion given on an Ecofin Council text, in this case, conveyed to a Council meeting at the level of Heads of State and of Government, must be pronounced by Parliament on the basis of a written report including a preamble, a proposal for a resolution and a right to amendment, which is the same whether within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy or within this House.
The report is politically inappropriate.
Madam President, I found the last contribution rather surprising because anyone who has observed the process of economic and monetary union over the last 7 ½ years knows that this House has followed the whole process very closely.
The first will be in the report that Karl von Wogau writes for us where he will look in detail at the information that comes from the European Monetary Institute and the Commission.
Parliament can then make all of the political points that it needs to make.
But the most important thing for us to do, having passed the von Wogau report during the Brussels plenary session on 29 and 30 April, is to realize the historic decision that we then have to take on 2 May.
If there are political groups in this Chamber who choose to try and make cheap political capital out of 2 May, we will not forget them in this House and I certainly hope that people in Europe do not forget them.
Madam President, let me first say that I think Mr Fayot has produced a very elegant solution to a very difficult problem.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
As you said, this is a report on amending Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, on conciliation.
Following a referral by the President of Parliament to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee has looked at the matter, and it is not our view that Parliament's representatives have in any way been lacking in their efforts to make Parliament's position clear on the Conciliation Committee and, as it were, to ensure that Parliament has the maximum possible say on that important committee.
Madam President, it is a great pleasure to rise in support of Mr Ford's report.
Amsterdam will make it impossible to adopt any legislation that falls under the Codecision Procedure without the explicit agreement of the European Parliament.
Under Maastricht it was possible for the Council to opt out and unilaterally adopt its own text, challenging Parliament to reject that text.
The Group of the European People's Party will be supporting it in its entirety.
It is not as intellectually and politically seductive as all the things we talk about in the Committee on Institutional Affairs but perhaps in the long term it is going to be even more effective and even more important.
The debate is closed.
