European Council in Luxembourg - Six months of the Luxembourg Presidency The next item is the joint debate on: the report by the Council and statement by the Commission on the European Council meetings of 21 November and 12-13 December in Luxembourg, and-the statement by the Council on the six months of the Luxembourg Presidency.The President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
We wanted to make the European project more complete, to give it its due scope.
We have done this through the conclusions adopted on 21 November 1997, at the employment summit.
I believe I can say that we have kept our word on this point - and on others - since the European summit on employment adopted concrete decisions, quantifiable and costed wherever possible.
Supplementary investments of ECU 30 billion will take place throughout Europe, something which would have been inconceivable without the impetus provided by the employment summit.
Do not forget the grievances that have been expressed for more than a decade: the political authorities were reprimanded for devoting themselves exclusively to monetary and economic policy, and for lacking ambition in the area of employment.
I have asked the Member States to present their national action plans on 15 April next year.
I hope that the European Council of Cardiff will be able to deal with this, and I would like us to be able, at the European Council of Vienna at the end of next year, to draw up the first objective balance sheet.
Similarly, the decisions taken at the second Luxembourg summit on enlargement aim at widening the impact of the European project.
I believe this is what we did last Friday and Saturday, in Luxembourg, when we agreed upon a method and a methodology for enlargement.
The eleven applicant countries will be included in the process of enlargement and accession, and in the negotiations.
It is clear that we must take into account the progress accomplished by some applicant countries in the areas of social and economic transformation and adjustment, progress which has enabled them to put some distance between themselves and the others.
This process must respect the dignity of the applicant countries.
There will therefore be no group negotiation, but bilateral negotiations with the European Union, which will be personalised in order to take into account the disparities between the applicant countries.
We have spoken about Turkey and Turkey has spoken much about the European Union.
I would also like Turkey to respect our dignity and our way of doing things and seeing things. (Applause) We wanted to make the European project more complete by putting the human being, in particular the jobless human being, back in the centre of our concerns.
We wanted to enlarge the European project by trying to give a reply to the countries of eastern and central Europe and Cyprus.
Three or four months ago, everyone thought that we would not be in a position to come to an agreement on a strategy for strengthening coordination on economic policies.
On Saturday, in Luxembourg, we adopted a resolution on strengthening coordination on economic policies.
To commence a constructive dialogue with the European central bank, Member States will use all the instruments necessary to articulate their political thoughts and to influence, as is proper, the economic policy choices in all the countries of the European Union.
There is a resolution on the coordination of economic policies.
To make the European Union's move towards a single currency more credible, we have taken a rather important decision.
We have taken all the necessary technical decisions: the coins and the notes will be introduced on 1 January 2002.
With regard to economic and monetary union, we have therefore carried out all the work that remained to be done and, by not taking decisions, we have taken an essential initiative at Luxembourg.
May I remind you of this pernicious arrangement of the treaty, establishing that the third phase of European and monetary union would commence on 1 January 1999, if no decision was taken before the end of 1997.
By saying nothing about the date, we have said everything.
One day we will note that this silence on the part of the European Council may have been the most important moment for monetary construction.
This is precisely what I am going to do now by saying that we have the impression of having done everything that you were entitled to expect of us.
We have assured and made more credible the European Union's move towards the euro.
Nevertheless I do not hesitate to use the term with respect to the Luxembourg decision to launch the accession process with ten countries of east and central Europe and Cyprus.
And I mean all the applicant countries, for the European Council, in line with the approach set out in Agenda 2000, insisted on the inclusive character of the accession process.
All the States concerned are called on to join us, and all will receive aid and assistance to be able to do this as quickly as possible.
The President of the European Council, Jean-Claude Juncker, has just described the details of the agreement reached in Luxembourg.
Enlargement to the east and to the south, for the reasons stated in Agenda 2000, will be an arduous task.
The distance to be covered by our future Member States is considerable.
As far as the European Union itself is concerned, deep reforms will be necessary: institutional reforms, political reforms and the establishment of a new financial framework.
But they are only so if we have clear ideas and if we agree to deal with the problems within the context of the whole.
This is precisely the approach of Agenda 2000, where the different factors make up a single, dissociable whole.
The Luxembourg European Council confined itself to giving a few broad indications; the essential thing there was to launch the process of accession.
But I believe they have clearly understood that the common agricultural policy will have to be reformed, that structural actions will have to be reviewed, that the future financial framework will have to be strict.
Mr President, let me say a word about Turkey.
Secondly because this position is consistent and, in my view, perfectly correct.
The offer made to Turkey is concrete and substantial, whatever Ankara's disappointed reaction.
Mr President, I would say that the second important issue for the Luxembourg Council was, once again, the single currency.
Everything is now in place for a decision, another historic one, on 2 and 3 May, regarding the participants in the third phase of economic and monetary union.
The Heads of State and of Government have resolved the problems that were raised.
There was some agitation, irritation even, but the result is there, and the main thing is that this result seems to me to be completely appropriate with regard to the coordination of economic policies.
The Ecofin Council is, and will remain, the main authority for coordination and decision making, but this will not prevent informal discussions from being held between ministers of countries participating in the euro, regarding questions linked to the common management of the euro.
The discussions will take place - and this is a further guarantee - in the presence of the Commission.
Mr President, the Luxembourg presidency is ending with a historic success.
This success must not hide the progress achieved in many other areas, thanks to the constant effort of a presidency oriented completely towards the common good and towards service to the European Union, thanks also to excellent cooperation with the European Parliament and the Commission.
The special summit in November on employment opened up a new stage in employment strategy with the adoption of guidelines for national policies in this area.
The liberalization of the gas market, added to that already achieved for electricity, places a new stone in the building of the internal market.
And I await with impatience the day when the European Union will be able to show the same spirit of cohesion and determination in the area of foreign policy and common security.
Much other progress has been achieved over these last six months, but I will stop here.
As the Prime Minister and I myself have highlighted on numerous occasions, the presidency constitutes a service the Member States take turns to provide to the Union.
It is first and foremost an objective and methodical handling of the calendar and the deadlines imposed, with the aim of providing a concrete contribution to our process of integration.
In this context, we set ourselves a double objective.
On the other hand, to bear witness to our capacity to make progress on the extremely complex issues you are all familiar with.
The Prime Minister, Jean-Claude Juncker, has explained to you the results of the two European Councils - on employment and on the enlargement - which were the highlights of our presidency.
With regard to internal affairs, the presidency has made successful progress on a number of important issues such as, within the framework of the internal market, the proposal for a directive relating to the legal protection of biotechnological inventions and that relating to the transparency of regulations in the information society.
The negotiation of an agreement on further monitoring of insurance companies has also been a success.
The Council was able to achieve agreement between fourteen governments the agricultural section of Agenda 2000.
The message in the conclusion reminds us of the specific nature of European agriculture, of the need to define a policy for rural development and to affirm the identity of the European Union in the area of health.
The proof is in the modifications of the regulations regarding the common organization of markets in the beef sector.
In the social sphere, I am pleased to note the extension of two directives to include the United Kingdom, one on the European works councils and the other on parental leave.
In the area of energy, agreement on a directive concerning to common regulation of the internal gas market is another area of progress which is based on the same principles as the regulation of electricity.
In the area of air transport, extremely intense discussions have taken place with the aim of authorizing the Commission to commence negotiations regarding the creation of a European organization with authority over civil aviation security.
I could also mention the progress relating to the proposal for a directive regarding access to the professions of road haulage operator and road passenger transport operator.
In the same context, the Council unblocked the conclusions of the Commission's White Paper regarding sectors excluded from the directive on working hours and aimed at social harmonization in the area of road transport.
We have thus been able to observe political agreements on three horizontal programmes.
The Research Council is agreed on the conclusion of an initial scientific and technical cooperation agreement between the European Community and South Africa.
Still in this area, I would like to note the agreement signed with the Government of United States of America, by President Clinton, at the Washington summit of 5 December.
Our colleagues in industry have, above all, been looking for clarification with regard to the Union's future policy concerning State aid and competitiveness.
The Council is currently awaiting Parliament's opinion.
The question of the competitiveness of European industry remains at the centre of the Industry Council's concerns, three successive presidencies having drawn up a common work programme on this subject.
In the telecommunications sector, the Council adopted a multi annual programme to encourage the establishment of the information society in Europe and progress can already be noted in this area.
Conscious of the perception our citizens have of our activities, the presidency is pleased with the adoption of a directive concerning the data processing of personal information and the protection of privacy in the area of telecommunications.
The adoption of the regulation concerning common rules for the development of the internal market in postal services also represents a significant step forward.
Notwithstanding the very important economic interests at stake, we have been able to unblock the proposal for a directive regarding the banning of all forms of direct and indirect tobacco advertising within the European Union.
In so far as the deadline envisaged for application of this directive is 1 October 2006, giving a transition period of eight years, the presidency considers it has taken into account all of the often contradictory interests that needed to be reconciled.
The environmental dimension has not been neglected over the last few months.
Strong pressure on the part of the European Union was necessary at Kyoto in order to get the conclusions on climatic change adopted.
The adoption of a political agreement between the fifteen governments on the quality of water for human consumption should also be noted.
Allow me also to highlight the Council agreement on the regulation establishing the rules of procedure to be applied to the transfer of certain types of waste to non-members of the OECD.
In the area of education, I would like to draw your attention to the adoption by the Council of a recommendation on European cooperation with the aim of guaranteeing the quality of education and of a resolution on language teaching.
I can but hope, given the importance of the issue, that the experimental fund of ECU 30 million will not be permanently forgotten.
Lastly, let me remind you of the declaration agreed by the Luxembourg European Council on food safety with a view to the adoption of a directive which is the fruit of cooperation between four different groupings of the Council.
And, as the Year against Racism and Xenophobia draws to a close, I must also highlight the Council declaration emphasizing the role of education in this context.
Following the Amsterdam European Council, the Ecofin Council has formally adopted the two regulations which form the basis of the pact for stability and growth: one relating to the reinforcement of monitoring and the coordination of economic policies, the other aimed at speeding up and clarifying the implementation of the procedure regarding excessive deficits.
It was the same for the regulation concerning the introduction of the euro.
The Luxembourg Presidency has finally been able to find a consensus on the coordination of economic policies, due to an agreement concerning external representation of monetary affairs, as well as on the terms of dialogue between the Council and the future European central bank.
With growth limited to 1 %, more or less, in terms of expenditure, thus leaving an unused margin of unprecedented size, your Parliament has been able to respond with a keen sense of responsibility to the demands for budgetary discipline which have been imposed by all the Member States.
The Presidency has been able to respect the pace of implementation for the action plan approved by the Amsterdam European Council in the area of the fight against organized crime, thanks in particular to the establishment of a mechanism for evaluating the implementation of international commitments in this area.
In the area of asylum and immigration, the Council has adopted two common actions authorizing the financing of actions benefitting displaced people who have found temporary shelter within the Member States as asylum seekers or refugees.
I am pleased to be able to inform you that, last week, the Naples II Convention on mutual assistance between customs services was signed and that we will sign, in the next few weeks, the Brussels II Convention on the jurisdiction, recognition and implementation of decisions with regard to marriage.
From now on, traffic in material of a paedophilic or pornographic nature will be indictable at Union level.
As was announced last July, the Ministers of Health and Justice have for the first time sat together to coordinate actions of prevention and suppression in the areas of drugs and drug addiction.
Finally, I could not fail to highlight that the Union, through its cohesion, was greatly in favour of concluding, at the end of November, negotiations relating to the international convention on the fight against corruption.
Regarding relations with the CEECs, the Presidency has deliberately based the ministerial meetings on structured dialogue on the preparation of the applicant countries of east and central Europe for acquisition of the "acquis communautaire' .
So, for the first time, Social Affairs Ministers have met their counterparts from the applicant countries.
The situation in the former Yugoslavia figured on the agenda of all the meetings of Foreign Affairs Ministers.
May I also remind you of the adoption of restrictive measures against people from Bosnia-Herzegovina who are working against the peace agreements.
Beyond the holding of the Peace Implementation Conference, which has been taking place these past few days in Bonn, the Council has noted and clarified the conditions to be applied for granting European Union assistance.
The presidency made a commitment to you not to spare its efforts in the support for the return of a certain normality to Albania.
The Union has been directly involved in the holding of a ministerial conference on this country, followed by the organization of a donors' conference.
The latter enabled the announcement, in the short to medium term, of an amount of US$ 500 million, the Community share being US$ 100 million of this.
Although the Presidency had hoped for it, the Council has not been able to make decisive progress in several areas of the negotiations which have been in progress for a number of years with the Swiss Confederation.
In view of the most recent developments, the possibility of a significant advance during the first months of next year is taking shape.
The President of the European Council has explained to you the offer made to Turkey during the Luxembourg meeting.
Throughout our presidency, we have remained in close contact with Ankara.
We proposed a strategy of specific rapprochement to it.
We have confirmed its eligibility, and also confirmed that it will be judged on the basis of the same criteria as the other applicant countries.
The Presidency has done all it can to obtain the enforcement, on 1 December, of the cooperation agreement with Russia, signed during the summer of 1994 in Corfu.
The path is now open for the convening of a first Cooperation Council which the Russians wish to see take place under the British Presidency.
Since then the Council has confirmed the European Union's desire to support the Kiev authorities in their efforts for economic reform.
Similarly, the holding of a joint meeting at the level of Environment Ministers in Helsinki demonstrates the desire to move forward on this issue.
The European Union's strengthened strategy is reflected in detail in the conclusions of the Luxembourg summit.
Tomorrow, by receiving Prime Minister Netanyahu and then on Friday, President Arafat, we are continuing our persuasive action in favour of peace.
As you know, over the last few months the European Union has followed the situation in Algeria with a great deal of concern.
The resumption of normal diplomatic relations must not, however, lead us to forget our deep differences over certain aspects of Iranian policy.
In Africa, the situation remains disturbing in the Great Lakes region.
I led the European Union troika which visited Kinshasa at the beginning of August to meet President Kabila and urged him to develop democratic human rights policies.
The Council adopted restrictive measures towards UNITA in Angola, and towards Sierra Leone, and renewed those aimed at the current Nigerian regime.
During the last six months, the Commission and the presidency have together deployed great efforts to intensify cooperation between the European Union and the United States.
A series of agreements and declarations have been finalized, on issues varying from the electronics trade to a last minute agreement on humane trapping standards.
Much diplomacy was needed throughout the last few months to consolidate the unity of views amongst the fifteen without, however, losing contact with the American administration on the 15 October deadline.
The Union has also signed an agreement on trapping standards with Canada, after the summit, which will have given a great deal of satisfaction to very many Member States.
A new impetus has been given to our relations with our Asian partners.
The meeting of senior civil servants, which took place in Luxembourg at the end of October, ended in substantial results, in particular concerning the strengthening of political dialogue and good preparation for the next ASEAN summit in London next April.
We reopened our dialogue with China in a promising way.
I met the Chinese Minister for Foreign Affairs in Kuala Lumpur in July, then in New York in September.
We agreed to reopen a dialogue on human rights issues, with no prior conditions.
The development of our relations with the ASEAN countries is proving to be less easy.
The General Affairs and Development Councils have commenced an in-depth debate on the Lomé Convention, on the basis of general guidelines proposed by the Commission.
The European Parliament's contribution to this issue and, in particular, that of its rapporteur, the former prime minister, Mr Martens, was particularly appreciated.
The Luxembourg Presidency would also like to share with you its satisfaction with the adoption of a resolution on the micro-financing of developing countries.
This agreement augurs well for the future of the WTO.
As your Parliament also wished, the Council has adopted decisions governing the implementation of joint action for a worldwide ban on anti-personnel mines.
Thanks to this decision, the Union and its Member States are providing concrete follow-up to the implementation of the Ottawa Agreement.
The Council adopted two regulations with a view to clarifying the legal basis for a whole series of budget lines in the area of human rights.
We have been able to assess the importance of continuous good relations between the Council and the Commission on the one hand, and between the European Parliament and the Council on the other.
But regarding relations with your Parliament in particular, the Luxembourg Presidency has demonstrated a continuous commitment.
The President, José Maria Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, himself noted that this presidency, with ten successful conciliations, has set a new record.
The members of the government to which I belong and all of the senior civil servants who have assisted us wanted to demonstrate that, in spite of the modesty of its means, a country such as Luxembourg is still capable of playing a useful role in the achievement of our common ambitions.
At the end of my third Presidency of the Council, I would above all like to thank and congratulate all of my colleagues.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a European Council which for the first time has concentrated exclusively on the core question of the last decade of this century, the common fight against unemployment in the Member States of the Union; a European Council which has fired the starting gun for the solution of the core question of Europe in the first decade of the next century, bringing the people of the whole continent together in a union of freedom, democracy and economic development; a budget in which, together with Parliament, they have put through the principles of thrift, solidarity and the ability of the Union to act.
An exemplary and successful effort of the Presidency for sensible cooperation between the Council and Parliament in all areas of Union policy; that, Mr President of the European Council, was the great Presidency of a small country!
My party supports the decisions of the European Council of 12 and 13 December on the start of the process of expanding the Union.
First, to start the accession procedure with all applicant countries simultaneously.
I welcome what President Juncker said about Turkey.
My party thought the offer the European Council made to Turkey was already very generous.
Also, the most important result of the summit is not Turkey's reaction but the fact that the summit gave the green light for the start and the method of accession of the people of Eastern Europe to the European Union.
But the test which our Union will have to pass is even more difficult.
And the Union will not only be tested for perseverance, but also for courage and farsightedness.
My party regrets that the Luxembourg European Council said nothing more about that than to confirm Amsterdam.
We insist that the Union needs substantial reform before the first accession by a new Member State. (Applause) The start of the enlargement process must also be the start of a great discussion by all the social forces in the European Union, a discussion about the future of the Union itself and thus of Europe.
The introduction of the euro and enlargement present us all with the question of the future constitution of our Union.
For the first time for a thousand years, our generation of politicians has the opportunity to unite the whole of Europe on the basis of the free will of its peoples.
Let us show that we have the same courage and the same farsightedness as our fathers. (Applause) Mr President, Presidents of the European Council and Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in the event that the negotiations with the ten countries from central and eastern Europe and with Cyprus are concluded positively, Europe transcending east and west becomes a fact.
The European Parliament wanted to avoid a new division, which would have left some countries at the side of the road, despite their enormous efforts to breathe new life into their democracies and market economies.
It offers all candidates the opportunity to negotiate with the Union as from the spring of 1998, even if the speed of these negotiations may vary according to the degree of preparation in each country.
The shadow hanging over the success of Luxembourg comes from Turkey.
To us it is evident that the rift in the political dialogue with Ankara must not continue, but it is equally clear to us that no solution for Cyprus is possible without a climate of trust and dialogue, where there are no threats or blackmail.
Ladies and gentlemen, I want to pay tribute to the Luxembourg Presidency, which has done exceptional work in perfect dialogue with the European Parliament.
I congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs and his entire team.
Our appreciation is increased by the progress in the field of Justice and Home Affairs, spurred on by our former colleague Marc Fischbach, in the fight against international crime.
May I request confirmation from the President of the Council of the positive interpretation of point 3 of the conclusions, in particular the point that institutional reform will precede enlargement?
We also find a paradox, as do you, between an increasingly coherent and structured core around the Euro Council and an eventual enlargement of the European Union to 25 Member States.
That reform is badly needed to reconcile the consequences of the two dynamics, namely the dynamic of the euro and the dynamic of the enlargement.
But they also realize that no price can be put on every day of peace; that in the short term the enlargement will imply a cost that we will have to carry together, but in the long term it will be an asset for the entire continent.
The 110 million citizens who are called to cooperate with us, will have to make enormous efforts to integrate their economies into the European Union.
Over the coming months and years let us exercise our immense responsibility during the bridging period up to their accession into the Union in a dignified way.
The decision taken in Luxembourg, on 12 December 1997, by the Heads of State and of Government of the fifteen governments, to commence accession negotiations with the ten countries of east and central Europe and with Cyprus as from the beginning of next year, is an historic event of major importance.
Mr President, as the second half of 1997 comes to an end, one might be tempted to think that the maintenance of statutory equality within the European Union prevails over all other considerations.
The European Council of 20 and 21 November last, which marked the starting point of a coordinated policy on the part of Member States with regard to the fight against unemployment, responded to that expectation.
Still more recently, the Council of 12 and 13 December marked the official kick-off of a long process of reconciliation within Europe itself.
The path to enlargement is now mapped out.
Of course, important questions remain unanswered, in particular those relating to the financing of Agenda 2000.
For the foreseeable future, there will not be, or there will no longer be, cause to resort to easy solutions, either in the area of policy or in the area of financing current European Union policies or those directly related to enlargement.
This in no way undermines the historic nature of the European Council's decision to encompass ten countries of central Europe and Cyprus.
So have the applicant countries.
The same applies to the Turkish Government, which signed the convention long before the CEECs.
Essential institutional reform, the defining of budgetary parameters, the laborious modifications both within the European Union and the applicant countries all indicate that the road is still a long one in order to achieve a European Union based on values which are ever more closely knit, ever more closely united; in short, this new order of peace, justice, liberty, law and prosperity that we want with all our hearts.
The credit for having made a good start unquestionably goes to you.
Mr President, Presidents of the Council and the Commission, I too congratulate the Luxembourg Presidency on its excellent work.
And with that philosophy, our medium-sized group wishes to make some important comments, which are critical, but stem from our huge commitment to the building of Europe.
We think it is a positive step that for the first time, at the request of the French Government, there has been a summit on employment, which is the biggest problem faced by European society and the societies of our individual countries.
We are not making the most of the synergy between the French and Italian proposals to reduce the working day to 35 hours, although we had the chance to extend this debate to the whole of Europe.
As for the European Council of 12 and 13 December, we basically agree with the great objective of enlargement, but there are still two major problems outstanding.
The first is that the necessary institutional reforms have not been carried out, and we run the risk of converting Europe into a huge free trade zone.
Therefore, we give our most wholehearted support to the idea that this institutional reform should take place before a single new member joins the European Union.
Turkey is a real candidate, but it has to fulfil the conditions.
Lastly, I want to say that we very much approve of the Council's declaration on the peace process in the Middle East.
The theme of the discussions in the European political institutions during the past year was Agenda 2000, the pressing question being how the gulf which divided Europe into two blocks after World War II might be bridged in a concrete manner, and how the old continent could once again become one Europe.
The decisions of the Council on 12 and 13 December show that, although 12 countries were called, few were chosen, namely five plus one.
The choice we made in this Parliament was to start both the accession and negotiation procedures with all countries which meet all the Copenhagen criteria.
What has remained of that is a group photo with eleven candidates taken on the 30 March.
But here, ladies and gentlemen, we have a key in our hands; no country can join without our agreement.
That way we will be able to support democratic and humanitarian strengths in all candidate countries, and that is our mission.
Mr President, like many of the speakers before, I would like to congratulate the Presidentin-Office of the Council and the Prime Minister for the efforts deployed by their Presidency.
But it is now a matter of evaluating the European Councils, that is, the decisions taken by the fifteen Heads of State and of Government.
The balance sheet seems rather uneven to us.
Above all, I will talk about the second summit, that of 12 and 13 December, since we have already debated the very important employment summit.
I am thinking primarily of the confirmation of the desire of the Union to see the accession, in the near future, of the ten applicant countries of eastern and central Europe, plus Cyprus.
In addition, Mr President-in-Office, you have managed to put all of the applicant countries of central Europe in the same family photo, thus trying your best to reduce the establishment of the two distinct categories desired by the Commission.
The reduction in the distinction between the two categories of applicant countries does not mean that this distinction no longer exists.
We will have to remain vigilant to avoid the negotiations ending up in a strengthening of the divisions, even a rivalry between applicant countries.
The European Council spoke of this, but with no precise commitment and without showing a clear and distinct political will.
The European Council remained vague on this and it is still not clear how we can realistically provide aid to the countries of eastern and central Europe, at the same time as aiding our own disadvantaged regions, preserving our common policies and promoting the creation of jobs.
In spite of what has been said this morning in this Chamber and to which I have listened attentively, I do not believe that the Union has a clear strategy towards Turkey.
But was it really appropriate to devote such long paragraphs to this country in the final document of the Luxembourg summit?
Paragraphs much longer and stricter than for any of the other applicant countries, running the risk of causing an explosion of national pride in Turkey and, even more serious, the risk of appearing ahead of ourselves with ulterior motives.
Mr President, the establishment of the process of access to the European Union of the countries of eastern and central Europe has been presented by the President of the Commission in Brussels as a wonderful present to ourselves, to the applicants and to the whole world.
With regard to the European Union, it is clear that the process fundamentally challenges the common agricultural policy of the Treaty of Rome, which will be replaced by a free trade area favouring productivity to the detriment of employment and the environment.
Thus the long term objective of the Commission will have been achieved, which consists of aligning European prices in the agricultural sector with world prices and of allocating the financial resources still available to a number of sectoral aids, as they exist or have existed, for textiles and shipbuilding.
Mr President, the conclusions reached by the Presidency of the Luxembourg summit begin by stating that the European Council of 12 and 13 December constitutes a milestone for the future of the Union and the whole of Europe and that the commencement of the process of enlargement inaugurates a new era, ending the divisions of the past.
It is the integration process that has enabled us to reach levels of wellbeing never before reached for such a large number of citizens.
No, Mr President, the European integration model after Maastricht and, above all, after Amsterdam, has become a Community acquisition; we are leaving behind the Community method of integration to adopt the intergovernmental method, the new method very dear to those who have obstructed the construction of the European Communities right from the outset or those who have disputed them or been afraid of their commencement and successes.
However, if the new era means a Europe expanded to 21 and then to 27, the change will certainly refer to the geographical aspects, not to the quality of the Union or to its depth.
Because that is what this is all about: without depth, without political union, enlargement will remain a territorial and statistical extension.
Mr President, once again Parliament has been excluded from the decisions and the future of Europe, and this is unfair and undemocratic.
Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating the Luxembourg Presidency on its stewardship over the past six months.
The presidency has been a model of openness and good practice and I particularly welcome the way in which it has anticipated some of the democratic provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty, in particular with regard to its relationship with the European Parliament and the justice and home affairs pillar.
The Luxembourg summit was also a success because clear agreement was reached on the process of enlarging the European Union.
As we all know, there has been some controversy over the past few days because of Turkey's reaction to the summit's decision.
I have to say that Turkey's reaction is very unfortunate.
I sincerely hope Ankara will consider its response.
As we all know, for enlargement to be successful, the European Union too has to change and we have to have policies in place to meet the new challenges of the years ahead.
We should therefore be pleased that the European Council saw the Commission's communication as a firm basis for agreement on a new financial perspective, and also as a basis for going forward on a wide range of policies.
In particular, we all recognize that the structural funds have to change in the near future and that the common agricultural policy must be reformed in a quite fundamental way.
Next we have the British presidency, and I believe that many of the initiatives which have been taken during the past six months will be taken forward by the British presidency.
Because of what has happened over the last six months - the hard work, the conscientiousness, the diligence of the Luxembourg presidency - Europe is now more confident.
Madam President, Presidents, allow me first of all to thank the many colleagues who have praised the Luxembourg Presidency.
It is true that, as in the past, Luxembourg has demonstrated that small countries can achieve great presidencies.
In the area of social issues, after Luxembourg, nothing will be the same again, and this is just as well.
This will often be difficult, sometimes painful, but the issue is worth it.
Madam President, Mr President of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council of 12 and 13 December certainly constituted a milestone for the future of the European Union and the whole of Europe.
With the decision to expand to the East, the Twentieth Century is ending with a chapter of history that, only ten years ago, when the division of Europe and its people still remained a sad reality, no-one could imagine.
In this context, I hope that the problem of the accession of the Turkish Republic is dealt with, both by the European Union and by the national diplomacies, with the necessary care and sensitivity.
Although we all see the enlargement as an historic development and a political event of extreme importance, I wonder how it has been possible for the European Parliament, through its highest representative, to be excluded, and the only one excluded, from the annual Conference.
The process of enlargement, in fact, is a process of integration of peoples.
With regard to the decisions taken on monetary union, we are pleased with the progress so far made, which ensures a closer coordination of the economic policies in the third stage of monetary union.
Madam President, I will confine myself to the issue of enlargement.
This is the great project for the coming century.
Competition, lastly, within the fifteen members themselves, with the demand of a state like the Federal Republic of Germany to focus a part of its current contribution to the Union budget on other countries in the future.
The other serious criticism regarding the type of negotiations announced is the fact that they are about a relationship of subordination.
Enlargement raises the question of how an active democratization process can be encouraged through the framework of the European Union.
Such a dynamic would be a service to the people in Turkey who fight for democracy, human rights and the political solution of the Kurdish question.
Since 1963, it has always been the European Union which has broken parts of the Ankara Agreement.
Is that not in turn the background for an almost paranoid, racist idea of 60 million Turks sitting on packed suitcases.
In spite of all that, Madam President, and not just because of Christmas, thanks for a very committed and very unpretentious Council presidency!
Madam President, I followed the Luxembourg employment summit with great interest and it was only one week before the summit that I heard Jean-Claude Juncker declare that it was necessary to reduce fiscal costs on labour and increase taxes on energy and emissions.
Consequently, if it wants to create jobs, the European Union must put in place an ecological tax reform including, in particular, taxation of emissions and of energy consumption.
It is an idea which has been close to my heart since the beginning of my career and I am glad that it is now becoming a majority view.
I have myself worked within presidency teams, in particular when negotiating the agreement on fighting desertification - the Intergovernmental Forum on Forests - in New York.
Colleagues from other countries' delegations regularly thanked us for our efficiency and our work.
The people of Luxembourg have thus demonstrated that a small country is perfectly capable of handling the important tasks which fall to the Presidency of the Union.
I will conclude by congratulating the Luxembourg government for the efficiency of its work and by saying simply: "Small is beautiful' .
The Commission could then resubmit the proposals which it would like to see retained.
In that case, we might perhaps get the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovenia in the year 2004.
Europe has never really expressed its concern as far as the Turkish occupation of part of Cyprus is concerned, quite the reverse, in fact.
In particular, Europe has never gone so far as to say, or never wanted to say, that Turkey cannot qualify for membership of the European Union because it is simply not a European country.
We have lost the opportunity thereby to build the very best relations and the very best cooperation agreements with Turkey not as a candidate state, but as a neighbour to Europe.
Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage in our debate, the Presidents-in-Office wish to take the floor once more in order to reply to the different speakers.
Madam President, I am also speaking on behalf of the Prime Minister, the President of the European Council and on behalf of the whole Council, when I thank the representative and non-representative speakers who have so far taken the floor in this debate and who have, for the most part, been full of praise for the Luxembourg Presidency.
They have said that the Presidency has first of all tackled the crucial problems, and, indeed, this is its primary duty.
The second problem was the enlargement of Europe.
I also noted that many speakers have stated that the most difficult task still lies ahead of us, and they are quite right.
Our own internal reforms, the reform of our institutions and the financing of an enlarged Europe are problems which have hardly been touched upon during the last few months.
Similarly, the applicant countries will have to make an enormous effort to satisfy the criteria and for each one to adopt the "acquis communautaire' .
Along with the many speakers who have mentioned Turkey, and along with President Santer, I would like to underline the fact that the European Union's offer to Turkey has been a substantial one.
But in spite of this negativity, our offer remains valid, the door remains open and the ball is in the Turkish government's court.
We will fully maintain our offer, as stated in the conclusions of the Luxembourg European Council.
With regard to the Middle East, the declaration contained in the Luxembourg conclusions in a way represents a strengthened strategy on the part of the European Union with regard to the Middle East peace process.
The position formulated by the Luxembourg Council has been somewhat criticized but I think it benefits from clarity and it avoids double meanings.
What we need are short term measures of confidence to relaunch the peace process, and long term measures based on the principles of international law, the most important of which we have stated: the principle of the exchange of land for peace.
We regard that as a big step in the right direction, but unfortunately it is in stark contrast to the Euratom Treaty.
Parliament's amendments improve the Commission's proposal to an extent, but since the fundamental direction remains, we are voting against the Quisthoudt-Rowohl report in the final vote.
In several EU countries nuclear power is controversial.
I have therefore voted no to research into nuclear power and fusion energy, but yes to the four main programmes as in the final vote.
Soltwedel-Schäfer recommendation (A4-0386/97) Mr President, at the time of our first debate on the technical specifications of the future euro coins, the European Parliament ended up admitting, after a great deal of controversy, that one side of the coin would be set aside for national symbols, and voted an article along these lines.
Furthermore, you may wonder why we should accept a decision from this institute as final, when there has been no democratic debate on it.
Certainly, article 109f.3 of the treaty anticipates that the EMI will supervise the technical preparation of the future notes, but the existence or not of a national side to the notes is not a purely technical decision since it comes down to the choice of a completely uniform and thus rigid monetary union rather than a union that is sensitive to certain differences, with flexibility in case of serious crisis.
Similarly, article 105a of the treaty authorizes the European central bank to authorize the issuing of notes, but this relates to a basic knowledge of monetary policy and not to the right to decide on the principles of the single currency.
I last night put an oral question to the Commission on this subject.
We would like to thank the rapporteur for the report.
The rapporteur emphasized in particular that the coins should be easily recognizable.
The Danish Social Democrats support this idea and see this proposal in particular as something which could make the coins more recognizable and so benefit the blind and elderly.
However, I see the acceptance of the euro coins as a major step as part of the third phase of EMU, so I am voting in favour of the report, even though I am against the use of nickel in the coins.
Harland &amp; Wolff, for example, was virtually synonymous with the rise of Belfast as a powerful industrial city and has enjoyed the respect of Northern Ireland people for its determination to develop its business throughout the period of changing economic circumstances.
Parliament has noted once again that the Untied States, and other countries with a high naval construction capacity at world level, are continuing their repeated refusal to ratify the 1994 (!) OECD Agreement, which was ostensibly intended to 'normalize' conditions for competition in the sector.
In the circumstances, we are left with no alternative but to approve an extension of the term of the provisions contained in the Seventh Council Directive allowing national public subsidies for European naval construction to continue and remain in force until 31 December 1998.
We are nevertheless taking the opportunity to reiterate once more that we were right when we voted against that directive in 1994, because it is being more and more clearly proved that it meant we were going ahead with legislation and limiting subsidies when others were not and still are not doing so; the directive sought to standardize and limit national subsidies from Member States, leaving the door open for aid to regional government, and thus contributed decisively to reducing the size of the industry in countries where it was of strategic importance (such as Portugal), promoting concentration on certain more developed countries, for the benefit of large private groups.
A vote in favour of the extension under discussion today is a matter of the most elementary justice, but it must not allow us to forget the essential issues, nor the economic and social damage caused by the seventh directive.
We should compete on equal terms, so the rapporteur is absolutely right in emphasizing that this aid treaty should be dropped when or insofar as international trade treaties fall into place.
All attempts to dodge a solution of this central problem by restrictive measures or deregulation strategies will only prolong the endless loop of the world shipbuilding negotiations yet again.
Postal services Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once more the thorny issue of postal services takes our attention.
Having given the green light to the adoption of a directive concerning the improvement of common rules for the development of the internal market for postal services, our attention moves to the problem of terminal dues.
Through our resolution we are asking the Commission to take action by way of a legislative proposal, after consultation with the interested parties.
I support the concern of several MEPs who spoke against negative consequences of uncontrolled liberalization of postal services during the part-session in Strasbourg.
The new charges were introduced by some countries to make up for this difference.
These charges indicate the important difference between the absolutely free market economy and healthy competition as it is wanted in the EU.
The debate about this question for which my group also submitted a resolution has been moved from the Friday to the Monday, without anyone informing me of this.
This unit of weight can comprise one item of 500 letters of 20 gram.
The IPC, a club of 20 operators, including all Member States, wanted to change this situation.
The result was Reims-I, in which it was agreed that the end costs would be calculated on the basis of delivery costs of the destination country, varying between 50-80 %, depending on the quality.
Progress in the area of justice and home affairs European cooperation in the area of security seems to us absolutely essential - at least in its intergovernmental form.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations has often proposed filling this gap by creating an interparliamentary body to follow up the actions undertaken in the area of the third pillar.
In effect, the "communitarizing' of areas relating to visas, asylum, immigration and the international circulation of people will deprive national parliaments of many powers: 1) loss of the right of decision (which will be transferred to the Council or if need be the European Parliament, under supervision of the Court of Justice); 2) loss of the right of legislative initiative (which will become the prerogative of the Commission after five years); 3) loss of the power of prevention (removal of the unanimous decision procedure of the Council, in accordance with new article 67 of the EC Treaty); 4) weakening of the powers of control, which will become indirect, etc.
This eradication of national parliaments' powers is not compensated for by an increase in the power of the European Parliament, for two reasons.
On the one hand, the European Parliament does not gain exactly the same legal rights as those lost by the national parliaments: in some areas the national parliaments lose decision making rights, whilst the European Parliament has conferred on it only the right to be consulted.
This distancing may cause fatal consequences, in particular concerning decisions taken on immigration questions, an area where the lax philosophy of the European institutions is well known.
In reality, the Treaty of Amsterdam proposes an increase in the lack of democracy in Europe.
Interior ministers seem to be more interested in protecting their little empires than winning the battle against criminals.
It is also extremely disappointing to note that only five Member States have ratified Europol which has a critical role to play in the area of cooperation across frontiers.
Let us hope when we discuss this issue next year we will be able to report that real progress has been made.
Billingham Report (A4-0357/97) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question of services of general interest is one of the themes for discussion within the context of the Intergovernmental Conference.
By introducing a new article, article 7, the Treaty of Amsterdam ranks this notion of general interest service amongst the common values of Europe.
But what a path has been trodden since this demand by the European Parliament!
And the citizens of Europe could not accept this.
Now, this notion of public service must be continued through the establishment of a charter stating its great principles.
At the beginning of the century, the French School of Public Service was able to set out the great laws developed by Léon Duguit.
It is now Europe's turn to take over on behalf of its 350 million inhabitants.
The Billingham report is a positive, sensible response to the Commission's Communication on services of general interest in Europe, an issue which has been neglected at the Community level for far too long.
For Europe's goals of economic and social cohesion to become a reality, for Europe to be a citizen's Europe, the EU needs to intervene in the sphere of public services, which are fundamental to each and every European citizen.
But although Europe aspires to running a frontier-free market, the EU cannot regulate these transfrontier vital services.
This recognizes the notion of services of general interest as one of the common values of Europe and as a principle of Community law.
But positive action now needs to be taken with the establishment of a European Charter for Public Services, European Parliament scrutiny of proceedings, and special responsibility for public services to be designated to a Commissioner and Directorate-General.
We have therefore voted no to the report, since we are opposed to the proposal for EU legislation in the area.
I welcome the Billingham report on services of general interest and commend the 238 Members of this House who voted for a better deal for public services and the setting of minimum standards throughout the European Union.
Article 7d in the Amsterdam Treaty and this report call for a stronger commitment in the area of public service delivery, and this means we have made a historic breakthrough.
Charging one Commissioner with responsibility in this area will begin to embed the notion of public service delivery and standards in the Commission's legislative process.
Our own House should continue the work in the Billingham report by allocating the brief of public services to a parliamentary committee.
The rapporteur has been inclusive in all her discussions on the issue of public services.
I hope that the opponents of this report will come round to the view that this is in the interests of their voters, and begin to work alongside my political group to ensure an improvement through the setting of minimum standards, to do better for Europe's citizens, and promote the idea of a socially cohesive Europe which is not only a single market.
These services are often provided on a commercial basis, so as far as the free market is concerned, as the committee is correct in pointing out, there should be a uniform set of rules for the Union as a whole.
The number of teachers per child in school is certainly a measure of efficiency which is in fact used.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, a sense of modesty prevents me from crowing with nationalistic delight about the Luxembourg Presidency, but I all the same I would like to say that this Presidency has, once more, proved its know-how and commitment to Member States, when its size does not predestine it, in a traditional national perspective, to play an international role.
Everyone has recognized that this morning.
Quite a lot has been said this morning on the problems which remain in the path to be followed.
At the same time as finding a solution to these problems we must, I think, move reflection further on regarding the limits and future configuration of an integrated European area.
This space cannot stretch into infinity and I therefore think that, whilst opening up new perspectives through this summit, we must also open up a new reflection on the future shape of Europe.
Allow me to say a word more on the work of the presidency in other essential areas.
The presidency's initiatives in the area of foreign policy were fruitful and useful in many ways.
I would, above all, like to underline the attitude of dialogue and permanent openness of the Luxembourg Presidency with regard to the European Parliament.
This attitude marks a turning point all the more important - and I insist on this - since the reforms of the Treaty of Amsterdam regarding codecision will make interaction between the Council and Parliament frequent and necessary in order to get results.
Finally, I would like to note that, in the path towards the euro, the European Parliament is finding its place, thanks to a good understanding with the Council, in particular during the long weekend of the 1 and 2 May.
Furthermore, it was noted that, in the context of the third pillar, the Luxembourg Presidency has opened up a new means of collaboration with the European Parliament, in an area which is largely intergovernmental.
Mr President, there are many individual issues on which the Luxembourg Presidency has accomplished important work and has managed to reach agreements.
Mr President, the Luxembourg Presidency has shown that for the country who assumes the presidency, the best way of helping oneself is clearly not to focus cautiously on your own interests, but to serve others by adopting an offensive and positive attitude in the face of the European task.
Even in Austria, my country, which is returning for the first time for many years from the periphery to the centre, many people are afraid that uncontrolled cheap labour and cheap agricultural products will rush in.
They have shown - as has been said several times today - that a small country can contribute a great deal to Europe.
The decision to open negotiations with Poland, Estonia, the Czech republic, Hungary and Slovenia is genuinely a historic one.
Ireland has much to offer the new applicant states as a model for what can be achieved with the help of EU transfers and policies, and I personally look forward to the forging of new and deeper relations between the applicant states and Ireland, particularly in the areas of trade and tourism.
However, this enlargement must take place in a structured fashion and at a steady pace in the interests of both the Union and the applicant countries.
Mr Juncker, you are right.
A first test run may be useful, but not enough to get a grip on the problem.
When we in Germany manage to make a political change of course, we in Europe can probably learn to go actually together in a correct - more productive and with more effect on employment - direction.
Mr President, we have heard a lot about the future of the Union in the coming months and what Luxembourg has done to prepare it for that future.
However, the last six months have been tragic for the people I represent.
The farming community in Northern Ireland, which forms the basis of the economy of the country, is on the verge of total and absolute collapse.
Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Mr Commissioner, I would like to join the ranks of those who have congratulated the past Presidency on its successful activity in many areas.
The President of the Council made intensive efforts to come to an agreement with Turkey about how this important process of rapprochement between the European Union and Turkey can happen.
The President of the Council found some public words which can be called undiplomatic or honest, depending on how one sees things.
I hope that we can make more progress under the British Presidency, based on your preparation.
As has already been mentioned, Austria will likewise have the Presidency in the second half of 1998.
But one thing is exemplary, first in Luxembourg, second in Austria: low unemployment.
I hope that the European Union will soon reach the average of the Luxembourg and Austrian unemployment levels.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, under the energetic and imaginative leadership of Luxembourg, good, noteworthy progress has been achieved in the field of internal and legal policy, in many particular fields, from organized crime to delivery of documents in civil and commercial court cases.
I have a strong impression that a very large number of representatives of Member States do not quite understand what this means and must mean in the future.
In my opinion, extremely important new opportunities have been created for the coming years, but then we must, and I mean at the level of the Council, the Commission and this Parliament, sink our teeth into this hard-won result.
I am obviously disappointed that social VAT, as I will call it for convenience sake, was not accepted.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 21 November 1997 is a noteworthy date.
The main concern of the citizens of Europe is now also the main subject of those who are responsible for government, that is the fight against unemployment.
Retraining and further education, training and jobs will be made possible for young people under 25 within six months, and for the long-term unemployed within one year.
The future annual balance sheet of the national campaigns based on European guidelines has every chance of becoming a success in relation to group dynamics.
Mr President, Mr President of the Council, even the fact that a snail's pace continues to be declared in European integration changes nothing of the positive image of the Luxembourg Presidency.
But it would be good if all Heads of State and of Government, and above all EU finance ministers, would use clear language about political responsibility in their testimonies, promises and messages.
I mean here a positive decision about the presidency of the European central bank.
I think that the way in which the staffing discussion has been conducted is not good for the future credibility of the independence of the European central bank, and I hope that before the end of the year a solution may still be given in this area, so to speak as a Christmas present for monetary peace.
I therefore insist that the demand of this European Parliament for inter-institutional agreements in relation to the development of economic policy guidelines for the European Union and its Member States remains a current demand even for the next Council presidency.
Some have again tried, as always, to accuse my country unjustly regarding this issue.
As was the case with indirect fiscal harmonization in 1991, the Luxembourg Presidency has achieved a historic breakthrough with regard to harmonizing direct taxation.
I would, however, like to clarify that there can be no directive on taxation of savings without the simultaneous adoption of a directive on the issue of taxation of businesses, that there is no reason to kill honest fiscal competition in the European Union, that it is necessary to preserve the competitiveness of European financial markets on a world scale, and that we must not lose sight of the fact that the only objective of this whole operation is the limitation of the distortions which currently exist and which truly disrupt the single market.
Without wanting to sing the praises of the Luxembourg Presidency, which would be tiresome of me and which would go against our Prime Minister's proverbial modesty, I believe I am able to confirm that this presidency has proved that la Fontaine is always right.
Mr President, may I begin by congratulating the Luxembourg presidency on their efficiency and effectiveness.
But we have to say to the Ukrainian authorities that ultimately their fate lies in their own hands, so they must push forward their economic reform which will allow private investment to come in to galvanize their economy.
On the main issue of enlargement, it was very important that the summit came to the conclusion that this should be an inclusive process within a single framework, but that at the same time we should recognize that each country should be judged on its merits.
Equally, we have to be clear that any country that makes the right sort of progress should be entitled to join in the enlargement negotiations as soon as possible.
Perhaps it is because the Americans have given them ideas beyond what the European Union can deliver - because Americans constantly believe we can take Turkey into membership - or perhaps it could be because of their domestic situation.
Mr President, following the truly historic Council of Luxembourg, in which we all recognize with admiration the constructive role of Mr Juncker, two hopes have been raised.
One is the danger of thinking it possible, in such a short time, to resolve each and every one of the problems facing the European Union.
A key role in an historic summit in Luxembourg, a fine employment summit; good work has simply been done by Luxembourg, and I think this ought to be mentioned.
The impression has been created in the outside world that Turkey was rejected on the basis of the fact that it is largely a muslim country.
National contributions to the European Union.
I would find it helpful if the European Commission would clarify on this as soon as possible, as it is bad for the image Europe in my own country.
I have asked a question about this in writing, but if Commissioner Oreja was able to say something about it now, it might also give some comfort in the Netherlands.
I cannot interrupt colleagues who have a speaking time of one minute.
This puts me in an impossible situation.
Naturally, there are many requests to speak, I know that very well, but all the same, I would like to request that the political groups give colleagues a speaking time of at least two minutes so that they are able to make their points.
Mr President, your request touches the modest backbencher that I am.
The European summit of Luxembourg introduced an essential notion, that of the need for reform to precede enlargement.
Regarding the timetable, it seems to me that you remain set on the idea of a two stage reform: a small reform before admitting the sixteenth member on the one hand, and a large reform before that of the twenty first on the other.
We want, we wish a global reform, perfectly compatible furthermore with the Amsterdam provisions, and on the principle that if you can do something complicated, you can do something simple.
On the problem of procedure, finally: the method of the Intergovernmental Conference has shown its limitations.
The decision on initiating draft negotiations and negotiations for membership with Cyprus and the main eastern European countries is very important.
Tradition has it that European democracy reflects common, public opinion in all political decisions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate I would very rapidly like to say a few words, I would not go as far as to say to close the debate, but as a provisional conclusion.
In the guidelines there is a very direct reference to the reduction of VAT rates in particularly labour intensive sectors.
The Member States who want to embark on this path will be able to do so, as long as they have been authorized to do so via a directive that the Council will have to adopt, following a proposal for a directive from the Commission.
For the rest, with regard to the employment summit, I am grateful to all those who have noted that the presidency has taken up all of Parliament's suggestions since, on re-reading Parliament's report on the employment summit, I can find no guideline which has not been taken up in the guidelines proposed by the presidency and taken up by the European Council, apart from a few literary elements that we were unable to take up but which we have replaced with other similar elements.
On the subject of the presidency of the European central bank, we would have liked to give an answer to this question, which has not taken shape following intervention on the part of the Luxembourg government, but on the part of a Member State not far from Luxembourg and of which I am using the official and working language at this very moment.
In fact, I believe that the conditions are right for us to be able to resolve this problem before it becomes substantial, which could run the risk of threatening the credibility of the monetary initiative in Europe.
I could make numerous comments about national budgetary contributions, but I do not wish to do so today.
The Commission has, furthermore, presented a report, in which it has noted, if in a general way, that the current division more or less appropriately reflects the real situation in different member countries.
Those who have read it have applauded it, if the conclusions seemed to them to be going in the right direction.
Furthermore, all of the reports that the Commission presents in this respect are, very often, of an exemplary mediocrity.
Europe, which is not a club of Christians which would want to remain a club of Christians, must explain that it is a club which has certain rules regarding tolerance, that it has within it a basis of common rights, demands, duties and obligations and that anyone who wishes to join the club, which is in fact a community and a union, must answer these demands.
The modest backbencher who has just left us for reasons which escape me, when he knew that I was going to provide a reply likely to satisfy him, questioned us on the significance of the preliminary issue concerning the need for the European Union to put in place a weighty institutional reform.
If we no longer like Europe, institutional reforms will not get us very far.
Mr President-in-Office of the European Council, I do not know the extent of the modesty of our colleague to whom you are referring, but in my own country we always say that you should take what people say on face value, thus if he considers himself modest, modest he must be.
Unfortunately, as you know, when we are here we have parallel meetings of which there are not dozens, but hundreds, and so it is always a little difficult to be everywhere at the same time.
You wanted to reply in person at the end of a day of debate.
I am not sure that we have given you the best proof of your talent, due to the organization of this debate, which has been interrupted two or three times.
The European Parliament is a little strange, and we apologize all the same for this.
The debate is closed.
The vote on the resolution on the Luxembourg Presidency will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m.
Commission work programme for 1998 (continuation) The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Commission work programme for 1998.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want my speech today to be a routine detailed listing of each and every one of the proposals set out in the legislative programme.
I would prefer this debate to be relevant to the way the European Parliament exercises its powers of control, and the Commission explains and gives an account of itself, as befits a democratic system such as our own.
I think 1998 is also going to be an important year, because that is when membership negotiations will begin, decisions will be taken about which countries will participate in the third phase of economic and monetary union, and substantial progress must be made in the difficult matter of the financial perspectives and the reform of Community policies.
Because of what the Treaty of Amsterdam says about transparency, consolidation and codification have become one of the Commission's political priorities.
It is true that not many codifications have been carried out, but the relevant departments of the three institutions are working on the set of codifications which have been announced.
Text revision, which will probably be the method used in future, does not present this problem.
In two years there have been 310 consolidations, based on 2, 500 documents.
The third matter is the success of codecision.
However, in several cases the delay was caused by our having to consult on certain political or technical points, which takes time to do properly, in order to achieve an effective and consistent proposal.
Nevertheless, Parliament can request such a proposal because of article 138b.
For example, in the case of public liability insurance, the Commission has presented the proposal you requested.
As regards forestry strategy, we are preparing initiatives in accordance with the proposals in Agenda 2000.
And as for safety measures against hotel fires, the Commission has already informed Parliament of the obstacles which are preventing us from presenting the requested proposal.
I must remind you that we have had priorities of great political importance, which have taken up all our attention.
But I want to emphasize that the Commission has concentrated on those areas which it judged to be the most important, and has worked hard to sketch out a strategy for Europe for the next ten years.
Allow me to pass on quickly to our priorities for 1998.
President Santer has already described them, and I do not think any of them can be neglected.
We must also remember our external policy, which demands far-reaching action, as regards both the World Trade Organization and the strengthening of our presence in the politics of diplomacy and security.
Furthermore, the institutions must progress quickly in this sphere, just as with Schengen's "communitarization' , to be able to apply the Amsterdam decisions.
As you know, the Commission has committed itself to that politically, as I confirmed in this House in connection with our Agenda 2000 communication.
To conclude, I should like to mention the relations between our two institutions.
We have presented a list of proposals which we hope to tackle in the coming year.
Our work programme and our list of legislative proposals are the result of our having used our right of initiative, and we do not want them to be seen as excessively unilateral on the part of the Commission.
Parliament must be involved in next year's programme, and its development.
It is true that the European Union's parliamentary system is not based on the dialectics between a majority and an opposition, but the Commission cannot be founded solely on the legitimacy conferred on a single occasion, at the investiture vote.
Personally I think that this exercise could be crucial for the democratic functioning of the European Union, for it is essential for a Parliament which, following the Treaty of Amsterdam, is now called to become a full colegislator.
In our institutional system, the Commission has the right of legislative initiative.
Certainly Maastricht conferred on Parliament the right to make legislative proposals through article 138b, but the legislation and the work of reflection and preparation of Union acts is, essentially, the work of the Commission.
Of course, as a Parliament, we defend the Commission's position of strength, but it is still necessary for it to accept that it should yield to certain democratic rules.
It is the only occasion to proceed to a detailed and concrete political evaluation of the activities of a Commission which received our nomination in 1995.
Of 18 legislative proposals announced for 1997, by the end of November 1997 Parliament had only received 7.
The Commission does not systematically take the initiative to unblock 197 issues which are blocked by the Council.
They are sufficiently serious that we should draw up a better interinstitutional cooperation in the area of the legislative programme. (Applause) Consequently, Mr Commissioner, we are proposing regular evaluation throughout the year, possibly on the basis of a written document, regarding implementation of the legislative programme.
It would be better to use those we have as a framework for regular meetings between the Commission and the Parliament.
Thus, for example, the Conference of Presidents could serve as a form of regular evaluation, three monthly, of the implementation of work in progress, in the presence of the General Secretary of the Commission, duly informed.
We have nothing against this way forward as such.
It is the ripening but never the deterioration.
The Delors Commission presented a Green Paper in 1992, along with a questionnaire for the consultation of professionals.
During the hearings, at the end of 1994, you were asked, Mr Oreja, if you considered it necessary to do anything.
We are at the end of 1997.
Mr President, the way in which the 1997 programme has been achieved and the content of the 1998 programme are witness to the political ambition of the Commission.
But it must be underlined that European public opinion is less and less ready to accept the absolute domination of the market, the contempt for the consumer in the name of profit and the decline of the European social model, all in the name of economic logic.
They will also need to complete their legislative arsenal in the area of food safety as quickly as possible.
There is another turning point to be negotiated: that of employment.
The employment summit has raised great expectations amongst the workers and public opinion in general.
The Commission has an enormous responsibility to implement the decisions of this summit.
It needs to do it quickly and above all it needs to change some of its own practices.
Thus, for example, the great economic directions will have to at last take serious account of the employment dimension.
We expect the Commission to concretize rapidly the political agreement of the Council on the utilization of budget appropriations allocated to employment.
In an amendment to point 18 of our resolutions, the socialists are asking for a reformulation of the annual economic report and of the great lines of economic policy and the drawing up of proposals for secondary legislation, based on article 103, paragraph 5, in order to strengthen the role of the European Parliament in economic coordination policy.
We want the Commission to take account of the balance of employment in its liberalization measures.
The legislative programme of 1998 includes a directive on taxation of savings.
With regard to the directive on taxation of savings that the Commission is announcing for 1998, it will be a question of seeing how the numerous conditions made by Member States at the time of the conclusion of the political agreement within the Council will be fulfilled by these very states.
Mr President, in conclusion, I am convinced that Parliament can help the Commission to negotiate all of these turning points, if we show more determination in our common political action.
It is the legislative programme which must be the instrument of a new political will for employment, consumer protection and the environment.
Mr President, we are having a debate today which is a gauge in relations between the Commission and the European Parliament.
I have a feeling that on that point, with regular consultation and with the major example of the BSE inquiry, possibly via the Conference of Presidents, we will be much better able to give shape to the friendship we feel for each other.
Mr President, the trouble it is not only Parliament, but also the Commission.
On the other hand, I do not think the proposal from the large Groups, the majority, for a joint resolution is serious, with 50 different points which we should consider during the coming year.
At the same time we have to agree that agenda work and preparing ourselves for the turn of the Millennium are the most important things.
I believe this is one of the problems of the work on the legislative and work programme for the Commission during next year.
It was in 1995 in Madrid that Commissioner Fischler adopted the famous strategy paper on European agriculture, in which it was said that the status quo would not have prevailed for long.
Finally, in 1997, almost two years later, the first proposals arrived with the Agenda 2000.
On 13 and 14 November, we, as a socialist group, held a conference on the future of the CAP, seeking to state our own, tracing the lines of thought and stating that the agricultural policy needs a new legitimation, because popular consent risks becoming weaker.
We may lose the common agricultural policy, with its task of solidarity, along the road, for, when some Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance take stock of the debit and credit sides of the Community budget, they often mention the common agricultural policy.
We have therefore confirmed a quality policy, a rural policy, new attention to Mediterranean products and simplification, and we anxiously await the draft regulations in the early months of 1998.
Mr Commissioner, I refer first to the written form of the working programme of the Commission, where you quite rightly identify Agenda 2000 and the preconditions for enlargement again and again as one of the most important projects, and in your speech itself you identified that as a cornerstone.
I was all the more disappointed that you did not mention institutional reform in the written version of the plans.
I am therefore very glad that now in your speech you identify the task of the European Parliament, to present the essential contents of institutional reform by the end of the coming year, as a task of the Commission.
I am really afraid that institutional reform or the demand for it will be misused to prevent the enlargement of the European Union.
We must fight against that together, on the one hand the European Commission as the motor of agreement in our institutional structure, and on the other hand you will find in the European Parliament, or at least large parts of this Parliament, massive support for sensible and far-reaching institutional reform.
I therefore ask you, in accordance with the decision of this Parliament, to accept institutional reform as one of the most important cornerstones of the tasks of the Commission in the coming year.
Three minutes, Mr Oreja, what can I say in three minutes about this working programme?
What interests me most, that is the indicative list of what you intend for this year, without a Commission number, is incidentally the thickest document with the most proposals.
I made a speech here which was full of praise for the Commission.
In the last year, as chairperson of the BSE Monitoring Committee, I have often praised the Commission, including you, when you were in my committee.
I have a slight feeling, Mr Oreja, that the Commission is returning to the doze in which it has been lying for the last ten years.
I always think reflection is excellent.
In no way, Mr Oreja!
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of the Committee on Transport and Tourism I can continue seamlessly from what the previous speaker said.
No, Commissioner, we want a quite specific proposal on improving the environmental compatibility of air transport.
We want to talk to you about that, but not in a general debate about the environment and air transport!
We have always said that harmonization and liberalization must go together.
I only say that many railway strikes in France, many lorry strikes in other Member States are linked to the fact that people have the feeling that the Commission owes us proposals for the promised harmonization of conditions, particularly in the social field.
A third field about which I would like to remind you: We have asked the Commission twice in the last year to submit to us within a year - to that extent you still have time, Mr Oreja, but only until February - a quite specific proposal for the calculation of external costs of transport.
And if we are not careful, the Commission will say at the end of 1998 that unfortunately it has had no time.
The last field: I would like to ask the Commission, although it is clearly not guilty here, and although the Council has again refused to support tourism, to consider in the next year how it can carry out a subsidiary, accompanying support for tourism on the basis of existing policies and programmes, because tourism ensures and creates more jobs and economic growth in the Community than the whole of agriculture.
Therefore, small and medium-sized companies in particular deserve support for tourism, and we ask for your support on this point.
But when they arrive in Brussels, these things remain in the inter-governmental area and are not passed to the European Parliament, even in accordance with the construction of the Treaty of Amsterdam, not as the legislative Chamber and very often not even for consultation.
They are thus practically removed from the democratic control of the national parliaments, and not transferred to that of the European Parliament.
This democratic deficit becomes quite difficult when institutions which acquire rights to intervene in basic civil liberties are created.
The Monti initiatives no longer appear in the legislative programme.
Those were the last initiatives which the Commission took to put into effect the freedom of movement of citizens which was provided in the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Single Act, but which was not put into effect within the strategy of the Council.
The Commission took initiatives.
As I said, these no longer appear in its working programme.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, it is certainly right that we do not submit an endless long wish list, but concentrate on what is politically necessary.
I say quite openly that on the one hand it is right that the number of legislative projects is reduced after the stormy internal market development.
But to me, what is really missing after this internal market development is the strengthened effort by the Commission for checking, purification, removal of bureaucracy - and I therefore say to you straight away, set up a task force which just goes in to thin out the existing control machinery, bring it closer to the citizens and in many things bring it together so that it can be read and handled from outside.
In the field of agricultural policy - I want to make this very clear - it would have been better to talk from the beginning about adjustment and further development of the reform of 1992, and not to act as if you wanted to re-invent the wheel every five years.
Let me say about the budget and financial policy that I expect on the basis of the decisions in Luxembourg that not only a report on the capital resources system will be produced, but also that you will make proposals about auditing the capital resources system.
In the field of budget control, it is important for us that full independence of UCLAF should be set in motion on the basis of the Bösch report and an inter-institutional agreement, and that progress should finally be made in the field of legal cooperation regarding protection of the financial interests of the Community.
The Commission itself has said in this House that it has a task to fulfil in 20 paragraphs in the Council's plan of action against organized crime.
But the work programme for 1998 does not contain anything about this.
The other point concerns freedom of movement.
We have the Weil report which clearly shows the problems which exist.
If it is the case that normal, decent citizens find they have their pension indirectly confiscated, at least temporarily, while criminal assets are not confiscated, the Union will of course risk losing credibility and even democratic support.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank you for all the speeches we have heard here this afternoon.
Of course the Commission is not immovable.
I think we should make sure we follow his suggestion - and not just once a year, but periodically.
Mr Fayot, you suggest a three-monthly meeting.
At this moment, I cannot give you a response to all the matters which have been raised here.
You are absolutely right.
Other matters are currently in an information phase, and yet others are soon to be voted on in Council.
Well, sometimes we are a bit slow, but we are reliable.
I agree that we need to prepare properly for our actions in the area of foreign policy.
There is a very important point in the resolution approved by this House on 19 November - I think it is point No 20 - concerning Parliament's demand that the Commission should present proposals and report to the European Council to be held in Vienna in 1998.
Let us not wait until the day before a new state is due to join - much less until there is to be a twentieth, twenty-first or twenty-second state.
And we are going to try to reach an agreement between the Commission and Parliament - and involve the Council too - and try to resolve once and for all this institutional question to which you have drawn attention, without being pressured into it by a new state's final negotiations for membership of the Community.
I do not think this is the right time to reopen the debate on some of the matters which have been raised in relation to the third pillar.
However, I do believe that the Treaty of Amsterdam has given us a margin there, and we must see how we can stimulate it.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9.30 a.m..
When this House considered the 1993 directive, we were aware that other elements would be required in due course to keep up to date with technical progress, but I do not think we anticipated that technical progress would be quite as rapid as it has been.
Under the amendments to the Basle rules and under the amendment to the 1993 directive which we are considering today, they will be.
However, there was a further obligation imposed on the Commission and Parliament back in 1993, which was to draw up rules to deal with commodities and derivatives, and those have required some substantial changes to the 1993 directive.
Turning to the question of derivatives and commodities, when the Commission proposal was originally brought forward, a problem presented itself in that the Commission's original proposal required commodities firms to modernize their systems so as to be able to use computer models by 31 December 1999 - a significant date because it is the date of the millennium, but also because it is the date by which some countries are trying to get themselves organized for the single currency.
It has become apparent that there is going to be a desperate shortage of suitably qualified IT personnel, not only in the European Union but in other parts of the world.
As rapporteur, my original thought was to suggest an extension of that deadline to 31 December 2002.
However, I have discovered that the Council has been prepared to be rather more generous than that, and Amendment No 19, which will be voted on tomorrow in the name of the PPE and other political groups, and its accompanying Amendment No 20, will help to adjust the positions of commodities and derivatives firms.
I, as rapporteur, am but the humble servant of the committee and I have to leave decisions on Amendments Nos 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20 to the wisdom of the House.
But if I might presume to guide the House, I have to say that I hope it will see its way to supporting Amendments Nos 19, 20 and 16.
I am hopeful that when we come to vote on this report tomorrow, it will go through, if not unanimously, at least with a significant majority in favour, so that Commission and Council can then move as quickly as possible to a common position, thus enabling us to give it a second reading and putting European Union financial institutions on a par with their competitors elsewhere in the world.
I am very sorry about this but we are going to have to stop the debate at this point and resume it at 9 o'clock this evening.
The Vice-President who is taking Question Time wants to start Question Time at 5.30 p.m.
I think this is a highly unsatisfactory way of doing things here in this Parliament.
Thank you, Mr Wijsenbeek, but I must remind you that we have approved an agenda - all of us - and in that agenda it says that Question Time to the Council begins at 5.30 p.m.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B4-1002/97).
Mr Juncker, please be kind enough to pass that message on to him, and also thank him for having attended Question Time during the Luxembourg Presidency.
Mr President, I am told that this is the first time that a Prime Minister has taken part in this exercise of questions and answers.
I would like to remind you all of the importance the Council gives to respect for the political criteria of Copenhagen on the part of all countries with a European vocation.
It is with this in mind that the Council acknowledges the Slovakian Parliament's declaration of 10 October 1997 and the joint declaration of the Slovakian President and Prime Minister on 17 October 1997, declarations which it considers to be a first constructive step towards a solution of the open questions regarding Slovakia.
It is equally a question, in this case, of the beginnings of a reply to the recommendations drawn up by the joint parliamentary committee between the European Union and Slovakia.
Regarding treatment of the Hungarian minority in particular, the Council has noted the Slovakian government's memorandum on the use of minority languages, whilst hoping that this initiative will be shortly followed by a specific law governing the different aspects of this question in its entirety.
The Council has similarly noted with satisfaction the recommendations directed at the Slovakian government by the joint parliamentary committee's session of 25th and 26 November 1997, inviting it to prepare, in cooperation with European Union experts, the relevant legislation in order to find a solution to the problem of minority languages within national territory.
Mr President, first I would like to thank Prime Minister Juncker very much.
I believe - and I would like to emphasize this explicitly to this audience, because we were very glad about it - the Council has followed Parliament's line and not mentioned the word Slovakia explicitly.
The first problem is the minority question.
The second is the question of Mr Gaulider, the member of parliament, and I believe that we on the European side cannot emphasize too much that the Gaulider question must be solved.
We know that that is related to President Kovác and with the elections in the autumn, and my question is: Do you believe that the European Union has an opportunity to solve this Gaulider case before the elections in Slovakia?
By chance that was precisely the day on which voting on the so-called Gaulider case was due in the Slovakian parliament.
Mr von Habsburg, minority rights cannot be individualized.
Minority rights are rights of a particular population group.
In our conversations in Slovakia, and subsequent conversations with Slovakia, we always pointed to Hungary, Romania, but particularly Hungary, to make clear how we think that minority problems should be handled, or rather minority questions - I much prefer the term minority questions to minority problems, because minorities are not problems, they just raise questions.
I will say to Mr Bonde that the Schengen Agreement and the convention regarding the implementation of the Schengen Agreement were concluded at an intergovernmental level between certain members of the European Union.
Mr President, this morning, I thanked the Presidency of the Council for having been so impartial for half a year, and today I would like to thank the Minister of State for coming here and answering questions at question time in person.
So I would like to ask instead whether the Chairman of the Council has considered how we can balance certainty in law against political effectiveness in the records in Schengen and the AIS system which will replace the Schengen system under Europol.
Amongst my youth's ambitions was that of one day being able to speak in front of the Danish Parliament.
If the Danish Government was in agreement to authorize me to reply to this very question that you will formulate for the Danish Parliament, I would be extremely pleased and honoured to be able to reply to you on behalf of the Danish Government.
I would like to say that I think this is a very important debate, because the Schengen material will probably become EC law in the near future.
My childhood dreams concerned only the Danish Parliament.
I see no problem in continuing our common reflection in this regard.
I perfectly understand the worries that underlie the questions being put to us, but you will understand that I cannot give a ready made reply from the Council.
Schengen is a mechanism that was invented to fight against criminality.
Indeed, we forget that Schengen is a mechanism set up to fight criminality more effectively and that its results are very often convincing.
Article 5 of the draft common position approved by the Council during its session on 28 October 1997 clearly states the countries to which participation in this programme is open.
The associated countries of the Maghreb, who have concluded an agreement with the European Union, do not figure amongst the countries stated.
However, amongst the specific objectives of the programme, recorded in article 2, paragraph 2, appears the intensification of youth participation in transnational activities of community service within the Community, or in third countries, in particular those with which the Community has concluded cooperation agreements.
Completing this, paragraph 3 of the same article stipulates that support of transnational community service activities of a short or long duration within the Community, or in a third country, is one of the main actions of the programme.
Similarly, section 2 of the annex of the draft common position anticipates the active participation, in third countries, of young people residing legally in a Member State in activities which contribute to solving the needs of the society likely to have a direct effect on the well-being of the populations of the host communities.
Judging by the tone and political attitude of the reply given by the President-in-Office of the Council, I assume he said yes.
However, I do not understand it, because in fact, in the Commission proposal published in the Official Journal on 3 October 1997, it is envisaged that the countries of central and eastern Europe and third countries would benefit and participate in this way, but not the associated countries of the Maghreb.
I should like him to state precisely whether, as President-in-Office of the Council, he would be in favour of the associated countries of the Maghreb being able to participate in this voluntary service programme, in two ways: firstly, young Europeans being able to do service in these countries, and secondly, the associated countries of the Maghreb being able to participate in the programme in their own right.
The Council could come to the agreement that you wish as long as it is submitted to a Commission proposal which moves in this direction.
Mr President, I only have quite a short question.
In the case of such a fundamental expansion, would the Council also be prepared to increase resources for this programme correspondingly?
As the honourable gentleman himself highlights in his question, tourism can contribute to the economic development of rural areas of the European Union, given that economic development of rural areas is traditionally linked to agricultural development.
The Council attaches a particular importance to the qualitative improvement of supply in the rural tourism sector.
In this context, the Council would like to remind you of its decision 92/421 concerning a Community action plan for tourism.
Question No 5 by Sören Wibe (H-0868/97) Subject: EU relations with Israel and Palestine The Israeli government has committed serious breaches of the peace agreements it concluded with the Palestinian State.
The situation in the Middle East is a complex one and the Council does not believe that measures such as those suggested would contribute to an end to the impasse in the region.
The best reply that I can give to you is to return to the Presidency's conclusions published at the end of the European Council held in Luxembourg on 12th and 13th December.
These conclusions demonstrate once more that the European Union is determined to make a concrete and positive contribution to the peace process.
I will tomorrow be meeting, in Luxembourg, the Israeli Prime Minister, and on Friday, President Arafat.
Mr Habsburg-Lothringen undoubtedly knows that Annex II of the Act of 20 September 1976 relating to the election of representatives to the European Parliament by direct universal suffrage anticipates that the United Kingdom will apply the measures of the Act in question only with regard to the United Kingdom, that is to the exclusion of Gibraltar, which is not part of the United Kingdom.
The 1976 Act was adopted on the basis of article 138, paragraph 3, of the Treaty setting up the European Economic Community, on the basis of a project drawn up by the European Parliament, which made no mention of the particular situation of Gibraltar.
Nor would the Council be able to extend, by its wish alone, the application of the 1993 directive on the exercising of voting rights and eligibility for the European Parliament, which refers to the 1976 Act, to enable the citizens of the United Kingdom resident in Gibraltar to vote in European parliamentary elections in a Member State where, hypothetically, they do not reside.
Indeed, the 1993 directive is based on article 8b, paragraph 2, of the Treaty, whose application is limited to European Union citizens resident in a Member State of which they are not nationals only.
Mr President, the fact is that I have received the proposal for a law concerning a voting right for Gibraltar from the British House of Commons, but only after I put this question - I did not know about it before.
Furthermore, the legal situation - looking at Gibraltar today - is rather divided, if you take on one side the Peñón and on the other the isthmus, because the Peñón practically belongs to England according to the Treaty of Utrecht, whereas in the case of the isthmus there is some dispute about who it belongs to, even if it is now quite clearly under British administration.
Mr President, the clever people sitting to my left and behind me are of the opinion that I should not burden the last days of the Luxembourg Presidency by now getting mixed up in the difficulties between two Member States.
So I would like to tell you that I understand your question very well, but I will give you my answer outside the door.
Question No 8 by John Cushnahan (H-0878/97) Subject: European Food Agency Can the Luxembourg Presidency inform me whether the Council is prepared to give its support to the Commission's proposal to establish a European Food Agency?
I am sorry to have to say that the Commission has currently submitted no proposal to the Council regarding the creation of a European Food Agency.
Mr President, thank you for your courtesy in allowing me to ask a question.
I repeat that it is the Luxembourg government's custom to study Commission proposals before being able to support them.
It is furthermore illustrated by article 62 of the said constitution which states that none of the recognized liberties of the people may be exercised to the detriment of the principles established in the Constitution and its laws, of the existence of the objectives of the Socialist state and of the decision of the Cuban people to build socialism and communism.
In this context the Council would like to remind you that the Union, in its relations with Cuba, is implementing a policy defined in a common position of 2 December 1996 aimed, particularly, at encouraging a process of peaceful transition towards democratic pluralism and respect for human rights and basic liberties.
I believe at least one of the two initiatives has already exceeded the figure of 10, 000 signatures, by means of worthy effort and great personal risk.
So, my supplementary question is whether, despite the awful wording of that terrible article 62 which has been read to us and which is, of course, a proclamation of absolute totalitarianism, there is anything the Council can do to try to persuade the Cuban authorities simply to comply with their own constitution, which they themselves - Fidel Castro - approved.
Mr President, thank you for your clear statement.
We have not always heard such clear statements in this Chamber on this subject, and I also thank you for what the Council has defined not long ago as the common attitude on this question.
Mr President, the Council defined its Cuba policy in the common statement of 2 December 1996.
As Mr Alavanos states, responsibility for the content of education and the organization of an education system remain within the jurisdiction of Member States.
In accordance with the relevant article of the treaty, the Community contributes to the development of a quality education by encouraging cooperation between Member States and, if necessary, by supporting and completing their actions, whilst fully respecting their responsibilities.
Furthermore article 126 of the treaty states, in paragraph 2, that Community action aims at developing the European dimension in education, in particular by apprenticeships and the diffusion of the languages of the Member States.
It is furthermore not for the Council to intervene in the content and organization of the education system of a Member State.
The Council continues to give a high priority to the problem of Kosovo.
In its declaration of 9 April 1996 on recognition, by Member States of the European Union, of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the European Union declared that from then on the development of good relations with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the place of this country within the international community would depend on the adoption by the FRY of a constructive attitude, in particular with regard to the full respect for human rights, rights of minorities and the right of return for all refugees or displaced people as well as the granting to Kosovo of a large degree of autonomy within the FRY.
The position that I have just stated has been repeated many times, in particular by the European Council at its meetings of 13 and 14 December 1996 in Dublin, 16 and 17 June 1997 at Amsterdam, as well as by the Council on 29 April 1997 and, more recently, in its declaration of 10 November of this year aimed at the population of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
In particular in its conclusions of 29 April 1997, on the application of conditionality for relations between the European Union and the countries of the region, the Council linked the development of relations between the European Union and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to conditions both general and specific.
Thus, general assistance within the Phare programme requires that the FRY makes a credible offer with a view to initiating real dialogue on the status of Kosovo.
The opening of possible negotiations regarding a possible cooperation agreement will depend in particular on the existence of real dialogue with the Albanians of Kosovo on the status of Kosovo, within the borders of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
One of the conditions for the conclusion of a cooperation agreement is the effective granting of a large degree of autonomy to Kosovo.
Furthermore, the Council has underlined, in particular during its session of 6 October 1997, that the commencement of dialogue between the Belgrade authorities and the Kosovo Albanians is necessary and that all the parties concerned must contribute to this fully and rapidly.
The European Union has indicated its intention to support this agreement.
The European Union is asking the Belgrade authorities to allow recourse in the long term to missions of the OSC to Kosovo, Vojvodine and Sandjak and it continues to follow the situation closely, in particular through the ECMM.
To the same end, the European Union intends to open an office in Pristina and it has presented a proposal to the authorities of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
As you know, no resolution of the UN's Security Council has anticipated a peace maintenance force for Kosovo in particular.
Mr President, the problem in Kosovo is simply that because of years of neglect by the international community - by which I do not mean the Luxembourg Council Presidency, which has actually done something - a situation has arisen in which everything threatens to escalate and outbreaks of violence are expected.
Therefore, we must really try, before it is too late, to bring about a political solution, even by pressure.
The Americans have an office in Pristina, and the European Union has been talking about it for years and has no office in Pristina.
Mr President, I assume that the British Presidency will continue the efforts of the Luxembourg Presidency in this direction.
The Joint Supervisory Authority was set up by the convention for the purpose of implementing Schengen, more precisely by its article 115.
The JSA is part of the Schengen patrimony.
The creation of a Joint Supervisory Authority for Europol is anticipated in article 24, paragraph 7 of the convention which set up Europol.
Since January 1996, work has begun in order to draw up its internal regulations, in particular in the light of the work of the European data commissioners.
It is anticipated that the work on a draft text of internal regulations will be finished in the first months of next year.
I hold in my hand the first activity report from the authority which is supposed to supervise personal security in the Schengen Information System.
We believe that this issue will develop in the short term and, when the time comes, the Council will have the possibility of giving the European Parliament all useful information enabling it in particular to exercise, within the limits imposed by the Treaty, its role in the supervision of Community action in this area.
Question No 13 by Maren Günther (H-0896/97) Subject: Image of the various European countries in the other EU Member States A negative, superficial and simplistic image of other countries is often conveyed in EU Member States, especially in certain media.
Indeed, in its resolution of 1976 which comprised a programme of action in the area of education, one of the important themes of the text was made up of what we at the time called the best opportunities for cultural and professional training for nationals of other Member States of the Community and of non-member countries and their children.
Since then the Council has continued to give concrete signs of its interest in this issue, whilst acting within a wider perspective than that following from the question.
Thus, through its conclusions of 27 September 1985, the Council introduced the concept of the European dimension into education.
Apart from the promotion of the teaching of foreign languages, its conclusions indicate, as an appropriate measure, the promotion of measures aimed at encouraging contact between pupils of different countries and the development of a European dimension in study programmes, in training and in educational materials.
In the Council resolution of 24 May 1988 on the European dimension of education, the objectives include the need to improve young people's knowledge of historical, cultural, economic, and social aspects of the Community and of its Member States and to make them understand the interest in cooperation of the European Community with other countries of Europe and the world.
In its conclusions of 27 November 1992 on the measures aimed at developing the European dimension in higher education, the Council confirms, in particular, that, to take up the challenge of an increase in the number of students having access to the European dimension, we must now strengthen the integration of this dimension in the policy and the practise of higher education at all levels.
All of this underlines the concrete interest in anchoring the concept of the European dimension in the different educational systems.
With regard to the specific initiatives referred to, these can only be taken on the basis of proposals in due form from the Commission.
Mr President-in-Office, thank you for the answer.
I am thinking particularly of criticism in the media, in which individual countries are really branded, particularly by young people.
The Council is not aware of the proposals formulated by the European nuclear industry to which the honourable gentleman refers in his question.
In any case, I can indicate to you that, in principle, the Council would give all its attention to proposals which may be submitted to it with a view to reducing the greenhouse effect.
I would lastly like to underline the fact that the Community strategy, with a view to the third conference of contracting parties to the framework convention of the United Nations on climatic change, which took place in Kyoto, has been recorded in the Council conclusions of 16th October 1997.
Mr President, I am indeed grateful to hear the Council say that it would discuss this with no a priori considerations because there is a downside to the use of MOX fuel.
A report recently issued after a two-year project makes it quite clear that it has a potential for terrorist organizations in the fabrication of nuclear devices with socalled reactor-grade plutonium, the stuff that is being produced at Sellafield and La Hague.
I have spoken about this issue three times today.
Mr Juncker, indeed you are right since the question was tabled before the Luxembourg session, and is therefore somewhat out-of-date.
Unlike the Turkish Prime Minister and the Turkish government, I would first of all like to read what the Turkish government said before commenting on the content.
I would have preferred that the Turkish government had first of all read the European Union's offer before rejecting it.
Turkey is going to withdraw its application for full EU membership if the EU does not include Turkey on the list of applicant countries by June next year at the latest.
To reply to this question I will say that the maintenance of dutyfree sales for travel within the Community is in contradiction with the existence of an internal market without borders.
Indeed, the circulation between two Member States of goods bought by individuals for their personal use is of no more consequence from the point of view of tax law.
Thus, individuals can buy goods for personal use in any other Member State without having to declare them or pay tax at the border.
In this situation, the application of exemptions for travellers beyond the deadlines anticipated could create distortions in competition for businesses selling goods with tax included, as well as between the different forms of transport, depending on whether they propose to sell duty-free or not.
If the Council has temporarily extended duty-free sales to intracommunity travellers until 30 June 1999, it was to alleviate the social and regional difficulties which risk being caused by a too sudden abolition of these sales.
The Commission gave an assurance to this institution that an economic and social study would be carried out.
Mr President-in-Office, I suggest that, in the final weeks of your office, you ask the Commission to fulfil the commitment to this House and until such time as it can do that - present the recommendations of a study - that it should allow this duty-free to continue.
When the Commission has made a proposal for a directive on this point, we will need to be unanimous to be able to amend the directive currently in force, which the Member States agreed on until 30 June 1999.
He will be aware that the Court of Justice delivered a judgment early in November which clearly stated that the Commission and the Council had proceeded correctly in this matter and that the European Parliament had been duly consulted.
During the past few months, each time the Council discussed this question, I never had the impression that we were in a position to unanimously delay the measures anticipated to come into force on 30 June 1999.
Consequently, I do not think that the British government has need of particular encouragement in this respect.
We have invited the Commission to produce a study for us, which many of you are referring to.
It is true that all of these issues should have been discussed at the time the Council took its decision.
Consequently, unanimity will be necessary to amend this directive.
It does not exist because governments have very different opinions on this issue.
It is true that the Council is not organized along the same lines of systematic persuasion as the duty-free lobby.
If Europe had the same competence and the same capacity for marketing as the lobbies in question, we would perhaps be able to explain why we took the decision that we did in 1991.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21 lapse.
The Council shares the honourable gentleman's concerns regarding the harmful consequences of road traffic accidents on life and human health.
This is why the criteria for road safety, appearing in article 75, paragraph 1, letter c of the treaty inspires all the Council's actions, in particular all the legislative acts that it adopts in the area of transport.
In addition, the Council expressed a unanimous opinion on this question in its conclusions adopted during the session of 17 June of this year.
Secondly, there are various considerations regarding the different directives which have gone through Parliament, the Council and Commission in the recent past with regard to design and models; some thought might also be given to standardizing safety features within the automobile sector to ensure they are made available, not necessarily as extras but also as part of the normal construction of automobiles to guarantee the safety not only of the drivers but also of the passengers and pedestrians.
I would nevertheless like to add, on a personal level, that I consider that the European Union should pay more direct attention to these problems, which concern the daily life of many men and women in Europe.
A Europe of citizens exists, day after day, on our roads, and I think that much could be done, if only to harmonize all the signs and instructions, all the illustrated warnings, which add nothing to the richness of Europe but which make life difficult for European citizens when they travel.
I believe that we show a serious deficit in the area of road safety.
The fault, of course, lies with Member States, with the Commission and with Parliament, with all those in fact, who have failed to provide Europe with a strategy in this area, which would make Europe more attractive and more popular in the eyes of its citizens.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 23 and 24 fall.
My group welcomes the Commission's proposal to introduce a more stringent and effective method of measuring banks' and investment firms' capital requirements, and one geared towards market risk.
Therefore, like the previous speaker and the rapporteur himself, I would particularly ask you to support the three amendments tabled by my group, i.e.
This amendment is concerned with a method for internal risk models that do not satisfy the criteria listed in paragraph 4 of Annex 8.
However, we are concerned that some other very technical amendments are not fully consistent with the approach adopted at international level.
Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 15 and 17 introduce useful technical clarifications which we welcome.
However, Amendment No 4 duplicates much of Amendment No 2.
Amendments Nos 15 and 17 duplicate Amendments Nos 5 and 6, third paragraph.
This would create an uneven regulatory playing field between the European Union and other G10 institutions.
It means it could impair the success of the market introduction of shares of new companies or of privatizations such as France Telecom and Halifax by imposing an 8 % charge on securities which currently attract only a 2 % charge as highly liquid instruments.
Amendments Nos 9 and 10 also prescribe a degree of detail regarding the elements of risk to be covered by internal models which would impair the ability of the authorities to adapt the requirements appropriately to individual circumstances.
Our original proposal deliberately employs forms of wording which would ensure that all material risks are covered without trying to prejudge the precise requirements to be observed in every situation.
On these grounds I would encourage you to support the original wording of the proposal and reject Amendments Nos 9 and 10.
Certain institutions will therefore need time to adjust to the new capital regime for commodities.
Thank you, Mr Fischler.
The Commission's memorandum highlights weaknesses in the analysis of the sector and, to rectify them, I made a request for complementary information which was not fully answered in the letter which the Commissioner sent me at the end of July.
To have this pessimistic view, the Commission rejects its own research and uses other sources from the International Oleicola Council in which the influence of third countries, who would benefit from a reduction in the possible Community production, cannot be ignored.
As far as the options are concerned, the Committee on Agriculture has clearly played down the option of aid not linked to production - this was the meaning of the vote taken in the Committee on Agriculture at the European Parliament.
The fundamental reason is of a social nature, due to the higher risks in the loss of employment which would show up in the Community regions most affected by unemployment.
If these effects have come about after the 1992 reform, the effects of destroying work in the olive growing sector would be much greater for two reasons.
The cost of gathering the olives is made up of 80 % of the expenses of manual labour and 70 % of the variable costs.
In addition, the reduced level of cultivation costs made when the aid was given - 15 % as opposed to 85 % for cereals or 98 % for bulls - considerably increases the risks of destroying employment.
These sorts of risk are contrary to the Amsterdam Treaty in respect to employment.
These risks would have an effect in the regions where the rate of unemployment is double the Community average, and which, moreover, show important cohesion problems.
A formidable administrative framework would always be necessary to distribute the aid corresponding to each tree among more than two million producers.
These two million producers are usually found in areas of continuous cultivation and there would appear to be enormous difficulties for the distribution of aid.
It is clear that in this debate the producers of olives are in opposition to the aid collectors.
Madam President, I conclude: above all allow me to congratulate and express my personal gratitude to all my colleagues in the committee from the various countries who were determined to achieve a common solution in looking for a unitary position to reflect a single voice, a voice from this millenial culture, firmly based in the Mediterranean as well as in European culture.
Madam President, the production of olive products is concentrated in the countries of the Mediterranean and in particular the objective 1 regions, which are structurally weak and where the per capita income is less than 75 % of the Community average.
The olive oil sector is the most important economic sector and approximately 27 % of jobs are directly or indirectly linked with olive oil production, which demonstrates its importance in the wider social balance and cohesion of these regions.
The greatest weakness of the Commission communication is that it lacked a thorough analysis in respect of the repercussions that the proposed revision of the COM would have on employment.
The Committee on Employment is deeply worried about the implementation of aid per tree, which may have catastrophic repercussions on employment in the sector.
The Committee on Employment calls on the European Commission to act in accordance with the recommendations in paragraphs 7.5, 11, 14, 15 and 16 of the report, which incorporate its conclusions in full, and for this reason it once again thanks the rapporteur.
Commissioner, we are absolutely opposed to fraud and we understand that fraud must not be any form of subsidy in any area of the European Union.
But the fact that we are against fraud and that we support all the measures which should be used against fraud is no obstacle in our thinking that preventing fraud should not be the only way to establish new standards in relation to the production of olive oil.
We understand that olive oil, olive production, is an important tradition in the Mediterranean, especially in regions and areas with objective 1 status where, as preceding speakers have already said, unemployment and economic difficulties are very serious.
Corsica has thus been given the means to fight effectively against the fires which have so ravaged it over the past few years, without however setting in motion a frantic course towards yields and production, all of this within the framework of mixed farming and the diversification desired by the European authorities.
A tree subsidy therefore has its virtues.
I am indeed persuaded that this is not the last we will hear of this issue and I hope, sincerely, that the conclusions of our colleague, Jové Peres, and of those who have supported him, will help us to avoid the severe criticisms of the system currently in place in the future, which I think are at the origin of numerous cases of deplorable fraud.
In our opinion, the entire CAP should start to change direction.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, with 28 votes in favour, seven against and two abstentions, the Committee on Agriculture approved a proposed commitment to the reform of the olive oil market, which my group strongly wished for.
We, however, are against almost all the amendments, as some of them distort the meaning of the commitment made within the Committee on Agriculture, while others offer useless answers that repeat what is already present.
The path indicated by the Committee on Agriculture enables a strong dialogue and a democratic relationship to be maintained with the producers.
No good reforms are made against producers.
Madam President, I would like to begin, rather than end, by thanking the rapporteur, and not just formally, for two reasons: firstly for the substantial corrections made to the Commission's document and secondly for the effort made in looking for a point of convergence between the requirements of the producing countries, valuable attention to making not just extra virgin olive oil but the entire production sector transparent.
The Commission justifies its option on the grounds of the fraud for which the present production subsidy leaves room.
The report informs us that the problem is not the rules, which should be improved, but the lack of specific policy measures to prevent fraud.
We must point out, in general, the positive effect which, up until now, the current COM has enjoyed with regard to olive oil: since a modernisation programme and an improvement in the operations and quality of the product has gone as far as a higher level of protection of the environment consolidating the European Union as the top producer, consumer and exporter of olive oil in the world.
Unfortunately all this will turn out to be useless if the reform proposal, which the European Commission proposes, is included in Agenda 2000, and this is because it introduces elements which are prejudicial to the correct working of this sector.
This research concerning regional impact is indispensable because the main productive areas for olive oil are situated in the south of the European Union as has already been said.
Having said that, the Commission must respect the principle of economic and social cohesion, and the COM must mark out oil within a regional strategy in which its impact is researched and the agricultural, socio-economic and structural development of the areas concerned is guaranteed.
I conclude, Madam President, by demonstrating our conviction that this Parliament will take on board the proposals contained in the report which we are debating today and on which we will vote tomorrow.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Alleanza Nazionale delegation agrees with the resolution passed by the Committee on Agriculture on the olive oil COM, as it considers it more balanced and fundamental than the initial proposal made by the Committee, which, in our opinion, did not bring clarity into a sector which needs specific, definite rules for everyone.
To conclude, the Alleanza Nazionale is therefore against tree aid and in favour of a single production aid, able to guarantee a fair level of income based on the quantity of oil actually produced.
For these reasons, we confirm our support for the resolution, congratulating the rapporteur and all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, who have really done a good job.
The lack, in every way, of realism in the current figure of 1, 350, 000 is only incurring unfair penalties which specially affect, together with a decline in prices, small and medium-sized producers.
Linked to the previous point, we think that we have to strengthen the role of producer organizations as an essential element in a commercial and promotional policy in regard to the product.
This focus should not, anyway, lead us to forget, in future rules and regulations, the existence of a large number of small and medium-sized olive growers for whom, through a specific complementary system or through appropriate modification, their role as producers ought to be recognized.
It is not possible to make two positive statements which in themselves are contradictory.
There seems to be no justification in stating that, in a short period of time, large increases in demand are expected, and nor does there seem any justification for us to consider that the results of the extraordinary harvest in the years 1996-1997 would be the future reality.
The olive in some regions of Spain, and especially in Andalusia, represents a strong source of employment, an environmental concern, the struggle against deserting the land, settlement of population, rural development, and to sum up it represents economic, social and territorial cohesion.
Therefore, in this sense, I insist that tomorrow we socialists vote in favour of the text presented by the Committee on Agricultural and Rural Development.
Mister President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate today is the first priority for us, the producer countries of this precious product.
The document put forward by the Commission has been analysed by all the previous speakers and especially by the rapporteur whom I wish to congratulate here and now for his work and for having been able to unite, without sparing any effort, almost all the views in a consensus document which many people thought impossible.
A fundamental reform, I would say basic, for all producer countries, and therefore for the European Union, but especially for the Objective 1 regions - such as Crete, the Peleponese or the Alentejo and Puglia, Sicily, Calabria, Castilla-La Mancha, Estremadura and Andalusia - with a rate of agrarian unemployment varying from 45.6 % in the Peloponnese to 12.0 % in Andalusia and, more importantly, with a rate of unemployment of 4 to 33 %, but which would be increased if we moved to a reform which would not take priority over real production, agrarian environmental measures and, therefore, employment.
I hope that the words spoken by President Santer this morning become reality and that, with ambition and realism, the future reform will be set before us.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if it is true that the COM for olive oil has worked more or less well over the last few years and has enabled the maintenance of a large number of business operations and thus jobs, in spite of the competition from other vegetable oils, it is nevertheless necessary to embark on a reform of the sector.
Mr Jové Peres' report reveals the wider options which must today prevail in the proposal for a common market organization that the Commission will announce to us at the beginning of 1998.
In some Member States, the potential for olive oil production has greatly developed over the last few years and we can now see that, due to this development, the COM is no longer suitable.
The reform to be undertaken must in particular take into account our economic, social, cultural, regional and environmental concerns.
We must keep in mind the following principles: simplification and a greater transparency in the functioning of support systems, an improvement in controls with the aim of fighting against fraud, the guarantee and equity of olive growers' incomes.
France, as a small producing country with a majority of small concerns and which is currently engaged in a phase of restructuring of its groves, particularly in Corsica under the impulse of our colleague, Mr Jean Baggioni, could not support proposals which would penalise or discriminate against small producers, nor could we support anything which could be considered a threat to the continuation of this production in the disadvantaged regions of objective 1.
I believe that the proposal for reform of the common organization of the market provides a very good foundation.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, we are holding a policy debate on a note from the Commission concerning olive oil and the rewriting of the COM anticipated for next year, a COM which I hasten to mention has been in place for thirty years, which is already quite good going.
We have our small producers.
We have our three million olive trees.
All this, ladies and gentlemen, seems to me quite trivial, because the Commission is dealing us the same blow as it did for wine.
Mr Jové Peres explained to us that the market could expand by more than 400 % in the United States and more than 350 % in northern Europe, who are just now discovering what civilisation is all about.
Employment policy because, when there are 750, 000 people employed and tree subsidies are requested, it is in your interest to save 85 % of your costs by no longer maintaining your olive grove.
Environmental policy because the desert is expanding, and the olive tree is the tree of mountain life, it is the tree of life for fragile existence, it is the tree of life in the droughts of La Mancha.
Fraud in Greece represents ECU 21 million, but ECU 21 million is nothing alongside the Brussels costs.
Mr Commissioner, I know very well that even with an olive branch in your mouth, you could never be a dove!
I believe that the European Commission must stop attacking wine, stop attacking honey, stop attacking olive oil, stop attacking the Mediterranean.
Firstly: the present system of support for production has under no circumstances presented problems such as to make its abolition necessary.
However the main objective of the systems of support is to preserve the balance of the market and to maintain the level of income of the producers.
Thus the abolition of the special system of support for small producers, the abolition of support for consumption and the creation of a unified system of support for production will create a framework for a more rational operation and a more effective control of the market.
Fifthly, granted the leading role of the European Union in global production and the high nutritional value of olive oil, a policy to promote European olive oil must be formulated and sustained by means of specific measures and by the authenticity of the product.
This policy must target both the global market through an increase in exports and the European market through an increase in domestic consumption.
I would like to emphasize three points.
Since we know that in this sector the olive crop represents around 70 % of variable costs, it is obvious that if we were to opt for the tree subsidy system and apply it to producers we should have to make them prove their actual olive yields.
Secondly, I would like to say that, whatever subsidy system is used in the future, I think the two main sources of fraud in the sector should be abolished.
The first is the unification of the two present systems; the second is the absolute ban on mixing olive oil with other edible oils.
Thirdly, I would like to say that the consumption subsidy, which was created as an aid to packaging and quality, was reduced in 1993 and now amounts to such a derisory sum there is no sense in keeping it.
Anything can happen in this Parliament; anything can happen in this world.
Anything can happen in this world.
If we were in the United States, the Minister of Agriculture would be saying 'Just watch us flood your markets with our Californian olive oil' .
Because the truth is that a combined investigation of the producer and the processor can always bring fraud to light.
The Commission's document hardly mentions employment at European level, while we are talking of nothing but employment, and we are setting up extraordinary Councils; this risks becoming a very counter-productive factor compared with the market prospects.
It needs to aim at ensuring that the aspects of quality, environmental ecological factors and the possibility of exploitation of the international market are improved.
Therefore, I ask the Assembly to support the Jové report and reject the rest of amendments so that the Committee can start work on this proposal, presenting us with a more reasonable alternative than the one initially submitted for this Parliament's consideration.
Madam President, the new olive oil COM should have a double objective: on the one hand, it should develop the sector by improving production and the productivity of the plant, the producers' living conditions and world consumption; on the other, it should ensure the protection of the environment and olive growing, a fundamental asset for the whole of the Mediterranean Basin.
On the problems of guarantees for the sector, I would like to point out that the EU should consider the need to establish regulations seeking to prevent the mixing of seed oil with olive oil, a practice which is unfortunately permitted in some Community countries, for consumer protection.
To conclude, Madam President, we intend to make a fairer redistribution and improvement of current financial resources seeking a rebalancing of the entire sector, to achieve the objectives of maintaining olive growing in difficult regions without production alternatives, where its disappearance would create serious social and environmental problems.
The Parliament itself, and also the Court of Auditors and the Council have often called for measures especially to combat fraud and irregularities in this very sector.
The Commission has today proposed and agreed upon a measure for private stocking of olive oil.
As regards common ground between the Parliament and the Commission, we are certainly in agreement about the need for reform and the reasons for it.
The support system for this sector needs to be simplified and made more efficient.
It is a question of developing a strategy for improving quality in the widest sense, and then implementing it.
The role of the producers' organizations also needs to be defined in this strategy.
The main advantage of an aid linked to output similar to the existing production aid would be that we would be dealing with a regime already in existence and of which we have experience.
However, this regime does not necessarily guarantee that production is controlled and kept in balance with demand.
Yet this is a fundamental objective for all products under Agenda 2000, not only for Mediterranean products, but also for products from the northern countries.
I do not think that anyone here wants a kind of police state.
Furthermore, this kind of aid would provide a degree of stability in agricultural income.
I fully recognize and have indeed emphasized the dangers associated with this, which are highlighted in the Parliament's report.
You have quite rightly drawn attention to this important point, especially because of its impact on the labour market.
Because of the distinctly cyclical nature of production, other arrangements for market regulation could be considered apart from those that you have discussed.
The Commission will examine these issues in greater depth, not least because some of them could very well be sorted out in the context of a flat-rate aid for producers.
I can assure you that the Commission is quite open in its attitude towards the results of your work.
Lastly, as far as the timetable goes, I should say in conclusion that the Commission will be presenting an appropriate proposal for reform of the olive oil sector to the European Parliament and to the Council in the first quarter of next year.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m.
And if I recall the title it is because I want the debate to concentrate precisely on this health strategy and not be confused with an area which, although linked, is not the purpose of this report from the Committee.
And there we have focussed most of our proposals in this area and therefore are making a first positive statement which I think is essential and it is that every person is entitled to breathe clean air and that this right must prevail over the rights of smokers.
Likewise, Madam President, I believe that it is very important to protect the workers in the workplace for the same reasons.
We also have to point out the need to carry out information and awareness campaigns to change the behaviour of tobacco smokers in public, with the aim that courtesy and respect for non-smokers will prevail.
There is another really important subject.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to speak about politics but about the right to health for citizens in the Union, the right laid down in articles 129 and 129a of the Amsterdam Treaty which, as little as a month ago, was the subject of heated speeches in this same location.
This prompts me to say without beating round the bush that tobacco kills, proof of this is that half a million people die of their own free will each year because of the harmful habit of smoking.
One death every ten seconds in the world, Madam President, and I really mean of their own free will although then it may be the whole of society which has to take on in addition the cost of these cardio-vascular illnesses and deliberately contracted cancers.
The Council can be sure that our Committee will continue to maintain its stance on a total ban and we trust that the Council takes note of this, before settling on a common position.
Madam President, we want a smoke free Union and without the lethal marketing of the tobacco companies who have now decided to target their poisonous strategies - as the rapporteur points out - on the most unprotected sectors in society - children from 11 to 15 years of age, countries in the process of development and socioeconomic, culturally deprived groups.
It is really scandalous.
It is obvious, therefore, that we will support this report and congratulate the rapporteur for his work and especially for its worth.
I conclude, Madam President, by calling for more rigorous legislation for the protection of non-smokers.
This demonstrates very precisely that we are merely relying on the law, and that is the wrong approach.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us start by supporting the Commission, which has made some good initial progress towards finally developing a new market organization that will gradually take us in the right direction.
Madam President, we all agree on the approach adopted in this report and on the undertaking to promote any action helping to discourage consumption, particularly among young people.
Smokers would continue to smoke by buying cigarettes from third countries and thus worsening an irreversible crisis of agricultural production in the poorest suburbs of southern Europe, that is, in Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain and so on, where tobacco is often the only crop possible.
The tobacco sector currently employs 284 thousand direct workers in Europe, with the subsequent stages of production bringing the figure to a million workers.
I had never thought that, on the occasion when discussing this report, we would be able to welcome the hopeful decision of the Council of Ministers of 4 December.
Throughout more than ten years of Council presidencies, the European Parliament's Committee on Public Health has agitated for a ban on advertising.
This is hopefully a first victory in the fight against tobacco.
In my country, too, a law was recently passed which curbs tobacco advertising.
Price is also an important instrument in anti-tobacco policy.
It is believed that a price increase of a 100 % can reduce consumption by half.
Cigarettes in Spain, for example, are five times as cheap as in Denmark, and rolling tobacco much cheaper than in the United Kingdom.
The tax on rolling tobacco must raised to the same level as tax on cigarettes.
But it is necessary because in every group there are going to be people who defend this report as necessary to public health while other colleagues, with the great respect and affection in which we hold them, will consider that this report is over the top.
It is clear that, from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection a report has to come out which defends public health.
In no way must it be allowed for more than 26 products to be labelled, from valerian to chocolate and the scent of liquor, which are in tobacco - this was acknowledged some days ago by a tobacco company in the Spanish press - and there are some we are not sure whether they are also addictive.
It is for that reason that we - I should not say we, but rather some colleagues in my group - are going to support this report in full, because we think it necessary and it seems to us that health is above all other considerations.
On the other hand, what I do know is that this report runs the risk of putting numerous tobacco producers in a difficult situation and, if that were not enough, also many seasonal workers in disadvantaged rural areas, even though this situation is in no way comparable with that of the processing and distribution multinationals, should the fundamental assessments of the rapporteur be misinterpreted.
It is therefore appropriate to set the debate back in its true context.
Indeed, the European tobacco industry imports nearly 67 % of its tobacco which it processes for internal consumption within the European Union.
Mr President, as a doctor I know that the harmfulness of tobacco consumption is quite clear and, from the point of view of a humanist, which we all are, the massacre of innocent people, victims of passive nicotine poisoning, must stop.
Perhaps it is better to be a smoker in the countryside than a non-smoker in the town.
We must also remember - and I am glad that on the right as well as the left of this Chamber, several colleagues have noted this - that 67 % of the tobacco smoked in the Union is imported from third countries.
Madam President, can I add my extreme thanks to the rapporteur for a very principled, intelligent report which very much deserves widespread support in the House.
However they are a welcome contribution to the overall plan of action.
It will be an important part of a package of measures which should be introduced not just within our borders but in applicant countries too.
To tackle that misinformation fully we must put our own house in order and reform the European Union tobacco production sector rapidly and completely.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all of us here know and appreciate the dangers that this consumption involves for smokers and passive smokers.
But here I wish to point out the danger entailed in points 28, 29 and 30, as has already been highlighted by the rapporteur, for which the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has asked for a separate vote.
I would like to make a firm stand on point 29, which makes a concrete request to the Council about the withdrawal of aid.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, a lot has already been said about tobacco.
The truth is that they want to impose their hygienic will on all of us.
At this moment, however, something more repulsive is appearing in the modern world: passive smokers suing the big tobacco multinationals for compensation for the damage they have suffered from passive smoking.
The first concerns what the rapporteur said in his speech about the fact that we should separate agricultural policy from this.
I must say that he was unbelievably well paid by the tobacco industry to come and say as much nonsense as possible in a short time.
It is really scandalous.
Madam President, in our political institutions there has never been as much talk about public health as during the past year and a half.
We have used the BSE crisis to demand that in Amsterdam the treaty was altered drastically, and that the services of the Commission were reorganized, and that above all absolute priority was given to public health.
Today we are talking about a statement from the Commission on the role of Europe in combatting tobacco consumption.
The rapporteur not only deserves our congratulations, but also our support and our voice.
Thank you, Mrs Thyssen.
Madam President, I am very sorry about what has happened here.
I am prepared to accept his apology, and if he feels that his toes have been stepped on and or really feels affected by what I said, I am also prepared to forgive him.
I am prepared to accept his apology, and I hope that this matter can be forgotten.
Being insulted in this way is something that puts me in an extremely difficult position.
Madam President, I do not smoke, but more than addiction to tobacco I fear addiction to fanaticism and excess.
Within the framework of this logic we could begin a very nice campaign against whisky production.
The greatest change in smoking habits has taken place among the generations.
Madam President, I would like to say that taking the law into one's own hands is in no way a political argument, but, by the same token, saying that someone who expresses different arguments is being paid is not a political argument either.
The implication that tobacco producers are responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths in Europe is not only hypocritical but verging on the suspect, since it is a well-known fact that there is a shortage of tobacco in the European Union, and that tobacco imports exceed 70 % of its total needs.
The abolition of Community aid for tobacco producers will not reduce the effects on public health.
The solution to the problem must be sought in an extensive anti-smoking campaign, in providing information, in the drastic reduction of imports and in the promotion of actions to substitute production in tobacco-producing regions.
We know that no European state can keep its budget under control without revenues from tobacco taxes.
I believe that is the main question.
But how can we protect our children?
As an Austrian I am perhaps very sensitive about the idea of a state, like the one we share a border with, which has forbidden everything.
Member States have also introduced or are actively considering further measures to restrict tobacco advertising in other media.
The Commission hopes that the Parliament will support this important initiative when the text returns before you.
For example, the Commission services have already begun a study of how Member States regulate additives to tobacco products.
Also, improvements in the labelling directive are being actively considered taking account of our experience in the application of the existing rules.
Last November the Commission presented its report to the Council and Parliament on smoking in public places.
Further attention now needs to be given to updating the 1989 Council recommendation on the subject to take account of the evidence from research that passive smoking is a preventable danger.
The Europe against Cancer programme and the Community fund for information and research on tobacco provide the funds and framework for Community smoking prevention efforts.
I hope that what I have said shows the extremely active interest and action that the Commission is taking and is contemplating taking on this important subject.
The very great interest shown by Parliament in this communication and the support already expressed by Ministers at the Health Council in June of this year show that there is a necessary consensus to pursue and reinforce smoking prevention at Community level as a major priority of our public health policy.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are today voting on the European Parliament's opinion on an agreement which, significantly, was signed this very week, two days before this debate.
Parliament expressed its opinion on the substance of this agreement last June, with a clear majority.
At the same time, we were very strongly opposed to the fact that in the wording of the agreement the Commission had accepted a period of five minutes for animals trapped by these devices to agonize and die.
And that is why the Parliament has so often come out against the substance of this agreement.
This agreement with the United States of America is worse, because it allows more time, it gives the United States longer to prohibit the use of traps with jaws.
Lastly, this agreement is worse because in this era of spin-doctors, when we look at what the American Press says about this agreement on the basis of the negotiators' statements, we conclude that it is not the same thing as the European Press says on the basis of the information supplied by the Commission.
And in particular, with regard to the derogations, that is to day the possibility of non-implementation of what is written into the agreement, I should like to ask the Commission what the American representative, Charlene Barshefsky, has already put in her letter to Minister Klaus Kinkel, where she says that these derogations will be applied in cases of extreme necessity and that they will be the same as in the agreement with Canada and Russia.
And I would ask Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan in English: Will the Commission kindly confirm that there are no derogations as far as the phasing out of conventional leghold traps is concerned?
Even the Cheshire cat trapped behind its smile.
It should be added that these agreements are legally invalid, as agreements that distort a regulation, and therefore amend it, with different procedure from that laid down for the approval of the regulation itself cannot be approved.
Now we are close to an agreement which, unlike the Council's regulations, regulates and establishes standards for catching wild animals on both sides of the Atlantic, in other words here in Europe too, where we have had nothing so far.
So this agreement does not have a chance.
There is now a treaty, and countries are committing themselves to implement animal protection measures on the basis of treaties.
We now have a chance to achieve positive changes in these countries in favour of animal protection.
Trappers have already gone beyond what is now found in these agreements.
And I think most of the Members of this House feel that this is a very sad day for the European Parliament because the agreement, although it exists - and in a sense it is an achievement that it does exist - is a very weak one and if you have regard to any of the European Parliament's reports on this issue to date, then the agreement in front of us can only be regarded as inadequate.
The derogations in article 10 are potentially massive and the Joint Management Committee that is set up in article 14 is terribly woolly: it will probably rarely meet.
Some questions have been asked about the strength of that commitment and of the derogation.
In the case of the United States it binds the states as well.
The United States is responsible for the commitment on the part of the states to honour this agreement.
As for the longer time for the United States, that is a consequence of the fact that the problem is more severe in the United States and it takes longer to get rid of it.
The fact of the matter is that we all share the same commitment.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m.
The Council should be praised for the fact that this definition has limited the original list of nine categories of food for special nutrition to five special directives.
The Council says that special rules for pesticides in foods have already been laid down, but those rules have not been revised in the light of recent scientific knowledge.
In any case, I cannot recommend voting in favour of these two amendments.
If, as the amendment proposes, we demand that the special directive should be called 'Processed and pesticidefree cereal-based foods and pesticide-free baby food for infants and young children' , such a directive would have to be restricted to saying what the requirements for pesticide-free baby food are.
So, logically speaking, such a requirement for baby food could not be made in a directive with the name which the Commission has proposed, and the contents of which the Commission has already promised to amend by the end of 1998.
The problems in dealing with the special directives which have already been issued should lead us here in the European Parliament to accept that directives may be of a technical nature and yet also have a political content which cannot be left to a committee of experts, but which both the Council and Parliament should have the opportunity of commenting on.
The product labelling is often deficient, and labelling is vitally important to diabetics, and they also typically cost up to 400 % more than ordinary products, which is a totally unnecessary and unreasonable financial burden to impose on diabetics.
I have accepted the Council's compromise, namely that we should get the opinion of the scientific committee on foodstuffs before the question is settled finally.
I realise that the Commission want to have fewer specific directives, but these products are already on the market, and many citizens are already used to them.
My group opposes taking out sports foods, so we shall not be voting for this amendment.
Nobody is obliged to buy foodstuffs of this kind, but we think that people who want to do so should also have the option of being provided with a high standard of information.
There are two very basic problems with these superfluous special directives.
Second, foods for the special groups are often sold to consumers at inflated prices, precisely because ordinary consumers believe they are better than ordinary foods.
But that does not mean pesticide-free.
I feel that particularly in an area as sensitive as baby food, the precautionary principle should apply.
In that case, I wonder why the Commission has not yet sorted it out in the right place!
If you can say today that you will do that, then our amendment can be dropped.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this proposal is to reduce the number of directives in this area.
We also said so in the Council where the Commission defended strongly our amended proposal.
As we said in our communication to you on the common position we do not agree with that and we consider that treating sports food separately is neither scientifically nor politically justified.
Parliament will be informed of that in accordance with the modus vivendi procedure.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.30 a.m.
Madam President, the role of NGOs in development cooperation in the European union is so crucial that it is fitting to accord them legal status.
The recommendation now being discussed has been part of the European Parliament's decision-making process for a very long time.
The aim should be above all to access people in their everyday lives.
NGOs can do a lot more in this area than official state organizations.
The European union must encourage its Member States to give far more support than it has up till now to its NGOs in association with development cooperation.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation is in unanimous agreement on this.
The European Parliament has the opportunity to point the direction internationally as a defender of human rights.
But it is not enough that development cooperation, and in this case the status of NGOs it embraces, is only discussed by the ministers responsible.
In the struggle the European Parliament can play a decisively crucial role.
It is precisely in this other work, though, that the serious problems of world poverty could be solved.
Madam President, the cofinancing of the projects and actions of the non-governmental organizations in development actions in the poor countries of the world and training for the development of Europe has probably been the most positive, dynamic and innovative sector in the external projection of the European Union for many years, utilizing the direct contribution made by civilized society in relation to the populations in the southern part of the world.
The current budget line B7-6000 has grown constantly over the years, thanks in particular to the boost given to the European Parliament and to a broadly positive assessment of the impact of the NGO actions.
It is natural for such an important sector of intervention to find its own clear and established legal basis: this is the objective of the draft Regulation that we are examining on a second reading today.
It should be pointed out, however, that, for over twenty years, the cofinancing of NGO projects has operated very well, even without a specific legislative regulation.
However, I would like to take the opportunity to extend my sincere thanks to our Parliamentary group for the denial and immense and complex work carried out in recent years by the NGO cofinancing unit of the European Commission, and ask the Commission to finally reinforce it in terms of staff.
I hope that, in the next few months, the work involved in defining the new regulations and general conditions for cofinancing that enable a leap in quality to be made in the management methods of the NGO projects by the European Commission will proceed.
Non-governmental cooperation in development has found and will find real and sincere support in our group.
This is actually his first report to the Parliament and I think that in conjunction with our group he has carried out this task admirably.
They do enormously important work for the European Union and for people in less developed countries.
These people are really overloaded, and they need more staff so that the money for this important work can be properly administered.
Parliament, of course, has always attached the greatest importance to cofinancing the development NGOs, and has consistently increased the budget line for these activities.
I fully share that view, as does the Commission as a whole, and this approach is reflected in the draft regulation, which the Commission welcomes and supports.
With regard to the eight amendments, the Commission can accept most of them, either because they reflect common goals already pursued and practices already followed by the Commission, or because their aim is to supply more complete information.
I refer here to Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 (second and third parts), and 5 (second part).
Amendment No 5 (first part in its present form) states that as a rule the Commission must decide within six months whether an operation presented by an NGO will be cofinanced or not.
Amendment No 7 states that the Commission is to be assisted by an advisory committee of the Member States.
We do not agree with that, because it is at variance with the solution already reached in the common position on comitology, which represents the only compromise that was possible after two years' discussion with the Member States and we think we should now come to a decision.
I should like to thank Parliament for its commitment over years in favour of development NGOs and their work, and underline our determination to continue to cooperate fruitfully with such NGOs for the benefit of the poorer sections of the population in developing countries.
The debate is closed.
