Thank you, Mr Bernard-Reymond.
Mr Mezzaroma, as I am sure you will understand, Parliament cannot make a statement on each and every one of the Pope's visits.
Ladies and gentlemen, at the invitation of the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland, on 19 and 20 January I paid a visit to Northern Ireland.
Mr President, I raise a point of order pursuant to Rules 127 and 52.
Mrs Matikainen-Kallström, your comment will be taken into account and included in the Minutes.
Mr President, I too have a comment to make on the Minutes, but I am sorry to say that it is a criticism.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have invited me here today to speak to you regarding the financial crisis in South-East Asia, for which I thank you.
With regard to this, I would like to make three series of remarks, one relating to the impact of the crisis, a second regarding the need for vigilance on our part in the face of this situation and, finally, a third concerning Europe's role.
The euro will come into use on 1 January 1999 and the decision on the countries to form part of the first wave will be taken on 2 May this year.
The financial markets have fully anticipated the euro and the Asian crisis has made the euro known to the world.
This proves that the euro, even before its creation, has fully played its role as Europe's protective shield.
Indeed, the Asian crisis has brought about a rush for quality, that is, a movement of capital towards less risky assets in the United States and Europe, which has caused a spectacular drop in the long term rates: a fall of 120 base points in the United States for the 10-year rates since last July and, over the same period, a fall of 80 base points for the German and French 10-year rates.
The evidence, and this is my last figure, my last proof, is in the favourable data coming from our most recent surveys of the situation, which predict, for example, a nominal progression in investment in industry of 6 % during 1998.
The European Union is involved on three levels.
May I remind you that the countries of Europe hold a 30 % share in the IMF, whilst the United States holds only 18 %.
Secondly, the Union maintains regular contact with our Asian partners; such was the case on 12 January last, at the European UnionJapan Summit.
Opportunities will not be missed in the future, in particular the ASEM Europe-Asia Summit in London at the beginning of April, as well as all the ministerial meetings and meetings of officials which will precede that Summit.
Lastly, as regards the third and final area of intervention, the European Union is ready to share its own experiences in the area of coordination of economic policy.
Europe is participating in the management of a solution to this crisis but it has to be said that we lack visibility in this area, as we do, unfortunately, in all areas of foreign policy.
When the euro has become a reality, the European Union will have to express itself with one voice on the international scene.
This will enable us to play a more active role.
Of course, we have a lot to learn from the Asiancountries in terms of innovation, but we also have experience in the area of the single market and coordination of our policies.
We must not only provide them with financial support but also encourage them to open up their economies to the world, for the solution to the crisis, beyond the financial support from the international community, must be sought in the commitment of these countries to the restructuring of their economies, whilst at the same time respecting the principles of sound management.
To conclude, in a word, Mr President, I will say to you that the Commission is vigilantly following, on a daily basis, all the developments in this crisis.
Current information permits me to conclude that the euro has played its role of protective shield perfectly, but that Europe must continue to affirm its role in the search for solutions to crises of this type.
For the various Member States, of course, the repercussions are and will be very different.
Secondly, we will also be affected by the redeployment of these Asian countries, towards certain export markets in which we were traditionally present.
Thirdly, and finally, we must not forget that this crisis gives us the opportunity of seeing these markets open up and making a number of investments there.
Mr Commissioner, as you have just stated, not all European countries are affected in the same way by the Asian crisis, that is, neither the same industries, nor to the same extent.
Secondly, I do not believe that you can say that the European countries will as a whole be affected in very different ways.
In certain industries, some countries are undoubtedly more involved in Asia than others.
Of course they will be more affected than any Italian or Spanish companies which may not have invested in the same industry in Asia.
So the involvement will depend on the sector, but it cannot be global.
When all is said and done, we must be in a position to tell ourselves that this crisis is an opportunity to pursue the efforts underway at home, as well as to see to what extent we have new opportunities for opening up markets.
Indeed, and this is very important, in all the negotiations underway with these countries, we are insisting at all levels - in contacts with the International Monetary Fund, at Commission level and bilateral contacts - on the need for more transparency, more openness and less regulation, in order to enable our businesses and our companies to become interested in having access to these markets, be they financial markets or markets for goods and services.
Secondly, I believe we are punching below our weight as the European Union.
Mr President, I am in agreement with half of what Mr Harrison says.
Exports from these sectors towards Asia, in total, represent less than 1 % of Community GNP.
It is clear that those banks are today in the middle of a process of renegotiating and scheduling the debts of these countries and, in any case, most of them, the vast majority even, have the financial muscle to enable them to withstand a certain number of shocks.
Consequently, when I consider that the main part of our banking involvement is in Hong Kong, Singapore and China, that is, the countries least affected by the crisis and which are the soundest and the best managed, and that the other countries, Thailand, Indonesia and South Korea, are precisely those which have received conditional aid packages from the International Monetary Fund, I do consider that the crisis is 'manageable', as you would say in your mother tongue, but I do not want to make ambitious plans.
Mr President, I would like to take up the last remark made by the Commissioner and put it into the context of his initial analysis.
In terms of imports, the exact figure is 26.2 % of imports from outside the European Union.
So you see that in terms of scale, it is about the same level.
Since we are talking about trade, and in the time left to me, I would nevertheless like to remind you that amongst the countries affected by the crisis, Hong Kong and Taiwan represent 25 % of our third country trade with these Asian countries, that is, the largest share, and that Thailand, Indonesia and Korea, which are the three most affected countries, represent only 5 % of our foreign trade.
If you add Japan to this 5 %, the total would be 15 %, and this 15 % of all our trade represents only 1.5 % of our GNP.
But I believe we must remain watchful, to avoid a repeat of the process you describe, although today I see neither reasons for, nor even symptoms of it.
This brings us to the problem of bank supervision as a public responsibility.
Mr President, I find it difficult to reply to Mr Wolf.
It is really a question for the European Central Bank and the European Monetary Institute.
The problem is to see how these norms and standards can be extended to the countries of South-East Asia and how entities such as the Bank for International Settlements or other mechanisms can be put in place to ensure that the current crisis will end in the adoption, in these countries, of regulatory and supervisory rules which are sufficient to ensure the security of the whole world.
Mrs Randzio-Plath, I note your suggestion regarding Singapore and Malaysia.
And this role which it fulfils, moreover, is truly a role of assistance, I was going to say the role of a fireman, in the case of disaster or fire.
Secondly, the solution lies in defining ad-hoc standards of financial and institutional supervision which must be the same in these countries as they are in ours.
Thirdly, the solution lies in the recapitalization of their banks, an action which must at the same time be complemented by cleaning up their assets.
Secondly, they will lose in inflationary terms, because their inflation rates will rise.
We stand noticeably aloof, but I also have the impression that the individual Member States, or at least some of them, obviously the biggest ones, are trying to protect their own interests in the Asian crisis.
I am in complete agreement with his analysis, and I will even go further by quoting another example which seems to me to be particularly revealing of the situation described.
Madam President, I would like to ask two questions.
But the President of the World Bank told us that in human terms, in terms of unemployment and in terms of an increase in poverty, there will also be catastrophic results.
There is no need to change the statutes of the International Monetary Fund to drive out, if I can put it that way, all the Member States and impose European Union representation.
In any case, the problem is not so much within the International Monetary Fund as in other fora which are perhaps more informal but where, when all is said and done, and I note this after three years experience here, the real decisions are taken.
I would not want these decisions to be monopolized by a small number of Member States who would decide, not only on behalf of the European Union, but on behalf of all the fifteen Member States.
That was the case for Korea, I think, where the programme was reviewed in order to integrate that aspect more widely.
It must be the case even more in the future and, of course, other international institutions, like the Community, must integrate this dimension into the framework of their programmes.
Mr Commissioner, I have clearly understood the relative optimism that you demonstrate with regard to the consequences of the Asian crisis on the European economy.
However, my question is more industrial and related more to international competition.
Competition in textiles was mentioned earlier.
A number of preconditions are therefore foreseen, certainly perhaps not enough in your eyes, but ones which move towards both a greater liberalization of the financial markets in these countries, and also the suppression of specific advantages which the Korean shipyards have in relation to other yards.
Nevertheless, to respond precisely to your question, eight sectors seem, at first glance, more affected because they have referred the matter to us.
This is nevertheless a large number of sectors which could be affected at one level or another.
Secondly, the Chinese authorities always said that they did not want to devalue.
As I said in my opening speech, it seems to me that there is one country in which confidence has not yet been restored, and that is Indonesia.
For the rest, I looked at the markets again this morning and a large part of last year's fall in prices has been regained or stabilized.
The facts that have come in over the last 48 hours as regards the stock market and exchange markets are more encouraging and move more in the direction of those who think that we are now beginning to manage the crisis.
Compatibility of political mandate and office of Commissioner The next item is a declaration from the Commission on the compatibility of political mandate and the office of Commissioner.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have undertaken to give you the Commission's point of view on the compatibility of local or regional political office in one of our Member States with the duties of Member of the Commission.
Since then, Mr Yves Thibault de Silguy has made public his decision not to stand in those elections.
I would immediately like to dispel any ambiguity: the Commissioners have a political mandate and it seems to me essential that in this capacity they are not cut off from political reality, be it European, national or local.
It is therefore perfectly normal that Commissioners should retain not only their ties with their political party, but also their local roots.
It seems that the benefit is two-fold, both for the Commission - which can thus be more attentive to any developments in opinion regarding the policies it is following - and for the European project, which the Commissioner can contribute to through explaining and defending it in the place where he has a natural audience.
The question that then arises is whether these political ties may be made concrete through an elected mandate.
The situation is clear regarding responsibilities and national mandates.
It would be in contravention of the Treaty to be both a Member of the Commission and a member of a national government or parliament.
Article 157 of the Treaty states that Members of the Commission exercise their functions completely independently, in the overall interest of the Community, and the exercise of a political role at national level would clearly damage this independence and would give rise to situations of conflict of interest.
The reality of the way in which the College works therefore dictates that the risk of conflict is interpreted more widely, for the Commission is a collegiate body and as such all the Commissioners participate in the debates and the decisions to be taken, in all fields.
You could moreover imagine that, in a Community extended to 21 Member States or even more, the work load of the Commissioners would be even greater, regardless of the size of the College.
Furthermore, in all the Member States, the tendency towards not holding more than one office is becoming predominant.
Madam President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to make a very clear political statement that in our view it is completely incompatible for a Member of the Commission to hold any party political post whichever part of the political spectrum a particular Commissioner may come from.
That is our position.
We welcome the fact that Commissioner de Silguy has withdrawn as a potential candidate from the French regional elections.
Certainly the interpretation that you have expressed here today is completely in tune with the great majority of this House.
We will all be asking very important questions of all Commissioners when they come before us for ratification next time around.
Mr President of the Commission, the Treaty article you refer to talks about "independence in the general interest of the Community' , which seems to me to be a key issue.
In my group, the Group of the European People's Party, nobody questions Mr de Silguy's professional and political competence, or his honourableness.
So independence and a lack of conflict of interests is absolutely crucial when it comes to safeguarding the Commission's independence.
And we think great harm could be done by somebody casting doubt on some Commission decision because one or other of the Commissioners may have had some specific interest.
Therefore, the Group of the European People's Party is pleased with your statement, Mr Santer, because it is a step in the right direction.
It is a step in the right direction for the European Union because the Commission is going to be able to continue being the guardian of the Treaties and defining the Community interest.
That is why, Mr Santer, your statement today about Commissioner de Silguy deciding not to participate in the French regional elections is good news for all of us who want the Commission to be consolidated as the future government of Europe.
Madam President, this debate creates an important constitutional precedent.
As President Santer has recalled, European Commissioners fulfil a political function and are not technocrats, since they are politically responsible to our directly-elected Parliament.
For that reason, it is also important that increasingly politicians and not technocrats are nominated.
This Commission only has two Commissioners who have never held a political office; one of them was Mr de Silguy.
All this is very important because during their term in office that is the only guarantee that they are independent.
A political function exercised in the general interest is incompatible with any party political function, whether at national, regional or local level and I am very glad that the President has confirmed it in such clear terms.
It is very clear that this Parliament, and the pressure from this Parliament, was the main reason why Commissioner de Silguy had to withdraw and not pursue this issue, rather than perhaps debate in the Commission.
I would now like to look towards the future and as President Santer has said, it is important also for future Commissions to take this attitude.
But it is now more important that we in this House establish this as a firm rule for the future with the agreement of the President of the Commission.
As the European Union gains strength, as the representative character of the Community gains strength, not only the Commission but also the Parliament must, in certain respects, clarify the position for the future.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to us this is very clearly a question of principles, and most definitely not individuals.
In that sense we are satisfied with the statement made by Commissioner Santer, and we fully support its general direction.
It is rather obvious that the mandate of European Commissioner cannot be linked to national, regional or even local mandates, because loyalties are created which lead to regional, local or national loyalties clashing with the European mandate they were given here.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on a personal level.
The problem has been raised, the question exists.
Our Committee on Institutional Affairs is working on the status of European Members of Parliament and on a uniform electoral procedure, but I personally hope that this important argument, on which the Treaty has nevertheless remained silent, will be the object of a submission to our Committee on Institutional Affairs so that they may examine it.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the exercise of a political mandate by a Commissioner, or more correctly one Commissioner's desire to solicit a political mandate has been raised.
This is stated in paragraph 1 of Article 157 of the Treaty.
Madam President, I too welcome Mr Santer's statement.
It makes a clear distinction between officials of the institutions and the Members of the institution.
They are politicians and, indeed, the title of the debates and statement today to that extent is wrong.
It says that it is a statement on the compatibility of political office with the duties of Member of the Commission.
When they are in office they have to answer questions before this House and they can be dismissed by a vote of no confidence of Parliament - and only by a vote of no confidence of the European Parliament.
It is a question of double mandates.
It is a question of cumul de mandats .
There we need to look very carefully, as has been done in the debate.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would simply like to thank those who have spoken and say how pleased I am with the manner in which this declaration has been discussed.
Furthermore, if after 25 years as a member of a government and 11 years as Prime Minister, I was told that from now on I would be a civil servant, the idea would not occur to me to agree to this, even as President of the Commission.
Therefore, according to the unanimous wishes of the European Council who appointed me President of the Commission, I perform my duties as a political representative before a responsible parliament, the European Parliament.
I believe we have a political mandate and we must carry out this political mandate according to our convictions, while exercising our fundamental rights as citizens.
I have received five motions for resolutions , submitted pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 37 of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
Racism The next item is the submission of oral questions, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, to the Council (B4-1010/97-0-0112/97) and to the Commission (B4-1011/97-0-0113/97) concerning the annual debate on racism.
European racism is an unhealthy phenomenon which, in some cases, lies latent in many hearts.
So it is all the more discouraging when even those who fight against racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism end up incorporating racist views into their policies.
Showing once more the need for the European Union to help make it possible for spiritual leaders of the various minorities present in Europe to be trained here, as with the Muslims, would go a long way towards creating a climate of better understanding.
It is a great pleasure for me to have the opportunity of addressing Parliament today on this particular subject.
Indeed, I should like to take the opportunity of congratulating Members for all they have done to get this issue firmly onto the European agenda.
In addition to the essential role which national governments must play in combating racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism within their borders, I am in no doubt that there is also a crucial role for European action.
The Council which will be held on 28 and 29 May will therefore examine a report on the measures taken or planned by the Member States in the fight against racism.
As you will know, our two institutions took the opportunity to confirm our common concern about racism at the opening and closing conferences of the European Year against Racism in The Hague and in Luxembourg.
I know that this was also in evidence in other Member States.
There have been two declarations by the Council on the fight against racism in the fields of youth and education.
The Council Regulation of 2 June established a European monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia and the Amsterdam Treaty contains measures which are important in this respect.
The two declarations which were adopted by the Council and by representatives of the governments of the Member States dealt with the importance of measures in the youth field and in the field of education.
I know that this Parliament has long supported the idea of such a centre and that your representative Glyn Ford was a key figure on the Consultative Commission on Racism and Xenophobia which did so much of the groundwork.
The new Article 13 provides a legal base for Community action to combat racial discrimination.
These new provisions will facilitate our work to step up the fight against discrimination based on race or ethnic origin.
I know that Commissioner Flynn has already announced that the Commission is preparing an action plan to combat racism and xenophobia.
The UK presidency, in particular, wants to maintain the momentum in this area.
The UK will be holding a seminar towards the end of our presidency which will provide an opportunity to focus on these important issues and to look at the way ahead.
Mr President, the honourable Member refers to the efforts of the Commission to combat racism in 1997 and to what has been done to comply with the recommendations put forward by the European Parliament in its resolution of 30 January 1997.
The official closing conference of the European Year in Luxembourg last December underlined the success of the Year in terms of the political impact it had and the momentum it created, and also its achievements in raising awareness and in forging new partnerships and new networks throughout the Union.
Another lasting result from 1997 was the adoption of the regulation governing the establishment of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia which was referred to by the Minister, Mrs Quin.
The first meeting of the management board took place in Vienna on 20 and 21 January and it is expected that the centre will be fully operational in the autumn of this year.
In this context the Commission welcomes the fact that the European Parliament continues to recognize the importance of the fight against racism, including its annual debate as part of this mini-session.
In particular, 1997 saw the emergence of a European platform of anti-racism non-governmental organizations.
I would like to think that we can work together on this important development in the years to come.
The European Year was just the beginning - a good beginning but just the beginning.
It is my firm intention to continue to drive forward the European fight against racism.
I intend very shortly to present an action plan against racism which will build upon the achievements and lessons learned during the European Year of 1997 and pave the way for legislative proposals once the Amsterdam Treaty has been ratified.
Mr President, firstly I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mohamed Ali on his report.
Secondly, I congratulate the Commission for the European Year against Racism which in our opinion was an outstanding success.
The promise he made first in Marseilles and now again today to introduce anti-discrimination legislation before the end of 1999 is extremely welcome.
Thirdly, I congratulate the Council for its acceptance in Amsterdam of the amendments which make it unambiguously clear that the European Community has a role in the fight against racism.
I also congratulate the Council on the agreement to establish the European Observatory which, as Commissioner Flynn says, was established eight days ago in Vienna and will be up and running in August this year.
I welcome very much the appointment of Jean Kahn as the President of the Management Board because of the work he did on the Consultative Commission on Racism and Xenophobia.
On Friday we have a Europe Football and Racism Conference to be held at Old Trafford in Manchester sponsored amongst others by the football team.
We have a closing conference for the Socialist Group coming up on 2 and 3 March here in Brussels.
So, our Year against Racism continues.
We therefore welcome this year's budget lines for the fight against racism and the proposed action plan.
I thank them all for what we have received but, to paraphrase Oliver Twist , I have to say that we want more!
I would like to make one remark about the question of the sans papiers .
I have in fact met delegations of sans papiers .
This is a special state of affairs in the country in which they are staying.
Mr Mohamed Ali, in my view, is one of the most extraordinary people in this Parliament.
He has been at the forefront of bringing a greater respect and understanding for Islam within the European Union.
For the first time in any Treaty agreed at the level of the European Union, the Treaty of Amsterdam expressly lays down the prevention and combatting of racism and xenophobia as an objective of the European Union.
It is not only important that the European Union and the Member States are committed to providing our citizens with a high level of safety and an area of freedom, security and justice.
The Amsterdam Treaty has many other fine qualities but the inclusion of this objective must be the one to which every citizen can rally around.
Mr President, in his report Mr Mohamed Ali invites us to comment on a number of assessments, suggestions and measures in the fight against racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism.
My group supports his motion for a resolution which asks us to be vigilant, persevering and active in this area.
Persevering, for we must make sure that the fight against racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism is a perennial one, that is, that it should be matched with a strategy based on systematic observation, prevention, legislative action and political action in the widest sense of the term, usefully complemented by the work of NGOs.
In conclusion, I would like to ask the Council and the Commission what follow up they intend to give to the request repeatedly renewed by our Parliament to institute a remembrance day in memory of the victims of the holocaust.
When that report also refers to the balance-sheet of a European Year against Racism, which 1997 was, it is important to emphasize the significance of the new Treaty of the European Union, which was negotiated and signed in the same year, for that struggle.
As the rapporteur mentions in point 4, we also regret that, in spite of a few statements of good intentions, non-discrimination has not been incorporated into the Treaty as a fundamental principle of the so-called Community Law with immediate effect.
As we see in Article 13, ' the necessary measures to combat discrimination on grounds of sex, race and ethnic origin, religion or creed, disablement, age or sexual orientation, on a proposal by the Commission with the unanimous decision of the Council after consulting Parliament' , are fine words and might look like a step forward.
This is one of the good proposals in this report which we heartily approve.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Flynn, racism means exclusion.
This is something which Commissioner Flynn has always maintained and we fully support him in his stance.
Democratic rights cannot be made contingent upon ethnic origin, skin colour, religion or age.
No less than one third of the interviewees admit to being very or somewhat racist.
The opinion poll also showed very clearly that xenophobia thrives best on feelings of insecurity, but above all, and this is important, on fear of the future and lack of faith in democratic institutions.
I hope that all democratic parties will sign this charter very soon, but also implement it, please.
I would like to ask the Bureau to make a proposal to the European Parliament with regards to Rules of Procedure or a way of operating whereby we no longer contribute to the hate- stirring messages of some of our colleagues.
Those must be the fundamental objectives of the Union, and we must speak out in order to make that clear to the citizens of Europe.
Nevertheless, we must not forget that the main instrument for the protection of people threatened by racism is, of course, the law, and that such protection is basically the responsibility of the Member States.
Those anti-racism measures should continue to be applied, and should even be extended to the candidate countries of eastern Europe, so that we can continue to produce positive effects, based on the activities of the European Union during the European Year against Racism.
In combating racism, it is essential to attend to the question of education, which means making sure that the new generations are well informed about what is happening when we talk about racism and discrimination.
That is the objective we must achieve in each and every one of the Member States of our Union.
Let us hope that in future debates in this House we will be able to congratulate ourselves on having made significant progress in this area, and that the problem of racism will disappear for ever from our agenda, because of having also disappeared from our society.
Such a statement sends shivers down my spine and makes me think back 50 years or more.
We say in the motion for a resolution that Parliament should pledge itself to the fight against racism and xenophobia.
And here we are today, all institutions together, the Commission, Brussels, the Council of Ministers, Parliament, to commune in the ritual of anti-racism, with its high priests, its ex-communicators, its exorcists and also, it has to be said, its hypocrites.
And this leads me on to my third remark.
When a young European national behaves aggressively, in a violent, even delinquent manner, he is cracked down on, pursued and punished, and rightly so.
The results of the Year against Racism, which in committee the rapporteur himself has described as the search for an alibi, will not alone be enough to achieve this objective.
Paragraph 6 is very important and I am delighted to say that the new government in Britain will be enacting legislation which will make any criminal activity which is racially motivated a justification for more severe penalties.
It is also important that in paragraph 14 we condemn unwise and inflammatory statements, sometimes made by certain politicians who should know better, to provoke racial dislike and racial animosity.
On paragraph 15 it is important that in the ongoing negotiations for accession of the central and eastern European countries, we make it absolutely clear - and I am not condemning or criticizing any particular country - that respect for human rights and for the whole concept of anti-discrimination contained in Article 13 of the Treaties agreed at Amsterdam is a crucial part of what they will accept when they become members of the European Union.
The way in which certain minority groups, in particular the travelling communities, have traditionally been treated in some of these countries is shocking and disgraceful and must be brought to an end.
I support very much the introduction of a code of conduct.
Finally, not only must we condemn racism in all its forms but we must extol the positive benefits of a pluralistic multiracial society.
These multi-racial communities are not only culturally enriching but economically stimulating.
Mr President, just one year ago, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media organized a public hearing on the theme of, "Points of convergence between Europe and Islam' , during which one of the guests, Jean Yaya-Michot, Director of the Centre for Arab Philosophy at the Catholic University of Louvain, took pleasure in monopolizing the debate and addressing me in insulting terms of a racist nature.
I dare to hope that, within the framework of a new Year against Racism, the European Parliament will do its best to spare its Members from verbal aggression by foreign agents, who advocate the extermination, in its most barbarous form, of born and bred Europeans, because they are white and often Christian.
With regard to Professor Yaya-Michot, we will not have to suffer his insults for much longer, but it will have required my intervention at Vatican level for this recently naturalised Belgian to be made to shut up or to leave my country.
Mr President, let me use my own area of Essex in the UK to demonstrate the success of the European Year.
Yet the number of racially motivated crimes in Essex has remained constant at over 100 this year.
So I am asking the Commissioner to make sure that he works with us to ensure that every year is the Year against Racism.
It is why the Essex Returners Unit with Essex Tech has launched an action plan following on from the Year which includes new recruitment procedures for local police, race awareness for local training organizations and new support for local minority ethnic associations.
For us in the European Parliament, let this one local example serve as an example to us all, and let us remember that Europe's fight against racism needs to reach communities at the local level in Essex and in every part of Europe.
Mr President, I want very briefly to make one or two remarks in response to the debate.
Education was referred to by one or two speakers and I would like to say that the Council fully recognizes the importance of education and work with young people in fostering a society of equality of opportunity.
So, on behalf of the Council, I would like to say that I have taken careful note of the various points that have been raised during the course of this debate.
I have asked to be permitted to speak again because I believe that the opportunity must be given to respond to some of the remarks made by the extreme Right in this House.
If you are asking for leave to speak on a point of order then you may speak, but not if you want to continue the debate.
I would ask you, Mr President, in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure, to defer the present debate on the oral questions submitted by the various Groups, to the next plenary session in Strasbourg to be held on Monday at 5.00 p.m.
Mr President, I would like to comment on the report, just as Mr Schulz just requested.
The Group of the European People's Party, for example, had proposed that the Liberals' motion for resolution be taken as a basis for negotiation.
The outcome of the negotiations is that from the outset we, in the European People's Party did not sign the motion for resolution.
The Commission points to some circumstances in the report.
We can see a reduction in faith through the fact that 36 per cent of the permitted complaints to the Union's Ombudsman concern how the Commission has handled these issues.
To create access to legislation on the Internet is an important way to disseminate knowledge of Community law and to create a citizens' Europe.
First of all, and not just as a ritual, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur for having adopted a fairly novel approach to Parliament's opinion on the report presented to it by the Commission.
Mr President, every one of our Parliament's rapporteurs who examines the European Commission's annual report on the application of Community Law aspires to display his own method and attitude.
In that respect the rapporteur chose not to deal with the great and more general problems which influence the interpretation and application of Community Law, but to concentrate her attention more on more practical matters which perhaps have a more direct bearing on Europe's citizens.
And it is just as characteristic that 36 % of the complaints made to the European Ombudsman concerning infringements of Community Law again came from European citizens.
Madam Rapporteur, Mr President, it seems to be a hobby of some of our colleagues to pillory the Member States, who are the cause, according to them, of all the evils which affect the European Union.
The rapporteur also highlights the difficulties of the practical and concrete application of community law and the lack of knowledge of the law on the part of our citizens.
Finally, the rapporteur highlighted the delicate question of the powers exercised by Member States' Constitutional Courts on the validity of prescriptive acts in relation to constitutions.
This is a particularly serious question, basic laws being, in a way, the founding basis of the social and political contract of the Member States.
This seems to me indeed normal and desirable, our constitutions being the supreme act of our sovereignty.
Mr President, monitoring the application of Community law is a difficult task, but it is of crucial importance for the European Union.
Mrs Thors' report on the Commission's fourteenth annual report on monitoring the application of Community law is proof of this.
The annual report on monitoring the application of Community law started in 1983 on the initiative of Parliament.
The European Parliament's interest is of great importance for a report which it is always possible to improve.
This trend continued during 1996.
In order to achieve these targets, the Commission adopted a number of measures on 30 July 1996 which have already begun to show results.
This assessment will be presented soon in the European Commission's fifteenth annual report on monitoring the application of Community law.
This plan contains a number of specially directed measures, such as administrative cooperation for a stricter application of Community law.
Secondly, in November 1997, at the request of the same European Council, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Regulation to introduce a system to avoid certain obstacles to trade.
The Commission has also been very active on the three questions given special emphasis in Mrs Thors' report.
On eight occasions in 1997 the Commission decided to bring an action in the Court of Justice with requests for penalty payments ranging from ECU 7 000 to 160 000 per day.
This applies in particular to the Member States' responsibility for infringements of Community law as expressed in the Francovich case.
Finally, during 1996 the Commission continued its work of disseminating knowledge about Community law in the Member States.
We are in an information society, and the Commission intends to play a leading role by disseminating knowledge of Community law in the ways available.
The debate is closed.
The Committee on Legal Affairs has submitted to the plenary suitable proposals for amendments for tomorrow's vote.
This proposal, incidentally, is a major part of the single market programme.
I would just add in parenthesis here that the drafting of the original directive was perhaps not as good as it might have been.
I am not sure that the common position as it has emerged from the Council is necessarily perfect but I hope that we will be taking one step further towards an improved text when we vote tomorrow.
This is an important measure from every point of view and to that extent we should, perhaps, congratulate both the Commission and the rapporteur and hopefully the Council - though sadly the British presidency is not present this evening - because this is a very important issue for Europe's principal financial centre which is, of course, London.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive concerning settlement finality in payment and securities settlement systems is born out of the incontestable fact that a few cases where large banks have been declared bankrupt have severely tested the financial system, both at national and international level.
The aim of the Commission's proposal is to establish a privilege for institutions that are party to multilateral agreements on netting, collateral security or credit guarantee systems, thereby making all the creditors in the multilateral circuit immune from any insolvency proceedings opened against one of the signatory institutions.
To summarize, the intention is to remove the financial system from the principle of par in par creditorum and give it an advantage over all other creditors in the event of its involvement in insolvency proceedings against banks or other financial institutions.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his usual, very thoughtful work.
In my view, payments made in good faith on the day of insolvency proceedings being opened should still be protected.
Consequently, I note Article 3 of the proposal and support compromise Amendment No 5 which, although not perfect, is a reasonably fair reflection of the situation.
This proposal will fill a gap in the legislation relating to the single market as it provides legal certainty with regard to cross-border and domestic payment and securities settlement systems.
Studies carried out by the Commission have shown that, because of the inefficiency associated with cross-border transactions, the charges for low-value transfers - which are, after all, what interests our citizens the most - may amount to as much as 25 % of the sum transferred.
Another important aim of this directive is to provide a legal basis for establishing collateral security with the central banks of other Member States, a practice which will become even more important with the introduction of the single currency.
New Amendment No 5 balances two interests: on the one hand there is the interest in protecting the payment and securities settlement systems and avoiding major crises in the financial markets, and in this respect South-East Asia clearly illustrates the effects of such crises, not only on national economic systems but also worldwide; on the other hand, there is the need to respect the principle of par in par creditorum in bankruptcy law.
The Commission can therefore agree to the deletion of Article 11 and its substitution by this paragraph.
Finally, the Commission is prepared to accept the greater degree of transparency with regard to the sender of a payment or a transaction concerning securities, which has been introduced in the third paragraph of Amendment No 2.
In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that, thanks to the fruitful dialogue between our Institutions, the Commission is able to accept the two new amendments.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal concerning connected terminal equipment first came to this Parliament in 1990 and was based on a proposal from the Commission about mutual recognition of type approval for terminal equipment.
The proposal contains measures about the definition of equipment and essential requirements and about the procedure for ensuring compliance.
One matter which has exercised me, as the rapporteur and other colleagues on the Committee, is the whole question of the ability of terminal equipment either to damage the network or to damage the users.
I commend my compromise amendments to you and I very much hope that we can have a constructive and thoughtful first reading.
And that is the justification for our main conclusion, which advocates a clear political commitment to the new system, in the hope that European industry, through ETSI, will produce a single standard, to be able to make use of a range of frequencies at the appropriate time.
The fact is that this project well deserves an effort from everybody, including this Parliament.
It would be a pity if a lack of consensus were to result in Europe losing its world leadership in digital communications to the United States and Japan, when that leadership was won so deservedly and in such good spirit through the resounding success of the GSM system - the second generation of mobile communications.
We ought not to forget that this success was made possible by the very fact that there was a European agreement here through ETSI.
What I will do is hope and pray for an achievement of the required 71 % majority in ETSI's current and future meetings, so that the desired consensus can be reached.
Our independent stance is consistent with our approach throughout the relevant discussion of the report, in the sense that the arrival of UMTS should be regulated solely by market forces.
To conclude, I would just like to place on record that it would be advisable for such an agreement to be reached before the formalization of the expected proposal for a directive on licencing and distribution of the spectrum for the new system, and of course, before the promised UMTS decision on roaming, frequencies and standardization enters the discussions.
Mr President, the Commission has brilliantly conveyed the vital issues in relation to mobile communications and new developments in cordless communications.
The intention is to develop more efficient mobile communications systems to meet users' needs.
The explosive development in telecommunications has been changing our world at a very fast pace.
What we now need from the Commission is a clearer plan for the third generation UMTS system, and involvement in the international promotion of European views.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few observations regarding the two reports under discussion.
We have had two interesting experiences in the area of standards in the new telecommunications technologies.
The problem is that the large European industrial groups which develop the standards do not defend one joint standard.
It is clear that what happened 2000 years ago between the Horaces and the Curiaces risks being repeated today.
Since 1991 there has been a principle of mutual recognition where the authorities in one Member State do not need to approve equipment for the market if one other country has already done so.
I believe the Commission has to address this matter much more seriously.
Firstly, Mrs Read's report.
Tomorrow, on 29 January, industry will try and reach an agreement on a uniform standard for UMTS by applying sections of the CDMA in the WCDMA.
Commissioner Bangemann said he would be prepared to intervene if necessary.
But I hope in any case that the Commissioner is behind our line for a single standard.
The consumer is less and less interested in the means of making a telephone call or using other telecommunications services.
Mr President, allow me first to express my sincere thanks to both rapporteurs.
The central issue here, and this quite rightly formed the focus of the debate, is whether or not we require mandatory standards.
Amendment No 22 calls for government compensation for defective standards, and obviously this is something which I will have to look into.
We shall see just how successful this is.
Amendment No 23 proposes exempting manufacturers in some cases from liability for imported products which are not intended for use within the EU market.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I have great pleasure in recommending that the plenary approve the joint text that has gone through the conciliation process.
I want to place on record my own thanks to the Commission officials who had endless patience in the many meetings we had on this, Parliament officials in the conciliation service and, of course, the presidency.
We were able to get a conclusion, not absolutely what we wanted but sufficiently meritorious to command the support of this Parliament on the concept of affordable price.
about the protection of disabled users and again we use the new clause in the Amsterdam Treaty, about number portability although we recognized that this is also much more appropriate in what stems from the Green Paper and with regard to network access.
I think that the charging principles which we have adopted are good.
The debate is closed.
On 26 June 1997 the European Parliament voted by an overwhelming majority to increase funding for the Socrates programme.
The original ECU 50 million provided by the Commission was increased by Parliament to ECU 100 million, thereby expanding the financial framework of the programme to ECU 950 million.
In putting forward its position, the Committee on Budgets, and this is a very important point, clearly indicated that Socrates had a major role to play, in that it brings citizens closer to the Union and produces a multiplier effect, and that it therefore deserves to be given high political priority.
Investing more in Socrates means building a real Europe for our citizens, one which will impact on their daily lives, and this is something which we all want to see being achieved through the many initiatives taking place for citizens in the European Union.
Paradoxically, however, the same Council, who only wanted to give us ECU 25 m, accepted most of Parliament's amendments in the preamble to this ridiculous decision.
On one hand the Education Council is supporting Parliament's motives with a clear conscience, and has even put this in writing, and on the other it has rejected proposals to increase the programme to ECU 100 million and in a certain sense has shifted responsibility for this to the Council of Finance Ministers.
I should also say, however, that the Luxembourg administration really did everything possible to convince the doubting Thomases.
In view of the allocation ratio of 1 to 10 in the case of Erasmus, some colleges and even a number of vice-chancellors' conferences have considered withdrawing from the programme.
We therefore need more money to support schemes such as the European Course Credit Transfer.
What is more important is that this process be undertaken in an orderly fashion.
Erasmus is a programme which, in place of neurosis and xenophobia, seeks to establish a Europe-wide network of young people as part of their education process.
I know this personally as a trustee of one of the Erasmus programmes which brings together law students in 15 Member States, and one hopes that in future this will also include the countries of central and eastern Europe - and the legal fraternity is notoriously difficult to bring together because of the alleged and actual disparity which exists between our various legal systems.
If it is difficult to get a message across to the citizens of Europe, then Socrates' message is received 100 % by all those with a chance of benefiting from it.
The Conciliation Committee which met on 10 December 1997 in Brussels was indeed right to give a response to these pending applications.
The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media of the European Parliament has affirmed its desire to support the opening up of a programme for the CEECs but refuses to deal with the issue until the Council of Ministers had granted the necessary financial means for doing so.
The political will of Ministers must of course be demonstrated, but it must be accompanied by financial subsidies: ECU 70 million for 1998/1999 is at last a success.
On behalf of my group I would therefore like to thank and congratulate Doris Pack for the excellent success she has achieved in the fight for increased funding for the Socrates programme.
It is a success which is also due to the firmness which she has shown to the Council and to the diplomacy which she has been able to maintain with the Luxembourg Presidency and which has enabled us to obtain this sum of ECU 70 million, and for this we thank her.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate all those involved in conciliation and achieving more for the Socrates Programme than some of us even dreamed was possible.
Mrs Pack spoke about a Europe of the citizens and this is what Socrates works to provide.
Somebody said that the trouble with education funding is that it is a bottomless bucket.
We must nevertheless remember that even with this additional financing the resources planned for the programme will not be sufficient to do all we need to do.
Article 126 of the Treaty on European Union defines community goals in education and policy on youth.
Mr President, going from ECU 25 million to ECU 75 million is a major achievement.
But this cannot be done without the financial means.
Lifelong learning is now more important than ever and we must continue to impress this on the national consciousness.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is pleased to confirm that it has been possible to achieve agreement on Socrates within the conciliation procedure.
The outcome is due in part to the fact that Parliament was prepared to prioritize the programme for 1998 and 1999.
The conciliation procedure has thus very quickly led to a result which all the institutions can support.
The Socrates programme provides a solid basis for the future.
The debate is closed.
That was as long ago as its work programme of 1989 and it was submitted to Parliament in July 1991.
I refer back to that because we now have a Commission proposal for a recommendation.
This is now reinforced by the idea that there is a trade in wild animals - maybe not always for money but certainly occasionally, perhaps more frequently, for barter.
I know that a number of people have written to various Members of the Commission and I am conscious that Commissioner Bjerregaard is going to respond to this debate.
The result of these discussions she told me was that the matter could no longer be considered to fall within the Community's competence but also that, given the importance attached to it by the European Parliament, a recommendation would nevertheless be appropriate.
Thirdly, last but not least , zoos in some sense deliver a service to society, a service to the European Union, and services are also subject to European rules in the European Union.
These efforts are important and very praiseworthy.
The Group of the European People's Party is in favour of measures to improve the protection of animals.
The new protocol in the Treaty of Amsterdam concerning the protection and wellbeing of animals shows that this, more than ever, is an area where the European Union and its Member States are duty bound to react, and bear this aspect in mind in all the other Community policies.
As for the specific subject matter of this report, we are convinced that there is a need to guarantee the best conditions in all the zoos of the European Union, and furthermore, we believe this is possible.
However, the question remains whether a recommendation or a directive is the best way to achieve this objective.
Those people who base their reasoning on the principle of subsidiarity would say that, even accepting the importance of the objective, the Member States are the competent authorities and should take the appropriate measures, as necessary, according to their individual circumstances.
That was the decision arrived at following discussions on the principle of subsidiarity during the 1992 Edinburgh Summit, and that was also why the European Commission withdrew its original proposal for a directive, to replace it with the current proposal for a recommendation.
Those people who continue to mourn for a directive would say that even while accepting the very strong arguments in favour of such a subject being dealt with only at national level, the fact is that time has gone by and little progress has been made since the Edinburgh Summit, showing that in fact, the only instrument able to produce real progress and end the suffering of zoo animals is a European directive.
Personally, I think the principle of subsidiarity should not be forgotten, but we should guarantee the protection of animals and try to achieve that in the best way possible.
Having said that, I accept that our experience so far could lead us to conclude that European legislation would probably be the quickest and most effective way to ensure a real improvement in the wellbeing of animals in zoos throughout the European Union.
That is why my group will be free to vote on the legislative proposal as they see fit, as regards converting the proposal for a recommendation into a proposal for a directive.
I think it is important to make it clear that it is the Member States who should have the principal responsibility for ensuring that these rules are followed, which they do have through the proposal now under consideration.
Educating children about the wide variety of animals in the world is hugely important but if wild animals are put on display in conditions vastly different to their natural habitats, the effect is mis-educational.
In many cases there has been a much higher death rate among zoo animals than among their counterparts in the wild.
The sad thing is that some six or seven years ago there was almost a total agreement with the need for this directive from the Parliament, Commission and the more responsible people who manage zoos.
It is in everyone's interests that we should maintain the very highest possible standards and I hope that this report has some success in pushing that aim forward.
Whether it be farm animals, animals in transport or animals in laboratories, it is all part of the same issue.
It was a predecessor of ours, Sir James Scott-Hopkins, who raised the issue initially.
Subsidiarity has been mentioned and of course it is an issue but animal welfare as a subject is seen, in this Parliament especially, to transcend all matters of subsidiarity.
I hope Commissioner that you will spell out quite clearly your own position because we must have a level playing field in this area, otherwise the people of Europe are going to be highly discontented with this Parliament and I believe with the Commission.
It seems to me that in this instance we already have the idea that animal welfare is accepted as a part of the European Union's responsibilities.
I also disagree with the rapporteur on seeking to widen the legal base to include Article 100a for reasons given in the Legal Committee's opinion.
Mr President, as many speakers have mentioned, we are discussing a proposal which has been on the table for almost seven years.
Therefore, in my opinion, Parliament should consider whether there is not a possibility that the Community could make a meaningful and positive contribution by issuing a recommendation from the Council, because that could prompt the individual Member States to adopt appropriate rules.
Thank you, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
