Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 4 November 1999.
I would therefore ask you, President, if you think it appropriate, to hold a minute' s silence as well in memory of these heroes of our time.
Agenda I would just like to discuss the issue of Chechnya and our continued support for the Russian Government.
The genocide that is taking place in Chechnya seems to be ignored by the Western powers and certainly by the European Parliament.
I would ask you, Madam President, to invite a Commissioner as urgently as possible here to tell us precisely what the European Union intends to do on the issue of Chechnya.
The next item is the examination of the final draft Agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on Thursday 11 November pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
Madam President, in my opinion it is enormously important that we include the Court of Auditors' annual report in the agenda.
But it seems to me that the punishment which some people have tried to impose on the Court of Auditors is absolutely out of proportion because if we remove from the agenda all the issues which have suffered from leaks, we will end up with no agenda at all.
It is precisely because I agree that I believe this Parliament should use this occasion to signal to the Court of Auditors its intense disquiet at the fact that a document of substance of the sort prepared by the Court should, whether correct or incorrect in terms of its content, have found its way into Der Spiegel of 8 November.
No reservation was made; the question has been referred back to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and it seems that, finally, we are going to reach an agreement today.
This is the reason why we have requested that this issue be dealt with as quickly as possible, on the understanding that there may always be reservations, but that these reservations must be justified and, above all, they have to be debated.
We hope that this can be done today in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. (Parliament agreed to the amendment) President.
Madam President, I have a question about the agenda you are proposing.
In relation to the Dimitrakopoulos-Leinen report, so that there may at least be an intervention by groups on such an important report, I would propose that in this case the Questions to the Council be cancelled, and in that way all of the groups could express their view, since this is a very important matter for Parliament.
Thank you, Mr Leinen.
Madam President, it is as you have just said.
Madam President, it is very important that the European Parliament continues to support Alexander Nikitin, who is accused of endangering state security in Russia.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this legislation represents the final piece of legislation stemming from the Auto-Oil programme.
The Council has certainly incorporated some important points in its common position, such as the two-stage stipulation of binding limit values, stricter durability provisions for emission control devices in lorries and buses, an on-board diagnostics system, and roadside testing.
If we really want to achieve that, then it is specifically the NOx emissions from lorries and buses that we will also have to reduce.
In the European Union we have 168 million cars and 23 million commercial vehicles and buses.
These 23 million commercial vehicles emit as much as the 168 million cars, that is 50% of total NOx emissions.
I think - and Madam President you will know from your own experience - that the action taken by Parliament in the case of the Auto-Oil issue was very courageous indeed.
The only encouraging thing I have read recently about the environment, in the Dutch press, is that this improvement in air quality owing to the use of cleaner cars is already in evidence.
The most difficult challenge is the rapidly increasing volume of transport, which is predicted to double between 1990 and 2006.
However, the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reform Party considers that if this limit value for 2006 is laid down now, it will, in practice, force industry to apply one specific technology, whilst we are not entirely convinced of the environmental friendliness of this technology.
In our opinion, evaluation in 2002 and implementation in 2008 offer a better chance of using a more effective technology.
The engineers have proved very inventive before, and I trust that the right technology will be in place by 2006.
The great car culture has been referred to before in European Parliament reports as the main culprit of air pollution in Europe and Parliament is now playing an active role in establishing limit values for various pollutants so as to bring this environmental problem under control.
It goes without saying that the European Parliament must support a whole raft of measures to control environmental pollution in order to comply with its obligations under the Kyoto Agreement to reduce the level of European Union emissions of six greenhouse gases by 8% by the years 2008-2012.
I would point out that the European Commission and the European Parliament have held extensive consultations with the European automobile industry on these various matters, and it has voluntarily agreed to accept a timetable to cut carbon dioxide emissions in new cars by 25% by the year 2008.
The Lange report this evening on the control of emissions of gases and other pollutants produced by vehicles continues the progress we have been making.
However, I cannot see the difference in this respect.
I will therefore vote in favour of all his amendments.
Mr President, Mr Lange has submitted a first-class report on behalf of the Environment Committee.
On 20 December last, the Council of Environment Ministers adopted sound amendments from Mrs Hautala.
I would like to discuss CO2 emissions from trucks.
Mr President, we are looking at a proposal for a directive under the Auto-Oil programme, with the aim of improving air quality by the year 2010 by reducing emissions from motor vehicles.
The second reading of the report contains a number of amendments which the Commission can support, for example the amendments relating to the Enhanced Environmentally-Friendly Vehicles, the EEVs concept.
The Commission can also support the amendments relating to the expansion of the directive to include other alternative fuels, in this case ethanol, the amendment relating to tax incentives applied to the re-equipment of old vehicles, the amendment to include heavy-duty vehicles in the overall Community CO2 strategy and the amendment relating to the market quality of liquefied petroleum gas.
A reporting date at the end of 2002 would enable the Commission to fully evaluate the effects of the new type-approval test cycles being introduced from next year on the regulation of in-use emissions from new European vehicles.
In adopting a common position with much more stringent limits for particulates, we should note that the Council moved a significant way towards the view expressed by the European Parliament in the first reading.
In conclusion, the Commission can accept the following amendments: the first part of Amendment No 3, Amendments Nos 6, 7 and 10, Amendments Nos 16 to 26 and Amendments Nos 29 to 47.
The Commission can accept in principle Amendments Nos 1, 4, 5, 13, both parts of Amendment No 12 and Amendment No 15.
The amendments which the Commission cannot accept are Amendment No 2, the second part of Amendment No 3, Amendments Nos 8 and 9, both parts of Amendment No 11 as well as Amendments Nos 14, 27 and 28.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Violence is a social problem of regrettable topical importance which involves the violation of human rights and a physical, mental and social crime as well as a crime against people' s quality of life.
The Daphne Programme 2000-2003 will be an instrument of vital importance in the fight against violence and will provide added value to local, regional and national actions in this field through the creation of networks, the exchange of information, better practices and cooperation and greater awareness in society in general.
The networks will form a common front against violence by analysing it, in its different forms, its causes and consequences.
The real impact of the different types of violence on victims must be measured, in order to determine suitable responses, evaluate the types and the efficiency of the measures and practices in order to prevent and detect violence, support victims and prevent their future exposure to it.
Six amendments to the common position have been presented, which have been approved by the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities and are in the annex to the text.
I would like to point out that amendments 3 and 5 will be replaced by new amendments which modify point 18 of the preamble and articles 5, 6 and 7 in order to adapt the text we are presenting to the wording drawn up by the Socrates Conciliation Committee and which will lead to a parallel solution for the committees in the majority of programmes.
And we hope that by approving this second reading with the amendments presented, if the Commission and the Council accepts them, the programme may be approved, avoiding conciliation.
Mr President, we are talking today about the Daphne programme on measures to fight violence against children, young persons and women.
However, it is equally important to support appropriate information campaigns, and in this case exchanges of experience play a big part.
Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Avilés Perea very much for her swift and competent work, which she did so quickly despite the changeover, so that this urgently needed report is before us now.
I am convinced that with this programme we have taken a big step forward in combating physical, sexual and psychological violence against children, young persons and women.
However, we all need to be aware that it is only one step, and that there is still a lot to be done to effectively combat this phenomenon of violence.
One in five women within the European Union has been a victim of such violence at some time, including in our immediate surroundings.
The specific aim of the Daphne programme is to encourage and support non-governmental organisations and other institutions to combat all kinds of violence against children and women.
Liberals do not wish to harmonise Member State legislation on violence against women and children.
The Daphne programme, we should remember, was an initiative of this Parliament in 1997 which recognised the need for action to combat violence against women, young people and children.
In my own constituency I have seen the work of organisations like Welsh Women' s Aid which provides support, advice and practical refuge for women and children victims of violence.
There have been many other projects linked to the important fight against child sex tourism which have been funded by Daphne.
The Daphne programme, as others have said, has made a great deal of difference but there is a lot more to be done and it is vital that it is followed up.
MEPs' determination, from 1996, along with the report by Marianne Eriksson through to today' s report by Maria Antonia Avilés Perea have all enabled violence towards children, young persons and women to become the object of political action.
Personally, I have the impression that violence is on show between couples, in families, at work, on television or even in political and social life.
We are in 1999, in this Chamber in Strasbourg and we are discussing violence perpetrated against women and children in Europe.
The State knows its citizens because it knows their mentality, the culture that they have in their mind and in their society that it has, to some extent, moulded.
Mr President, in my intervention I would like to stress the fundamental role played by the European Parliament, and in particular, the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, in, I hope, reaching the point where the final adoption of this programme will be debated.
I am referring to the fact that the common position contains references to health in terms of physical, mental and social well-being, to quality of life and to violence as a violation of human rights, and, in particular, to the fact that this programme also covers victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Avilés Perea, I would also like to pay tribute to Francisca Bennasar Tous, who worked very hard in the last legislature to ensure the success of this programme.
The European Parliament, and, particularly, the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, have played a vitally important role in placing the issue of violence against women and children firmly on the European agenda.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Avilés Perea for this report, because with it she has provided us with another instrument to combat violence against women and children, and also, above all, to identify how and where violence occurs.
The Commission' s first proposal was made in May 1998 and during the last 18 months the procedure has survived not merely a change of legal base but also a change of Treaty, a change of commitology, a change of Parliament and a change of Commission.
On the eve of the new millennium I may say, Mr President, that strong support in the European Parliament for this programme will be the best and clearest sign that the Union attaches the utmost political priority to effectively combating violence against children, young persons and women.
The debate is closed.
Through the STOP programme and through its work in the fields of police and judicial cooperation, the Commission is actively fighting the sexual exploitation of children including child pornography on the Internet.
In the field of police cooperation and of the third pillar, the Commission now has the power of joint initiative with the Member States and is actively pursuing the fight against the sexual exploitation of children.
In January a codecision was adopted establishing an action plan to promote the safer use of the Internet thereby protecting children from violence and pornography.
I thank the Commissioner for his statement: "We demand that the EU listen carefully to the voices of its 90 million children and young people under eighteen.
Twenty percent of Europe' s children live in poverty despite the countries of the EU being amongst the richest in the world." These are not my words but the words of children and young people from my country, Ireland, and other EU countries.
We have an absurd situation in which Member States have to promote the best interests of the child in legislation and policy, but the Union is under no legal obligation to protect children' s best interests.
Children and children' s projects receive less than EUR 5 million directly from the EU' s vast budget.
Children have become invisible in EU policy.
The Commission should adopt a communication on children' s rights to mark the tenth anniversary of the Convention and create a children' s policy unit.
Mr President, on 20 November 1989 the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted, and I think that the tenth anniversary of that event is a good opportunity to take stock.
Secondly, using the Daphne programme as a first step, as the first instrument for taking action to counter sexual exploitation and violence against children.
Thirdly, there is the situation of girls and young women, which merits special attention in all areas of policy, as they are still exposed to particular discrimination not only here in Europe, but all over the world.
Fourthly, we must do everything we can to ensure that children are not involved in wars, either as victims or aggressors.
Mr President, as previous speakers have indicated, allowing this convention to become a powerful and important tool for the European Union is the best way of celebrating it, when it comes to both domestic and foreign policy.
Lastly, cancelling the debt of the world' s poorest countries would also help the young people of those nations considerably.
Mr President, on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of this Convention, a text which recognises the child as an individual in its own right, by giving it its own rights (the right to life, the right to identity and to a family, the right of expression and the right to be fed and educated) it is nevertheless still true that on our continent every thirty seconds, a child is abused, raped or beaten up, is indoctrinated, and is the victim of inadequate policies, changes in family and financial circumstances, a victim too of the fact that we are not applying this international Convention.
Whereas in 2001 a report will be made at the UN of the first World Summit on Children, I suggest that within our own Parliament, we create a European Children' s Parliament, established together with them, to celebrate this European World Summit in 2001.
We must support children' s rights in third countries, but also in our own States.
We must also start to collectively think about children' s living conditions in the various European countries particularly in urban areas, and initiate a form of collaboration as well as financial resources in order to help families in difficulty, particularly in the case of single-parent families or of vulnerable parents.
Mr President, never before in history were humanitarian rights so well developed.
Nearly all countries have now ratified the treaty.
Children are more than ever the victim of wars.
Mr President, we need more than fine-sounding declarations of intent.
By the 1990s that had dropped again to 7,000 with only 900 under one-year-olds.
In Britain the figure is one in five pregnancies, in London it is one in three.
The first duty for all of us should be to the child.
I think, moreover, that we are facing a problem that can be seen from two different angles: on the one hand, from that of basic rights, and on the other, from that of the influence of children' s policies on the Union' s areas of action.
With regards to the first angle, fundamental rights, in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty, we in the Union are committed to respecting fundamental rights, and specifically, the freedoms and fundamental human rights, in the way they have evolved in the constitutional traditions common to our Member States.
With regard to sectoral policies, I still hold with the suggestion of a communication on this subject by the Commission which must, by definition, be horizontal.
With regard to this opportunity for a horizontal communication by the Commission, I think that we can envisage therefore, its organisational consequences put forward in your suggestions: the creation of a unit within the Commission and the definition of budgets dedicated to the protection of children in order to improve public supervision of the Union' s participation as well as over policies of child protection.
I am a lawyer and I am very keen on laws and legal texts, but I am also a father, and I am especially keen on seeing moral, political and cultural rules being applied to protecting children.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, in April 1999, the European Parliament adopted at first reading its legislative resolution on the Commission proposal establishing a general framework for informing and consulting employees in the European Union.
The proposal for a directive establishes a framework which aims to remedy the gaps and counter the shortcomings of the national and Community legislation currently in force.
The European Parliament has adopted a series of amendments, aiming, in particular, to specify procedures and definitions for information and consultation, in particular as regards the moment at which information should be transmitted.
The reason for this question is, in fact, to ask the Commission not just to express its position on Parliament' s proposals clearly, but, above all, to ask it for the procedures and time periods for the tabling of its own revised version on Parliament' s position.
On behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the question I would like to ask the Commissioner - who moreover, has displayed great sensitivity on these subjects in other circumstances - is the following: can you tell us what the conflicting aspects of the matter are and the reasons why a revised proposal has not yet been tabled?
But above all, what measures do you intend to adopt to facilitate a political agreement on the issue, an agreement which is of prime importance for the Commission, Council and Parliament to be able to take a final decision on this matter?
Mr Ghilardotti described the facts.
Thus, this directive is indeed a very important political choice.
The Finnish Presidency' s strategy was for there to be a discussion on the issue of the European company statute.
So, what is the timetable and what does the Commission propose to do hereafter?
Mr President, I am not going to repeat what the previous speakers have said about the need for this directive.
According to Ford, they do not have problems with their productivity levels; on the contrary, they say that these two plants and their workers are enormously productive.
Mr President, I want to say that I too am sorry that the Commission has still not submitted a revised proposal on the subject of informing and consulting workers.
We in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party want to promote the cause of informing and consulting workers, but it is also important to us that the necessary respect should be shown for differences in traditions and culture in this area.
I think, however, that Mrs Diamantopoulou has provided a good explanation of the problems there are in implementing the proposal, and this shows in fact that there are real political problems.
Commissioner, I come from a country where the boss of a multinational company, Michelin, decided to inform his shareholders first of his decision to make 10% of his employees in various countries redundant over the next three years.
In the course of last month' s part-session, Commissioner, you stated, in a warm and convincing way, the Commission' s determination to protect employees' rights in terms of information and consultation about their future.
Mr President, Commissioner, during our debate on 27 October on the Michelin affair, I reminded all those present that Parliament had amended the directive on informing and consulting workers and that we were still waiting for the Commission to adopt these amendments.
We should not only listen to the message that was sent to us in the last elections, and adopt these two amendments, but I have also put forward additional proposals which strike me as being crucial today.
I think that, now, you should present an amended draft directive, incorporating these further measures, this waiting period, and use your role to put pressure on the Council rather than falling in line as a measure of precaution with the lowest common denominator in our respective governments.
This must end and I am really pleased that this has been highlighted this evening in this debate in one way or another.
But given that there is a delay, which has already been deplored, I would hope that the period of that delay will be used constructively and that the Council and the Commission and indeed Parliament will reflect on how to get things as right as possible in what is clearly a key area.
I was concerned to read a comment in the Financial Times last week when you, Commissioner, were in London - where you made quite an impact - about you forcing the creation of workers' consultation committees and stating that Anna Diamantopoulou' s decision will dismay the UK Government and industry.
But certainly the composition of this Parliament is very different and I would expect its conclusions to be different.
However, I believe that for such a demanding directive - and Parliament is quite aware that it is not a straightforward one - we must take the current state of affairs of each country, the various aspects of social dialogue, the positions of the social partners and the various discrepancies in all the points I mentioned before, piece them all together and thereby find a very fine balance between them all, so that we can be as successful as we possibly can.
