Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 19 November 1999.
I must also emphasise what she did to overcome a difficult situation between us which ended in a warm and loyal friendship which allowed us to sign initiatives together before this House.
In particular, I want to thank two Members, her nephew Íñigo Méndez de Vigo and Paca Sauquillo, for their efforts to help her throughout the long and difficult process of her final days.
Madam President, as we all know, the terrorist group ETA has decided on a return to criminal activity, the indefinite cessation of which it announced 14 months ago.
It is tragic to think that there are still people in the European Union today who are helpless in the face of the sectarian violence of a few others and who are having to pay an extremely high price for remaining true to their beliefs in the face of terrorist blackmail.
Madam President, on the historic occasion of the convening of the Government of Northern Ireland, there is a certain irony in my taking the floor with good news when our colleague has such problems to report from the Basque area.
It is just twenty years since my colleague, Joe McCartin, first raised Northern Ireland and our conflict here in this Parliament.
Over the last twenty years thousands have been killed, thousands injured and thousands of families shattered.
Could I ask you to convey to all political leaders in the North of Ireland and, as we say in Ireland, 'across the pond' , to the British Prime Minister and all his colleagues, and indeed to the Irish Taoiseach, Bertie Ahern and to their predecessors, the predecessors on both sides, our sincere thanks for what they have helped to achieve.
The courage and perseverance of the political leaders in the North of Ireland, together with the contribution of the Irish Taoiseach, his predecessors, the British Prime Minister and his predecessors, is only to be commended.
And there is one person who has played an integral part in all this, Senator George Mitchell, whose contribution to the peace process is immeasurable.
I also want to wish David Trimble, First Minister, and his Deputy First Minister, Seamus Mallon, their government, the Assembly members and the people of Northern Ireland, peace and prosperity into the next millennium.
We have at all times supported the peace process in a positive and practical way through financial support.
Our decisions were taken here unanimously: support for the International Fund for Ireland, support for the peace and reconciliation programme and, of course, Interreg.
Let us all work together for the benefit of those people and hopefully other parts of this continent would look towards Northern Ireland and strive to resolve their problems in a similar way.
Madam President, much has been said, but as a child who grew up in Belfast and spent thirty of my thirty-nine years in the violent conflict in my homeland, I personally want to mark today' s historic occasion.
I have to say in my case perhaps it was too late.
I feel that it is our duty to mention the role that one of our colleagues, Mr John Hume, has played in this process.
I will pass on to him the best wishes of this Parliament for the future.
Madam President, we too welcome the peace in Northern Ireland and the new Executive which has been established.
I must highlight here and now the historic role played by John Hume who had the foresight, some years ago, to ensure that Sinn Fein and Gerry Adams joined him in the search for a political solution to Ireland' s historic problem.
In this respect, I must say that I consider the use of violence to achieve political agreements to be absolutely unacceptable nowadays, whether in Europe or in any other part of the world.
However, a political agreement is now absolutely essential in the Basque Country, as it was in Ireland, and the narrow-mindedness and reactionary attitude of the Spanish Government in refusing to accept a political agreement with the Basque national parties within the peace process is totally unacceptable.
Having said this, the European Parliament, as the highest institution in Europe, should also adopt a position on this issue in order to facilitate a process of political agreement in the Basque Country.
However, firstly, I congratulate the leaders, political parties, intermediaries and, in particular, the people of Britain and Ireland, on having found a road to peace by all giving ground on their original positions.
However, to achieve this, we must all make an effort to find common ground for the future and for peace.
I am one of the 92% of Basque people who voted in the Basque Country in favour of the Statute of Autonomy and in favour of democracy.
Madam President, I would just like to say that it is inadmissible in a democracy to let people of one political persuasion speak about the Basque country and not to allow anyone of a different political persuasion to speak.
The representative of a large group cannot be permitted to speak for three minutes while the representative of a small group is refused, even if you disagree with them and even if what this person is going to say is deplorable.
Madam President, I wish to raise a point of order under Rule 179 dealing with relations with the Ombudsman.
On 29 July this year the Ombudsman wrote to this Parliament on an own-initiative inquiry on his part calling for a code of good administrative behaviour and asking for a response by 30 November.
Quite right, Mr Perry.
I must emphasise the role which the joint parliamentary committee is playing in the current negotiations which should also lead to Estonia' s accession to the European Union.
This recommendation was adopted and tabled yesterday and is currently on the agenda for Wednesday 14 December in Strasbourg.
There is agreement between the main political groups on this issue and the Council also seems to agree with the amendments made by the Committee on Legal Affairs of this House.
The anti-doping campaign will be in two stages.
Thirdly, all its members worldwide must make solemn the commitment to implement the decisions taken by the agency in their own area.
Europe' s demands have been entered word for word in the statutes of the new agency and, on 10 November, these statutes were signed.
This plan of action was decided upon this morning by the Commission, bringing together several Commissioners, each responsible for their own area.
The Research Commissioner will use the basic or applied research programmes of the Fifth Framework Research programme, as well as other options, in the anti-doping campaign in order to reinforce the means available to this campaign.
He has also promised to submit a recommendation covering all the issues of public health, health of young sportspeople and health of sportspeople in general for wide-ranging and concerted action by the Member States in the campaign against doping.
During the Vienna Summit, the governments asked us to submit for the Helsinki Summit a document on sport as an element of society, or social sport.
We are about to fulfil our mandate because the Commission has decided to submit a plan concerning a communication on preserving current sports structures and the social function of sports in the Community framework.
However, in all the political areas where we do have a legal basis we will use the existing means to work for sport.
I can give you a very specific example.
In the Structural Funds, a significant part of the money can be allocated to projects in favour of sport.
We believe that our role is to find a consensus between those who, in the Member States, have political responsibility and those who, in the world of sport, have responsibility for organising sport.
I can give you a specific example of this.
While sport and the number of competitions are left unregulated, drugs will be used.
It will be up to the agency to act in this respect.
It is also very clear that we can act on sport only in its social and educational aspects.
Madam President, Mrs Reding, allow me to congratulate you on your initiative on the issue of doping.
As you know, in my 1996 report, I called, on behalf of Parliament, for sport to be included in the Treaty at long last.
I think that if what you have said, if what you submit to the Council in Helsinki is to make sense, then we must conclude that the European Parliament is not confined to making statements on Bosman judgements or competition issues in sport, but can give sport a true value by paying more than mere lip service to it in the Treaty.
The EC Treaty gives the Commission very few means of proposing directives, but it is clear that organisations such as the Tour de France, the Giro d' Italia, the Tennis Masters and many others are pure business.
I said that when sport is a purely economic and business activity, this is when the rules on competition will fully apply to prevent any deviations in sport.
As you have just said, sport has a very important place in daily life in Europe and must therefore be afforded this same status in the European Parliament, as Mr Prodi said in his inaugural speech.
The debate is closed.
Preparation of European Council of 10-11 December 1999 in Helsinki The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the preparation of the European Council of 10 and 11 December 1999 in Helsinki.
Madam President, Members of the European Parliament, the last month of the Finnish presidential term began today.
As far as the future is concerned, the Member States all agree that at Helsinki we can decide on initiating negotiations with Lithuania, Latvia, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania and Malta.
Although there are great differences in political and economic development among these countries, we are now justified in inviting them to the negotiating table.
Both the applicant countries and the Union itself will have to adjust to a Europe whose main driving force will be a European Union of 25, perhaps even 30 Member States.
The talks must be conducted in such a way that each applicant is given the opportunity to progress according to its own degree of readiness.
For enlargement to proceed on a sound basis, we must also have the courage to be open and honest, both with each other and with the applicant countries and their people.
The Union cannot yet promise one country seeking membership a date when it will become a member of the Union.
As representative of the country to hold the presidency, I hope that the European Council will find it possible to recognise Turkey' s status as a candidate member of the Union.
It is clear to all that Turkey still has a long and arduous path ahead before it can meet the Copenhagen criteria.
The Turkish Court of Appeal' s decision to uphold the death sentence pronounced on the Kurdish leader, Abdullah Öçalan, was worrying, although expected.
The other part of the report deals with issues that one or more Member States would like to see added to the agenda.
The other issues related to the three main areas have been the subject of heated debate.
The Cologne European Council clearly restricted the development of a common security and defence policy to crisis management.
In order to develop the European Union' s crisis management capability, in Helsinki we will focus on evaluating target levels and the resources they will require in all areas of crisis management.
We will also be preparing to make proposals regarding the institutions in order to make the decision-making process in the European Union relating to crisis management more effective.
The European Union will have at its disposal all the tools of crisis management - the political, economic and humanitarian means and, in the future, a military capability.
Improving resources will also be a major issue in the conclusions drawn at Helsinki on military crisis management.
The preparations for the Helsinki European Council include discussions for target levels that are in practice the equivalent of the current operations in Bosnia and Kosovo in terms of requirements and size.
It has been proposed that troops should be ready to be deployed within 60 days and be able to serve in a crisis region for two years at a time.
The employment guidelines adopted at the meeting for the year 2000 will require the Member States to invest substantially in policies to improve employment.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union' s Heads of State and Government will shortly be gathering in Helsinki with a very busy agenda in front of them.
Thanks to these efforts, the Summit will, I am sure, be a great success.
This is why we need a swift but surefooted accession process, and I certainly hope the Helsinki Summit will adopt the accession strategy we recommended in October and will decide, provided the necessary conditions are met, to start accession negotiations next year with Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Romania and Slovakia.
What I am hoping to see emerge from Helsinki, therefore, is a fully flexible, multi-speed accession process under which negotiations with each of the twelve candidate countries proceed in parallel with its political and economic progress.
I hope that the European Council will grant Turkey the official status of a candidate country.
More generally, I would like to point out that a common foreign and security policy requires the creation of a European defence industry that can compete efficiently in both technological and financial terms.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the Helsinki Summit on 10 and 11 December is highly significant for Europe in the 21st century in general and for the European Union in particular.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, we wholeheartedly welcome the decision to start negotiations with Latvia and Lithuania and with Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania and Malta.
I hope that it will become clear when we embark on discussions with the three Baltic states that the security of these three states is in good hands in the European Union.
The majority of the group takes the view that, if Turkey becomes a member of the European Union, and we must be clear on this, then the European Union will take on a different political, economic and cultural quality.
I would urge the other groups, if we are to subscribe to this compromise text as a European defence policy, to accept a motion for a long-overdue debate on the geographical enlargement of the European Union.
If we, as a European Union, want a place in the global economy and on the increasingly globalised political scene, then we must make up our minds to give the European Union a legal capacity so that representatives of the European Union can act on behalf of the European Union.
However, and I am equally resolute on this point, if there is a danger that enlargement will lead to the break up or the dilution of the European Union in the sense that, in the end, we will merely be an economic and financial institution and not a political union, if this is the danger which enlargement holds, then we should say no to enlargement.
Returning to the very balanced position of this House on the Intergovernmental Conference, the Council must not adopt a low-key approach to this issue.
We must also explain to our political forces, to our national MPs and to our people, why we are holding the IGC, why we want a Charter of Fundamental Rights, why we want enlargement and why we have the responsibility of ensuring that the Community operates as a community.
These are the challenges which my group wants the Helsinki Summit to respond to in a positive manner.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, in addition to those issues already mentioned here, we are expecting - and someone has already referred to this - the Helsinki Summit to promote protection of the environment and to at last place environmental protection at the heart of Union action.
We must now take a definite step forward on this issue, as we know how difficult it has been to put a stop to negative developments with regard to the environment, and we are expecting determination and concrete results from you in the areas of business, industry and agriculture.
The European Union does indeed have such an advantage, compared, for example, with NATO.
You mentioned that for civil crisis management we need the police: I would like to add that other ordinary professional groups, such as psychologists and social workers, as well as plumbers and builders, can be needed in non-military crisis management.
This is not the case for all countries in Europe at this time and that is why I welcome the efforts of the Finnish Government to pursue the adoption of a strategy on the Western Balkans at the forthcoming Helsinki Summit.
I say this because the safety of nuclear plants in Eastern and Central Europe has been a cause for great concern in recent years, and will continue to be.
We all know that the enlargement process cannot take place unless there is some internal reform in the decision-making processes within the EU.
The Presidency is independently preparing a comprehensive report on questions to be examined at the IGC and on the various options for resolving them.
The deadline being set down for the next IGC is very ambitious indeed.
There is one significant point I want to concentrate on in my speech, namely the Commission' s remark in its contribution for the Summit to the effect that, if the political will is sufficiently strong, it will be possible to conclude the planned Intergovernmental Conference successfully before the end of the year 2000.
Mr President, numerous aspects of enlargement have been raised, together with the economic, social and democratic implications.
I am certain that all these issues will be resolved in the medium or long term.
This step towards a common foreign and defence policy, in close cooperation with NATO, is an important part of civil, economic and political crisis management.
I only wish to say that the future aims in Helsinki are good ones, but our own European house must also be put in order in accordance with the rules of the Union.
Mr President, the whole house agrees with Mrs Halonen: Helsinki must inject new life into the process of enlargement of the European Union.
That is something I have heard too little about, not only from you, but also from the other governments of the European Union.
I would also like to point out how important it is for the presidency to inject new life into this forum with a new European conference and to involve these future EU members equally in the new configuration of the European Union.
This agenda will not in any way help to solve the EU' s problems in terms of enlargement which is therefore likely to be undertaken under the worst institutional conditions.
The European Union must ensure that the enlargement process is not slowed down because institutional reforms have not taken place within the Union.
The European Commission' s transparency concerning candidate countries should be adopted by the European Summit.
Moreover, Turkey requires special treatment in the accession strategy.
The attitude regarding the accession process displayed by people within candidate countries remains worrying.
In fact, the same applies just as much to public opinion within the EU Member States.
Mr President, as former rapporteur on the enlargement strategy I of course welcome with open arms the new proposals submitted to the Council by the Commission once and for all to eliminate the unfortunate dichotomy between candidate countries, once and for all.
Also, I could not agree more with the reason given in this respect.
The European Union has been dangerous because it was unable to split sovereign power in terms of security and defence policy.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Europe has undergone substantial change over the last ten years.
The development that began with the turning point in autumn 1989 has reached a stage of controlled progress, thanks to the determined policies of the European Union.
The Intergovernmental Conference, the reality of a common foreign and security policy and the controlled realisation of enlargement are matters that have to be thoroughly prepared for, both in the applicant countries and in the European Union.
These areas form an important whole on the agenda of the Helsinki European Council and, as has been said here, this whole is so dynamic that if everything succeeds, the Helsinki meeting will be an historic event.
We are now in a situation where, for the first time, full consideration must be given to the Treaty of Amsterdam in a meeting of the European Council.
The President-in-Office of the Council' s excellent speech fully covered the questions and challenges of a common security and defence policy for the Union.
A respect for fundamental rights and aspirations towards social equality are the best defence policy for ensuring social stability.
The European employment policy and the guidelines on employment for the year 2000 to be discussed at Helsinki as a part of that policy still belong at the top of the Union' s agenda.
The defence of democracy and the prevention of extremism are the basis of social justice, which means, among other things, combating unemployment.
I hope that the President-in-Office of the Council would deplore, as I do, a party political intervention by the Secretary-General of NATO, the logical implication of which is an attack on the defence policy of Finland and other Member States.
For the record, I should like to make it clear that, in common with all our colleagues in the Green European Free Alliance, we in the SNP are committed to the idea of collective security in Europe and welcome developments the Council will pursue to this end.
But we are rootedly opposed to the maintenance of nuclear weapons in Scottish coastal waters, or coastal waters anywhere in Europe, or the land of Europe.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I would like to confine myself to two comments regarding the Helsinki Summit.
The first concerns the Intergovernmental Conference.
In my opinion, it is only right that issues relating to common foreign policy, defence and the economy should be discussed.
These are, in my view, important issues which we must bear in mind.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I would also like to express my satisfaction with the strategy, which is generally sensible and coherent as far as enlargement is concerned.
I do not think that anyone will be happy if the Intergovernmental Conference at the end of 2000 results in the Commission or the Council taking decisions in two hours which they previously took in five, six or seven.
As for the Charter of Fundamental Rights, it is important that it is able not only to extend the rights that are already laid down in Charters and Treaties but also that it recognises rights in the social and economic spheres and, above all, that it is able to be innovative and creative in the area of new rights concerning environmental issues and the protection of consumer rights.
Similarly, faced with the multiplication of information systems such as Europol and Eurodac, this House should have repeated its demand for an independent commission on data processing and the protection of privacy in order to preserve our individual freedoms, in addition to democratic and judicial control.
Mr President, I wish the Finnish Presidency every success at the Helsinki Summit as this will conclude a range of important work undertaken during its term.
We cannot achieve a more open, transparent and democratic Europe if the European Parliament is not fully involved in the work of the IGC.
I hope and pray that the European Council in Helsinki can give us a Europe which is more judicious, more united and much more community-spirited, and therefore much less intergovernmental.
You seemed to be entrusting to this strange forum some of the issues that were put forward here by the Commission on 10 November.
Mr President, I think that President Prodi did well in his intervention, all of which we should agree with, to say that enlargement is the main and essential point for Helsinki.
It is right to begin negotiations with all the applicant states, but there is no doubt that we must differentiate between these countries, given that the levels of adaptation to Europe vary greatly between them.
I am absolutely convinced that the accession of a new Member State must be the result of a broad consensus between political groups but, above all, the majority of the populations concerned should be in agreement.
Mr President, allow me to pick up where my colleague Mr Gawronski left off, namely the acceptance of Europe among the people of the various countries seeking to join the European Union.
Mr President, allow me to begin by congratulating the Finnish Presidency on what has, on the whole, been a good six months.
Mr President, the European Parliament will summarise this debate on Helsinki in a resolution.
The Commission refers again and again in its status reports on the level of adaptation to the acquis communautaire to the fact that candidate countries, and this includes both the first wave and the second wave, are very slow in transposing and adapting to the acquis in numerous areas, such as social affairs, the environment and energy, as well as in human rights and living democracy.
Indeed it barely rated a mention in your speech, but I hope that the Council is going to spend some time on this vital topic.
Could I also say on the broader topic of completing the internal market that, during the Finnish Presidency, we have had some very important strategy papers and they actually require a much higher priority than they are receiving in the Community at the moment.
Indeed, the motion for a resolution I saw this morning contained no mention of any internal market or information society initiatives at all, despite the work that has been going on under your Presidency.
I tabled an addendum in the name of my group this morning to include those items and I hope very much it will receive the support of this House.
In conclusion, I also hope that the Finnish Presidency will remind Member governments at the Helsinki Council that creating a single market requires that cross-border takeovers and the restructuring of key industries must be allowed to proceed without political interference by Member governments.
However, I can reassure and console the Members of the European Parliament and say that these issues have not been forgotten.
Firstly, as regards the question of employment, we regard this as very important, and we have made preparations, as I said in my speech, to ensure that history' s first Summit conference on employment is a real success during Portugal' s presidential term.
A Council resolution was adopted on 29 November regarding employment in the information society and the social dimension.
With regard to the question of the Roma people, which was raised here, I would like to say for my own part that I think it is right to focus attention on human rights, both generally and, in particular, regarding the rights of minorities, both in the European Union, but especially in those countries seeking membership.
The country to hold the presidency has not wished to draw the conclusion that the cause of this might only be found in Slovakia, Romania or in some other individual country.
This is a common problem, and, for that reason, we intend to raise the issue, not in connection with enlargement, but as a general part of the Summit conference agenda, that Member States and applicant countries must improve the implementation of the rights of minorities.
The country to hold the presidency is also offering to cooperate in this regard.
Firstly, I will say in all honesty, regarding the Intergovernmental Conference, that we are unanimous on the issues omitted from the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The third group is those issues that one or more Member States have raised.
There are only a couple of us ministers left who were at the previous Intergovernmental Conference.
With regard to enlargement, that will be the topic of debate in the last General Affairs Council to be held on 6 December.
Hopefully, we shall also be able to speak with them about social cohesion, nuclear safety and security, as well as many other things.
I think that we can and must start in January because there are many areas to be addressed: Amsterdam, issues arising from Amsterdam, cohesion, codecision, the issue of security and defence, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and also the reform of the Treaty.
Indeed, I believe that it is our responsibility to bring continuity to Europe' s development, the development of Europe in the long term, not just on a day by day basis.
Some think this development should go further while others would keep the situation more or less as it is.
The debate is closed.
Annual report on human rights The next item is the Council statement on the annual report on human rights followed by a debate.
The EU must also be ready to cooperate more widely with civil society and the NGOs.
The annual report on human rights must be seen, on account of what I have said before, as part of a process to strengthen the position of human rights in the Union.
Speaking in the European Parliament, I do not have to single out the reasons why this work is necessary.
You know this: reports on violations of human rights are common in the media.
The annual report on human rights replaces the Council' s former annual memorandum on human rights to Parliament.
The purpose of the change is to increase and broaden information on the work and priorities of the Council.
In this way we are trying to create a forum for deeper and more analytical discussions on the work done by the EU for the issue of human rights.
The forum was intended as the start of a more regular and broader dialogue than was the case previously on the priorities and challenges associated with the EU' s policy on human rights.
But why should the EU publish a report on human rights every year?
When we speak of human rights, transparency is of particular importance.
It is necessary to reinforce dialogue and cooperation, as we all have our own role to play in this issue.
The annual report covers the period from the beginning of June 1998 up to the end of June 1999.
Secondly, through this annual report we are trying to increase consistency in EU human rights policy by means of this annual report.
The report discusses the work in respect of the first and second pillars.
The annual report this time focuses on the EU' s external relations.
The purpose behind the annual report is to describe the work of the EU and its thematic content over a given period.
It does not therefore attempt to be a comprehensive depiction of the human rights situation in different countries.
It may be justifiable to examine the situation in different countries more closely.
The Treaty of Amsterdam and the regulations on human rights that have recently entered into force will improve the EU' s chances of promoting human rights.
I would like to mention one point as a separate item.
Hopefully, we will receive sound advice from the group on how we can increase the amount of work the EU does to improve human rights, in such a way that we acquire some genuine added value and it is not just a question of putting our initials to these issues.
I hope that the first annual report on human rights for its part will facilitate the realisation of this welcome development.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes the publication of the first annual report on human rights.
The Commission feels that a stronger balance should be struck between the three pillars of the European Union in future reports, in order to give a more comprehensive overview of the human rights situation at European level.
One way of achieving greater balance in the future might be to take a more thematically structured approach focusing, for example, on particularly vulnerable groups, such as women and children, or specific questions, such as the monitoring of elections.
Finally, I should like to point out that my colleague Chris Patten, who is very sorry that he is unable to be here today due to a foreign policy commitment, and Poul Nielson and I shall issue a communication on the promotion of human rights and democratisation in our external relations.
Mr President, it is a very great joy that we have at last a report from the Council of Ministers on human rights.
For some reason, over these past twenty years the Council of Ministers or the ministers meeting in political cooperation have been unwilling to put together a document.
I trust that this first document will be just one step along the way towards bringing us together and helping us to tackle human rights.
At the human rights forum this morning I spoke to one of the President-in-Office' s Finnish colleagues from the Finnish Foreign Ministry, about a particular case mentioned by the European Parliament recently, the case of Alexander Nikitin, a man who is on trial just a few miles away from Helsinki, for high treason.
He is facing the death penalty because he reported on the ecological disaster of nuclear submarines in the Murmansk area.
Mr President, this is, I suppose, the parliament in Europe that takes human rights the most seriously, and we have great possibilities in dealing with countries that violate human rights.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I too welcome this first annual European Union report on human rights.
Obviously, we have had Commission documents and many European Parliament reports in the past, but this is the first time that the Council of Ministers has given us this type of text.
However, the publication of this document encourages me to look to the near future and the preparation of an EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I am referring, of course, to the Council of Europe' s European Convention on Human Rights.
I hope, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, that the Helsinki Summit will reassure us on all these points.
The EU quite rightly makes tough demands on the applicant countries where policy on minorities is concerned.
It will require cooperation between the EU' s various institutions, between the EU and the Member States, between the EU and the voluntary organisations and between the EU and other countries.
Mr President, the annual report in question is a welcome and important beginning, and its value is underlined by the fact that independent NGOs were equal partners at the human rights forum which has just ended and which was organised on the initiative of the country holding the presidency.
As the President-in-Office of the Council said, reports on violations of human rights are an everyday occurrence.
For this reason, it would be advisable to accord greater emphasis in human rights monitoring and reporting by the Union to freedom of speech and to safeguarding, improving and monitoring the rights of journalists and their ability to work, for example, by devoting a special chapter or section to this area.
Mr President, in general terms nobody here dares argue against respect for human rights.
Mr President, I would like to answer the question about Mr Nikitin.
His trial is taking place in Russia and some time before the trial got under way, the European Union appealed that the person in question should have a trial that met the proper standards.
However, following on from what was said by the two speakers who came before me - and with whom I disagree - I must say that the fact that Europe, and the European Union in particular, is making human rights its banner - in fact its only banner - is a marvellous thing.
An improvement could also be made by including in the text the EU' s contribution to the fight for human rights in the international sphere.
Mr President, according to Amnesty International, there are still 142 countries which ride roughshod over human rights, ranging from excessive police violence to tortures and killings.
The truth is that human rights are still too often subordinated to commercial and other interests of Member States.
Thirdly, the report is the product of an organised dialogue with the social organisations involved in human rights issues.
The forum held here in Brussels over the past couple of days deserves a regular spot in the Union' s consultative network.
The right to life and respect for its inviolability are the basic human rights and therefore both the essence and goal of democracy.
A country such as China, to name one example, still needs our technology.
I, too, therefore support the idea of adding another report to the report here and to the numerous other reports on the same subject.
Mr President, coordination and consistency are essential to a policy on human rights.
The Union should now be focusing on the effective implementation of agreements.
Implementation should cover three important areas: the monitoring of human rights, the establishment of human rights and the structures of a policy on human rights.
The EU must develop monitoring mechanisms to observe the human rights situation both within the EU and in third countries.
Monitoring must lead to a comprehensive assessment of the situation with regard to human rights.
The human rights situation in Russia today is alarming.
It is time we realised the European Parliament' s idea of a monitoring body to be set up within the Commission to promote an efficient human rights policy and report on questions relating to human rights.
A respect for human rights and the protection of the rights of minorities are major requirements for accession to the Union.
Taking criteria relating to human rights and minorities as serious conditions of membership would require that these criteria and the obligations of applicant countries towards their minorities be accorded the same status as other fundamental criteria in the negotiations on membership.
The debate is closed.
The EU is therefore prepared to resume the financial aid decided on in March 1995 under the Customs Union agreements.
Finally, as a reminder, although the provisions establishing all this aid involve financing over three years of EUR 150 million, the European Union' s trade surplus with Turkey has doubled since the entry into force on 1 January 1996 of the Customs Union agreement, thereby increasing in four years from EUR 4 billion to EUR 8 billion.
I truly believe that the Community must now honour its previous commitments so as not to discourage all those in Turkey who are resolutely committed to the Customs Union route and who have therefore decided to attach their country to the European Economic Area.
In the Commission' s proposals concerning resources for promoting economic and social development in Turkey and for extending the Customs Union between the European Community and Turkey, it is proposed that the period 2000-2002 should be covered, because the year is now so far advanced that it is too late to establish new budget headings for this purpose in 1999.
The Committee on Budgets also wishes reference to be made to the interinstitutional agreement of 6 May of this year and for it to be stated that the recommended amounts for the period 2000-2002 should constitute a portion of the multiannual financial framework for the MEDA programme so that it is apparent that we are not concerned here with a new expenditure item.
Ever since the European Council confirmed in December 1997 that Turkey could apply for membership of the EU, efforts have been made to create the opportunity to provide financial aid with a view to promoting economic cooperation and bringing Turkey closer to the EU.
This, then, is the background to these proposals, on the one hand, for a three-year subsidy of EUR 15 million when a start is made on implementing the Community' s regulations and developing the Customs Union between the EC and Turkey and, on the other hand, for the subsidy of EUR 135 million for developing the economically backward regions of Turkey.
These resources therefore have nothing to do with the special subsidy, proposed in the budget for the year 2000, for reconstruction and aid in connection with the earthquakes in Turkey.
I have just one technical remark on Amendment No 15 in the report concerning economic cooperation where it is stated that the Council (with a qualified majority) or the European Parliament can decide to suspend the partnership.
Finally, I should say that, this year, the policy-making process has been delayed by the parliamentary election and by the special circumstances in connection with the Commission' s departure.
These reports clearly respond to commitments made by the European Union.
We have today debated with the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission the problems which have occurred, the proposals made by the European Commission in its report on the Helsinki Summit and also the position which the Council of Ministers will presumably adopt.
We must be extremely clear in this respect, by stressing that they are entitled to apply but that it is not in our interest to start these accession negotiations until the Copenhagen criteria, and the political commitments in particular, have been met.
The European Union' s commitment must be to therefore very firmly support the excellent reports presented by Mr Morillon.
That is important for our security and our future in Europe.
May I remind my colleagues here today that Turkey has not used the death penalty in practice since 1984.
There has been an effective moratorium in place since then with the result that 53 people who were defined as subject to what we would call cruel and inhuman punishment, have had their cases put on one side.
There is a new law coming to the Turkish Parliament in the year 2000, put forward by academics, in which for the first time ever the proposed criminal justice bill does not contain the death penalty.
The Commission has proposed that Turkey should be accorded candidate status.
If the Council in Helsinki accepts this proposal, it would lay the foundations in Turkey for a new form of dialogue with the European Union, in that Ankara would then have the prospect of future membership.
The rapporteur' s proposals allow the mistakes of 1995 to be corrected, when the European Union intensified relations with Turkey, without guaranteeing the necessary financial aid.
Financial aid for Turkey cannot be divorced from obligations in the fields of social development and democracy, rule of law and respect for human and minority rights.
This is referred to equally in both reports because it is important that participation in the European economic system should go hand in glove with democratic development.
Another important point is the involvement of the European Parliament.
There can be only one response from all the political groups in this House and that is the demand that capital punishment be abolished.
This House should call on Turkey to comply with the judgement of the European Court of Human Rights, which is incompatible with the execution of Öçalan.
In this sense we support the two reports as a contribution to the democratisation of Turkey.
They succeed in presenting the political requirements of cooperation with Turkey clearly and consistently, especially the need for compliance with, and development of, human rights, including the rights of the Kurdish people, the demand for the abolition of capital punishment, the strengthening of the civil society, greater involvement by non-governmental organisations and the abolition of social deprivation and regional under-development.
Not only does that appear to be decidedly more realistic to me; it also tallies with the evaluation which the Commission itself made in a communication to the Cologne Summit on 3 and 4 June this year.
That clearly contradicts the commitments entered into by Turkey as a member of the Council of Europe.
The European Union must have room for and an interest in including Turkey and must clarify that unequivocally once and for all.
However, there can be no cutting back on demands for democratisation of the constitution and political realities, fundamental improvements in respect for human rights, a political solution to the Kurdish question and an end to the occupation of northern Cyprus.
Both versions contain terms for suspending cooperation in the event of fundamental violations of human rights.
We sent a proper signal to the Russian Government in a similar situation two weeks ago.
I would even go so far as to say that the European Union should encourage cooperation between its Member States and Turkey.
The reports that we are debating here today nevertheless give us the opportunity to reflect once again on Turkey' s progress in terms of human rights and the protection of minorities.
We were, moreover, the first European Union country to do so.
Consequently, we feel that it would now be timely to give yet another very clear signal that the preservation of human rights and the protection of minorities in Turkey are still an essential condition for the European Parliament to show its solidarity in terms of cooperation and support for that country.
However, we do not wish to conceal the fact that we certainly would not want to interpret this helping hand from Brussels to Ankara as a political gesture pointing towards candidate status vis-à-vis the EU.
In Parliament's resolution of 6 October, we resolved to work speedily on the technical and financial assistance necessary to complete the Customs Union; and we called on the Council to support the necessary measures.
The Morillon report provides us with a good opportunity to discuss a European strategy for Turkey without beating about the bush.
In short, it has created problems of security and stability in south-east Europe by basing its foreign policy either on open violence, as in Cyprus where it continues to occupy the northern part of the island, or on the threat of violence, as when the Turkish parliament officially stated that if Greece exercised its sovereign rights in territorial waters in the Aegean this would be a casus belli.
The Union must ensure that all applicant countries, Turkey included, respect international treaties and international law and cooperate with neighbouring countries to promote peace, and that any disputes are resolved through international law and international judicial bodies, such as the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
The majority in this Parliament did approve following tortuous debates since approval would encourage the Turkish Government to arrive at an acceptable human rights policy, true democracy and a political solution to end the Kurdish issue.
With the sentencing to death of the Kurdish leader Öçalan and confirmation thereof, we are once again faced with the tragic consequences of an unresolved request for respect and right of self-determination on behalf of a people, the Kurdish people, in Turkey.
If this is not the case, the hope that a political solution will be reached for the Kurdish issue in Turkey will once again be dashed.
We would like to see the situation in Turkey drastically improve in terms of democratisation and human rights and in terms of a solution to the Kurdish issue, but we hope that this is possible without having to exert financial pressure.
Mr President, because of our feelings of solidarity and fraternity with the people of Turkey, we oppose that country' s accession into the European Union because, as the experience of the Greek people has shown, the Turkish people have nothing positive to gain from it.
However, we are being urged to vote in favour of the two regulations and the release of the relevant appropriations to Turkey, both because it has made significant progress towards democratisation and in order to encourage it to go still further in that direction.
Leila Zana, winner of the Sakharov prize, is still in prison, as are three Kurdish parliamentarians and famous writers and journalists.
We were told the same thing when the Customs Union was signed five years ago.
So, believe me, if we vote in favour of the two regulations under discussion, despite their positive aspects, then this will certainly encourage the Turkish regime, which claims that Turkey is the most advanced democracy in all of Europe, to tighten its existing policies.
Mr President, once again, a few weeks after the debate on extending the SOCRATES programme to young people in Turkey, Parliament is going back to addressing the controversial issue of relations between the European Union and Turkey.
We are disappointed to note that since 1996, the year when the Aegean Sea crisis led the European Community to block the agreement on the Customs Union with Turkey, no headway has been made towards obtaining total respect for civil rights and the protection of minorities.
While the Turkish Government has made some half-hearted attempts in recent years, the recent death sentence placed on the Kurdish leader, Mr Öçalan, has made any possible political rapprochement between Turkey and the European Union more remote.
And yet, as we have maintained several times in this Chamber, the process of a community' s democratic growth also occurs through its economic and social development.
What I wonder is: how come Akim Birdal is in favour of introducing a new strategy, how come other Kurdish representatives are in favour of our introducing a new strategy, how come the entire opposition to the government and civil society are in favour of our introducing a new strategy if all it does is support the government?
It was also a highly risky step which was clearly also motivated by the situation in Cyprus and the attempt to bring Cyprus closer to the European Union and find a political solution to the Cyprus question.
I repeat, Turkey would be a lot further down the road to Europe if it had applied fundamentally different measures in the field of human rights and minority rights in good time, at the right time, especially with regard to the Kurdish question, democracy in relation to Greece and a contribution towards solving the problem in Cyprus.
We want to have Turkey in the European Union, but Turkey knows full well that only a Turkey which recognises the Copenhagen criteria can become a member of the European Union.
This distinguished colleague endeavoured to improve the Commission' s proposals.
It has made Turkey, an applicant country, out to be a developing country so as to get round the unanimity rule in the Council of Ministers of the European Union.
I believe that Parliament has decided to invest in the democratic growth of this country.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although the two regulations being debated here today have in fact nothing to do with the debates which will be held in the General Council next Monday and in the European Council in Helsinki a few days later, I am of course aware of the fact that the political context and timing cannot be ignored here and that we must naturally discuss the overall problem of relations between the European Union and Turkey in conjunction with these two regulations and that is what most speakers have done here this evening.
I am most grateful for the debate which has been held here because it was a highly factual debate which made very valuable and important points, especially for the attention of Turkey, because Turkey will have to gauge the political mood which prevails in Europe towards its application to join the European Union.
I think the report is so important because the European Parliament subscribes in it to the view that the European strategy represents a suitable way of extending relations between the European Union and Turkey and that financial support is needed in order to implement the strategy.
I can report from my discussions with the Turkish Prime Minister and from several meetings with the Turkish Foreign Secretary over the last few days that the Turkish Government is fully aware of the need for this fundamental change in the political, economic, social and cultural areas.
More than that, I am convinced that the present Turkish Government and the parliamentary majority behind it also want this fundamental change.
We take that for granted in our countries, but for Turkey it is unprecedented.
We too are not always in the most credible position, including vis-à-vis Turkey.
I do not know this evening what the decision will be in Helsinki next week, but I am firmly convinced that the decision which the European Parliament has to take on these two regulations will impact on the outcome of future discussions and on the decision taken by the European Council in a week' s time.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, this directive is the second daughter directive within the framework of the directive on ambient air quality assessment and management and the proposal is part of an integrated raft of measures aimed at combating air pollution.
Despite political initiatives aimed at reducing pollution and improving air quality, it is assumed that passenger transport needs will increase drastically over the next ten years and that the number of vehicles will increase by 25%, increasing air pollution still further.
The important point about this second daughter directive is that it is the first time that a limit value has been set for benzene and carbon monoxide in the EU.
The Commission has proposed an annual limit value of 5 micrograms per cubic metre of air for benzene, to be attained by 2010.
The Committee on the Environment would therefore like to make it clear in its proposal, which is more precise and more strict as far as derogations are concerned, that there can be no question of a twin-track environmental policy and that the aim must be to achieve a high level of protection for everyone in the EU.
The Committee also proposes that the public should be better informed in future and that the proposed measures should be extended still further by other measures.
We want to improve the air quality in Europe, thereby making a major contribution to health protection.
Mr President, let me say on behalf of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats that this proposal for a directive is another brick in the edifice of European air quality policy.
The purpose of our proposed amendments is not only to stipulate strict environmental protection requirements but to format these requirements so that they can be transposed and complied with by all Member States.
The Finnish Presidency is making a serious effort to make use of the new legal possibilities afforded by the Amsterdam Treaty and to bring this proposal into force after the first reading with the amendments of the European Parliament.
As Mrs Breyer has already pointed out, the real aim is to improve health protection for our citizens.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to start by thanking and congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent report.
The second daughter directive within the framework of improving air quality in Europe must, of course, like previous directives, meet the following objectives, namely to define and stipulate air quality objectives at European level and to create air quality assessment criteria based on standard methods.
Care must be taken to ensure that useful information on air quality is available and provided to the public.
The objective - and I think that this is the fundamental objective - is to maintain and improve air quality.
The proposed limit value of 10 micrograms/m3 over a period of eight hours, which tallies with the WHO guideline, is accepted by all parties.
My group therefore supports the Commission proposal, i.e. 5 micrograms/m3.
Mr President, like many British Members, I live in two worlds.
This draft directive belongs to the second of these two worlds.
The public information insisted upon in the draft directive is vital and gives the opportunity to back up legal measures with the right of the public to name and shame those governments which fail to take the necessary measures to comply with this directive.
We are, of course, still a long way, perhaps a very long way, from the precautionary principle which should be guiding our policies, but I accept that this is progress and it is a start.
The proposed standards are ambitious: a 70% reduction in benzene emissions and a 30% reduction in CO emissions.
It is hoped that these objectives, as well as the first daughter directive for air quality, can be achieved.
Mr President, reduction of air pollution and, in particular, benzene and carbon monoxide is a legitimate objective of the European Union.
One would have thought that communities living in our disadvantaged areas, with all their associated health problems, would be those most in need of cleaner air.
However, if this regulation were to result in the closure of a major industry in that area, the results would be counter-productive and would exacerbate the social and economic problems.
If the most stringent aspects proposed are implemented, this part of the steel-making industry could be forced abroad, probably to eastern Europe, which brings me to my last point.
Could I suggest, Mrs Wallström, that in future, when environment legislation like this is considered, the full implications regarding applicant countries be taken into account and publicised.
The proposal before us is the second that the Commission brings forward under the Framework Directive 96/62 on air quality assessment and management.
We, therefore, accept Amendments Nos 1 and 6.
The Commission can therefore not accept the part of Amendment No 20 that would set a limit value of 4 micrograms per cubic metre.
The Commission will report on benzene as part of a new integrated clean air programme in 2004.
The Commission has, therefore, asked Parliament and Council in Article 3(2) whether this should be taken into account.
Having listened to the debates so far, the Commission feels that Member States should be able to request longer time scales for meeting the limit value for benzene, where the 2010 deadline would cause serious socio-economic problems.
It therefore accepts most of Amendment No 22, which we prefer to Amendment No 5.
It does not, however, feel that it can support a temporary limit value of 10 micrograms per cubit metre without information on feasibility.
The Commission cannot accept that part of Amendment No 22.
Amendment No 11 is partly related to Amendment No 22, and the Commission accepts it in part.
The Commission does not accept the part of Amendment No 11 which would insert a requirement that a more stringent limit value for benzene should be proposed in 2004.
The Commission can accept Amendment No 10 which points out the importance of looking at effects on sensitive populations.
The Commission agrees with the Environment Committee that indoor conditions have significant effects on health, but we do not think this proposal is the vehicle for considering how to tackle this issue.
The Commission cannot therefore accept Amendments Nos 3 and 12 nor the partly related Amendment No 18.
The Commission can accept that part of Amendment No 7 which would add to the list of means that Member States might use to inform the public about air quality.
The Commission accepts Amendment No 8, which requires better public information on carbon monoxide as an improvement to its proposal.
It can also agree in part with Amendment No 9.
We would propose adding to Article 6(2): "Member States should pay particular attention to providing information on concentrations, plans and programmes to the public in areas referred to in Article 3(2)".
The Commission can also accept Amendment No 4 in principle.
A third objective of both the Air Quality Framework Directive and this proposal is to ensure that Member States assess air quality in a consistent and comparable way.
The Commission does not, however, accept Amendment No 13.
This is already stated under the general reporting requirements of Directive 96/62 and the related Council Decision 97/101 on a reciprocal exchange of information on air quality.
The Commission also does not accept Amendment No 14.
The Commission can accept Amendment No 15 in part.
Finally, the Commission agrees with the intention of Amendment Nos 16 and 21.
Amendment No 16 follow closely the first daughter directive.
The Commission considers, however, that in the case of the annual average limit value for benzene, it is possible to demand a higher standard of accuracy equal to that set for continuous monitoring.
It can, therefore, accept Amendment No 21 in preference to Amendment No 16.
At the moment, it is difficult to have good information on these matters and good measurement from the applicant countries.
We already work together with the applicant countries and we have done screening reports as you already know.
So, thank you for that; and thank you for the discussion.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your full and documented answer.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as indicated by the President, this is the second reading of a common position established by the Council on the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from new vehicles.
Amendment No 2 proposes monitoring on an objective basis.
I would remind you that this House in general, and the Committee on the Environment in particular, has little faith in effective results being achieved by voluntary agreements.
The Council' s common position itself mentions that the Member States have a variety of data collection proposals.
In addition, we ask for a report on the operation of this method for December 2002.
In the report which the Commission must present to the Council and the European Parliament, we also want an analysis of whether the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions is due to the technical measures of industrialists or to consumer habits.
However, we must insist on some of these 10 amendments which we are tabling again because they were approved practically unanimously, with one abstention, in the Committee on the Environment.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the PPE group and, more importantly, on behalf of my colleague, Marlies Flemming, who is attending the WTO negotiations for the Committee on the Environment and is therefore unfortunately unable to take the floor here today.
The proposal forms part of the European Community strategy to reduce CO2 emissions and fuel consumption.
We therefore welcome the Council' s common position.
If we are to create an efficient monitoring system without too much delay, we need to adopt this proposal as quickly as possible.
That would mean that the year 2000 would be the first year for which data then needed to be compiled.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think that there are still three controversial points in this directive which we also need to discuss.
There are therefore three points, I think, which need to be included in the directive and in this respect I support the excellent work carried out by the rapporteur.
Mrs González Álvarez pointed out in her recommendation that the common position contains many of the points of view which the European Parliament presented in its first reading.
As Mrs Schleicher said, Mrs Flemming has stated that she could accept the common position without any further changes.
It is the Commission' s intention to take account of these factors and to reformulate the proposed text in the following way: "The Commission is to investigate the possibility of submitting appropriate proposals concerning harmonised procedures for measuring the specific carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles in category M1 in accordance with Annex No 3 to Directive 70/156." When it comes to Amendment No 4, part 2 concerning other parts of the strategy in respect of carbon dioxide and vehicles, we consider that the first part of that Amendment is almost entirely covered by justification 6 in the common position.
Because tax measures are an important factor in the strategy, it may well be worth including a reference to these.
When it comes to such agreements as have already been made, or are in the process of being made, for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from private cars, the Commission has, on a number of occasions, pointed out that legislation concerning the limits for carbon dioxide emissions will be considered if the car industry does not fulfil its commitments.
I hope now that this House can offer its support so that the decision can be taken as quickly as possible.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, this is a report on health and safety.
In fact, it is also the first report in the social sphere that has ever gone through under codecision.
Parliament has always made a fuss about the fact that not enough emphasis has been placed on the social dimension in legislative practice.
This special directive implements the framework directive which was adopted in 1989.
Our first reading was in 1996.
The Commission should be commended for bringing a number of these countries before the Court of Justice over the past couple of years and also for the fact that changes have been made.
But it appears that it still takes much longer to tackle countries in this sector than it does in others.
He has made history as well, by having the first report to go through under codecision and the first report on health and safety.
Parliament is not always pointed to as being responsible or informed, but in this particular area we were better informed and, in some respects, I feel, more responsible.
The information which will be provided, which was a vade mecum in this report, to small businesses and which they now have a right to be informed about, will go a long way in helping to change the culture in the workplace.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The areas in which the rivers that run into the Baltic originate are extensive and are located in several different countries.
The salt content of the Baltic is relatively low compared with that of other seas.
This report is about revising two of the Helsinki Convention' s Annexes, namely Annexes 3 and 4.
Annex 4 is aimed at reducing discharges from boats and ships.
When it comes to dealing with waste from ships, work is in progress within the European Union on a proposed Directive concerning plant for receiving waste in harbours.
The changes to these Annexes will come into force at the end of the year.
It would have been an advantage if the European Parliament had been involved in this work earlier.
The report that has been prepared recommends, in addition, that the Commission should produce an analysis of the possible effects of the changes on Union legislation.
Perhaps an initiative on the northern dimension could provide the comprehensive angle on the Baltic region we need to consider all these important areas of policy simultaneously and in a mutually compatible way.
The Nordic Council is involved in organising a parliamentary Baltic Conference, for all the countries of the Baltic to attend.
It would be natural for the EU to embark on closer talks with these countries.
The Nordic Council has shown initiative and expressed the wish to start such a dialogue with the EU.
I hope that that the northern dimension will prove to be a good, viable model for an ecologically sustainable and comprehensive development of a policy for these areas, which can be used for other areas of the Union.
With regard to the future, we should consider how the structures underlying the protection of the environment in the Baltic region could be organised efficiently and simply.
I myself believe that the Helsinki Commission could provide a framework, not only for the main area of focus, the protection of the marine environment, but also the implementation of the Baltic Sea Agenda 21 programme, and the possible coordination of sound regional planning.
The revised Convention could also serve as a model for other regions.
We know that some very single-minded environmental work and some purposeful political decisions are required in order to restore the ecological balance of the Baltic.
As you know, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection adopted the report on 19 October 1999.
I think it is good that we have had the opportunity to discuss this in the House today.
The rapporteur maintains that the changes had already been adopted on 1 January 1999 and that the work carried out in the European Parliament was therefore meaningless.
The consultation procedure is therefore valid, and I should also like to thank you in the European Parliament for your contributions.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The Commission had proposed too tight a schedule and, for that reason, the entry into force of the directive has been postponed until 2003, so that the Member States can revise legislation as called for by this directive.
As for Amendment No 24, which has also been made for tomorrow, I can state that this amendment is now already incorporated into Article 4(3)(a), which is a new subparagraph and which was added for precisely this purpose.
Europe is a continent rich in forests and forests are tremendously important.
We should all bear in mind the fact that the use of forests is not only in the economic interest, it is, above all, in the environmental interest of all of us.
Work has been carried out in recent years to update this system and an improved text is now pending approval by the Council.
I agree that the date set for the entry into force of the directive cannot be 1 January 2000 but must be postponed by at least three years to give the Member States time to comply with the directive.
The external quality of plants has a big impact, not only on the percentage which survive, which can range from 20% to 85%, but also on their future development in the extremely harsh conditions of their transfer to this climate.
I applaud and encourage this solution to which I hope the European Commission will agree.
It is reasonable that this directive needs to be updated as a result of the accession of new Member States and the development of the single market and forest research.
But the directive takes no account of the differing needs of the Member States.
The present proposal aims to update the current legislation on the marketing of forest reproductive material to take account of the accession of new Member States since 1975, the internal market and scientific advances.
I can accept the large majority of them as they stand or with minor modification in respect of their drafting or presentation.
The Commission can accept the Amendment No 23 proposed now by Mr Pesälä.
The proposal is based on Article 37 of the Treaty, and therefore falls within the exclusive competence of the Community.
However, the Commission proposal has fully recognised the specificity of the conditions of certain Member States or certain parts thereof and the text explicitly reflects this position.
The Commission provides in the first part of Article 5(2)b that the procedures ensuring the environmental risk assessment and other relevant elements should be equivalent to those laid down in Council Directive 90/220.
Insofar as the second part of the amendment is concerned, I can agree to the addition of a reference to the European Parliament in the future regulation.
The Commission is in favour of justified derogations when they are well defined in respect of their content, for example, for a Community region with specific climatic conditions and in respect of the procedures to be followed.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Subsequently, for the next marketing year, the distribution was carried out on the basis of the quantities in compliance with the minimum price over the previous three marketing years, as specified by Article 6.4 of this Regulation.
However, this Council of Ministers' agreement has caused some concern among producers in the other Member States, particularly Spain, Italy and Greece, which are very competitive in tomato processing and production.
To a certain extent this would satisfy the producers of those countries which are more competitive.
This means that farming must be possible both in favoured areas and in disadvantaged and climatically exposed regions and peripheral areas.
One of the outstanding features of Europe is its variety and I am referring here not only to the variety of regions and cultures but also to the variety of products and foodstuffs which make Europe unique.
This advantage amounts to an increase in the Portuguese concentrate quota of 83,468 tonnes for the marketing year 1999-2000, plus other benefits for the marketing year 2000-2001, including retroactive quota increases, for example those of 1997 and 1998, of 83,468 tonnes as supplementary amounts.
So, congratulations to Portugal and shame on the Council.
The rapporteur has been very explicit but has no understanding of why we have a regulation which is a tangle of incomprehensibilities and exceptions.
Concerning the proposals put forward in the report, we also feel that there needs to be reform, given that the current situation has harmful effects - as experience has already shown - but we must bear in mind that any reform will still have to take the results of the current year into account and the potential levels of production in Portugal under normal weather conditions.
We therefore think that it is more sensible to increase and improve the current system for calculating quotas with increases in line with the total amounts of production aid and not to move towards a system of guarantee thresholds that could penalise all farmers and not just those who exceed their quotas.
The weather in Portugal was particularly bad during the 1997/98 marketing year.
This resulted in a net drop in tomato production, which in turn led to a reduction of 83,468 tonnes in the Portuguese tomato concentrate quota when the quotas were distributed for the 1999/2000 marketing year and a concomitant increase in the quotas of three other Member States.
A similar situation will arise when the quotas are distributed for the 2000/01 marketing year.
The debate is closed.
