Mr President, I would like the section of the Minutes concerning the vote on the calendar for part-sessions in 1997 to be corrected regarding my vote on Amendment No 27.
I voted against deleting the Strasbourg sittings for the week of 6 October, like all my fellow citizens and many others.
The vote, apart from this mistake, apart from this single vote, quite clearly proves that Strasbourg should remain the seat of Parliament and should retain its rights.
His decision shall be final' .
In this particular case, a roll-call vote was taken.
Mr President, I should like to intervene in application of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure.
I challenge paragraph 12 in its entirety; in other words, from the end of page 9 to the middle of page 11, the whole of paragraph 12.
In accordance with Rule 133(3), I request that, since these Minutes are challenged, Parliament should decide on the following change: ' Delete Item 12 in its entirety in application of Rule 133(2) and (3)' .
I should like Parliament to decide on this request for an amendment to the Minutes.
Yesterday, in connection with a vote, I went to the President's office to ask them to take into account a roll-call vote that I had not been able to cast in time.
Of course, there may sometimes be a need to rectify, note or record in the Minutes the statement of a Member who, claiming to have made an error in voting, fails to find his or her intended vote in the Minutes - especially in the case of a roll-call vote - or, as our colleague has just said, may not have expressed his or her true opinion because of a brief misunderstanding.
In the past, there have been hundreds of cases of Members who have made a mistake in voting, have had it recorded in the Minutes that they have made a mistake, without it changing the result of a vote.
I should like to remind my colleagues that, in defending today a legitimate position that was obviously not shared by the majority of Members yesterday, they are bending the basic principles governing the functioning of this House.
Of course, Members have every right to indicate what their intention was, but it was the result of the vote that counted, and I do not think we should seek through the Minutes to try to rectify mistakes.
Mr President, just a word to say that I have noticed that my name did not appear in the Minutes whereas, as the roll-call votes testify, I was in fact present yesterday.
I feel I must repeat what I said earlier about Rule 123, which is very clear and has always been followed, as several Members have pointed out.
Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure says that the President shall decide whether the result of the vote announced is valid.
Mr President, for myself, I simply want the Minutes to be clear for people outside.
Mrs Fouque is deducted from those who voted for.
In that case, I have to say that this throws some discredit on the votes cast in this Parliament.
More than 200 people are feared dead.
Mr President, I propose that you use Parliament's resolution to protest to the Tunisian authorities against the sentencing of the member of parliament, Mr Khémaïs Chammari.
Mr President, I should simply like to appeal to the Rules of Procedure to indicate that, for Amendments Nos 1 to 7, block II, I did not cast a vote against, but a vote for: in other words, I was in favour of them.
Mr President, I propose, in order to put an end to a debate which threatens to drag on indefinitely, that, notwithstanding the reservations that have been expressed about the Minutes, we immediately pass to a vote on them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, you have called on certain Members to speak several times: you may of course call on anybody several times.
And if I contest the whole of Item 12, it is also because, as I said yesterday at the sitting, even though I asked to speak before the vote on the amendments that I had tabled on behalf of my group, I was not called.
This was a basic infringement of the right of every Member of Parliament to speak before the vote on amendments.
I therefore ask, Mr President, for the vote to be taken on the whole of Item 12 in order to withdraw it and you should put this to the vote immediately because you have opened discussion on the adoption of the agenda and if you alter the agenda you must have the agreement of Parliament. (The President cut the speaker off) Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, I have already answered your question and my answer has not changed.
This recommendation for second reading is concerned with the regulation of the favourable relations that exist between the European Union and South Africa.
In line with the negotiating directives adopted by the Council in June 1995, the European Union and the Government of South Africa have agreed that future financing for development projects will be channelled through a special financing facility of the European Union and not through the European Development Fund.
The explanatory memorandum to the draft regulation at the time recognized the key role played by the European Parliament over the years in support for South Africa.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation has endeavoured to bring about a long-term solution which measures up to the significance of this cooperation.
From this point of view, it is to be welcomed that the common position already contains a number of the amendments proposed by Parliament on first reading.
That applies in particular to the demand that the measures pursued be geared not only to lasting development, but also to environmentally sound development, and that environmental protection projects also be systematically covered by the Regulation.
Hence, from the point of view of Parliament, it is to be welcomed that the demand for an indicative programme is formulated in a more detailed manner than was the case on first reading.
With a budget line of about ECU 130 million a year - and that is not really a huge sum - it makes little sense, in my opinion, to make practically every project subject to approval in Brussels and to leave part of the decision-making to people in the field.
I am completely at a loss to understand why the Council decided to reject Amendment No 6 from first reading.
Mr President, as Commissioner Pinheiro will be well aware, there are many stories coming from South Africa of bureaucracy, confusion, delays and, indeed, of missed opportunities in our dealings with NGOs in that country.
We know, in fact - and I spoke to NGOs in South Africa only yesterday - that the first provisional decisions concerning expenditure in the 1996 budgets were only taken this month.
We know too that the transitional National Development Trust which is responsible for working with NGOs in South Africa only received its first tranche of money on 24 June.
Our first proposal is that the European Commission delegates in South Africa be given the power to authorize expenditure on projects up to a maximum ceiling of ECU 500, 000.
The Development Committee is also extremely concerned with the imposition of a III(a) committee procedure by the Council.
For many years the Union has worked to give the poorest people in South Africa the best kind of support.
The proposal before us today provides us with a much valued opportunity to take this work forward.
It was tremendously encouraging to go back after 20 years and see the transformation that had taken place in South Africa.
In a month in which we have seen Nelson Mandela fêted - and rightly so - in London and in Paris there is all the more reason to be pro-South African and do everything we can to support South Africa and the neighbouring countries, which are very much dependent on the prosperity of South Africa.
It is much more important only to release projects for implementation when human resources are up to proper strength.
Mr President, The European Programme for Reconstruction and Development in South Africa, which needs to be provided with a legal basis, follows a special programme set up in 1985, on the initiative of the European Parliament, to tackle the problems caused by apartheid.
The objective is to promote sustainable economic and social development in South Africa and, therefore, to consolidate the foundations of a democratic society, focusing mainly on aid for the weakest members of the South African population and redefining the sphere of application of cooperation to direct it towards new sectors, such as education, training, health, rural development, urban development, economic cooperation, the promotion of trade and investment, support for very small, small and medium-sized enterprises, and the promotion of good government and increasing democracy.
I think it is really important that priority be given to measures concerning education and vocational training, which have in the past accounted for more than half of the funds allocated to the special programme, including projects in the health sector.
This Regulation certainly takes on special significance in the context of relations between South Africa and the European Union, which have together identified the special financing facility as a means of channelling the future funding of development projects in South Africa, which will not, therefore, be governed by the European Development Fund.
Finally, we need to recognize the commitment that South Africa has convincingly maintained through clear actions to improve conditions in the country, which has, let us remember, undergone a major political change, initiated by President De Klerk and concluded with the first multi-racial elections.
The world has been inspired by the courage of the people of South Africa and the decisions that they have taken during the last few years.
I say that with some feeling, having spent a lot of time travelling backwards and forwards between Europe and South Africa over the last 25 years and had the privilege of being an observer at the elections.
It is important that we make the best use of our resources and contacts and do everything to make our work more effective and more efficient.
The special programme for the victims of apartheid has been the most successful programme of the European Union.
Whilst we are celebrating the visit of Nelson Mandela to Europe, which has been an inspiration in so many ways, it is very important that we continue to show solidarity with the people of South Africa.
But it would be foolish and irresponsible of us to think that what has happened so far in South Africa is already enough to guarantee the future and stability of this great southern African nation.
Nor shall we forget that, after the success of President Mandela's visit to Europe, the situation in South Africa is at this moment in time full of uncertainty and a great number of imbalances.
Having myself visited South Africa several weeks ago in order to launch a policy of partnership between French and South African towns, I became aware, however, that the situation was in some respects disturbing and that the future was threatening.
For although the black population representing 75 % of the total population, now enjoys civil rights, its living conditions have not improved very much and the average income of Whites is eight times that of Blacks.
I believe we can say, without lapsing into pessimism, that, if the living conditions of the black population do not improve significantly in a reasonable time as regards security, employment, housing, public services and education, we can anticipate some unrest.
This would be serious, not only for South Africa, but also for the whole of the African continent because many Africans, both peoples and governments, are turning their eyes towards South Africa.
They expect South Africa to be a model for democracy and also to contribute actively to the economic development and political stability of the African continent.
What is at stake in South Africa is a good part of the future of the African continent in the years to come!
Firstly, because South Africa is an African country that has actually experienced, and is still living, the drama of under-development.
The European Programme for Reconstruction and Development, like the special programme before it, is, together with the trade agreements currently being negotiated and South Africa's accession to some parts of the Lomé Convention, the basic instrument for cooperation with South Africa.
The first concerns the need to continue to involve not only the South African Government and authorities but all the possible agents of development, that is, non-governmental organizations, local authorities, grassroots associations and even European non-governmental organizations, because of the important contribution they can make, both on the technical side and in terms of partnership.
The amendments proposed after the second reading confirm that the European Parliament and the Commission share many points of view which are fundamental in terms of identifying and executing cooperation activities for development in South Africa.
First of all, we want to strengthen those processes which are already under way in South Africa in a crucial phase of transition both in the framework of public institutions -parliament, government and public administration - and civil society, a society where South African NGOs in the past conducted noteworthy activity in particular when apartheid prevented them from having direct interaction with the government.
On the other hand, the European Parliament and the Commission consider that the European Plan for Reconstruction and Development can contribute to the diffusion of those benefits through flexible processes which reflect the basic principles of sound financial management and working methods used in cooperation programmes for development and executed in the framework of the Lomé Convention.
Against this background, the Commission is continuing to make every effort so that execution of the European Plan for Reconstruction and Development can make progress in a way which is similar to that of the national indicative programmes in ACP states, given that the parallels between this European Reconstruction and Development Plan and the European Development Fund might allow a valuable contribution to be made by the Commission and the South African government as well as South African companies in ACP states and the Member States of the Union.
As for the amendments, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in respect of Amendment No 1 the Commission welcomes the new reference to the regulation project in terms of political dialogue with the South African government which, in the opinion of the Commission, is the sole possible interlocutor in the framework of a political dialogue which could prove productive.
In respect of the important question of NGOs, the Commission would like to emphasise once again the decisive role which they played in the fight against apartheid and the importance of not letting them disappear in the context of transition towards democracy and development.
However, I should like to say that some of these NGOs have already played an important role in the execution of the European Plan for Reconstruction and Development in 1995 and 1996.
What might be useful is finding ways, jointly with the South African government, of determining methods which are more flexible and of interest for NGOs and, following the recent reshuffle of the South African government, I think that this might well be possible in the near future.
In respect of Amendment No 3, the Commission has to welcome the fact that, in terms of the committee arrangements planned for monitoring the European Reconstruction and Development programme, the European Parliament is still backing the position taken by the Commission, which is in favour of a 2A-type committee; this is the right one for quickly dealing with questions concerning this very programme.
In respect of Amendment No 4, the Commission also agrees with the European Parliament that there should be no reference to a period of effectiveness nor to a financial appropriation given that this question is the responsibility of the budgetary authority.
Again, I should like to tell you that, in Brussels on 8 July 1996 - in other words, about 11 days ago - the Commission presented to the representatives of the Union Member States eight finance proposals relating to the European Programme for Reconstruction and Development, totalling around 88 million ECU.
All of these projects, prepared together with the South African government, by NGOs and the Commission, with the object of a favourable opinion by the Member States of the Union.
Bearing in mind projects already approved or being approved, this means that, at this moment in time, we have now achieved authorisation of 95 % in terms of the available resources for the European Reconstruction and Development programme.
It might be argued that, given the situation in South Africa, it would be good to have those authorisations by the beginning of the year.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
It is out of the question that we should only vote on such an important report without previously debating it.
I therefore officially request, on behalf of our group, that the debate and vote be deferred to the September part-session in Brussels.
I do not think that would do any justice at all to this subject: the world looks not only at how the European Parliament deals with human rights in Iran, Turkey and elsewhere, but also at how we handle what happens in our own Union.
Thank you very much, Mrs Roth.
Mr President, the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy on which Parliament is now to adopt a position concerns the rules which should govern the disbursement of EU resources for the reconstruction of the former Yugoslavia - just that, nothing more and nothing less.
In accordance with the Union's decision-making procedures the Council should, before reaching a final decision on issues such as this, seek the views of Parliament.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs' proposal contains some valuable ideas, including those on the political conditions for EU aid, on the option of withdrawing aid if the recipients cease to meet the conditions, and on a whole range of issues for which I, as rapporteur, would not be so bold as to take the credit.
Nevertheless, Mr President, it is one issue and one issue alone which really dominates the present report.
At the suggestion of the Commission the Council of Ministers' preliminary decision was that only companies and organisations in EU Member States and from countries in the former Yugoslavia should have the right to submit tenders.
Secondly, companies and economic development in Central and Eastern Europe would receive a boost, and thirdly, some of the funds which the EU is now using for aid to the former Yugoslavia came out of resources which were originally intended for countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
I should stress that the Committee on Foreign Affairs attaches very considerable importance to this matter.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the way the European Union organizes its reconstruction aid to former Yugoslavia leaves much to be desired.
For example, anyone wishing to help Mayor Radic of Banja Luka to hold out against Karadzic must find a way of supporting him directly.
The Committee on Budgetary Control unanimously adopted a proposal to amend the Regulation on those lines.
It is half a year since the reconstruction programme started and this regulation has only now reached Parliament.
My Group thus calls once again for attention to be focused on implementation.
Thank you very much, Mr Wiersma.
I therefore put them to the vote now. (Parliament approved the Minutes of the previous sitting) Madam President, given the importance of this subject I should like to make a few specifications about the Spanish version.
Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, thank you for your intervention.
Having said that, I would be obliged to you if you would let me know immediately when the machines are not working before I declare the vote closed.
Madam President, I am very pleased to propose this oral amendment but have to make it clear that it concerns more particularly Amendment No 11 from the Liberal Group.
The principle of the oral amendment is that any research on the embryo must be forbidden unless its aim is to help the embryos development.
I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is preferable for me to ask you if there are any objections to this oral amendment being considered. (Parliament rejected the oral amendment) Madam President, as this is a fundamental question which concerns the conscience of each individual, my group has decided that everyone should vote as he thinks fit.
Very well, Mrs Gebhardt, it is true that this is an important problem and we are all voting according to our consciences.
If this amendment is adopted, or if this proposal is adopted, it will no longer be possible to use radiotherapy or chemotherapy to treat ovarian cancers or testicular cancers in men.
This being so, I request that gene therapy on germ cells be banned except for treatments of gonad cancers by radiotherapy or chemotherapy. (Parliament rejected the oral amendment) (Parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) Madam President, our main concern through this report and through this vote was, once more, to make it clear to the Commission that we will not accept further cuts in spending on development.
We have to note that these posts have not been created.
Contrary to what has been said, both by the Committee on Budgets and in this Assembly, the decision of the Court of Justice does not mean that the Council is obliged to come to a decision and to reach agreement with Parliament about this classification.
In effect, the European Parliament wishes to be the decision-maker for part of the budgetary funds of these two sectors, accounting for more than 50 % of Union expenditure.
We all know that agriculture now represents no more than 5 % of the electorate in the Union.
As a result, Members of Parliament will tend to favour interests other than those of agriculture.
The composition of the European Parliament is such that farmers and fishermen are under-represented in it, whereas the importance of these social categories in terms of direct and indirect employment, economic production, social equilibrium, national and regional development and preservation of the countryside, is absolutely decisive for some of our countries.
There is thus a great risk that the majority of Members of the European Parliament will give priority to interests other than those of the rural and coastal communities.
Kittelmann report As we voted against the establishment of a customs union between the EU and Turkey we have, for the sake of consistency, abstained from voting on this report.
I voted against the customs union in order to have some leverage in negotiations with Turkey on the issue of human rights.
The chorus of voices from almost all political groups, including the Social Democrats, was in favour of the Customs Union, because it was the only way to support the Çiller Government in the elections and to prevent Turkey from sliding into Islamic fundamentalism.
Today the Islamists there are in the government - and Mrs Çiller has smoothed the path for them into it.
Even before the passing of power to the Islamists, Turkey was a police state with some of the distinguishing marks of a military dictatorship.
I was in Istanbul myself from 1 to 3 June, with a delegation of the Green Group in the European Parliament, on the occasion of the HABITAT II Conference.
There must be no customs union with a state which does not respect even the most basic rights, such as freedom of opinion, and which wages a dirty war against part of its own population, against a whole region.
The Pelttari report would have been a chance to send a very clear signal to the parliamentary assembly and to the Council of Europe, saying that this draft convention must be rejected.
We could have made it clear through our resolution that we intend to oppose the devaluing of human rights, for established human rights must not be called into question.
Hence I think it is a scandal, a sign of moral destitution and a disgrace to the European Parliament that we have failed to adopt this excellent report, which would have sent a clear signal for the rejection of the convention.
Madam President, it is a great pity that Parliament has not adopted the Pelttari report, which expressed reservations about this draft convention, so very dangerous in its present state.
There are undoubtedly some excellent principles to be found in this draft convention, but it refers the most important questions to protocols whose ultimate contents are not known to us and which arouse the deepest concern, particularly as regards the consent of incapacitated people.
Parliament had expressed reservations, which the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights supported, and it is a great pity that, when we voted, we did not endorse these reservations in order to protect the consent of incapacitated people.
I associate myself with what is said in items 3, 4 and 5 of paragraph 12: these should be used as guidelines in drafting the protocol, failing which there would effectively be a real violation of human rights in a matter of the greatest importance.
This is exploitation of human by human and is much more serious than economic, social or any other type of exploitation.
These are not matters which the European Parliament or the Council of Europe can simply pronounce upon from on high.
The report calls for the widest possible public debate and participation in order to form a consensus.
Genetic determinism - the concept that everything about our physical and mental make-up can be identified by reference to our DNA - is a most dangerous road.
Research on human beings without their consent must only be carried out for their direct benefit.
Under the Council of Europe's draft declaration, the parties are supposed to protect the dignity and identity of the human being and guarantee a right of self-determination for all in the areas of biology and medicine.
The Green Group voted in favour of the report because it is important that we now take up a clear critical position towards this international agreement.
Today, in 1996, the situation is often reversed.
The future path of human gene technology is full of ethical and practical problems.
These are not matters which the European Parliament or the Council of Europe can simply pronounce upon from on high.
The report calls for the widest possible public debate and participation in order to form a consensus.
For all these reasons, it was of paramount importance for the European Parliament to take up a position on this subject - even though I was not unreservedly happy with every point in the report.
I should like to express my vote in favour of the Pelttari report on the draft Bioethics Convention, or rather, on 'human rights, biology and medicine' , and stress the need for further clarifications and significant amendments to the draft text.
This means that the Pelttari report needs to be supported as a way of keeping open the debate on these issues, whose importance for the future of humanity means that we must not make any vague or hasty decisions.
Biotechnological development is already taking place in major centres of large economic potential where the participation of specialist scientists determining in the final utilization of discoveries is not always definitive.
The European Union is a moral entity with heavy responsibilities to its own citizens and the citizens of other countries, both those countries which have applied to join the European Union and other regions of the world, which look towards it.
If the Treaty does not allow for accession then the Treaty should be changed and this is the moment to do so.
What is important is that we should not continue to put on for the world the sad spectacle where the Union is very swift to defend its interests but very slow to defend its principles.
The vote against by the European Parliament, given that this text is unsatisfactory, should not be confused with our duty to make an active contribution to the regulation of a vital matter for European research in the coming years.
On the other hand, it forbids Member States to adopt a branch policy.
The EU must adopt direct measures to deal with the problem of mass imports of steelmaking products in the branch from countries that implement dumping practices, either by concluding related agreements or by applying the defensive measures recognised in the context of international trade exchanges.
However, it is my opinion that it is up to each Member State itself to judge and decide whether it wishes to support its steel industry or not.
Fernández-Albor report Madam President, I was forced to abstain, although in my opinion the basic premise of the report is correct.
Secondly, the report does not make sufficiently clear the importance of neutrality as a part of Europe's developing security system.
Madam President, we Austrian Social Democrats are very pleased finally to have been able to vote for this report because, after the adoption of amendments, a security policy perspective which in our opinion is dangerous, risky and, more especially, unacceptable to our country no longer represents the opinion of this House.
Such a system, in particular, must not regard Russia as an adversary but as a partner, and it must be applicable to Europe in the geographic sense.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Austria has a good and successful tradition of neutrality.
Madam President, the Austrian Social Democrats are convinced that the security policy experience gained by our country and its people from our neutrality stance has been positive, not only in historical terms.
We Austrian Social Democrats concede that other countries, like us, have gained security policy experience of their own, which they also consider positive and on which they intend to draw for future needs.
Madam President, we Austrian Social Democrats want to see the European Parliament make an effective contribution to the search for a comprehensive, forward-looking security policy concept.
We Austrian Social Democrats advocate a modern comprehensive security concept.
Either we had a weak, ineffectual policy or no policy at all.
And to make matters worse Member States often spoke with different voices.
Eriksson and Sjöstedt (GUE/NGL), Gahrton, Holm, Lindholm and Schörling (V), in writing. (SV) We have nothing against constructive civil intergovernmental cooperation between EU Member States where this is better able than other forms of foreign policy cooperation to foster peace, democracy and human rights in the rest of the world.
We also oppose the ambition which is evident from this and from other reports to charge EU institutions with international responsibilities which are already vested in existing international organisations of which all the EU Member States are members, such as the UN, OSCE and the Council of Europe.
We consider it obvious that the international peace system should be a comprehensive one, which is true in respect of the UN and OSCE (within its field) but can never be true of the EU.
An effective peace system for the over 50 states in Europe cannot be based on an EU with 15 Member States or for that matter on an EU enlarged, in accordance with current plans, to at most 27 Members.
We do not share the view of the majority that 1995 saw far too little progress on the common foreign and security policy.
That the EU's 15 Member States agreed on 106 declarations, 13 common positions and 10 joint actions should be seen as a positive result of intergovernmental cooperation founded on the unanimous decision-making procedure.
The European Parliament's decision in connection with the Fernández-Albor report demonstrates a lack of respect for the non-aligned Member States.
We believe that in the report the European Parliament is seriously over-interpreting the EU's objective as regards the common foreign and security policy as laid down in Article J.4.
This is all the more evident as a result of France's decision once again to participate fully in NATO cooperation.
The responsibility for issuing binding military security guarantees in respect of its member countries should rest with NATO in the future too.
We do not believe that a successful common foreign and security policy requires a common defence policy, let alone a common defence, in order to be successful.
Lasting common security can only be established through cooperation between democratic states which is based on trust.
As the Fernández-Albor report on progress on the common foreign and security policy approaches the subject from a perspective completely different to that we have described we voted against the report as a whole.
Society has a long-term responsibility to extend, support and protect the rights of children.
The UNO Convention on the rights of children, in common with the recent Conventions of the Hague and the Convention of the Council of Europe in Luxembourg on the abduction of children, have proved ineffectual.
I wish to explain my vote for this joint resolution because I think it is absolutely necessary to harmonize legislative procedures Community-wide on such a delicate subject as that of the abduction of children, as a result of the violation of custody in Member States.
Especially since this is the sector of the population whose rights are most vulnerable and who very often are totally dependent on court decisions which cannot always take account of all the circumstances surrounding a particular case, I insist on the need to give greater scope to this resolution, calling for the revision and extension of the legal instruments at our disposal and making them explicit in this resolution, such that they include extremes such as leaving the conjugal home or even the country of residence because of ill-treatment, harassment or discrimination, directed either against the child or children or the parent, and that special attention is paid to the causes behind each case of abduction so as to guarantee legal aid based on the respect of human rights, women's rights and children's rights.
The harmonization of these laws and rights must be the basis of all legal provisions for this purpose.
It is very unjust because we are short of sheep.
Mr Debatisse even proposed fixing an electronic chip in the ear of every sheep to monitor them by satellite!
So I ask that we do justice to the shepherds, who had managed to make a move towards what was going to be a fundamental part of our identity, and I also ask the European Court of Auditors in its turn to stop thinking that ECU 1 per kilo is too dear.
It is inconceivable that France should have continued its nuclear tests and that the United Kingdom should continue to take part in US nuclear programmes or that China should still explode atomic bombs.
The European Parliament would be making a primordial contribution to that step if, by adopting this resolution, it made it known to the General Assembly of the United Nations so that a new step for mankind can be taken.
The first deadline for the test ban treaty has passed and the second one is very close.
The world is waiting for a treaty of this kind.
Mr Bertens, I have taken note of the remarks you made at the beginning but please bear in mind that to err is human and that the agenda is not amended unless a vote in plenary has authorized any changes.
Mr President, a full year ago agreement was reached in New York to extend the NonProliferation Treaty sine die .
But the earlier deadline of 28 June as the date for an agreement has regrettably not been met.
The new deadline has been set for 12 August so that the treaty can be submitted to the 51st General Assembly of the UN.
Like the European Parliament, the Commission hopes that the members of the Conference on Disarmament will reach an agreement before 12 August 1996 allowing the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty to be signed before the end of the year, and so help to strengthen the conditions for international security and hence the security of the European Union.
Thank you very much, Mr de Silguy.
Mr President, the International War Crimes Tribunal was set up to bring war criminals to justice.
From the outset Judge Richard Goldstone made clear that his mission would only be meaningful if the top culprits in Bosnia and elsewhere were brought to justice.
The man who took 25, 000 inhabitants of Srebrenica, over 50 % of the entire population, and had almost all of the males massacred, whilst the United Nations looked the other way, desecrating the name of safe haven.
Karadzic and Mladic will only surrender if they are forcefully arrested.
Vukovar, Dubrovnik, Srebrenica and the War Crimes Tribunal will be our tombstones.
The implementation of the terms of the Dayton Agreement and, in particular, the unhindered staging of the free elections planned for 14 September, must make way for an auspicious new beginning for this tortured country and its people.
This and growing evidence of the involvement of Karadzic and Mladic in the terrible atrocities of the war make it urgently necessary that the international arrest warrants against both be executed as soon as possible, at all events before 14 September.
Mr President, the former Yugoslavia and Bosnia-Herzegovina are really an open wound in the EU's conscience.
When I visited Banja Luka in Bosnia last week, and also Croatia, I observed that the elections to be held on 14 September cannot be implemented unless those indicted of terrible war crimes are brought before the Court of Justice in the Hague.
The debate has centred on Karadzic and Mladic but I am not so naïve as not to see that there are some 30 people on all sides in this war, as Carl Bildt mentioned, who should be brought before the Hague Court.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I should first like to recall that three years ago, when the International Tribunal was set up, there were many Members of this Parliament who criticized this initiative or expressed scepticism about the first serious initiative by the international community regarding Yugoslavia.
Today, thanks to three years of unremitting work, but also thanks to the tenacity of the President of the Tribunal, the public prosecutor, the judges and the investigators, Parliament is in a position to support the request for the arrest of the two main people responsible for organizing the ethnic cleansing policy and, in particular, for the tragedies of Srebrenica and Zepa.
So many very good reasons, therefore, to vote with conviction in favour of this resolution.
In so doing, Parliament is once again calling attention to the unacceptability of continuing to allow these two persons, still living in the Republika Srpska, to remain free.
The Federal Yugoslav Republic and the Republika Srpska have not fulfilled their obligations in this matter and have thus violated the peace accords.
The international community has a political and moral duty to bring these two accused without delay before the International War Crimes Tribunal.
All the efforts, both military and civilian, made up till now would then have been in vain.
The next item is the debate on 20 motions for a resolution on human rights.
I wish also, on behalf of my Group and on my own account too, to express my support for the persistence and courage of Aung San Suu Kyi.
It is crucial and of major importance that we work hard to secure democracy and human rights in this country which is ruled by a dictatorship.
All the diplomatic efforts to clarify the circumstances of his death have been dismissed by the regime in Rangoon.
In my view and that of the PPE Group, the time has come for the EU to take steps to apply sanctions against the regime in Rangoon.
I would endorse Commissioner Marín's view that the ASEAN countries should be helping to move Burma in the direction of democracy.
Otherwise, this could have a direct bearing on the EU's relations with ASEAN.
I also welcome the fact that all the groups in Parliament have worked closely together to increase the pressure on Burma.
The Consul's arbitrary arrest by the Burmese authorities for operating telephones and fax machines at his home without permission, the authorities' refusal to allow him to be attended by a doctor, his delicate state of health and, above all, the serious violations of human rights that are going on in Burma, all call for urgent special investigation by the entire international community.
Mr President, the military dictatorship in power in Burma is once again becoming notorious for its cruelty, its inhumanity, its despotism.
In the first place, questions should be raised about the observer status granted to Burma in the ASEAN Regional Forum.
It would be desirable for the Commission and the Council to denounce this decision at the next meeting of this Assembly.
Let us decide to break off all relations with that country, whether it is over investment, trade or tourism.
Let us follow the example of the Carlsberg and Heineken Companies and make the Burmese government face its responsibilities.
Mr President, I should like to address the Commissioner, because what we are calling for in this debate are measures that European Parliament has been calling for unanimously for several months.
But the Council and Commission have done nothing, absolutely nothing.
The Council has even refused to make a statement on the sanctions proposed by Denmark after the murder - and that is what it was - of James Nicols.
If the Commission refuses to move in this direction, it must at least explain its reasons, Mr Commissioner.
According to information from the IMF, 3.1 % of the gross domestic product of Burma in 1994 was generated by forced labour.
Mr President, you recognize of course, just as the Commission does, that what we are dealing with here is one of the most barbaric regimes in the world; a regime which relies upon child labour, forced labour and slave labour for its very existence.
Aung San Suu Kyi has today, in a video in this Parliament, spoken unequivocally about the need for economic sanctions, for a stop to all investments, an end to tourism, and for every possible measure to be taken to isolate that regime.
The fact that she, as the democratic leader of the opposition in that country, is asking the European Union to do that should surely be a signal to us to take action immediately.
Nelson Mandela has been visiting Europe recently and it was that kind of economic pressure that brought the apartheid regime in South Africa to its knees.
These are the kind of practical measures, economic measures, which will bring the political change that Aung San Suu Kyi wishes to see.
We recognize in the European Union, as the Commission well knows, that in our dealings with third countries we should work for the promotion of democracy and human rights.
We are, of course, as others have said, very encouraged by the fact that Heineken, Carlsberg, Levi Strauss and to a certain extent Pepsi Cola, have, as a result of citizen's pressure, pulled out of that country.
I am grateful to Carlsberg and Heineken, because they have pulled out, but how can anyone bring themselves to embark on a joint venture in a country where their partner will be the Defence Ministry in a military junta?
As paragraph 9 of the resolution states, we are of course extremely glad that Heineken and Carlsberg have pulled out.
Lastly, in line with paragraph 10 of our resolution, I would ask the Commission to ensure that others do not step in to fill the vacancies created.
Cyprus Mr President, the Cyprus problem is an issue of human rights for both Greek and Turkish Cypriots.
The presence of 35, 000 Turkish troops occupying over one-third of the island of Cyprus denies the human rights of Greek Cypriots but also of Turkish Cypriots.
Progressive forces in the occupied area are recognizing, with the support of the European Commission and this Parliament, that membership of the European Union for Cyprus and the imminent accession talks provide not just the right future for Cyprus but also a window of opportunity to solve the Cyprus problem.
Increasingly, over the last two years there has been an escalation of terrorist activity often focused on those very progressive forces promoting and discussing the future of a united Cyprus as a member of the European Union.
He was murdered on 6 July in occupied Nicosia.
The illegal regime and the Turkish security forces must act to find the perpetrators of these acts and the person or persons who murdered Kutlu Adali.
Kutlu Adali was one such.
Today, Cyprus is the most highly militarized place in the world, in relation to its size.
Mr President, more than ever Europe should make amends for what it has done since the fall of the Ottoman Empire in 1922.
I urge the international community to put pressure on the so-called Turkish Cypriot Government not to endanger the safety of its critics.
So I think it is a good thing we are having this debate on Cyprus in the House and I hope it will not be the last time we do so.
I believe that, if we do not wish our declarations on respect for human rights and on the right of refugees to humane treatment to remain hollow words, we owe it to ourselves to move on to a very clear policy of solidarity.
Madam President, on 10 May there was a mass break-out of Vietnamese refugees from the Whitehead Detention Camp in Hong Kong.
On the other hand, we call on the Commission to use its efforts in international fora in order to ensure that funds are made available for new repatriation programmes under which people from Hong Kong and other Asian states or from Europe can settle in Vietnam, if that is what they want.
No asylum-seekers must be expelled from Hong Kong or from the Federal Republic of Germany, and I think that the Commission should promote a programme for Vietnam, making use of the 17 million budgeted.
Madam President, my Group has been following with interest the political developments in Ethiopia, where the Addis Abbaba government has, over the past few years, taken some significant steps forward as regards democracy and human rights.
We believe that this process should be supported by the European Union.
He was arrested at Addis Ababa Airport without charges.
I believe his own personal safety is at risk and I hope that when Parliament votes on this resolution that the Philippine Government will be made aware of the serious concern we have for Father Cullen's personal safety and for his campaign to protect these very much at-risk children.
Madam President, I have little to add really to the points my colleague Mrs Banotti has outlined so well.
Those like Father Shay Cullen who take it upon themselves to do something about it deserve our support.
Neither Father Cullen nor his colleague were given adequate medical treatment in police custody and both had to be taken for medical treatment at a later stage.
Most ominously, the lives of Father Cullen, his assistant and legal adviser have been threatened.
Instead of harassing Father Cullen, the Filipino authorities should welcome the work that he has been doing in their country.
The work of Father Shay Cullen is typical of the work carried out by Irish missionaries not only in the Philippines but throughout the world.
He has railed against the sex tourism so predominant in the Philippines.
This House should learn a great deal from the work and commitment of Father Shay Cullen.
I hope that the House lends its full support to this important resolution.
Algeria Madam President, the Algerian government does not accept critical journalists.
In the name of the just and necessary fight against terrorism, muzzling the press is unfortunately the order of the day and freedom of speech is being threatened.
On 4 July, many European journalists could not obtain a visa to take part in a meeting to express solidarity with Algerian journalists.
On the same day, the cartoonist Chawki Amari was imprisoned, his newspaper 'La Tribune' was banned and his management was placed under legal restrictions.
Algerian journalists are in an unenviable situation.
At the same time, we are pleased at the continuation of the dialogue with democratic forces that is currently in progress, and we hope that this will lead to the settlement of a crisis which has lasted only too long.
Madam President, I belong to the generation who came to understand what was going on in the colonised parts of the world through the Algerian war and I actively supported the Algerian freedom fighters.
The arrest of Chawki Amari on 4 July is simply one of the most recent pieces of evidence that the Algerian regime is unable to deal with the problems in a democratic manner.
Our message of solidarity from the European Parliament, firmly in favour of press freedom and calling for this journalist's release, must not in any way be seen as alien but as a point of departure for an attitude of dialogue and joint action as Euro-Mediterranean partners, since we share the same aims of peace and democracy.
Algeria is going through very difficult times but there are the multilateral talks which are hopeful and the start of negotiations on an association agreement.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of expression and freedom of information should always be respected where respect for the rule of law and democracy is demanded.
It is important that such freedom be established in Algeria and in some other States, where freedom of the press is being seriously violated.
In any case a political dialogue must be established as soon as possible with all the Algerian authorities and democratic powers, to find a solution to the current crisis and, hence, restore as quickly as possible the civil peace needed for the forthcoming legislative elections.
Finally, I should like to express my full solidarity with all those who are being deprived of their freedom because of violations of human rights and democracy, but especially because there is no freedom of expression and opinion.
Anachronistic because nothing can any longer prevent ideas from circulating.
Salman Rushdie Madam President, the Council of Ministers is currently holding discussions with Iran on a number of issues, including Salman Rushdie.
We in the Liberal Group hope that Parliament, like us, will oppose anything which Iran can interpret as any kind of recognition - silent, implicit or indirect - of Khomeini's fatwa against Salman Rushdie.
Arrest of Father Tomislav Matanovic Madam President, as you know yourself, our group was in Banja Luka exactly a week ago today.
The Serbian authorities maintain that they would have intervened on his behalf but that the local police chief will not authorize his release, although he has not been charged with anything - he has simply been thrown into jail.
The Commission shares Parliament's concern about the deterioration in the political situation in Burma.
The defamatory remarks recently published in the official Burmese press have particularly offended the Commission, which supports any initiative that might bring the Burmese government to adopt a line of conduct more in keeping with international practice.
The Commission supports the proposal from some Member States to use the next meetings with ASEAN, particularly in the Asian Regional Forum, to insist on the need to renew the dialogue between all democratic and ethnic forces in Burma.
The Commission will continue its efforts at conciliation in Cyprus by making contact with the Turkish Cypriot community about the prospective accession of Cyprus to the European Union.
I would remind you that European Union policy on Cyprus was reaffirmed at the last EU-Cyprus Association Council.
While of course sharing the concern of the European Parliament, the Commission wishes to direct your attention to the following items of information: in March 1996, the Steering Committee responsible for the global plan of action of the International Conference on Refugees from IndoChina removed the principal remaining obstacles to a humanly acceptable solution to the tragedy of the Vietnamese Boat People (this agreement should now end this tragedy); Malaysia and Singapore closed their camps at the end of May and June 1996 and the same thing will happen in Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines; in the case of Hong Kong, the majority of the repatriation operations have been progressing normally; Vietnam has accepted the return of some 70, 000 of its citizens and their situation is being closely monitored by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees, which has not observed any cases of discrimination.
It has also been decided, in the context of coordination between Member States and the Commission in Addis Ababa, to undertake common action to collect, compare and verify data relating to violations of human rights and, of course, to speak to the government about this.
The Commission is engaged in open dialogue with the government of the Philippines and other governments in the region about human rights.
As regards the particular case of Father Shay Cullen, the Commission is in a position to state that he was actually arrested on 13 June last but was quickly released.
The Commission, which has had the opportunity to take part in some of the activities of Father Shay Cullen's Preda Foundation against child prostitution, nevertheless immediately asked that an enquiry be quickly carried out on the spot.
Sadly, Algeria is in the throes of a crisis which is putting the political normalization of the country to the test.
The Algerian government has also shown that it is keen to negotiate an association agreement with the European Union, in which respect for human rights and democratic principles will form an essential element.
The Commission is actively encouraging the Algerian government to implement its multilateral commitments and national measures that could lead to the political normalization of the country.
In addition, the Commission will soon be in a position to announce the first projects for financial aid to the press, adopted as part of the media-democracy programme created on the initiative of the European Parliament in 1996.
Point 7: the fatwa against Salman Rushdie.
The Commission shares the profound concern of the European Parliament over the adoption and continuation of the fatwa against Salman Rushdie.
I should also remind you that the General Affairs Council of 22 April 1996 decided to make the dialogue with Iran more critical.
For the Commission, the continuation of a critical dialogue with Iran is an effective instrument for producing a change in Iran's behaviour sooner or later.
The eighth and last point is the arbitrary arrest of Tomislav Matanovic.
The Commission is as concerned as the European Parliament by the arbitrary detention since 24 August 1995 of Father Tomislav Matanovic and his parents at Prijedor in the 'Republika Srpska' .
The Commission has enquired about this case.
Madam President, may I be allowed to ask one or two supplementaries?
I can assure you that the Commission will take into account the essential elements concerning human rights and democracy, in accordance with the powers vested in it for the application of these regulations.
Madam President, I put questions which have not been answered.
I think I am entitled to an answer to the two other questions concerning investment and the report on forced labour.
If the Commissioner is not able to reply at this moment would he be good enough at least to give me a reply in writing?
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Madam President, the Liberal Group is a cosignatory of the joint resolution on Taiwan and this is not the first time that Parliament has been called on to stress the positive role played by Taiwan in the development of the Far East and its contribution to aid for developing countries.
The aim of this proposal is to go further.
We all remember that since 1971 Continental China has been the only official Chinese Member State in the UN.
First of all, in the 1980s there was the remarkable economic development which led to democratization, and also in the 1980s there was a rapprochement between Continental China and Taiwan and an improvement in relations between them.
The situation suddenly changed in the 1990s, when relations cooled noticeably, partly because Taiwan's democratic development had speeded up considerably and Taiwan was beginning to be regarded as a fully democratic society along the West European model.
Taiwan's international importance both in Asia and here in Europe is so great, and Taiwan's contribution is so important now in terms of development cooperation, environmental activities and other areas, that Taiwan can in my opinion no longer be left outside the international organizations under the auspices of the UN.
I have myself drawn up a report on the subject in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which was adopted here, as I mentioned, in April this year with only two members opposing it, but which owing to the opposition of the Socialist Group and for technical reasons it has not been possible to debate in this house.
All the European Union Member States have their own information offices in Taipei, and I have therefore proposed that the European Union could also open an information office there.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, by voting for this resolution today Parliament will show that it is appalled by realpolitik .
By voting for this resolution, Parliament will affirm, admittedly with moderation but with a great sense of responsibility, that the exclusion of Taiwan from the international community is unacceptable.
Madam President, the Green Group in the European Parliament has joined in tabling this joint motion for a resolution, since we support the legitimate desire of Taiwan to be admitted to the international community of nations.
This gave us all the more reason for concern over China's sabre-rattling at the time of the elections in Taiwan.
The European Commission has over the past two years been systematically promoting economic relations with China.
A first concrete step would be to open a European Union information office in Taipei.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ever since the nationalists were forced to flee the Chinese mainland and seek refuge in former Formosa, now Taiwan, an enormous amount has been achieved on that island through hard work and intelligence and with the support of overseas Chinese elsewhere in the world.
Taiwan, with only 21 million inhabitants, is an economic power to be reckoned with in the world economy.
My Group will request a split vote on these points.
It had been the long-standing custom of the European Parliament to draw up reports on the political situation in particular regions through its committees, especially the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what is the problem with Taiwan as regards international law?
Even States which maintain diplomatic relations solely with Beijing have to take account of this large island with a population of 20 million ruled by a genuine, effective, stable and peaceful power.
Taiwan is an important partner in the world economy and a significant trading partner of the European Union and most of the Member States.
Taiwan's children cannot benefit form the services of UNICEF.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has taken careful note of Parliament's call to open an information office in Taiwan.
The question of opening an office once Taiwan becomes a member of the World Trade Organization could be re-examined, provided of course that there are sufficient budgetary resources.
Any possible office of this type would not be a delegation with diplomatic status, but an office responsible for defending the interests of the Union.
I would remind you in any case that the European Union's interests in Taiwan are mainly of a commercial nature, so that the work of the office in question would inevitably be centred on commercial matters, but could of course also be extended to areas such as information and culture as many European universities have links with Taiwan universities.
Eventually, the office would be very similar to those that some Member States and a few third countries have already opened in Taiwan.
The decision to open such an office would therefore be in accordance with the policy long pursued by the Union in that part of the world.
But to make things perfectly clear: we voted against urgency for Taiwan on Wednesday evening and we would far rather see the subject dealt with in the normal manner via a normal report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
Madam President, may I ask the Commissioner if the European Commission will be closing its delegations in all countries which are not members of the World Trade Organization?
Madam President, I should like to state very briefly that we should not be hypocritical and two-faced in this house but should discuss matters openly.
Do not worry, Mr Gollnisch, we are not waiting for the green light from the WTO, but the European Union has very precise powers as far as trade is concerned and hence it seems obvious that the day when Taiwan joins the World Trade Organization will have an effect on trade relations between the European Union and Taiwan.
That is why, given the powers of the European Union, the WTO is taken into account; it is, of course, certainly not because we have to ask for authorization from the World Trade Organization, an authorization that in any case it would have great difficulty in giving us.
Madam President, I have to say again that to argue in terms of the WTO, Commissioner, is not actually an answer.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The intention in admitting Russia to the Council of Europe was to exert rather more influence on the situation on the ground.
Without even waiting for the official announcement of the result of the presidential elections, Mr Yeltsin went back on his statement that he wanted a peaceful solution to the Chechen problem and immediately ordered a new military offensive that has already caused hundreds of deaths over the past few days.
In so doing, he destroys the confidence of all the voters in his country.
After the start of negotiations and President Yeltsin's promises during the election campaign, we had every hope that this bloody and tragic conflict would be ended by a political solution and that actual peace negotiations would begin.
The European Parliament cannot and will not remain silent in the face of such conduct.
The great majority of Members of the European Parliament are interested in good and intensive cooperation with Russia.
General Lebed said up to election day that he was in favour of ending the Chechen war and after the election - bearing out what I said earlier - that he favoured a military solution.
In a word: we have again been completely misled in the matter of this Chechen war, at least those who took the declarations seriously.
Finally, Madam President, there is something else we must realize: Russia today, in the age of decolonization worldwide, is the last great colonial empire on earth.
And what is happening in Chechnya is only the start of decolonization in Russia.
It seems to us that, once and for all - and not only in the case of Chechnya but also Turkey and many other countries - the European Union must use the means of pressure at its disposal in its agreements, thanks to the democratic and human rights protection clauses, to avoid such massacres.
The European Union, including the European Parliament, must be told that this pressure is absolutely necessary if we want to bring an end to killings in Chechnya and if we want to end the violations of human rights in so many countries.
For the most part, I share your anxiety and I can assure you that the Commission is seriously concerned by recent developments in the situation in Chechnya.
The Commission regrets that the two parties have not fulfilled the undertakings they gave in the cease-fire agreements of 21 May 1996 and 10 June 1996.
The Commission is particularly worried about the difficulties experienced by the OSCE assistance group in Grozny, commissioned to mediate between the two sides.
The Commission is also concerned about the working conditions of the humanitarian aid organizations.
The European Union is by far the largest provider of humanitarian aid to Chechnya.
The Commission is monitoring the situation in close collaboration with Member States and strongly reiterates its disquiet over the new outburst of violence in Chechnya.
The Commission calls on Russia to honour the commitments it has made, particularly at the time of its accession to the Council of Europe.
Mr President, Mr Cars' report is most important in that it opens up new and improved perspectives for the whole of former Yugoslavia and Bosnia-Herzegovina in particular.
The Cars report raises an important question concerning the overseeing of policy.
It is particularly regrettable that the Council has favoured Article 12 as a means of clipping the Commission's wings completely.
I think it is most important to get Article 12 changed, as Parliament wants.
Mr President, following the many political pronouncements on the form which aid to former Yugoslavia should take it is now time to discuss the regulation on the basis of which that aid may be given.
I think it is important that this regulation too should include the conditionality to which we have already given so much attention in this House.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, reconstruction aid for former Yugoslavia has to satisfy two criteria: it must be possible to deploy it quickly and efficiently.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course the Commission proposal is rather late in coming.
With these aid measures, the reconstruction in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia could be ready for take-off if the conditions demanded by Parliament were really enforced.
In order to secure such an accommodating attitude on the part of the local authorities, supplementary economic or training projects could be financed on a local basis.
In 1996, about ECU 125 million will be allocated to this effort.
In view of the urgent nature of the reconstruction effort, a first instalment of ECU 27 million can already be committed.
The budget heading 'aid to refugees' provided with ECU 30 million will be allocated as soon as possible, in consultation with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Member States.
The Commission is also in favour of the amendments on: the duration of application of the Regulation, Amendment No 6; the transparency of its implementation, Amendment No 7; the conditions for the granting of aid, Amendment No 10, which also corresponds to the initial Commission proposal.
It is also in favour of the principle of decentralization expressed in the first part of Amendment No 14; of the regular briefing of Parliament, of course, Amendment No 21; and of the comitology procedure, Amendment No 19.
The Commission is also in a position to accept the principle of inserting a special suspension clause for cases where the conditions for the granting of aid are infringed, Amendment No 11.
However, it is of the opinion that the proposed procedure is cumbersome and probably has little applicability.
Wishing to reserve the full role of Parliament in this area, the Commission intends to make a statement to the Council about the rapid briefing of your Assembly using a procedure identical to that agreed for financial cooperation with Turkey.
On the other hand, the Commission cannot accept a new budgetary formula - that is Amendment No 9 - it prefers to retain the traditional standard formula of the trialogue; neither can it accept a general relief from taxes and customs duties: Amendment No 16, which would pose other problems.
The additional comment relating to elements of control and evaluation - Amendment No 20 - seems to us no longer necessary.
The Commission is of the opinion however that these points are already sufficiently taken into account in the Regulation proper and in the many statements by the Union.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I am presenting to this Assembly the report on the deliberations of the Committee on Petitions of the European Parliament for the period 14 March 1995 to 11 March 1996.
Mr President, the Committee on Petitions is one of the European Union's bodies that brings us closest to European citizens.
Although this number is modest, I wish to point out that we have examined 1169 petitions over the last year, of which just over 600 were declared admissible; however, if you bear in mind that many of these petitions are signed by large numbers of citizens - in the case of collective petitions - we see that more than 700, 000 citizens expressed their confidence in the European Parliament to voice their complaints and to ask it to act as go-between.
From this point of view, I must emphasise the need for all committees and delegations to realise the importance of the concerns raised by the Committee on Petitions because this is really a way of responding to the confidence that our citizens have shown in us.
Mr President, the problem is more important when we cooperate with the Commission.
Mr President, I think it is important for the Commission to be aware of the importance of the work carried out in the Committee on Petitions, which is now being backed up thanks to the cooperation of the European Ombudsman.
Finally, Mr President, there have been five amendments to the report.
To that extent, the wording of paragraph 7 of the resolution is much too mild; we parliamentarians have direct experience of the exasperation felt at bureaucratic case-handling and delays.
Even so, anyone who has read the report will have noted that, in many cases, it was possible to help petitioners in securing their rights.
These petitions which reach a favourable outcome give us members of the Committee on Petitions the courage to persevere in applying all our energies to defending the interests of our fellow citizens.
Secondly, there is no point announcing and publicizing a right if the exercise of that right is hampered by a lack of resources, both material and immaterial.
We still have 500 petitions under consideration which are more than a year old.
One again my thanks to the rapporteur for his excellent report and I commend our amendments to the House.
Mr President, the right to petition is very popular in the literal sense of the word, especially if you as a citizen can demonstrate serious infringements of a right, in this case Community law.
Mr Newman, I hope we shall see more of each other in your Committee on Petitions.
Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that I personally and the Green Group approve Mr Gutiérrez Díaz' report.
I fully support the proposals in the report and would stress especially the following points: closer interaction between the Committee on Petitions and the other committees, with a follow-up including legislation, on major issues raised in petitions; the need for a good collaborative relationship between the Committee on Petitions and the European Ombudsman; greater commitment by the Commission and Council to follow-up problems raised by the Committee on Petitions and the content of petitions submitted to it; criticism of delays and inadequate collaboration with the Member States named in petitions; finally, the need to deal with petitions speedily and effectively.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary year 1995-1996 was marked by the long procedure involved in electing the European Ombudsman.
As the European Ombudsman works from Strasbourg, the official seat of this body, we could well envisage holding meetings of our Committee in Strasbourg in order, firstly, to shorten the delays gradually and, secondly, to mark symbolically the close cooperation between the European Parliament and the Ombudsman in Strasbourg, their common seat.
It is regrettable that, in the case of Member States, this cooperation is somewhat grudging, particularly when the complainant alleges infringement of Community law by the Member State in question.
However, I do not support the rapporteur's wish that the Commission should proceed further against recalcitrant Member States before the Court of Justice by invoking Article 169 of the Treaty.
This is because it is important for our citizens to avoid long and complex stages of litigation, when very often a favourable outcome can be achieved by negotiation.
Turning to the basis of the petitions recorded and dealt with, we see that a large number of complaints citing serious breaches of Community environmental legislation have been filed this year.
You know that my group is very concerned about the full preservation of national sovereignties and a very strict respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
Nevertheless, in environmental matters, it is important for the European Union to exercise wider powers in a field which, by definition, is not confined within national boundaries.
Mr Gutiérrez Díaz is a very active and senior Member of Parliament in a range of areas, including the Committee on Petitions.
The quality of the report reflects his experience and involvement.
There are petitions concerning taxation matters, freedom of movement and recognition of diplomas, access to education, access to work, conditions of work, residence permits, transfer of social rights, border controls for all the people who are trying or have tried to exercise their rights of free movement, their rights within the European Union.
The committee is much more open than it used to be.
One of the reasons why petitions sometimes stay open for two or three years is because we are batting them back and forwards to the Member States either via the Commission or directly, trying to get a response, trying to get assistance and support for the petitioner.
The best way citizens can get support and we can get help in our work in assisting citizens is if the Member States take the right to petition the European Parliament - which they have agreed to in an Interinstitutional agreement and in the Maastricht Treaty - more seriously.
It is a good sign for this report, which opens the door to a new phase of activity.
In a context of freedom, security, peace and progress, I would say that the European Union has found the right formula for making its citizens feel included, alongside and within European Institutions.
Article 138 of the Treaty states that: ' Any citizen of the Union, and any natural or legal person residing or having his registered office in a Member State, shall have the right to address, individually or in association with other citizens or persons, a petition to the European Parliament on a matter which comes within the Community's fields of activity...' , etc, etc.
We must also clearly indicate the limits within which this Committee can and must work.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's annual appraisal of petitions addressed to it by European citizens provides an appropriate moment to reflect on the relationship existing between these citizens and the European Union.
When addressing a petition to the European Parliament, a citizen of the Union complains of the faulty application of Community legislation but by so doing, he also expresses his confidence that the European Parliament, together with the other institutions, will redress the injustice he believes he has suffered.
At a time when a debate is taking place in the context of the Intergovernmental Conference on ways of bringing the citizens of the European institutions closer to each other, such a direct relationship between the citizen and Parliament must be preserved and encouraged.
These petitions are concerned with such sensitive areas for our citizens as social security, the environment, taxation, freedom of movement for persons, recognition of diplomas and degrees, to quote only a few of the principal ones, but a few that undoubtedly concern the citizen most deeply.
To guarantee full respect for Community legislation in these areas and to strengthen this legislation for the benefit of the citizen: these are tasks that the Commission considers to be essential.
The inclusion of the right to petition in the Treaty was, for the European Commission, an additional encouragement to reply as quickly and pertinently as possible to requests from the European Parliament relating to petitions.
Mr President, a few words now, if I may, on monitoring the application of Community law and on the information given by the European Commission to the Committee on Petitions.
In expressing its opinion on the annual reports of the Commission relating to the application of Community law, Parliament has recognized the progress made in this area as well, but it has expressed wishes, of which the Commission has taken careful note, particularly as regards speeding up the infringement procedures: I can tell you that the Commission will be very willing to agree to make additional efforts to shorten the time taken for the transmission of these communications to the Committee on Petitions.
The Commission is also endeavouring to improve its procedures in order to make its actions consistent and effective.
I can assure you that the Committee on Petitions will continue to receive from the European Commission all the information necessary for the effective treatment of citizens' petitions.
But the person we have not heard from is the one responsible for the great hold-ups in the work of the Committee on Petitions, namely the President of the Bureau of Parliament who is also responsible for the Secretariat-General.
I would have appreciated it if the Bureau of Parliament had replied at this sitting to all the substantive arguments put forward here concerning the organization of Parliament itself, organization of the secretariat, the registering of petitions.
There is not much that is right about this House and there is no point meeting again next year, debating another excellent report and then concluding that once again nothing has changed.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this House has been asked for its opinion on the proposal for a Council Decision concluding an Agreement for scientific and technical cooperation between the European Community and the State of Israel.
Our political message is: we seek to deepen relations and to promote continuity in political action by means of binding agreements and treaties.
I should like to add a few comments addressed to the Commission.
Secondly, Israel should be involved in the assessment of the Fourth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development and in the discussion on the direction of the Fifth Framework Programme.
Fifthly, I hope to see a broad information campaign on the new possibilities for cooperation in our countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the excellent report by our colleague Mr Stockman on scientific and technical cooperation between the European Union and Israel explains clearly what this agreement is and why it is therefore necessary to vote for it without reservations and without uncertainties.
It is an important partnership agreement, cofinanced by Europe and Israel as part of the fourth research framework programme.
This is also the first time that a non-European country will be able to take part in Community research.
As a French socialist, I shall unhesitatingly vote for it.
As a representative of the Party of European Socialists, I bring the support of my group.
Their concern, and ours, is justified when we read the programme of the new Prime Minister, when we look at the composition of his government and when we hear some of the statements being made.
Nor does anything today entitle anybody to prejudge the results of discussions which are only beginning between the new government and its neighbours.
Our scientific cooperation agreement fits perfectly into this process.
We must therefore implement it quickly, give it full scope, and form a partnership between the European Parliament and the Knesset through Parliament's Delegation for relations with Israel in order to monitor it.
We must look for ways of encouraging the Palestinians to participate in these efforts and their results.
And for the survival of peace, all possible partnerships must be developed between us.
With the exception of programmes on fusion and nuclear safety, it works in all the fields covered by the Fourth Framework Programme.
The Water Task Force which has been set up will certainly be of great interest to Israel.
Proper water management in the Mediterranean region, especially in the Middle East, contributes to peace among the nations of the area.
Mr President, Commissioner, under the agreement we are examining, a non-European country - Israel - will for the first time be extensively associated with the Community framework programme for research and technological development.
In granting Israel such a, shall we say, exceptional position, the European Union has taken account of the advanced state of research in Israel but also, and particularly, of the political importance of this association in the context of the Middle East peace process.
Israel has highly sophisticated scientific research and is technologically very advanced so can be profitable to the European Union.
So the Liberal Group welcomes this cooperation.
The cooperation agreement was concluded by the Commission and representatives of Israel.
It is also good that EU research should not be geared solely to EU Member States and that the EU should open its eyes to the fact that a world exists outside the Union - this is tremendously important.
I raised this issue in committee yesterday and was told that I would get a reply from the Commission in writing.
Firstly, in view of the secretive nature of the Israeli nuclear weapons programme as revealed 10 years ago by Mordechai Vanunu, I have reservations on Israeli participation in the nuclear sectors of research.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement represents a great opportunity both for Israel and for the European Union.
As a member of both the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media and the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, I have a strong interest in the link between research and education, training and continuing education.
The particularly favourable position of Israel as regards educational software, which I have referred to, represents an ideal field of cooperation for the European Union.
The Task Force on Multimedia and Educational Software, set up by the European Commission, has already taken on a supporting role in relation to possible projects in this field.
Israel is also participating in the preparations for joint projects.
Allow me to reply to a number of very intelligent questions raised quite rightly by several speakers.
Firstly, as regards the information to be provided about the progress of the negotiations, I am told that the services of the Commission had already been able to brief the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy about the progress of the negotiations with Israel.
Secondly, concerning the encouragement of Israeli and Palestinian researchers to cooperate in order to participate in invitations to tender, I can say that the Palestinians and the Israelis can already participate jointly in the international programme for scientific and technological cooperation.
This is activity 2 in the fourth Community outline programme and four large areas are therefore open to such cooperation: renewable natural resources, agriculture and the agri-industry, medicine and health, and advanced technologies such as information technology, biotechnology, materials and energy.
As provided for in the agreement, the Commission will be able to call on Israeli experts as on experts from Member States of the European Union.
The scientific and technological cooperation agreement with Israel will have been in force for only a short time when the preparation for the fifth outline programme begins.
Nevertheless, the available results will certainly be taken into consideration, together with those from other cooperation frameworks, for example, activity 2 of the fourth outline research programme.
The fourth question was about relations between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Knesset.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can assure you with regard to travelling and management expenses, that the rules to be applied are those normally applicable to Commission officials in all their activities and that there will be no departures from this nor any special treatment.
This is the official position of the European Commission and the European Union.
Such an agreement therefore represents a further step on the path to peace in that part of the world.
Like your rapporteur, I also want to see scientific and technical relationships being developed between the Mediterranean countries themselves.
Mr President, I asked a series of questions of the Commissioner.
Thank you very much, Mr Ford.
The debate is closed.
