Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 13 March 1998.
On various occasions Parliament has expressed its abhorrence of these barbarous acts, notably by its resolution last month, on 19 February 1998.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of the sitting of March 13 have been distributed.
I would be very grateful if you could check with Air France whether it is only the United Kingdom and our services to and from Strasbourg that are so affected or whether this is general.
The information we have been given, which was confirmed to me by Air France on my arrival in this building, is that all flights this week have been cancelled.
That might well explain why there are to be no flights directly from London to Strasbourg this week.
Madam President, as you might anticipate, I have some experience of the difficulties of Members of the European Parliament and others in obtaining reliable flights from the United Kingdom directly to Strasbourg and back again.
Mr Janssen van Raay, we will take note of your statement.
Madam President, we in this House are all aware of the dangers of smoking, particularly passive smoking.
We need to look into this situation as it affects all countries, and the management of connecting flights to this otherwise beautiful town.
However, as you know - I will take this opportunity since the question has been raised - in December 1997, the French government published a new invitation to tender in the Official Journal which will lead to regular flights at least from certain cities to Strasbourg, in principle from this week on, if all goes according to plan.
I have nothing further to say on this today, but there is in any case the hope of an improvement in the near future, at least for some of our colleagues.
I hope you will call upon the Council to give me an answer.
Mrs van Bladel, we will check and we hope that this is the case. (The Minutes were approved) Interpretation of the Rules of Procedure I would like to provide an interpretation which was requested from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, concerning paragraph 3 of Rule 162 of the Rules of Procedure and the explanations of vote.
If this is not opposed by any political group or by 29 Members prior to the adoption of the Minutes of the current sitting, this interpretation will be deemed to have been adopted.
If this is not the case, it will, of course be put to the vote in Parliament.
The final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 26 March, pursuant to Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
Madam President, I am not sure whether we are talking about one report or both reports.
In fact, the Langen report is on VAT and the Miller report is on excise duties.
Madam President, if you do this, I would like my report, which comes after the Murphy, Miller and Langen reports, to be brought forward.
For reasons which are not clear, this report was removed from the draft agenda by the Conference of Presidents last Thursday.
My group now proposes that the Herman Report be debated this week.
The Herman report notably includes the excellent amendments by Mr Gallagher adopted by the Committee on Institutional Affairs which considered it unacceptable that democratic control could elude national parliaments without being replaced by an equivalent control at a European level.
Madam President, there was broad consensus in the Conference of Presidents that the Randzio-Plath Report on democratic accountability in the third stage of EMU should be debated in this part-session of Parliament.
I believe that there is also very broad consensus on this in Parliament.
It seems to me to be an argument for not tabling the Herman Report in this part-session but after the decision on 2 May.
That is the reason we gave in the Conference of Presidents for debating the Herman Report in May.
Madam President, there was a late request last week to take the Herman report off the agenda and there is a late request to put it back on again.
Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party I would like to make it clear that this oral question is not a matter of reopening the whole duty free dossier.
The Garosci Report is in preparation at the moment.
Madam President, we cannot prepare a report in committee and debate that issue in the full House at the same time.
I am referring to Mrs Schaffner's report on the report from the High-Level Panel on the freedom of movement of persons.
The problem is just that the report to which Mrs Schaffner's report refers is apparently only available in French.
Madam President, Mrs Schaffner's report is not the problem.
We will look into this and ensure that this report on the report can be provided in other languages.
Neither the Commission's priorities for consumer policy for 1996-1998 nor its working programme for 1998 so much as mention the question of protecting the tourist as a consumer.
Holiday safety and security is becoming increasingly important and will gradually overtake the other major factor in choosing a tourist destination - namely price.
Secondly, their personal protection is sometimes in question.
He slipped on a rug on tiles and crashed through a patio door which did not have strengthened glass. (The President urged the speaker to conclude ) Madam President, you allowed an extra 47 seconds for the last speaker.
We have thus checked, and unfortunately your group only allocated you two minutes.
Madam President, the citizens of Europe have the right to proper safety as they go about their business as tourism consumers.
In addition, I should also like to express my reservations about the respect shown for the subsidiarity principle in one or two paragraphs.
Madam President, what we lack is a separate Article on tourism in the Treaty.
Look for a moment at paragraphs 13 and 31.
We book the trip in our own town or village and if the guarantee funds operate at national level that is fine.
The second particularly interesting aspect of this report is that, no sooner was it approved by the Committee on Transport and Tourism, than the associations connected with the industry themselves approached me, in my capacity as president of the Intergroup on Tourism, to engage on 2 April in a joint debate on this subject with Mr Aparicio Sánchez.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tourism has a long tradition in Austria and has become the economic mainstay of many regions.
Last week the President of the Alliance Internationale de Tourisme presented a report to the European Commission with recommendations to improve safety on campsites by developing common safety standards for the location and lay-out of sites, warning systems, emergency lighting and evacuation plans.
I am, however, pleased that I have the opportunity to be able to stand in for Mr Papoutsis today since the report by Mr Aparicio Sánchez on improving safety, consumers' rights and trading standards in the tourism sector is clearly of great interest to me as Transport Commissioner as well as being of major importance to the citizens of the Union.
As the report kindly acknowledges, the Commission has been active in several important areas relating to tourists as consumers and, whilst I would like to examine some of the important initiatives that have been taken, time forbids any exhaustive approach.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
The proposal for a directive is based on a compromise between the airports and airlines, on the one hand, and the Member States, on the other.
Mr President, the draft directive on airport charges has proved to be a difficult and complicated report for the Committee on Transport and Tourism, which involved the rapporteur trying to incorporate the different needs and various systems which exist in the 15 Member States.
The final compromise report we have ended up with is in danger of satisfying no-one.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists will, therefore, seek to restore many of the points in the rapporteur's original text.
In the same article, we support the decision of the rapporteur to introduce the concept of national airport networks.
Nevertheless, as the rapporteur has made clear, we have to accept that the system of cross-subsidy for smaller airports in order to support social cohesion is widely present in both the extreme north and the extreme south of the Union.
I shall support the original compromise Amendment No 3, which related to changes in Article 4(1).
Article 4(1) should therefore include the words 'the managing body of an airport may take account of all or part of the airport's income that is not derived from airport charges when establishing the total level of its charges' .
It is even more important that the other changes between compromise Amendment No 3 and Amendment No 9 are reinstated, specifically that allowing the cost of financing facilities which have the express consent of the majority of users and of their representative bodies through consultation arrangements under Article 7.
Mr President, let me begin by saying thank you to the rapporteur, Mr Väyrynen, for the very constructive work he has done on this report.
Airport taxes play an important role in this context.
That makes the limitation we have proposed with regard to Article 4 seem very important.
We have still to agree on the content of these rules and on their application.
Duty free should be retained, and I am delighted that the Transport Ministers have called for a study on the economic and social consequences of the measure.
For this reason we are opposed to the amendments to paragraph 7 which destabilize it in this field.
The first is about Article 1, where the Committee on Transport and Tourism has limited the scope of the directive somewhat by increasing the number of passengers from 250 000 to a million.
Very few of these feed to a major airport like Glasgow.
I would ask the Commissioner to tell us what he thinks of the UK's opting out of this attempt to produce social cohesion.
I support Amendment No 20 which restores the Commissioner's wording, partly because it adds a new paragraph encouraging the use of smaller, less congested airports.
I am adding a new dimension to this problem.
British Airways cancelled flights from Inverness and to Heathrow and Stansted.
It takes me two days to get to this Parliament.
Mr President, an enquiry conducted by the European Commission has shown that airport charges in the Community are too high relative to the cost of the services provided.
This Commission enquiry confirms the independent study carried out by Cranfield University, which concluded that airport charges in the European Union are 40 % higher than in the United States.
The system proposed amounts to cross-subsidisation between airports.
Mr President, airports are very important in the economic life of the Union and regional airports are of crucial importance.
So regional airports are of significant importance within the Union.
There is a great problem when you talk about aviation and, in particular, airport charges, in that the airlines always think that the airports are overcharging them and the airports think that the airlines are always wanting something on the cheap.
Remember that this is a report on airport charges, not a report on problems that Members might have in getting from A to B on the Monday of a Strasbourg session.
Regional airports are important, particularly in peripheral areas, which is why I think cross-subsidization is, if transparent, acceptable within a national airports network.
That is why the PSE has submitted amendments to rectify that situation.
This proposal seeks to establish the three internationally recognized principles of cost-relatedness, transparency and nondiscrimination as the basis for charging for the use of airports in the Union and, naturally, I am glad that the Committee on Transport and Tourism shares these objectives.
Subject to a certain amount of redrafting, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6.
Amendment No 5 refers to the idea of networks but the main justification for these types of networks - cohesion - is lacking in the amendment, and I, therefore, have to reject it.
The new reference to networks in Article 1 is, however, misplaced, as the committee itself has acknowledged in later amendments by treating cross-subsidy and network issues separately.
So that part of Amendment No 8, as well as Amendment No 18, has to be rejected.
Subject to some redrafting, but with the exception of the reference to cargo facilities in the definition of airport charges, Amendments Nos 9 and 21 are acceptable.
However, the Commission cannot accept the idea of completely excluding these types of practices or limiting them only to domestic flights either.
As for Article 6 of our proposal, which is addressed by Amendment No 12, whilst I can accept certain textual clarifications, I cannot support the provisions on obliging all airports in Europe to provide their information in a standard format.
In relation to Article 7 on consultation procedures, Amendment No 13 is asking for independent arbitration bodies.
Amendments Nos 14, 15 and 24 concern timing with the aim of reducing the timescale for the implementation of the directive by two years.
Finally, I have to reject Amendment No 25 because the objective of the directive is not to penalize the air transport sector but to provide for a balanced framework that guarantees certain basic principles.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
All the Member States grant parking facilities to such people by means of a disabled person's parking card.
However, in a developing European Union, disabled people should have the same opportunity as other European citizens to travel freely throughout the whole territory of the Union.
But there will now be a Community model card which can be used alongside regional or national cards for a transitional period determined by the Member State.
Indeed I can say that the common position is a great improvement on the original recommendation that came before us at the first reading.
Most of Parliament's amendments have been accepted, either word for word or in spirit.
It also recommends, however, a wider definition than previously, to include people whose disability can lead to decreased mobility.
Secondly, it allows the new European card to be used in parallel to existing cards for a transitional period.
I look forward to seeing it speedily implemented by the various Member States speedily in accordance with the details laid down in the directive, and to the opportunity for disabled persons to use their standard model card in the other countries throughout the whole of the European Union.
We can now for our part approve the common position of the Council at second reading and will then, hopefully, have obtained at last the European disabled person's parking card, which has been promised for 20 years.
The Council is also proposing that the European card be used parallel to the national cards, which makes sense at least for a transitional period.
In my speech in December 1996 at first reading of the report I complained that this card is just eyewash, and I wish to reaffirm this again today.
Of particular importance in my view are: firstly, the decision in favour of an individual-based as opposed to a vehicle-based solution; secondly, the special attention paid to security aspects in protecting the holder's personal data; and, thirdly, that our demands for subsidiarity, public accessibility and transparency represent a real basis in that, on the one hand, the community model can be used to supplement regionally or nationally valid cards already existing while, on the other hand, the issuing of this new model card is coupled with a duty to provide information about its conditions of use in the individual Member States.
However, the design and the style of these parking cards vary considerably from one Member State to another and this can give rise to problems when users of the card find themselves in a Member State other than that in which the card was issued.
At your first reading on 13 December 1996 the House proposed several amendments to the Commission's proposal.
The Council also took Parliament's amendments into account when it adopted the common position on the recommendation on 18 December 1997.
Since then, Parliament's Committee on Transport and Tourism, at its meeting of 17 March, unanimously agreed the adoption of the common position.
The final adoption of the recommendation by the Council will of course ensure that people with disabilities will be able to benefit from parking facilities wherever they choose to drive in Europe.
It has taken a long time, but at least now this issue can finally be put to rest, and I would like to congratulate all of those who made that possible.
The debate is closed.
In the first place, there is the matter of use and control in the other AETR countries which are not yet, or will not become, members of the EU.
I would very much like to hear from the Commissioner about retrofit and AETR, but I also think that the Commissioner owes us some further explanation about the origins and basis of the whole Article, that is a new regulation on driving and rest periods.
The Commission is considering this at the moment, but I think that the two have to go hand in hand.
But no matter what happens: transport will and must become safer and more social in one way or another as a result of this proposal.
Fourteen Member States were then able to choose to progress in the same way, the Commissioner and the Committee on Transport and Tourism have endorsed it, though we have to wait for the vote to see whether the same will happen in Parliament.
But my colleague Mr Wijsenbeek has already spoken about that.
Mr President, the Frankfurt Allgemeine Zeitung wrote nostalgically last month about the good old tachograph disc which will be replaced by a digital system in 2000, also mentioning that the German industry is ready for this.
Kinsel was the first to propose a 1B solution.
Mr President, well before the new digital tachograph is, can be, introduced, we will have to buckle down to further proposals for effective and more harmonized control.
Mr President, during the Council meeting in which the common position was adopted, the Council asked the Commission to present a report, if necessary accompanied by suitable proposals, on the effectiveness and uniformity of inspection procedures operated by the Member States.
This improvement was presented to us by the Commission in its very sensible proposal of July 1994, but then Parliament wanted more.
I hope that our vote tomorrow will not turn into a nightmare and that we will vote as at first reading, because I think like you, Mr Wijsenbeek, 1A and 1B are the correct solution.
The technology of the tachograph is outdated.
Now that the Council has also opted for this, I do not want to hold on to the original choice of Parliament at first reading, which wanted to give transport companies the choice between an improved tachograph and an on-board computer.
If the Council now, in 1998, votes for on-board computers with a large majority, I think it would be stupid, in the next century, to equip old lorries with technology which is in fact already out-of-date now.
I have been a member of this Parliament since 1989 and this is a demand that has been made time and time again.
The periods quoted here, namely until the year 2003, are much too long.
I need to refer to something else, too, particularly where the situation in central and eastern Europe is concerned: it was 1995 when the tachograph was introduced.
I think it is asking too much to now lay down the digital system at one go, so as to transfer to a new cost-effective system after five years.
On the question of the latter, the European Parliament is still waiting for the Commission's proposal on what changes are considered necessary.
At the same time it is also important that the technology and the systems in which people have invested, perhaps in every company in a country, can also be used for its full service life.
In a single market and in a Europe virtually without frontiers, certainly taking a somewhat longer-term view, this will become necessary.
It also enables information to be stored for a period of 365 days.
First, is it true that the digital tachograph, 1B in the documents, is clearly better in this respect than the improved conventional tachograph 1A?
Second, is it true that both types of tachograph have reached a stage of development which would mean that making type 1B compulsory from 2000 would not result in delays?
I believe that the Commission and the Council should recognize this fact as we do in Parliament.
Recording equipment in the vehicle must be able to hold one year's driver's hours data and the driver-specific smartcard must be capable of holding at least 28 days of data.
I sincerely hope that the Commission and the Council can accept this proposal.
Mr President, the introduction of a new generation of tachographs is obviously a tangible contribution to road safety, as several Members have said in the course of the debate.
It is a tangible contribution to better social conditions for professional drivers, and clearly also a tangible contribution to fairer competition both within road transport and between the different modes of road transport.
The Commission, consequently, will not support those amendments aimed at reintroducing the 1A option.
Amendments Nos 1, 2, 4 and 19 to 22 are therefore not accepted.
This at least will enable the Commission to return to the issue later, as it most certainly will, possibly on the basis of a modified proposal.
Amendment No 3 is rejected because it is already covered in essence by the joint declaration attached to the common position which states that the Council and Commission will take steps to adapt the AETR Agreement as necessary in the light of the new tachograph.
In response to other honourable Members on this AETR point, the legal services of the Commission and the Council have made clear that there is no reason why European Union vehicles equipped with a new digital tachograph should encounter problems in the AETR third countries.
The real challenge will be to ask the third countries to introduce the new system for their own vehicles.
I would conclude by saying that I am happy to inform the House that I can accept Amendments Nos 5 to 17, which must be some kind of world record!
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I am embarrassed by the annual report and debate on Regulation No 1408/71 on the coordination of social security schemes for employed persons, self-employed persons and members of their families moving within the Community.
A debate is now taking place in the Council regarding nationals of third countries.
Mr President, it is actually a never-ending story in which I, as rapporteur, and many colleagues with me, never get a hearing.
The rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, Wolfgang Ullmann, - our thanks go to him - argues that the codecision in the Treaty of Amsterdam which applies to this Regulation does not really offer a way forward, because the decisions in the Council have to be unanimous.
The right to freedom of movement is already anchored in the Treaty of Rome.
This is shown in the new action programme on freedom of movement, which fails to represent social security with the same commitment shown for the free movement of capital, goods and services.
I hope with this Regulation we can move a little closer to the objectives I have just stated.
In fact, all of us hope we will be able to see European workers move freely within the various Member States, as if they were their own, maintaining, and even strengthening, their social rights.
We therefore agree with the rapporteur, whom we thank for her work, in asking for greater protection for migrant workers and their families.
The first amendment that needs to be made is the inclusion of students among the beneficiaries of social security.
The second amendment relates both to transfrontier workers and their rights to pensions based on the legislation of the Member States in which they have worked as transfrontier workers and to the social rights of their families and survivors.
I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, who has tabled a number of amendments which will enable us to debate fundamental problems in relation to cross-border social security matters.
In the light of this I would like to say something about cross-border health care.
The same goes for Amendment No 4, which guarantees entitlement to medical care in the Member State where a retired person used to work.
This covers retired workers.
The problem of self-employed people who have worked in a lot of other countries has not been resolved yet.
I think the Commissioner ought to put this point high on the agenda of the Council of Ministers too.
The fact that I am not alone in this view is already clear from the contributions of my colleagues, but also from the submissions to the Court of Justice in the Becker and Kohl cases.
We need to get the single market out of the habit of moving in this way, for it does so at the expense of dependent employment in all its forms.
For this purpose, it seems advisable to have a clear and simple framework of reference regulations, a sound basis on which to begin the removal of obstacles and difficulties in the mobility of workers within the EU.
The members of the National Alliance also agree with the amendments included in the report.
The essential condition is that persons come under the legislation of one or more Member States and are citizens of one of the Member States, with this condition extending to their families.
Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking all those who contributed.
We welcome the positive attitude of Parliament on this particular proposal, because you share the Commission's opinion that Regulation 1408/71 and, indeed, Regulation 574/72 on the coordination of social security schemes need to be updated in the light of changes made in national legislation.
You also agree on the simplification of the reimbursement system for health and maternity insurance as a consequence of the modification of the implementing Regulation 574/72, 1995.
The first and the second concern the extension of the personal scope of the regulation in order to include other categories of persons not in active employment.
In 1995 it submitted a similar proposal to the Council and that was, unfortunately, rejected.
However, I should say, and I wish to emphasize this: the Commission supports the ideas expressed by Parliament in its report.
The changes that are necessary because of case law are because of Member States' modifications of their own legislation.
The Nordic countries plus one other country are against that.
It is actually very simple because there are proceedings before the Court of Justice or the Court has given a judgement.
The debate is closed.
