Agenda Mr President, on a point of order under Rule 41 and Annex II of the Rules of Procedure.
I received a letter yesterday saying that my Question No 41, concerning the plight of a Kosovan refugee, would not be taken at Question Time to the Council tonight as it is dealt with under Item 144 on the agenda.
The question concerns the specific immigration status of a specific Kosovan refugee and the failure to provide visas for him from embassies in other EU states.
Clearly this will not be dealt with in a general discussion about Kosovo.
Mr Howitt, you know that paragraph 2 of Annex II (A) - Guidelines - says 'A question shall be inadmissible if the agenda already provides for the subject to be discussed with the participation of the institution concerned'.
In any case, you can put that question next time or in any other form.
I am sorry, I cannot offer any other solution.
Applause Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, three weeks ago today, at about this time, the European Council held its extraordinary meeting in Berlin.
Since the evening of 24 March, the allied air force has been attacking targets in Yugoslavia.
The combination of the Kosovo crisis, the resignation of the Commission and Agenda 2000 probably represent the biggest challenges any European Council has ever had to tackle.
The signal of the Berlin summit is this: we Europeans speak with one voice.
We managed to adopt Agenda 2000 on the summit morning of 26 March.
With the Berlin package we have found a compromise under which all parties concerned have to make concessions.
The Berlin package on Agenda 2000 creates a viable foundation for European Union action in the coming years and sends out a clear signal to the people of Europe, to the markets, and also to the applicant countries.
At the same time we want to and will maintain cohesion between the Member States, as provided in the Treaty.
I will remember that night in Berlin as one of the most difficult and lengthiest negotiations I have ever had to conduct.
Our common Europe has long since become a reality in terms of good neighbourliness, of countless cultural, economic and social links.
At the same time the people of Europe are rightly urging us to make the European institutions capable of action now and in the future.
Following the mass resignation of the Commission under Mr Jacques Santer, the European Union risked facing a serious institutional crisis.
By rapidly nominating Mr Romano Prodi on the very first morning of the Berlin summit, the European Council made an important contribution to preventing the looming crisis.
This afternoon, the EU Heads of State and Government will be holding an informal meeting in Brussels.
During the second part of the meeting, we will start discussing the Commission's future working procedures with Mr Romano Prodi.
To that end we should use the opportunity of the intergovernmental conference that is in any case scheduled to resolve the institutional questions that remained outstanding in Amsterdam.
I will suggest to my colleagues that they should adopt the timetable for this intergovernmental conference, which if possible should take place by next year, at the European Council in Cologne.
Applause Ladies and gentlemen, in retrospect the last few years will prove to have been good years for the European Union, for European policy.
Applause The countries involved took a sovereign political decision to pass on a national responsibility for a central aspect of their economic policy to a European institution.
All of this, as also the adoption of Agenda 2000 in Berlin, was also achieved thanks to the outgoing Commission under Mr Jacques Santer.
The Amsterdam Treaty that will enter into force on 1 May brings definite improvements in that direction.
At the European Council in Cologne we intend to appoint the future high representative for the common foreign and security policy.
With the adoption of a cross-pillar common strategy on Russia, we want to send out an unmistakeable signal that the European Union wants to further expand its relations with Russia and will do so.
I am in close contact with President Yeltsin and Prime Minister Primakov.
We must find ways of maintaining social cohesion and the European social model even under the conditions of the global competition of the 21st century.
Applause One important task for the future remains enlarging the European Union to the east and the south.
Unless the Union is open to new Member States, in the long term European integration would remain a half-baked project and would fail for lack of a political rationale.
But what they want and what they need is for this stability also to be backed up by economic stability.
In relation to the existing Member States, it should be said that they too have a very real interest in enlargement.
The aim of the intergovernmental conference on key institutional questions, to which I referred earlier, is to ensure that the European Union definitively removes the last possible barrier to the accession of new Member States.
As an expression of the new Europe, Parliament too must take a definite position, in favour of peace, stability and respect for human rights in Yugoslavia.
That is why the EU Member States launched a large-scale aid operation jointly with other states.
We want to alleviate the plight of the refugees and we want to show solidarity with the neighbouring states.
That is why the Council decided last Thursday to earmark EUR 150 million for humanitarian aid to the refugees.
We will support the main host countries, Albania and Macedonia, together with the Yugoslav Republic of Montenegro, with another EUR 100 million.
The Council has also requested the Commission to submit proposals on further tightening the European Union's relations with Macedonia, looking even to a potential association agreement.
The extremist Belgrade leadership bears sole responsibility for the situation that has arisen.
The Belgrade regime is waging war against its own population.
If we want to help democracy to become established there on a lasting basis and win over the people of the region - and here I definitely include the people of Yugoslavia - for the European model, we have to offer them a European prospect.
The German Presidency has submitted a proposal to that effect.
It is our task to determine, through resolute action, under what auspices Europe will end this bloody century of national egoism and inflated ideology.
It is our duty to bring about the definitive, irreversible advance of democracy, human rights and cross-frontier cooperation throughout Europe.
Ladies and gentlemen, let us tackle this task together, in the name of Europe, in the name of its people and in the name of its values!
This outcome would not have been possible without strong independent institutions that are capable of taking action.
Of course, the negotiations on Agenda 2000 have been complex and difficult.
We had to continue with the agricultural reforms launched in 1992 and maintain the essential elements of economic and social cohesion, whilst taking enlargement and the financial constraints into account.
There is still some legislative work to be completed before the end of your parliamentary term.
But the Berlin agreement has created the political bases needed to complete a package of measures that I would describe as 'ambitious'.
Secondly, we had to resolve certain specific problems.
The amount decided on in Berlin is at the bottom end of the bracket proposed by the presidency.
The last element as far as expenditure is concerned is administrative expenditure.
In Agenda 2000, the Commission had already begun to consider its own reform.
In Agenda 2000, the Commission had suggested setting aside a considerable part of the financial package for the pre-accession process and future enlargement.
We had to combine the two objectives of deepening and widening the Union within a strict, efficient and equitable financial framework.
The Berlin agreement must now lead to an interinstitutional agreement that will help guarantee budgetary discipline within ceilings established by rigorous but realistic financial perspectives.
The change in the financing of the British rebate will remove some of the burden from the countries with the greatest budgetary imbalances, without introducing new corrective mechanisms.
Before the end of the new financial perspective, the Commission will have the opportunity to once again examine the own resources system, including the effects of enlargement and the question of new autonomous own resources, something that is close to Parliament's heart.
Mr President, the agreement reached in Berlin on Agenda 2000 is a success and it is a success for the Union.
Once again, the Union has shown that it can find solutions to enable Europe to progress.
I am not hiding my personal satisfaction at having been able to contribute, along with my colleagues in the Commission, to such a positive outcome.
We have thus come to the end of the cycle of important deadlines that I presented to you on 17 January 1995.
The representatives of the international community, and of Europe in particular, stepped up their efforts to find a peaceful and just solution for Kosovo, a solution that was just for all, for those of Albanian origin and for the Serb nation.
Those efforts failed and the current military action hopes to use force to ensure that the principles and values forming Europe's raison d'être are respected.
The neighbouring regions of Montenegro, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania are affected most.
Furthermore, you will be aware that, during a special meeting, the Commission adopted two far-reaching initiatives which it has forwarded to the European Parliament and to the Council.
A request has been passed on to the budgetary authority for EUR 150 million to be transferred from the emergency reserve in the ECHO budget line.
With these EUR 150 million, the Community will have released EUR 180 million from the 1999 budget for humanitarian aid for the refugees in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Albania and Montenegro.
The Commission therefore plans to allocate up to EUR 100 million to help finance costs directly involved in taking in refugees: providing security for them, administrative costs, additional transport costs, electricity, water supplies, and so on.
This amendment takes account of the new situation created by the war in Kosovo.
As regards the aid of EUR 100 million designed to finance the cost of taking in refugees in Kosovo's neighbouring regions, the situation has proved to be rather more complex.
The Commission will need additional personnel in Brussels and in its delegations to deal with these new operations and with the subsequent restructuring needs.
The current situation once again highlights the fact that the Commission must have additional staff to perform the tasks required of it.
The new Commission must be able to become what it must become, namely a European government.
You will have to improve on it in a very short time, not just because the reform does not go far enough to cope with enlargement but also in view of the next round of WTO negotiations.
Secondly, a new financial perspective requires an interinstitutional agreement.
We firmly support you in your intention to conclude this reform process before the first Eastern European country joins the European Union.
We welcome the united support shown by the European Council in Berlin for NATO's military action.
That was another test of the common foreign and security policy, for it showed that Europe is a community of values, not just an economic community.
A large majority of my group supports the Member States' position on military action.
International law builds on national sovereignty and territorial integrity.
These are important values, but no state in Europe may take national sovereignty and territorial integrity as a licence to oppress, displace or commit genocide.
Applause That is why, over and above the military action that has now become necessary, we need to develop international law further, and we invite you to play your part in doing so.
The people of the Balkans will only find peace within a European perspective.
Applause We also thank the men and women from non-governmental organisations who are endeavouring, again at the price of great sacrifices, to make the situation of the refugees and displaced persons in this region a little more bearable.
Applause Mr President-in-Office of the European Council, you took over the presidency during one of the most difficult times the European Union has ever had to go through.
In the difficult task still ahead of you, we, the European Parliament, and in particular my group, will always be a critical, sometimes perhaps even a highly critical, but always a reliable partner.
Applause Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I am convinced that my group too supports you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the pursuit of human rights and in the action to protect the people in Kosovo.
Instead, this potential should be put to real political use, so as to give us a greater ability to act and enable us in future to pursue the kind of foreign policy that will not allow a situation such as that in Kosovo to arise in the first place, that will not mean having to resort to armed force.
Applause When I think back to some of the statements made in December last year I am tempted to measure the outcome of the negotiations on Agenda 2000 against what you yourself considered necessary at the time from a German perspective.
However, I speak here not as a German representative but on behalf of my group.
We should make it clear that these uncertainties inherent in Agenda 2000 will not mean any delays in enlargement.
I believe it is our political responsibility to do so.
Applause I also think it would be a good idea to make use of the possibilities offered by the Amsterdam Treaty in relation to justice and home affairs.
We should make it clear who really can actively pursue employment policy in Europe.
Of course there should be a new administrative and new political culture, but we need a strong Commission.
I would like to thank President Santer, despite all the difficulties we have had, for what he has done in the past couple of years.
The European Parliament also needs to be fully involved, in the coming period.
It cannot be that the Council takes three months, while Parliament only has two or three days to play its part in the nomination of the President.
We have seen the presence of eleven individual Member States of the European Union rather than the presence of the European Union as a whole.
Yes, indeed, Parliament's Committee on Budgets agreed yesterday on the EUR 250m.
Mr President, the Berlin summit was held against the difficult backdrop of a profound institutional crisis in the European Union, with the Commission's resignation, and a serious crisis in the Balkans.
The European Council has still not provided the resources needed.
We cannot consider major objectives with a budget that, in the best case scenario, will only represent 1.27 % of the Community gross domestic product.
The allocations for structural policies and for internal policies break with the upwards trend that began in 1988 and that was reinforced in 1993.
In quantitative terms, the EUR 240 000 million proposed in Agenda 2000 for structural policies has been reduced to EUR 213 000.
Corrective mechanisms should have been introduced in Berlin but this did not happen.
We are also very disappointed that a fair modulation system to provide greater benefits for small producers was not adopted.
However, we note that there was no dialogue or agreement with the European Parliament on establishing a timetable of investiture for the new Commission, which would allow us, as a matter of urgency, to resolve this temporary situation and, at the same time, strengthen the democratic legitimacy of this institution.
As regards the war in the Balkans, which we will discuss later, I should like to point out, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, that the 15 Member States only approved the NATO military intervention in Yugoslavia once it had already begun.
It is clear that the underlying reasons for NATO's intervention are the Milosevic Government's constant suppression of the Kosovar Albanian population, after having taken away Kosovo's autonomy, its disregard for human rights and its refusal to commit to an agreement in Rambouillet.
Mr President-in-Office, I regret that I have to end this speech, but I would like to conclude by stating that it is very unfortunate that the European Union and its institutions have become subordinate to the decisions of a military organisation and relinquished their political responsibility in Europe for so many years.
I would also sincerely thank him for the Berlin Resolution in this area.
The Berlin Summit of 25 March was a good summit.
Ever since the Agenda 2000 proposals for reform of the Union policies were first published in March 1998 it was always felt in some quarters that it would be difficult to find an agreement that was balanced and even-handed across all the territories of the European Union.
The German presidency can take solace from the fact that the spending parameters for the budget for the Union for the period 2000-2006 commands the confidence and the good will of all the Member States of the European Union.
It was suggested in a document entitled 'The future financing of the European Union', issued by the Commission before Christmas, that possibly 25 % of the CAP should be financed by the national exchequers of individual Member States.
Mr President, Mr President-in Office of the Council, the war in Kosovo puts everything that is happening in Europe, including the Berlin summit, in relative terms.
But every peaceful compromise is only worth what it brings us in terms of security in the next seven years of the reform and enlargement of the European Union.
One: the financial package is to be welcomed because you managed to reserve the appropriations for the applicant countries on a definitive basis.
The EU of 15 has cut back, especially in the structural field, which meant that Berlin sent out a clear and reliable signal to the applicants for accession.
The terrible events in Kosovo show us that foreign policy tasks in particular will increase over the next few years, that we need more than fine words here if we are to organise a genuine common foreign and security policy initiative in Europe.
Applause Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, the extraordinary summit in Berlin was, in fact, extraordinary in more than one respect.
You succeeded, Chancellor, in obtaining results on all the points you had to address.
What is more, Germany was able to look above and beyond its own interests and surpassed itself in playing its role as president of the whole Union.
Of course, the final compromise is not completely satisfactory.
As far as the Structural Funds are concerned, it would have been better if the Union's measures on economic and social cohesion had been more in line with the Commission's more generous proposals.
The Berlin summit obviously could not resolve this tragedy, but what was said in Berlin, and what you have just said this morning, is along the right lines.
It should not be Prodi or a majority in this Chamber that decides who should be the Danish member within the Commission.
Mr President-in-Office, the Italian democratic right, Alleanza Nazionale, hopes that the President of this House can attend the meeting you have convened for this afternoon and expresses its full support for NATO initiatives in the former Yugoslavia.
Agenda 2000 might have seemed a catalogue of pipe dreams when it made its appearance on the European stage, even though it was tough in tackling the thorniest problems facing the Community.
Attempts to strike a balance on the agriculture front produced a series of settlements reminiscent of a collection for charity which, once again, penalise a massive sector of the agricultural economy in the south of Europe.
Madam President, I should first like to congratulate the President-in-Office for the tremendous work carried out at the Berlin summit.
In my previous speeches, I said to the President-in-Office that he had a difficult task, but the German Presidency has truly shown its mettle and demonstrated its ability to see this task through to the end.
If we work on the premise that there is currently a shortfall in the Community administration, precisely because the Commission was not given the resources it needed, we must ask ourselves if the resources now available for administration are sufficient to allow the Commission to function.
In other words, there are a range of regions and countries which have a lower level of development, which have to compete under very difficult conditions to meet the objectives of the stability pact and which will experience problems doing so.
One amendment that could be very damaging is the plan to do away with the exemption for outermost regions from the 75 % requirement for Objective 1 status.
We are applying new international humanitarian law, international humanitarian law that was born in 1945 with the United Nations Charter and with the Nuremberg trials.
It is true that there is little time left for the German Presidency, but the European Parliament hopes that the presidency will continue to support NATO's peacemaking efforts and support the Kosovar Albanian population.
The Berlin agreement incorporates part of the guidelines that Parliament held dear and we support the three main themes adopted by the Council in this field: concentration, simplification and effectiveness.
However, to achieve this, the negotiations on the financial perspective and on the new interinstitutional agreement must lead to compromises that Parliament can accept.
The Council President tells us that it has been decided to release a sum of EUR 150 million for the refugees from Kosovo.
Discrepancies of this kind are likely to make Europe's people lose all faith in the Union.
As regards the European Commission and its president-designate, my group likewise believes that the Council has not fully discharged its responsibilities.
Even though it allowed us to make some progress, the agreement contains some shortfalls and presents risks for the future.
Of course, the harshest options were rejected, but nothing has been settled for the future.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Berlin summit is a text-book example of how dangerous it is for the Community when national interests take precedence and joint progress takes second place.
But at the same time the Berlin summit drew up a timetable for institutional reform, so that the Union can become capable of enlargement in the first place.
I hope the Council will then recognise that Parliament has equal rights and finally accord it more powers and the right of initiative.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, just imagine if you had to hand out 20 or 25 presents to ensure that everyone agreed.
More rights for Parliament means closeness to the people and democracy for the European Union.
That is what we want and that is what we must achieve!
Madam President, if I had to sum up the Berlin agreement in one sentence as far as Agenda 2000 is concerned, I would say that the Berlin summit has been a victory for those who want less Europe as the outcome of the summit indeed means that we will have less Europe.
Madam President, the Berlin European Council only appeared to reach an agreement on the Union's financial framework for the 2000-2006 period.
The Council is so aware of this that, in its conclusions, it calls on the Commission to undertake a general review of the own resources system and to include the question of creating new autonomous own resources.
At any rate, for the new Objective 2, which is intended among other things to promote rural development, the support has been cut by 5 %.
Yet that is what we must do today, for even in times of war we must not only think of peace but also work to achieve it.
In that sense I welcome what you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, said here, because you have expressed that same feeling.
Yet I want to state clearly on behalf of my group: we still believe that on principle such actions must be carried out by the United Nations and we must do all we can to reform the United Nations in such a way as to make that possible in future.
But that also means that as you said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, sovereignty must give way to the principle of respect for human rights.
It is not a people that we want to defeat, it is the regime, it is Milosevic and his bands of soldiers, as Mr Hänsch called them.
We must do all in our power to make it clear that we are differentiating between a regime that has brought disaster upon its own people, and a people we want to have in Europe like all the other peoples of this continent and all the other peoples of the Balkans.
We must prevent him from achieving that aim, but above all we must also help the neighbouring countries who are doing outstanding work in a situation that is not easy, for the situation is not easy for Albania, or for Macedonia or for Rome.
We must begin with a kind of Marshall Plan or stability pact.
The 19th century was a century in which not only did the Balkan peoples come to grief over their nationalism, it was a century when the European powers exploited the Balkan peoples in order to assert their own interests.
Milosevic has no interest whatsoever in the people living in his own country.
I myself found evidence of many of these atrocities in Kosovo between 1991 and 1998 and repeatedly denounced them, at a time when all the western politicians were simply looking the other way.
But nationalism dumbs people down and leads them astray, as we have seen on several occasions during this century.
Since 1990 I have been trying in vain here to make the Council and the Commission aware of Milosevic's planned strategy.
In my view, the only solution at this point is an autonomous Kosovo, in which the citizens are returned home under the protection of international troops.
The leading figures round Milosevic and Milosevic himself must also be brought before the Hague tribunal.
On behalf of my group I support all the diplomatic efforts made by the presidency of the Council.
Applause After abandoning him for years by its pacifist tolerance of the apartheid regime, the west now owes it to him to at least ensure that he and his family receive exit visas.
It is incomprehensible that the Council was unwilling to learn from Parliament's persistent criticism, which was so often voiced here in this Chamber by my party colleague, Eva Kjer Hansen, amongst others.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the speech made yesterday in Berlin by the Commission President designate seemed to confirm that there is no intention of changing the neo-liberal course set for building Europe.
The Berlin Council maintained unacceptable exceptions to the own resources system, yet at the same time failed to agree on any penalty for speculative movements of capital.
In contrast to the pompous declarations and triumphs announced in Berlin concerning internal consumption, the lack of solidarity and the indifference towards cohesion confirmed in Berlin will lead to greater stagnation, higher unemployment, and poorer jobs and social welfare in the European Union.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, may I say that in my view you made a respectable statement which was fine-tuned and showed great courteousness towards Parliament.
You said in your statement that a clear signal must be sent out to the markets.
What the Commission proposed would also have sent out a signal to the smaller undertakings, who adjust to the market.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, please urge the intergovernmental conference to include agricultural policy in the codecision procedure.
These financial perspectives offer hopes of an interinstitutional agreement between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
Mr Arafat's announced intention to declare a Palestinian state looked more like a means of political pressure than a realistic plan.
NATO intervention in Kosovo was and is inevitable.
Madam President, Chancellor, Mr Santer, I must say that we are delighted to see you once again, Mr Santer.
Mr Delors is a democrat who, throughout his whole political career, has never stood as a candidate in a single election, except in a local election in Clichy.
In Serbia, as in Iraq, Europe is missing its chance to establish an independent foreign policy.
Germany also lost out over the Structural Funds...
Mr Schröder, you are too well briefed not to know that we will be forced to create a European tax ...
However, many of us have problems in approving the substance of Agenda 2000, or at least we have comments to make.
The agricultural solution that pleased many Member States has simply swept serious problems under the carpet.
If I had to pick out some of the problems with regional and structural policy, one disappointment is obviously the fact that Objective 3, the employment initiative, is lagging behind the others, while we here in Parliament have always maintained that solving the problems of employment is a priority task for the European Union.
Once more I would like to congratulate everyone on the fact that the Agenda 2000 package was approved at Berlin.
The latest and worst is the current crisis in Kosovo, but it does not end there.
Political support for Montenegro is also appropriate, since it is inhabited by Serbs who retain a policy of openness towards Europe.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to the President-in-Office that his success in Berlin relates mainly to Agenda 2000, as this is what was on your agenda.
But the whole package of institutional reforms is also a matter of great urgency, because the Union is in need of such reforms and because it is a precondition to the next enlargements, as you quite rightly emphasised this morning.
In this crisis, in this war, the Union's voice must be strong because it is vital in Europe.
We must ensure that it is respected within our borders, but also outside them.
Now we must also work on involving the United Nations and Russia in the search for a solution.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, I believe that the majority of our colleagues feel that the European Council worked hard in Berlin.
I therefore believe that the European Council has done its job and we must thank you for this, Chancellor.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the German Presidency is taking place at a tragic time, as has already been said.
Mr President-in-Office, the German Presidency commands respect in this difficult period.
This applies not only to the common foreign and security policy; it applies also to the foreign ministers, who were actually unable, shamefully, to come up with a humanitarian response last week in the tragic circumstances we are witnessing today.
On the one hand as regards revenues: the decision, the compromise on own resources to my mind means giving in to the Member States who have for years argued for the principle of the juste retour .
Parliament's rapporteur, Mr Colom i Naval, is always a moderate man.
Mr President-in-Office, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, after analysing the conclusions of the Berlin European Council, and given the objective difficulties involved in concluding Agenda 2000, we must congratulate the German Presidency on having been able to reach an agreement that many felt was little short of impossible.
We must also welcome the fact that Objective 3 now has a horizontal character and the fact that the Cohesion Fund has been maintained, thereby ending a fruitless and meaningless debate.
It is a pleasure not just to be criticised for hard work but occasionally - in this Parliament at least - also to hear words of praise.
In evaluating the situation, let me go back to what one Member of your Parliament, Mrs Pack, had to say.
The cause of the conflict is Milosevic's criminal policy and the sole purpose of the effect we want to achieve by, for example, the military measures, is to protect the people in Kosovo and to reach a political solution.
Applause I am glad to be able to say that the Council and Parliament are entirely at one on this!
To reassure you, let me say to you, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, that if I had been able to act on my own, I would have responded more closely to your wishes!
On the two other major objectives referred to in this debate, namely to draw up the common foreign and security policy, to safeguard it institutionally and to appoint a genuinely important and significant personality to represent and conduct this common foreign policy, in Cologne we want to decide on the person to be appointed and of course make progress in substantive terms.
If we could manage to direct the Member States' considerable resources more towards this objective through coordinated national budgetary policies, and if, on top of that, we could also manage to direct European resources towards this objective, then I believe we really would be doing something to combat unemployment, especially youth unemployment, in Europe.
Moreover, it was clear that against the background of developments, in this situation the Heads of State and Government cannot meet without discussing Kosovo.
But, as Kipling would say, that is another story.
But it will take a lot more work before the objectives set out by the Berlin European Council have an impact on the ground.
In an exemplary joint effort, the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament have made the Interreg Community initiative stand as a signal for cooperation beyond the existing external border of the EU.
Applause Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement reached in Berlin on Agenda 2000 guarantees that the European Union will function in the short term, but it does not secure its long- and medium-term future.
Lastly, with respect to Portugal, I feel that the agreement on the Structural Funds would not have been a bad one were we not in the process of enlarging the European Union.
Madam President, the basic agreement reached in Berlin about the agricultural part of Agenda 2000 contradicts the statement by the Commission that it wants to make European agriculture more competitive and therefore viable.
Now we are told the milk market reform is only to begin in the year 2005, in three phases, and that the quota system is to expire in 2008.
Further price cuts of 5 % are under discussion, but on the basis that then the compensation could be raised again from EUR 63 to EUR 66 a tonne.
After the compromise reached by the agriculture ministers, they were sure of obtaining EUR 66, but now it will only be 63.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this resolution and, on a general level, the strategy chosen by the Committee on Budgets is an irresponsible course of action that is in danger of leading to real budgetary conflict.
The real problem is that there is a political trend in this House that favours an annual budgetary procedure without financial categories and, consequently, without fixed year on year amounts for structural policy.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, all the implications of the Berlin European Council of 24 and 25 March have undoubtedly not yet been perceived by the people of the Union, who, as usual, will gradually discover the consequences of these agreements.
It is essential that the same method is not used again in the future.
When Mr Martens said yesterday that the resignation of Edith Cresson alone would have solved the crisis, I think he was evidently campaigning.
We therefore voted against paragraph 4 of the resolution.
Another reason for voting against paragraph 4 was that it violates the subsidiarity principle.
I have voted in favour of the Berlin Summit resolution to give my support in particular to the German presidency's achievement in getting agreement for the structural fund package in Agenda 2000.
Parliament is, of course, willing to seek a compromise in this area, but is must reflect Parliament's priorities in the Community initiative field.
The result achieved in Berlin with regard to the structural funds has demonstrated the importance that the European Council has attached to both the continuation and reform of economic and social assistance within the Union.
Most welcome is the 300 million euros in funding guaranteed for use within the Highlands and Islands of Scotland.
Far more radical reform is required.
Thanks to our intervention as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries, we were able to obtain the resources to fund structural measures for fisheries (restructuring the fleets, and so on) in regions located outside the scope of Objective 1, whether or not the beneficiaries belong to regions eligible for Objective 2.
In total, 0.39 % of the structural budget, that is ECU 875 million, is reserved for the FIFG.
The Objective 1 regions get the lion's share, with 69.7 % of structural funding, to the detriment of Objective 2 (11.5 %).
However, statistics published by the European Commission demonstrate, to anyone who will take the time to analyse them, the limits of the policy that has been followed: The richest regions of the European Union increased in strength between 1986 and 1996, which bears witness to the concentration of wealth and activity in certain areas: Hamburg, Brussels, Antwerp, Luxembourg, Ile-de-France, Darmstadt, Upper Bavaria, Bremen, Vienna...
The average of the 10 poorest regions was 41 % of Community GNP in 1986.
This development is particularly marked in Portugal and Ireland.-In actual fact, while the rich are growing ever richer and the very poor are becoming less poor, it seems that the average regions, those which receive funds from Objective 2, are experiencing a sometimes considerable reduction in their GNP and a worsening of the employment situation.
This is particularly evident in France: the Pays-de-Loire has seen its GNP fall from 95 % to 91 % of the Community average, that of Poitou-Charentes has dropped from 91 % to 83 %, and that of the Centre, from 103 % to 92 %.
It has been confirmed in Sweden and Finland, countries where unemployment has also increased in worrying proportions during recent years, as well as in several regions of the United Kingdom.It may therefore seem strange that during the negotiations Objective 2, which is dedicated to industrial and rural regions undergoing economic restructuring, should have been sacrificed to the benefit of Objectives 1 and 3: its budgetary envelope will be ECU 22.5 billion for the period 1999-2006, which is more or less the same figure as for the period 1994-1999.
The rural regions eligible for Objective 5b will be among the main victims of this situation: in France, one third of the population eligible under this Objective will no longer receive structural funding after the transition period.
This is not the only anomaly in the reform of the Structural Funds.
Only three countries are excluded from this: Luxembourg, Finland...
In this sector, as in many others, the Berlin summit has been a failure: a failure for France and a failure for Europe.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against the report because I believe that we basically still need another discussion about agricultural policy in this House.
When you think that according to OECD statistics, one third of all farm revenue in industrialised countries comes not from the market but from state support for agriculture and in the European Union as much as 40 % of farm revenue comes from the taxpayer's pocket, from state support, then in my view that means we must urgently review this sector.
All the rest is just a veneer of negotiations and debates; what we are actually talking about is simply the timing of a death that has already been prophesied.
The average income resulting from agricultural activity throughout the EU fell by 3.9 % in relation to 1997.
The report by our colleague Mr Happart is the last report on the agricultural prices of the current CAP.
The launch of the euro on 1 January of this year also had negative effects on European farmers' incomes due to the pure and simple abolition of the green ecu.
The combined effect of inflation and the abolition of the green ecu is going to give rise to a drop of around 4 % in institutional prices and compensatory aid in the next marketing year.
The Labour Government also won Britain a fairer share of EU regional aid at the Berlin summit.
The Labour Government successfully defended Britain's EU budget rebate.
Labour also ensured that the EU budget will remain within its cap of 1.27 % of GNP well into the next century.
Fantuzzi report (A4-0173/99) Madam President, I welcome the intention to introduce measures to promote and provide information on agricultural products in third countries because I consider these instruments absolutely necessary if we want to continue to withstand international competition.
It is regrettable that the Commission should have waited more than two years before presenting the proposal for a regulation on measures to promote and provide information on agricultural products in third countries.
The Agriculture Council had been asking the Commission since the beginning of 1997 to examine the possibility of setting up a horizontal framework for the assistance of promotion activities for the export of agricultural products.
I would first of all like to highlight the extremely small size of the budget proposed by the Commission, which only amounts to EUR 15 million per year.
In order to compensate for not using European designation of origin terms (port, sherry, etcetera), the Commission has agreed in its negotiations with the South African authorities to provide funding of EUR 15 million in order to allow South African wine products to enter the European market.
Finally, our group voted against Amendment No 23, which was unfortunately adopted by the majority of the House.
This is why the European Parliament has demanded and obtained measures concerned with setting up a European information network, establishing cooperation between voluntary organisations from the various Member States, training professionals and promoting networks among experts.
This is obviously very disappointing.
Ghilardotti report (A4-0186/99) We applaud this report on the proposal for a Council Directive establishing a general framework for informing and consulting employees in the European Community.
As to the scope of the directive, we would have preferred not to see a requirement for 'at least 50 employees'.
We have not voted against, however, because the question of informing and consulting employees is part of the EU's social dimension, which must not be opposed in the interests of solidarity with those workers in the EU and the new Member States who do not yet have efficient systems for informing and consulting employees.
We therefore hope that the Council will find a solution which satisfies both the need of workers for a high level of information and consultation throughout the EU and the need for Member States to be able to maintain systems which are already functioning efficiently.
The discrepancy between this right and reality is actually very great, and workers are too often treated as mere pawns who can be used as the economic climate dictates.
Nevertheless, in Europe there is a real will among workers to make their voice heard and to have a role to play in the running of their firm.
Even if it is only the 'union minimum', as in the French expression, we need to see it as only a first stage in a more long-term strategy of strengthening the role of workers.
The threshold of at least 50 employees is satisfactory.
I voted against the report because the legal basis conflicts with it.
From this standpoint, we agree that we need to establish an obligatory and effective legislative instrument that will provide for the swiftest and broadest possible information and consultation of employees on issues relating to the progress and prospects of the company, employment, labour relations and, more generally, all the issues and planned decisions that directly affect the interests of workers and, consequently, their lives and prosperity.
We do not believe that this directive will be effective if it only covers 3 % of companies, as the Commission itself admits.
I voted against both reports because in my view we should not create a kind of social union within the European Union.
I believe we should keep to national rules in this area.
Also, like Hugh McMahon, I must support the idea of including self-employed drivers in the directive on working time for road transport.
I also note with satisfaction that the report takes into account the considerable growth in subcontracting, which allows too much freedom with regard to the legislation in force.
As evidence of support for social protection in the EU, the Commission is putting forward its proposal on extending the working time directive to cover sectors and activities which were excluded and which concern approximately six million workers, chiefly in the transport sectors.
Unfortunately, however, we are unable to agree with the Commission: on the one hand, the 1993 directive did not go far enough and fell far short of most national legislations, and on the other, the proposal is part of a more general package, which is characterised by the segregation of workers and by indefensible derogations and exceptions.
Evidence of the arbitrary nature of the regulations lies in the fact that the Commission itself is proposing that the directive should cover all non-mobile workers in the sectors which are currently excluded, as well as mobile workers in the rail sector.
Along with workers' unions, the rapporteur and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have approved the main principles of the Commission text and improved it with regard to certain social aspects: the 48-hour week will be the minimum standard for all drivers in the EU, - working time can be up to 60 hours as long as the average of 48 hours remains the reference period, - the directive will also cover self-employed drivers and working time will be the same for employees and for self-employed drivers.Other provisions clarify and categorise road transport work, for example by giving a more restrictive definition of night work.
In general, we should hope that the Transport Council will reach an agreement so that road safety and the social welfare of drivers will be guaranteed and social dumping will finally be fought effectively in a sector in which the social Europe has been only too slow in arriving.
This report sets out to extend the 1993 working time directive to include further groups of employees.
The 1993 directive has caused many problems for the Danish trade union movement.
But based on our experiences in Denmark - and because the EU must respect free negotiations - we cannot vote in favour of this proposal to extend the EU's regulatory power.
For the same reason we cannot accept the restrictions contained in the report on night work.
It not only automatically checks the time worked over a period of four months but also shows the hours worked over a one-year period.
Perhaps it can even be used as evidence that professional drivers work far longer hours than any other workers and therefore also have a right to retirement at age 55 as called for by the unions.
Be that as it may, the entry into force of the new directive, if it is respected, will bring major improvements with it, even though much will still remain to be done.
Blokland report (A4-0183/99) Madam President, we voted for the report because the integration of the two directives on incinerating hazardous and non-hazardous waste is to be welcomed.
We know that dioxin is the most dangerous chemical mankind has ever produced.
I must express my surprise concerning the strategy defended by Mr Blokland and by the European Commission, which aims to fuse the Commission's proposal for a directive on the incineration of non-hazardous waste and Directive 94/67/EC on the incineration of so-called hazardous waste.
This would undoubtedly mean that the incinerators that are currently under-supplied in some Member States could be used to their full capacity.
It is essential that we maintain a very clear distinction between these two types of waste, as the fact that they are so different in nature and in their level of toxicity means that we need to define their specific technical characteristics.
We voted against all the amendments that involved merging Directive 94/67/EC on hazardous waste and the proposal for a directive on non-hazardous waste.
With regard to the application of the directive on non-hazardous waste, merging these two texts runs the risk of causing a delay in the adoption of new emission limit values as defined in Directive 94/67/EC.
We cannot allow pollution to be transferred from one environmental medium (air in this case) to another (water and soil in this case).
LIFE is the only Community financial instrument aimed entirely at supporting an environmental policy covering the whole of the European Union and including environmental cooperation with neighbouring countries.
Due to the type of projects that it funds, LIFE is distinguished from the other instruments for research and development and support of structural investments that also contribute to protecting the environment.
The proposal for a regulation that we are to vote on today presents the third phase of LIFE, incorporating three thematic components: LIFE-Nature, which is based on the cofinancing of nature protection projects that can contribute to preserving and regenerating natural habitats and species (budget heading B4-3200).
LIFE-Environment, which is based on the cofinancing of new environmental measures, demonstration projects and preparatory projects aimed at integrating an environmental dimension into land-use development and planning projects and industrial production activities, with a view to improving waste management and reducing the effects that products have on the environment (budget heading B4-3201).
LIFE-Third Countries, which is based on the cofinancing of technical assistance programmes focused on creating capacity for the administrative structures that are required in the environmental sector and that are necessary for developing an environmental policy, and action programmes in neighbouring third countries other than countries that are candidates for accession (budget heading B7-810).
However, we wish to stress that measures undertaken with the support of LIFE must take account of Community environment policy.
Mr President, since Kosovo is daily and nightly on our minds, I do not mind being taken by surprise in having to make some introductory remarks, bearing in mind that this morning the German presidency and the President of the Commission also devoted time to this very important issue.
In the past weeks the German presidency has been working very hard with the other European, American and Russian partners to try to see how the military track on the one hand could be accompanied by political initiatives on the other.
The House will be aware that there was an important meeting in Oslo yesterday between Secretary-of-State Albright and the Russian Foreign Minister Ivanov, in an attempt to reach an agreement on a plan that is also being discussed today by our Heads of Government with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
The other EUR 100m would enable the governments which are mainly dealing with the refugee problem to take certain measures to prevent destabilisation in their countries as a result of this unexpected massive influx.
We are thinking of Albania in the first place but also of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and we are also trying to reach those in Montenegro who are dealing with the massive influx of tens of thousands of displaced persons.
It has shown solidarity in terms of its political evaluation of what is happening there - which, as you all know, has not always been the case - and an ability to act in relation to the aid that has to be provided for the people concerned, to the stabilisation measures that must be taken for the countries in the region and to consolidating the principle of the primacy of politics over war.
I just want to say that for both of us this journey was something totally outside the normal political routine.
So I believe it is essential that we adhere to the aim of putting a stop to this inhuman action.
I am very happy to be able to tell you that broad international agreement is emerging on a process that looks something like this: the Yugoslav Government will be offered a 24-hour ceasefire as soon as it begins to withdraw its troops and paramilitary units.
In the present situation it is crucial that the European Union and the international community leave no doubt about their resolve.
These conditions are such that Milosevic can quite easily fulfil them.
It is a matter of ensuring that the declaration of human rights is not a hollow phrase in Europe but that ...
It is a matter of making it clear that we are also prepared to make sacrifices for the sake of our common convictions and to most resolutely oppose the activities of those who are trying by criminal means to destroy all the progress we have achieved in European civilisation!
Applause Thank you, Mr President-in-Office.
The message has to go from this Chamber and from the international community that the Milosevic campaign of ethnic hatred, which began ten years ago, must end where it began - in Kosovo!
We must say to him that on the verge of the next millennium he cannot use events which took place in 1389 to justify mass murder today.
However, once every possible opportunity for negotiation was exhausted - and every possible opportunity was exhausted - then military action was inevitable and should be supported by this House.
It is quite clear that we need to have a European defence identity and, therefore, the St Malo initiative must be followed up rapidly.
This whole tragedy has underlined the importance of one other country in Europe, and that is Turkey.
Turkey is clearly crucial to the peace and stability of this continent.
Mr President, let us hope that this afternoon the Brussels Council will assume its real responsibilities, albeit belatedly, and that it will safeguard not the credibility of NATO, but peace in Europe and cooperation among all its peoples.
Mr President, I just wanted to say that I respect Mr Lambrias's opinion.
I expressed it this morning in the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council.
For the rest, we fully agree with the joint statement and with what Chancellor Schroeder said this morning.
The flood of refugees is overwhelming the capacity of Kosovo's neighbouring countries to accept them, and threatens to politically destabilise them.
This should not of course be interpreted as a de facto acceptance of the ethnic cleansing that Slobodan Milosevic has planned for Kosovo, but it is undoubtedly necessary in order to relieve the pressure on Albania, as it is obvious that the completely safe return of those who have been expelled from Kosovo cannot take place immediately.
Russia appears to be an essential partner in seeking this lasting solution to the crisis in Kosovo.
It has already made considerable diplomatic efforts to make the Yugoslav dictator listen to reason, and will have an essential role to play in negotiating and guaranteeing peace, particularly by participating in a peace-keeping force which will act under a United Nations mandate.
Within Kosovo, Ibrahim Rugova, to whom the European Parliament awarded the Sakharov Prize a few months ago, has an essential role to play.
It is essential that the European Union, which has been unable to prevent conflict, either in Kosovo or in Bosnia - despite the fact that these conflicts were clearly predictable - should draw all the lessons that it can from these failures, and should finally provide itself with a truly credible common foreign and security policy.
It lies in the refusal to see that the bombing has entirely the opposite effect to the objectives that were officially laid down for it.
We should be aware that all of the organisations in Yugoslavian civil society that are fighting courageously for human rights, for autonomy for Kosovo and against the power of Milosevic, have recently launched a joint appeal which says that NATO's military intervention has undermined all the results that they had achieved and has endangered the very survival of civil society in their country.
We should also be capable of listening to the voices that are being raised, from the Christian Democrat vice-president of the Parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE to Monsignor Botazzi, from Helmut Schmidt to Mario Soares, from top political leaders in Sweden, Austria, Germany, Italy and France, to many figures from European progressive movements, calling for the bombing to be stopped and for a full-scale political battle to be undertaken in order to achieve a fair and lasting peace at the heart of our continent.
But most important of all is what we should do now, namely concentrate on political initiatives.
There was no alternative, Mrs Alvoet, to NATO intervention.
It will be a partitioning in which he will be the winner, and which will enable him to annex 40 % or 50 % of Kosovan territory, where there happen to be a few monasteries, but more importantly where there are much richer areas, such as mines.
Applause Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, NATO has launched, on its own authority and bypassing the United Nations, military action aimed at putting an end to an unacceptable policy of ethnic cleansing.
What we are now seeing is that this action has undoubtedly contributed to accelerating and magnifying the ethnic cleansing.
Mr President, before resentment builds up which could create a deep divide in Europe, we now need to put as much of our energy into seeking peace as we did into starting the war.
For five years, with the Chrétienté-Solidarité movement I helped more than 300 Croatian children in Bosnia to be kept alive.
NATO, which was formed in 1949 to protect Europe from Soviet imperialism, did not intervene on behalf of the people of Berlin in 1953, the Hungarians in 1956 or the Czechs in 1968.
We are waging war against the Serbs, but we are denying them the moral right to defend themselves, and to take prisoners.
His crimes are crimes against humanity.
I refer to the Rule in the Rules of Procedure under which you must call to order a Member of this House who calls the President of the United States a murderer.
We also have a duty to pay tribute to the Serbs who are fighting for peace and freedom in their own country and who are risking their lives to do so.
Having said this, Mr President, I am only going to say two things at this stage.
Firstly, this morning, Chancellor Schröder quite rightly said that the European Union must be a community of values and not simply an economic community and market.
As a result, Mr President, it is vital that we support this plan, and that we give it our full support so that those who have been expelled can return home.
I must highlight here today the peculiar situation that this man is in.
The European Parliament must intervene.
The European Parliament has not declared war.
A few days ago I wrote to the Serbian chargé d'affaires in Brussels to tell him that in my capacity as chairman of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, but for the moment without authorisation, I am prepared, along with other colleagues, to go to Belgrade or Pristina.
The European Parliament must consider sending a delegation - which can be quickly arranged - to go and meet Mr Rugova in Pristina and to bring him back here.
Mr President, I agree with what the Council President has said today about Kosovo, and also with what the Commissioner said.
But let us be honest.
The West is now paying for its half-hearted attitude in the early 1990s over the need for a military response to the atrocities in the Balkans.
When someone says that he hates war, everyone applauds him.
But when someone does not say that he hates ethnic cleansing, that he rejects ethnic cleansing, then there is a problem.
I am proud of the German Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is currently trying to find a diplomatic and political solution to this conflict.
However, a political and diplomatic solution and an end to the war must never mean the continuation of ethnic cleansing.
Mr President, so far the NATO bombing has unfortunately not stopped the ethnic cleansing, quite the contrary.
Kosovars have been driven out of their country in dramatic circumstances or are actually refugees within it.
We want the Kosovars to be able to return to Kosovo quickly, but without a political solution this will have to be done under military protection, as advocated in our joint resolution.
We agree with those who advocate a European perspective for the peoples of Eastern and Southern Europe, so that respect for human rights and international law can stand together in peace and development.
Mr President, we hope that the next Commission and the next Parliament, working more closely together, will remind the Council, whose absence today is justified, that it is just one of three Community institutions and not the most important one either.
And therefore we cannot but be divided into two categories: those who are in good faith and those who are in bad faith, with those who fight for principles realising that force sometimes needs to be used to defend them, since force or war are not good or evil in themselves but necessary attitudes and decisions when it comes to fighting for human lives and dignity.
In any case we should note how Rambouillet has once again demonstrated the lack of European political union.
If political union had been achieved a few years back, perhaps we would not have ended up with the tragedy we are witnessing today.
If Europe had not just been represented at Rambouillet by four powerful nations but had been present as a political union, and if, prior to Rambouillet and at least since '92, Europe as a political union had sent a strong message - a strong and clear message - to Milosevic, maybe we would not have experienced all the wars, destruction and tragedy that we have seen.
Let us hope that in the future Europe is able to achieve a political content and work towards a stability pact for the Balkans, that it is able to provide the deportees with the certainty they require in order to return home, in other words hope for the future, and that it is able to show solidarity with those who are hard at work - for example in neighbouring regions such as Puglia - in practical terms as well as in words.
And Milosevic must be defeated, otherwise the warmongers and the arrogant will continue to trample on the rights of those acting in good faith and defenceless citizens.
In the meeting of the European Council taking place over the next few hours it may be confirmed that both the European Union and the United Nations are to return to the political arena.
It is clear from the events of the past few days that the process of creating an effective European common foreign and security policy needs to move much more swiftly and that the Union should avail itself of all the political and practical instruments it needs to defend peace, security and respect for human rights, both on its own borders and in other parts of the world.
In order to outline a solution to the complex problem of the Balkans it is furthermore vital for the Union to work out a strategy, a plan, to build up a long-term political and economic stabilisation process for the region, including through stronger relations with the Union itself.
We believe that - above and beyond what has been done up until now, and this is already a great deal - the Council, the Commission, the Member States' governments and the whole of the international community should step up and fine-tune their efforts to help the people of the region.
There are urgent needs, and while we should be grateful to Commissioner Bonino and Commissioner van den Broek for the work they have done, this is just a drop in the ocean and the situation is explosive.
As a result, I am wondering why no cases against Milosevic were brought before the Criminal Court in The Hague prior to 24 March.
According to Articles 1, 3, and 5 of UN Resolution 3314/29 of 14 December 1974, NATO's attacks and Solana's decision can be considered a war crime.
Mr President, war has returned to our continent for the first time in fifty years and we do not know how long it will last or how it will end, but wars always come to an end.
Given the time that I have, I will not talk about the causes, aims or responsibilities of war.
The Ukraine has decided to become a nuclear power once again.
Let us not forget that not long ago, the majority of Serbs saw Milosevic as a dictator.
In the East, a very serious consequence of this war is that those who were part of the totalitarian system have regained their prestige, to the detriment of those who wanted democracy and reform.
War is never an end in itself.
But what does a military leadership do if it has been instructed to win a war without waging a war?
At present the necessary military action by NATO has been taken on the responsibility of a group of politicians who once upon a time loudly proclaimed themselves pacifists and opponents of war in the peace movements and are now ordering a war without wanting to dirty their hands.
Mr President, I speak on behalf of my group and I will begin with what is most important.
Of course, the starting-point remains the search for a political solution, but it has to be on the basis of Rambouillet, with an international military presence on the ground and the refugees able to return to an autonomous and democratic Kosovo.
The conflict is after all a European one.
For the second time, the European Union is playing a subordinate role, despite the Amsterdam Treaty.
The EU is politically behind the NATO action, as the German Chancellor has reaffirmed this morning.
The EU must give a lead in accepting refugees, in the region to begin with and later outside it.
This, ideally, is the substance of a stability pact for the southern Balkans, in which the European Union, under the Amsterdam Treaty, should give a lead, for example by the pursuit of a common strategy.
The Serbs are not Milosevic, just as the Germans were not Hitler.
But we must finally realise that we cannot make peace with Milosevic because he will only start to commit his crimes all over again.
Europe should stop and think!
The EU has a duty to establish the UN as the paramount body for overseeing the rule of law in the international community.
Mr President, of course the main responsibility for this conflict lies with the Serbian Government.
NATO has manifestly succeeded in starting a war which it does not know how to end.
Mr President, I should like to use these two minutes to talk about an issue linked exclusively to the crisis in Kosovo: the humanitarian crisis suffered by hundreds of refugees in the area today.
I remember past debates, much older debates, on a Commission proposal for a joint action concerning the temporary protection of displaced persons.
I hope that this will make us think, I hope that these measures will be implemented and I hope that the next time we realise that we will have to face a situation such as this, we will be in better shape to deal with it than we are now.
I was particularly struck by the sincerity of the presentation made to us by the German presidency, and indeed by Commissioner van den Broek.
I welcome the three-phase peace plan proposed here.
The involvement of the United Nations in the conflict would be a welcome step forward.
It is a despicable repeat of the most heinous crimes committed during previous conflicts this decade in Yugoslavia.
Mr President, the example of Bosnia has shown that there is no peace- keeping without peace enforcement.
We all want peace, except perhaps Milosevic.
And this is something we should keep in mind: if there is anyone who has pursued an ultra-nationalistic plan for ten years, which history shows to be a losing battle but which is bloody and cruel and has cost the lives of millions of Croats and Bosnians, that person is Milosevic, who has pursued, caused and used war for ten years.
And I say this as a person who believes in non-violence as well as in my capacity as a Member of the Commission.
In the first place, this crisis shows us that in complex situations such as Hurricane Mitch in Central America it is sometimes impossible for aid workers to cope without the assistance of military structures.
We should bear this point in mind because, as in the case of Hurricane Mitch, in this situation there are times when it is absolutely vital to use military structures for civilian purposes, even if just for logistical reasons.
As you know, the part of the budget containing the available reserves amounts to EUR 150 million; bilateral cooperation and donations from Member States now amount to EUR 170 million.
Thank you, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Many of the problems we have still not dealt with today are in fact a burden from the past, from the time before 1996.
With all that we are discussing today, we must not forget that we have achieved a great deal in recent years thanks to the work done in the Committee of Inquiry into BSE and in the Follow-up Committee, in that a large number of the European Parliament's recommendations put forward by the Committee of Inquiry into BSE were implemented.
I believe they have all made a major contribution to creating new confidence in this area of European activity.
In the final analysis we have achieved positive results for the future and improved the quality of preventive consumer protection, over and above the BSE issue.
I believe that the restructuring of the Commission services, the new legislative initiatives and also the discussion concerning the transparency of the scientific debate are important measures that need to be put into effect in future not only in the European Union but also at international level.
Thank you, Mr Böge.
Mr President, we have been discussing this subject here in Parliament for roughly two and a half years.
I would be interested to know: can this kind of disaster happen again, yes or no?
But only if the Commission and the European Parliament uphold and opt for the precautionary principle in cases of doubt will we prevent something like BSE from happening again.
I am convinced that only then can we give a vote of confidence to a new Commission for only then can we hope never to experience another disaster like BSE.
After suffering as we have, in our country, we are alarmed to see the disease still rampant in some other European countries.
It is incumbent upon Parliament to make certain that the safety precautions which we have been forced to take are now common practice throughout the European Union as a whole.
Parliament needs to be backing the Commission in putting pressure on the Council in this regard.
Mr President, this report is a continuation of Parliament's attempt to implement its recommendations in the wake of BSE.
Our work also involves monitoring the situation that is unfolding in the European Union as a result of public health protection policy.
Through the Amsterdam Treaty, animal and plant health measures have already been put in place, and we are asking for them to be extended to the agricultural policy as a whole.
We have succeeded in making the Scientific Committee more independent, even of parliamentary control.
But we are now better equipped to deal with such problems than we have been in the past.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the BSE situation in Portugal has resulted in a decision to block exports of Portuguese beef.
We are therefore tabling an amendment calling for still closer cooperation between the Portuguese Government and the Commission, which will make it possible to eradicate the disease and lift the embargo within the timetable envisaged.
The fact that 13 out of 15 countries are not fully implementing the recommendations which they should implement goes to show that we need to carry on working with the Commission to achieve this objective, so that respecting and safeguarding consumers really does become Union policy.
For this reason I wish to congratulate my colleagues Mrs Roth-Behrendt and Mr Böge on the quality of their recommendation and to explain to them the content of the main amendments that I have tabled.
With regard to paragraph 24, we think that it is important that we specify that the precautionary principle should also be applied to dealing with carcasses, animals and health-related seizures in abattoirs.
The European Parliament needs to make a statement on this point in order to guarantee health and safety, both for cattle and also, in short, for the consumer.
All decisions should be made on the basis of scientific evidence, but also following risk assessment, at Community level.
Finally, with regard to paragraph 29 on the use of antibiotics in meat production, it is true that this can lead to increased resistance to antibiotics in consumers.
I think Parliament must call on the Commission to show this same transparency in the preparations for the negotiations on these international treaties.
The BSE scandal plunged the entire European Union into a deep crisis.
Nature has its laws and it is only within that framework that we can and may proceed if we want to make progress for the benefit of mankind.
Let me say very frankly, Commissioner, that I am deeply disturbed because I believe that we can still not gauge today how many new cases of BSE and also of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease we will encounter in the coming years.
While we have strict controls within the European Union, these controls do not apply to the food that is entering the European Union from other countries whether from the United States or anywhere else.
In winding up, Mr Böge said that we had been given a warning for the future.
Mr President, the debate here in Parliament on the BSE crisis, which is still troubling Europe, has been a good example of how Parliament has been unquestionably capable of tackling an issue that is worrying the citizens of Europe.
Measures in countries in which there is no risk should be less drastic than in those countries where the risk exists.
Mr President, Commissioner, as I am speaking on this issue probably for the last time during the term of this Parliament, I shall not hide from you that I have a vague feeling of disquiet.
Mr President, I also thank the rapporteurs.
British agriculture is now experiencing a crisis in all sectors.
The market and abattoirs are weighed down with inspectors at every level and the cost of inspections is now about 75 % of total costs to ensure that the rules are followed.
First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, and then I would point out that this is sort of our last debate, the last debate for this Parliament and perhaps also for this Commission, and in a way I shall miss it.
And I believe that the future Parliament and the future Commission should safeguard this method they have inherited in relations between the two institutions, with regard both to transparency and to scientific excellence.
We hope to get a consensus on 19 April for the precautionary principle to be included in the procedural manual for the Codex Alimentarius.
Many thanks, Mrs Bonino.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B4-0157/99).
At the same time they convert the major part of their outstanding public debts into euros, pursuant to Council Regulation No 974/98 of 3 May 1998.
Pursuant to Council Decision 317/98 of 3 May 1998, the central bank legislations of those Member States participating in European monetary union must comply with the EU Treaty provisions and ensure that the central banks of those Member States that take part in European monetary union are totally independent.
Mr President, Mrs McKenna, I do not agree.
The level of private debt and the level of public debt are two entirely different indicators of economic development.
The level of public debt tends to be a more critical indicator while the level of private debt can reflect increasing investment activity.
Mr Sjöstedt, that is an interesting question.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Alavanos's question.
The European Union once again emphasises its firm rejection of the death penalty.
Regarding the exclusion of the Kurdish Democratic Party from the elections, I am sure the honourable Member is aware that on 8 March 1999 the Turkish Constitutional Court unanimously rejected the public prosecutor's application for a temporary injunction to ban this party from participating.
Mr Kaklamanis, the Council is employing every political and diplomatic means to make it clear to the Turkish Government what European human rights standards mean and that it expects Turkey to observe European human rights standards in every individual case and in every situation.
In the framework of the common foreign and security policy, the initiatives of the UN Secretary-General have been considered repeatedly and on a regular basis, in particular in the CFSP working group responsible.
On 29 December 1998 the presidency made a statement on behalf of the European Union, unreservedly supporting the United Nations' efforts to find a fair and lasting solution.
That is why the European Union noted with great interest the following decisions by the Moroccan Government.
Firstly, it decided to formalise the status of the UNHCR in the region concerned.
So what other means of pressure do you propose?
It is a shame that we have to labour this point, but it would be far worse if, in December, we had to regret the European Union's lack of influence.
You have exceeded the 30 seconds of time I allocated to you.
I would therefore ask that you all try to keep to time; this will benefit us, as we will be able to get through more questions.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 5 to 8 will be taken together.
Question No 5 by Francisca Bennasar Tous (H-0235/99) Subject: Island regions in the new context of the Amsterdam Treaty Article 158 of the Amsterdam Treaty sets out the Community's aim of reducing the backwardness of the least favoured regions or islands, and Declaration 30 annexed to the said Treaty recognises that 'island regions suffer from structural handicaps linked to their island status, the permanence of which impairs their economic and social development'.
At an earlier stage, DG XII commissioned a study on research and technological development in island regions, and DG XI drafted a code of practice for island waste management.
Question No 8 by Konstantinos Hatzidakis (H-0260/99) Subject: Measures in support of the island regions of the UnionArticle 158 of the Amsterdam Treaty states that one of the Union's commitments is to take measures to reduce the backwardness of the least favoured regions or islands.
Furthermore, Declaration No. 30 annexed to the Amsterdam Treaty recognises that the islands suffer from structural handicaps arising from their particular status as islands and calls on the Union to take account of those handicaps and, where necessary, to take specific measures in order to integrate those regions better into the internal market on fair conditions.
Will the Council, therefore, say what preparatory measures it has taken to translate the provisions of Article 158 and Declaration No. 30 into practical projects and programmes once the Amsterdam Treaty has entered into force?
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer these four questions.
One of the main aims of the reform of the Structural and Cohesion Funds in the framework of Agenda 2000 is to concentrate aid on the particularly needy and the poorest regions.
In this regard the Council recognises that the task of regional policy is to develop all the existing potential in order to make up for structural imbalances and backwardness and to speed up economic and social change in the disadvantaged regions, including the islands.
Let me also point out that the Commission recently stated that special attention must also be given to including the island regions in the measures under the Interreg C Community initiative.
Article 158 of the Amsterdam Treaty, which forms the basis of the cohesion policy, was wrongly translated in some of the Union's official languages.
The only logical meaning of this article, thanks to the addenda introduced by the Amsterdam Council, is to consider all island regions of the Union as least favoured regions due to their geographical handicap, which is the reason for additional costs in the transport or energy sectors, for example.
However, the Council has interpreted this article restrictively in its regulation on the ERDF by talking of least favoured islands.
But let me point out to you that a region that attains less than 75 % of the average level of prosperity in Europe is eligible for aid from the Structural Funds, indeed under Objective 1.
Mr President-in-Office, we were discussing this a short while ago in private, but now we must say the same, or similar, things in public.
They are regions which, especially in winter, face special problems of isolation.
Agenda 2000 takes account - excellently, in my view - of the interests and needs of the island regions.
Mr President-in-Office, my question refers to a special type of island, that is, those included amongst the outermost regions covered by paragraph 2 of Article 299 of the new Amsterdam Treaty, which have been granted special status.
I would like to know if the President-in-Office remembers what agreement was actually reached that night and what the situation of the outermost regions is following the agreement by the Berlin European Council, in other words, if they are included as Objective 1 regions.
All I can tell you is that what I said also applies to the ultra-peripheral regions, as these are all islands of course.
The EU calls for unconditional respect for human rights in all parts of Sudan and urges that human rights observers be stationed in Sudan.
The suspension of humanitarian aid would only harm the civilian population and is therefore not being considered as a possible means of exerting pressure on the Sudanese Government.
I am very glad that the Council is aware of the situation and wants to intervene.
I hope that there will be definite results and a change of attitude on the part of Sudan's government, but I do of course understand that this is not in our hands, though to some extent it may depend on our determination.
I know that peace negotiations on the internal situation in Sudan should be getting under way in Nairobi in the next few days, and I am wondering, Mr President- in-Office, if this issue could not be raised at these negotiations as well, so that Sudan feels the pressure brought to bear by the international community.
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Mr Sjöstedt's question.
Pursuant to Article 6 of the Protocol integrating the Schengen acquis into the framework of the European Union, the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway shall be associated with the implementation of the Schengen acquis and its further development on the basis of the agreement signed in Luxembourg on 19 December 1996.
Appropriate procedures shall be agreed to that effect in an agreement to be concluded with Norway and Sweden by the Council, acting by the unanimity of the 13 members mentioned in Article 1 of the Schengen Protocol.
Together with the Commission, the Presidency-in-Office of the Council conducted negotiations with Norway and Iceland on the basis of the guidelines adopted by the Council.
For some time now the European Union has been concerned about the tense situation in Kashmir, which is a threat to peace and stability in the region.
The EU takes the view that the dialogue between India and Pakistan is the key to resolving the Kashmir conflict that is so seriously affecting relations between the two countries.
The summit meeting that was recently held in Lahore between the prime ministers of India and Pakistan gives reason to hope that both sides are seriously endeavouring to establish good-neighbourly relations, which could also improve the prospects for peace in Jammu and Kashmir.
As the author is not present, Question No 12 lapses.
The European Council stressed in particular that economic policy coordination needs to be deepened and strengthened in order to ensure the success of economic and monetary union and to support sustainable, employment-promoting growth.
The Council believes in the need for closer coordination in all macroeconomic fields, which means financial, budgetary and fiscal policy, together with economic policy in the narrower sense.
I am sure the President-in-Office is correct in saying that a single currency requires the deepening of our economic cooperation.
It is a question that is discussed at almost every trilogue between the Council, Parliament and the Commission, and the result is always the same.
The decision on the possible participation of Members of the European Parliament in the Summit of Heads of State and Government of the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean, due to be held in Rio de Janeiro at the end of June 1999, will be guided by the procedure the Council decided on 30 October 1998.
The Austrian Presidency explained this procedure to the European Parliament in the trilogue on 16 December 1998 and, as I said, it was also discussed at today's trilogue.
This procedure dates back to the discussion of the question during the Strasbourg trilogue on 17 July 1998 between representatives of Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
Accordingly, the Council will examine the request addressed to it by the President of the European Parliament on 11 March 1999, in other words it will consider whether Members of the European Parliament can participate on an individual basis.
As I said, the question of the European Parliament's participation in the Rio Conference will be considered on the basis of the principles decided by the Council.
It attaches the utmost importance to the right to vote in elections to the European Parliament and, in this respect, to the implementation of the principle of elections by direct universal suffrage laid down in Article 138 of the EC Treaty.
But it is also one of principle, not just of theoretical principle but of one that has been tested in the European Court of Human Rights, as my question points out.
It was a judgment made, not by a small majority of judges in that body, but by a vote of 15 to 2, a very large majority, in favour of the principle that in terms of human rights, citizens of Gibraltar should be able to vote in European elections.
Mr President-in-Office, this is not the first time this question is being discussed here in the European Parliament either.
Mr Habsburg-Lothringen, this is the first time the question about this ruling has been raised and it is also the first time it has been considered.
If you were asking whether you can draw my attention to a certain situation, then my answer is yes, you may.
Of course the Council takes the view that the European Union is a community based on law and that it must adhere strictly to its own standards and values.
As the author is not present, Question No 16 lapses.
It is the case in all Member States of the European Union and in all constitutional states that those responsible for internal security naturally do not hold sensitive talks, relating for instance to intelligence gathering, in public.
I do not believe the situation is any different in any Member State of the European Union.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, indeed we know that the MED-TV channel and the newspaper Özgür Politika provide very in-depth information.
Thank you very much, Mr Verheugen.
If this should prove to be illegal, what does the Council propose to do pursuant to Article 232 of the Treaty in the event of such a case arising?
I give the floor to Mr Verheugen to answer Question No 18.
Thank you, Mr Verheugen.
Since we have now come to the end of the time set aside for questions to the Council, Questions Nos 19 to 44 will receive written answers.
Now, as you have asked for the floor on a point of order, you must address the President, since it the President who deals with such matters.
Thank you, Mr Ephremidis.
Mr Papayannakis, is this on a point of order?
Mr President, as you are aware, Rule 42 of the Rules of Procedure makes provision for priority questions, which must be answered within three weeks.
Well, so that Mr Prodi will not be alone in proposing these reforms, we have decided to help him and to submit to him a few ideas and guidelines which, thanks to the broad consensus within our committee, we have been able to propose to you.
It is not always necessary to amend the Treaties in order to improve the operation of the institutions.
Experience shows that in the past we succeeded in perfecting and improving the operation of our institutions by means of institutional agreements or internal reforms.
But as a rule each institution looks to its own affairs.
The other is of course the role of the cabinets, which has become important.
I must first extend my warmest thanks to the rapporteur for the way in which he also looked at these agencies in his report.
By as much uniformity as possible - not total uniformity, as we stated in our report and as the rapporteur accepted, but in any event enough uniformity to meet the same criteria.
These agencies must be closely monitored because if present trends continue we will reach the point where more people paid by the Union are employed by the agencies than by the Commission itself.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, never before in the history of European integration have so many important decisions been made and so many dramatic events taken place in such a short time as since 1 January.
They range from the successful launch of the single currency and the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam to the resignation of the Commission and the ongoing accession process for 10 countries.
Never before has the EU been faced with greater challenges to its capacity for action and enlargement.
The new Commission headed by Romano Prodi as its President will take a giant step towards European government, and it is vital that it should.
The House is today considering the last report of - if I may take the liberty - a great European.
On behalf of my group, I would to express my esteem for Fernand Herman's life's work.
Your experience as a rapporteur and your very remarkable contribution to the European Union's progress mean that this report will be an essential discussion document for the next Committee on Institutional Affairs.
The ELDR Group's first amendment is designed to strengthen paragraph 32 of the text by allowing the European Parliament to exercise its supervisory role to the full.
I too would urge the European Parliament to take a long hard look at itself and to get down as soon as possible to the task of studying how it can become a more transparent organisation with, for example, fewer hegemonic pacts between the two major groups to the detriment of the openness we all advocate.
I hope that this will be borne in mind by all those who believe the democratic deficit, the lack of supervision, the careless management and, last but not least, the rumoured profiteering at European level can be reduced by pumping in more powers and more resources.
I believe the opposite must be the case.
However, I have some reservations about certain particular aspects.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to pay tribute to our colleague Fernand Herman, because this is the last report he will be presenting and it is one which reflects his commitment to European thinking and the European ideal.
Mr President, the resolution on improving the functioning of the institutions without amending the Treaty is one of the building blocks which the European Parliament is putting into place in order to equip the European Union for the future.
If in future Parliament is more careful about assigning more and more tasks to the Commission, then it will be functioning in the spirit of Mr Herman's proposal, to whom I should like to once again pay tribute.
But it has certainly tackled one issue: the serious problem facing the Commission in terms of the imbalance between, on the one hand, its responsibilities, its duties and the management of the programmes it is entrusted with, and on the other hand the resources it has available.
Applause Mr President, I too have a minute this evening to tell our friend and colleague Fernand Herman, as is so often the case when he makes proposals about the European institutions, that I very largely agree with him and his ideas.
Once again, congratulations to Mr Herman, and our best wishes go with you.
I believe that, as a rule, it is always a good thing to keep a keen eye on the functioning of the institutions, and especially when there are changes to the Treaty, as is now the case with Amsterdam.
So in this sense we can also accept the positive side to this crisis.
I should like to end here, Mr President, as, I repeat, in the present exceptional political circumstances it is unrealistic for the Commission to comment on this report.
We in this House are the most fervent defenders of the Commission's role and it is because we want to defend this role that we are critical in some respects when it appears to stray from the right path.
I have been fortunate, in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in having many people who have supported me and made it possible for me to do this work.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, as this is probably the last time that I will address Parliament, I will use my mother tongue, which is Swedish.
My own guess is that we are looking at 2004 or 2005.
Once there are open borders and an open labour market, a number of Estonians will seek work in nearby EU countries.
People in my country, Finland, felt in 1995 that membership of the European Union would - by definition - tie us in to a community capable of providing and guaranteeing security.
Estonia has followed a different path in seeking also to join NATO.
For example, people sometimes tell us that the cost of enlargement is too high.
People also tell us - and there are enough demagogues around, including some present in this House - that millions of job-seekers would flood in after enlargement.
The advantage in being 85 years old - excuse me, 86 - is that you can say that you have seen everything and the opposite of everything!
It is the leading country today because it has always made progress on two fronts: first, the wonderful thing about the Hungarian Parliament is that when it comes to making a decision about the country itself, there are no party politicians - just patriots.
All the peoples of Europe have a right to join Europe, even the Serbs, who we have talked so much about.
I am firmly in favour of the Serbs being granted membership once they have got rid of Milosevic and have a democratic government.
The European Commission, however, has expressed a critical view of this first stage, considering that progress, particularly in transposing Community legislation, has been slower and more uncertain than it should have been.
To this end, over the last few weeks, the government has submitted a national programme for the adoption of the acquis communautaire and a raft of very important legislation on VAT, excise duties and the right to purchase property.
We were absolutely stunned when the head of the campaign told us that its aim was not actually to convince people that joining the European Union was basically a positive development for Slovenia.
We should therefore not be surprised to see that in the opinion polls the percentage of those in favour of accession to the European Union is declining, though still a majority.
In Slovenia there are major political forces, a civil society, and human, cultural and economic resources which are more than sufficient to turn this country into an example for many.
I have tried to do my job as your rapporteur with all this in mind and to this end the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy has been very useful to me, as have the amendments which were tabled.
In conclusion, Mr President, although Slovenia is a small country, it occupies a very important and sensitive geographical position, between the north and south and the east and west of Europe.
Throughout the region of the Balkans there is a need for stability, development and processes of integration which transcend national identity, and Slovenia can make a significant contribution here.
Indeed, despite the recent political and institutional changes in the Czech Republic, there has never been any discussion between the politicians there about this key objective.
It is also extremely important to stress that the values that form the basis of the community of Europe have been clearly and perfectly assimilated by the Czech Republic.
There is no doubt that the process of accession is a long and gradual process of adapting to the acquis communautaire .
However, the problem of the social and cultural integration of the Roma ethnic minority has yet to be resolved.
According to the Commission this is due, for the most part, to a slowdown in economic activity and the effects of the process of industrial and economic restructuring in the country.
I fully support the German Presidency's initiative to extend the PHARE programme to include support for the social dimension of the applicant countries' economies.
To that end, I would point out once again that institutional reform is essential to prepare the Union for enlargement and, secondly, that it is vital for the Union to have the resources required to face the challenge of enlargement.
Mr President, Commissioner, this afternoon's debate on the conflict in Serbia and the expulsions in Kosovo has made it even clearer why enlarging the European Union to include the Central and Eastern European countries is, apart from any other considerations, the most important means of guaranteeing peace and must remain so in future.
We Europeans can only ensure lasting peace in Europe and in the world by working together with our neighbours to the east.
In the Commission's progress report published in November 1998, Poland is described as a country that is enjoying stable social and political conditions and making progress in developing an efficient market economy.
Government debt is 48 % and the budget deficit in 1997 was 2.7 %.
As you know, one wage-earner in four works in this sector, which nevertheless generates just 6 % of gross domestic product.
But there are also areas where there have already been successful reforms: the reform of central, regional and local government, in which the number of voivodeships has been reduced, health care reform to introduce medical insurance, and reform of the pension system.
The reform of the educational system is due to take effect in September of this year.
This applies to both sides: the European Union and the applicant countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
The fifth direct elections to the European Parliament in mid-June and an information campaign planned by the Polish Government provide a good opportunity to enlighten the public about the significance and the aims of the forthcoming EU enlargement and of membership.
Mr President, the negotiations between the two communities are going wrong.
This removes the catalyst effect of the accession process and gives Turkey what amounts to a veto on the Union's decision to include Cyprus as a member.
Relations between Cyprus and the European Union are drawing closer and within a few years the 1973 association agreement will become a customs union.
Mr President, as a final point I should like to ask the Commission to allocate the remaining EUR 17 million under the present protocol to the pre-accession strategy.
A financial injection may bring accession nearer and, as I have endeavoured to explain, accession will increase stability in the region.
In the Dutch text there is a very unfortunate mistake or printing error.
Mr President, I am really delighted, in this plenary part- session of Parliament, to again be addressing you on the subject of Malta's accession to the European Union.
The situation changed again in September 1998 with the elections and change of government, so the application has been reactivated and is before us again this evening.
In particular I welcome the fact that the Commission has recommended that the screening of Maltese legislation should begin as soon as possible, with a view to starting negotiations at the end of this year.
Especially, I found, there was reticence on the part of the Council, in that it asked the Commission for a new opinion, an update of the 1993 opinion.
So there was much delay there but we did eventually receive that opinion from the Commission, in February of this year, at the stage when the negotiations were well under way with the first wave countries.
So I would agree with that particular section of Amendment No 1.
I can certainly recommend Amendment No 2 and I will leave it to the judgment of the House as to how we should vote on Amendment No 3.
Finally, I call on the Cologne European Council to take the decision to begin negotiations on Malta's accession by the end of this year.
The Commission should draw up an accession partnership and provide for a programme of financial assistance for the pre-accession period to help the Maltese authorities to bridge the economic gap that remains between Malta and the European Union.
As we examine the environmental consequences and challenges of enlargement, we will not seek to enforce on those states which seek to join us in the applicant process the same kind of environmentally disastrous projects which we have often adopted in our own ignorance inside the Union over the last 40 years.
I am suspicious of those who would use the challenges of environment as an argument for delay in enlargement.
This is a solvable problem but we have to do it conscious that we do it as one continent linked environmentally and ecologically.
Enlargement requires comprehensive change; this applies to the applicant countries - in this case Hungary - and to the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and also very much on my own behalf I would like to express the very sincere respect, esteem and gratitude that we owe to Otto von Habsburg.
His speech here today is typical of the speeches he has made in the European Parliament over the last 20 years, since 1979.
I remember very clearly when he talked of the former Soviet Union as being the last colonial empire on earth, with its annexation of the three Baltic states - Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
But, as Otto von Habsburg has said, we should cast our net wider, towards Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia, and also towards Bulgaria and Romania.
We in the PPE Group see the accession and negotiation as a single process, and we are convinced that we have to prove ourselves, and that the accession of all these countries associated with us by Europe agreements must soon become a reality.
Because if we did discourage them, the reform process and the momentum in these countries would founder, which would be bad both for these countries and for the European Union.
The Baltic states have suffered a great deal of pain in the course of this century, as Otto von Habsburg has already mentioned.
If we look at Kosovo today, we cannot fail to recognise that it is our duty to admit in particular the Baltic states into the European Union as quickly as possible.
We need to make headway with the internal reform of the European Union.
There is clearly a need for institutional reform if we want to remain effective.
We have proposed for example that MPs from the applicant countries could attend meetings of our parliamentary committees as observers when accession issues are on the agenda.
But in turn, we also have our own requirements.
But we are discussing them, and that is why we must now do whatever is necessary to ensure that this vision, which is edging closer to fulfilment, actually does become a reality in the foreseeable future, so that we can welcome the people of central Europe into the European Union and the European Parliament.
Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to support Otto von Habsburg, who said that we should make haste if we are not to miss a historic opportunity.
Applause Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to make some general comments on enlarging the Union to include new countries with which we are conducting membership negotiations.
During the last parliamentary term I voted in favour of EU enlargement to include three rich countries - Austria, Finland and Sweden.
I am also sure that these countries will be a perfect bridge for developing our relations with Russia, Ukraine and Belarus.
With particular reference to Malta, I am pleased at the Commission's recommendation that a critical examination of Maltese legislation should start immediately, so that negotiations with this country can begin before the end of this year.
The environmental dimension is one of the main challenges of enlargement.
Thank you, Mrs Hulthén.
Of all the applicant countries, Slovenia comes closest to fulfilling the conditions for full European Union membership.
Yet this report already refers to the next annual report.
If I remember correctly, the conditions for entry were the acquis communautaire , Maastricht and the desire to promote the further development of Europe, a market economy and human rights.
My question is this: In the negotiations, what are we asking applicants to do about the common foreign and security policy?
If successful, enlargement will place countries that have sought membership on a strong footing for economic growth based on sustainable development.
Introducing environmental legislation into the administrations of the applicant countries will be an immense challenge, and for that reason the EU must provide the necessary support through training programmes and exchanges of information.
I do not think we could find a better commentary on the process that we are currently undergoing.
In particular we must ensure that there is effective competition policy in all the applicant countries and that there is proper respect for intellectual property which will underpin inward investment, which is so important for them all.
As I have said many times in these debates, in my view the biggest weakness of these countries is the administration and the judicial system and the lack of modernisation and investment.
But the applicant countries must also understand that none of them is as yet in the European Union.
All problems can be resolved in politics if the will is there.
Let us show that imagination and courage so that we can enlarge the European Union before the next European elections in 2004.
Mr President, firstly I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs.
The countries of Central and Eastern Europe have a sorry history of totalitarianism, which left them with a legacy of severe environmental problems.
It is now up to individual countries and the EU to embark on joint efforts in the interests of a better environment.
It is therefore paramount that legislation should safeguard the right of ownership.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to say a few words about Malta.
I would also like to thank you in particular, Commissioner van den Broek, for the firm support you have offered ever since the present Maltese Government reactivated their country's application for membership.
My second question is about the fourth financial protocol.
According to this protocol the 1999 budget provides EUR 5 million each for Malta and Cyprus.
Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteurs and others who have spoken this evening on the important subject of European Union enlargement.
May I begin by again stressing, and this goes for all those responsible for preparing for enlargement within the Commission, that we are very much aware of the European Union's historic and unique opportunity to extend peace and stability to large areas of this continent.
We must therefore help all those who aspire to join this community during the difficult and complex integration process.
At this point we can already report that all 10 Europe Agreements have entered into force and that the pre-accession support agreed at the European Council in Berlin will double the financial aid granted to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
Under the PHARE twinnings programme we expect around 100 experts from the current EU Member States to be in place in these applicant countries by the end of the year, and as far as we are concerned this figure of 100 needs to be doubled in the year 2000.
The conclusion reached in this opinion was essentially that while there were no problems in respect to the political criteria for Malta, additional or structural economic reforms were still needed, while the two-year break in Malta's membership preparations had resulted in a delay in adopting the acquis communautaire .
The negotiations are a complicated process in themselves, but I am delighted to be able to report that at the end of last year seven out of a total of 31 negotiating chapters had already been addressed.
Faced with the need to determine their negotiating positions, the applicant countries succeeded in dramatically improving their internal organisation and coordination in a relatively short period of time.
Before I comment on individual countries I should like to make a number of general points about these four important criteria which, as you know, were agreed in Copenhagen in 1993.
Our evaluations set out in last year's November reports were based on an in-depth investigation of how democracy in these applicant countries works in practice.
In many countries, not only the applicant countries but in Member States too, there are major delays in the judicial process, usually because of staff shortages in the judiciary.
In this respect I believe the performance of the applicant countries remains very varied.
Only limited progress has been made in the overall process of adaptation and the implementation of the short-term priorities for the accession partnership.
In May 1998 the Commission adopted a communication on accession strategy in the environmental field.
It is, however, important to recognise that they not only serve environmental interests, but are also justifiable on economic grounds.
The Union's financial assistance provides just a very small part of the necessary resources, which is why a targeted, effective and strategic approach to the accession process is absolutely essential.
Mr President, I have attempted to sketch, although perhaps at too great a length, the current state of affairs, as this Commission, or at least this college of Commissioners, will probably no longer be responsible for producing the next report.
Thank you for that interesting and highly detailed statement, Mr van den Broek.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
It concerns competition policy and two proposals in connection with vertical agreements.
One proposal for an amendment concerns the first Council regulation on the application of Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty.
Furthermore, it wants to grant the national competition authorities the power to withdraw the benefit of block exemption in their territory.
Thirdly, I have a question about the transitional period for current agreements and wonder whether agreements made under the present system can be fully implemented under this system or whether the new system applies to them and, if so, from when?
Finally, Mr President, I am curious to know what the Commission's position is on Amendment No 9 relating to the professional secrecy of in-house counsel and what position it intends to take on the automobile distribution sector when the block exemption regulation for this sector expires in 2002.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are today debating one part of the overall package of reforms in European competition law.
Only competition can guarantee the lowest possible price for the consumer, quality, free access to the market, and, of course, innovation and jobs.
Commissioner, you quite rightly referred several times to the support which Parliament has offered up to now in its contacts with the relevant departments.
The Commission can also count on Parliament playing a constructive part in future work on the reform of competition law.
The rapporteur, Marianne Thyssen, quite rightly points out that there is absolutely no obstacle either to exceptions being made or to sector-specific approaches being adopted for those sectors in which the existing arrangements work to the total satisfaction of economic operators.
In my country alone, assets measurable in billions are dependent on this approach.
The owners of cafés, restaurants and hotels benefit from these investments which they are unable to finance or finance in advance themselves.
In sectors such as beer, and also hydrocarbons, where the present approach is satisfactory to economic operators, either an exception must be made to the general rule or a sector-specific approach adopted.
The approval of the Green Paper in January 1997 marked the start of the Commission's review of its competition policy in relation to distribution agreements.
Since then we have received support for this review in the course of what has been a very open dialogue with Parliament.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 2 on Regulation No 19/65 or Amendment No 1 on Regulation No 17.
For the same reason the Commission is unable to support Amendment No 3 on Regulation No 19/65.
The Commission also has objections to Amendments Nos 3 and 4 concerning the principle of legal privilege for in-house counsel.
This protection is usually known as legal privilege.
The proposed amendments propose extending the principle of legal privilege to include in-house counsel.
The Commission's wide-ranging consultation in connection with its Green Paper did not include the question of legal privilege for in-house counsel.
Secondly, we are at present busy considering an extensive reform of Regulation No 17, including a review of the Commission's powers of investigation.
Thirdly, we do not believe that now is the time to resolve the question of legal privilege for in-house counsel.
The proposed extension of this principle requires a new European status for in-house counsel, based on comparable rules on professional ethics and discipline.
It is not possible to set thresholds in a small country such as mine where a small brewery can dominate, but in a very limited market, whereas a major brewery such as 'Bitburger', which is just next door to us and which is in a much stronger position and has a much bigger turnover, is not considered to be dominant because Germany is huge in comparison with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
It was in this spirit that I drew up my report.
Thank you, Mrs Thyssen.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Thank you, Mr van den Broek.
