Mrs Gebhardt, that was not a point of order, but as you can imagine I was listening very attentively.
The proposal is based on Article 235 of the Treaty, the article which provides a legal basis for actions unconnected with the objectives of the Treaty.
Recognition must be given to the major importance of the programme of Community actions aimed at civil defence to be developed in the Member States of the European Union, given in particular the major impact of natural disasters and other catastrophes which regularly affect our country.
Costa Neves report The Cohesion Fund was set up in order to reinforce economic and social cohesion, such that the European Union would fund, to the tune of 80 to 85 %, any projects in the field of the environment and infrastructure works in the sector of transport in the trans-European networks, aimed at the less developed Member States including Portugal, with the ultimate objective that all Member States should be able to participate in the final phase of European economic and monetary union.
This House has taken this task very seriously, and is trying to bring in a number of essential principles, now that the subject has been dragging on for such a very long time, which is not the fault of Parliament, but is due to the fact that the Council, as it were, in the middle of the process, changed its draft or produced a new basic text for the draft.
With this in mind, we want a Tacis regulation which will in fact be one first, small and insufficient step towards a policy of good neighbourliness, which is what we need for this large region that lies in our neighbourhood.
The vote today is therefore an important step towards a stable framework for our medium-term planning.
It will also enable us to implement the programme for 1996.
The Commission submitted an initial proposal for a new Tacis regulation as early as April 1995.
The new text will also improve the necessary openness of the programme.
Consequently, respect for human rights and democratic principles has been given a more prominent place in the new regulation.
The Commission, however, is of the opinion that a margin of 10 % should be retained for infrastructure investment and the provision of capital, in order to ensure that technical assistance remains the most important part of the programme.
As regards the political conditions, it is the Commission's intention that the European Parliament will be informed as quickly as possible if the Commission temporarily suspends a programme on account of serious violations of human rights.
It is our express intention to continue the modus operandi vis-à-vis Parliament introduced with regard to Chechnya when procedures in connection with the interim agreement with Russia were frozen in January 1995.
The debate is closed.
The original text was in German, but it has now been translated into other languages, and the expression 'native peoples' has been used.
Would it not be possible for this important subject - the subject of employment, which has brought together the seven industrialized countries and the President of the French Republic, who has made a priority of the social chapter - to be examined by bringing forward this statement?
Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, I think that, as this statement is so important, Members will remain until this matter comes up in the order of business.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this report relates to the ratification by the European Parliament of a joint agreement between the European Union and Kazakhstan for a period of 10 years, this report replacing the agreement on trade and economic cooperation between the EEC and the USSR of 1989.
In political terms, the agreement covers respect for democracies, the principles of international law and human rights, and the establishment of a political dialogue and cultural cooperation.
There is thus no further obstacle to reconstruct a partnership, and it is therefore possible to pronounce in favour of concluding interim agreements with Kazakhstan, as requested by the Committee on External Economic Relations.
Madam President, the partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and Kazakhstan was in fact signed on 23 January 1995.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs considers that we should give a favourable opinion, and that is my personal opinion also.
The facts are that the economic situation in Kazakhstan is still poor, the social situation is serious, or even tragic, and above all the political situation has once again become tense just recently.
In reality, it is not only the economic aspect that plays an important part - and in that respect Kazakhstan has a great future ahead of it - but the political aspect is also very important.
It is one of those Islamic states in which there is a relatively high percentage of Russians who might well be described as a fifth column, in opposition to the predominant people, the Kazakhs, who make up 40 % of the population.
Because when I look at what is coming into Kazakhstan from other countries, then there are three countries that are really operating in Kazakhstan: from Europe there is France, from the margins of Europe there is Turkey, and finally there is Japan.
Recent events in particular have shown us that we must be careful here, and that in consequence a sign from us to President Nasarbajev would be of great political advantage to political stability in Central Asia.
In this respect, I can only say that we should be delighted that we are able to conclude this agreement, and that in so doing we are giving a sign to Mr Nasarbajev and his people, thereby leading to a political and economic consolidation which will no doubt still have to survive very difficult times ahead, but which, in the long term, will be of great value to us.
In Kazakhstan, however, it is not simply a question of boosting industrial production, which has declined by almost 30 % within a single year, but also, above all, a question of supporting the democratization process that is taking place there.
In Kazakhstan, where the Kazakhs make up 40 % of the population, and where there is a Russian minority amounting to 38 %, it is most important that this question of property rights should be cleared up; otherwise it would seem that conflict will be a foregone conclusion.
Madam President, the Interim Agreement between the European Union and Kazakhstan makes it possible for us rapidly to put into practice the intentions of the partnership and cooperation agreement on trade and trade-related issues.
It constitutes a general framework for our future relations with these countries.
The level of priority accorded by Kazakhstan to relations with the European Union is extremely unclear.
The ambassadors of the Member States of the EU in Alma-Ata have noted that the European companies which are represented in the country are hesitant about investment.
The European Union regards as essential regional cooperation and voluntary integration with respect for the independence and sovereignty of each participating country.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, as you have just mentioned, this is a question of deciding to ratify the first, and therefore historic, economic and trade cooperation agreement between the European Union and Nepal.
With its 20 million inhabitants, Nepal has always had to endure the looming presence of two gigantic world neighbours, China and India, which themselves have always attracted international interests in political and economic terms to the detriment of other countries in the region.
The cooperation agreement, on which we are shortly to vote, therefore represents a turning point for Katmandu and gives its government the opportunity to open its markets to Europe, thus increasing the development potential, and to escape from its position as an enclave between two important regional powers.
Since 1990 Nepal has been engaged in a radical institutional change which has led to free multi-party elections and the alternation of democratic governments.
A high-level European diplomatic presence would represent an essential support for democratic developments in progress in Nepal and would mark the definitive European commitment to follow more closely the situation of a little country whose history and culture are however very important, which is asking for assistance in its evolution towards democracy.
Europe must welcome this readiness and must confirm that it will continue both to follow attentively the human rights situation in Nepal and if appropriate to exert the necessary and appropriate political pressure.
From an economic and commercial point of view it is vital for the aims laid down in the agreement to be achieved as soon as possible.
Its total imports amounted in 1992 to 780 million dollars, whilst export earnings were the equivalent of only 350 million dollars.
Europe must help Nepal to overcome this difficult situation because its development cannot be ensured simply by mountain tourism: it can be effectively guaranteed only by a diversification of exports and promotion of internal development.
The Kingdom of Nepal is one of the poorest countries in the world and therefore has to face difficult challenges in the field of development.
The cooperation agreement concluded by the European Union and Nepal sets up a stable institutional framework, capable of assisting such a situation at both political level and the level of economic and social development.
Respect for human rights is an important element in the draft before us.
Not only that, but the country is extremely poor, and ranks among the handful of most deprived states on earth, with an annual income per capita estimated at 150 dollars (or no more than 200 dollars according to the most optimistic estimates).
Madam President, this is the first cooperation agreement between the European Union and Nepal and as such it is a landmark in our relations.
However, in this matter we must make sure that we do not put the cart before the horse, because it seems to me that one of the biggest problems preventing sustainable development in this area is the extremely high level of illiteracy.
The issue of imprisonment for debt is certainly a problem which is rooted in the country and its history.
I think that we must be careful if we try to tackle this problem by applying our own standards, and we should regard the new constitution, and the fact that there is a working parliament in operation, as an opportunity to express a certain amount of anticipatory confidence in the country, including in the human rights sector, instead of straightaway turning up on its doorstep in the role of constant critic and monitor.
At the end of the day, we cannot free a country from its history, which to some extent may have taken a very different course from that of our own.
Nepal is very high up and helping this country where needs are very great must also be high up on our list.
It is one of the poorest countries where the average income is no more than 180 to 200 dollars.
The Union, Madam President, is Nepal's foremost trading partner.
I also believe that the other areas covered, namely the expansion of trading relations with this country and the expansion of tourism, as well as providing assistance to improve infrastructure in Katmandu and in the other cities of this country of 20 million people, are of particular importance.
It is the first treaty between the European Union and a third country which is based on respect for and observance of human rights.
I should like to wish the European Union and Nepal, a country which belongs to the SAARC, whose regional cooperation is becoming increasingly important, success and fairness in their cooperation, which has a great future ahead of it.
Within the framework of the Uruguay Round decisions, the European Union is committed, under the Blair House Agreement, to growing a maximum quantity of oilseeds for the non-food sector on set-aside land.
The background to this arrangement is as follows: the set-aside scheme was introduced as part of the 1992 agricultural reform in order to limit the supply of cereals and oilseeds for food.
The cultivation of certain agricultural products for use in the non-food sector is permitted on such land.
The production of methyl ester - known as 'bio-diesel' - from oilseed rape gives rise to a by-product, rape cake, which, like soya meal, can be used in animal feedingstuffs.
The European Union has therefore undertaken, under the above-mentioned agreement, to limit the amount of this rape that is grown for the non-food sector to a specific quantity, in this case 1 million tonnes of soya bean meal equivalents.
The present proposal by the Commission is intended to introduce measures to restrict the rape cultivation in question if this figure of 1 million tonnes of soya bean meal equivalents is exceeded.
As a result of the reduction in the set-aside quota a falling trend is actually expected in 1996.
Amendment No 1 therefore seeks to make it clear that this type of by-product, which can be used for purposes other than feed or food use, for example as a source of energy, as a biogas fuel or as a source of humus, is excluded from the calculation of the maximum permitted quantity of 1 million tonnes.
The coefficient for calculating the soya bean meal equivalent of rape meal and sunflower meal currently used by the Commission - though not, as far as I am aware, laid down anywhere in a legally binding form - is too high.
On 20 March, overnight, businesses which had thrived for many years were simply wiped out.
We deeply regret this terrible slur cast on our meat industry.
The Commission is taking account of this constraint, and the amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture are mitigating its effects.
Mr President, Mr Goepel, we support your report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Blair House agreement set the production of oil seed cake obtained from the cultivation of set-aside land in the European Union at one million tonnes of soya bean meal equivalent.
Let me explain: firstly, the level of European self-sufficiency in proteins intended for animal feeds is declining, on a net basis, and is no more than 29 %.
Furthermore, Amendment No 5, which states the position of the experts representing the French Agriculture Ministry, which has been accepted by the 15 Member States of the Council and is based on criteria that are common to the scientific and professional circles, also looks towards making better use of the quota for the entire European Union.
If this Amendment No 5 will be accepted, the Community, although still subject to the GATT constraints, could nevertheless produce on industrial set-aside, up to 3.1 million tonnes of rapeseed of 3.6 million tonnes of sunflower seed, or an increase of 20 % over the Commission's initial proposal.
If such byproducts exceed 1 million tonnes per year, expressed in soya meal equivalents, measures have to be taken.
The Commission accepts this amendment.
Amendments Nos 2, 4 and 5 are aimed at ensuring that the Council regulation takes into account the coefficients which have to be used in converting rape meal and sunflower seeds into soya meal equivalents.
Amendment No 3 proposes that sanctions should be imposed the year after the threshold has been exceeded.
Thank you, Mrs Gradin.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) G7 meeting on employment The next item is the statement by the Commission on the results of the G7 meeting on employment of 1-2 April in Lille.
They made a strong declaration on human resources, confirming what we already know and believe, that investing in people is as vital as investing in capital, and the successful economies in the future will be those that focus on the long term by investing vigorously in training for their workers.
The battle against unemployment is not a purely national problem.
I would emphasize, in particular, that there is still a great deal of potential for job creation in the healthcare sector, in the caring services, in tourism, in the cultural sphere and in environmental protection, as well as in services in the commercial sector.
My second question is: what part does the Union really want to play in the world debate on human solidarity as regards taking care of social security and the environment, for example in the next world trade negotiations?
Mr President, my impression is that the latest G7 meeting took place in the same atmosphere of indifference as our debate here this morning.
And yet nearly 20 million Europeans out of work, and an unemployment rate of about 20 % among young people, might have prompted the Western powers to display a little more determination and imagination.
The Americans have denounced social entitlements as an unemployment factor, conveniently forgetting that, in their own country, another 40 million people are living in poverty and exclusion.
It is therefore not so much the lack of a political will on the part of the European Union that I see as an obstruction to any effective campaign against high unemployment, but rather the lack of willingness on the part of individual Member States to adjust their economic and social-policy framework conditions to fit those of the international competition.
Mr President, thank you for all the interesting contributions and comments on my report from the G7 meeting.
For many, it is a tragedy that there are 18 million people outside the labour market.
