Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 4 July 1996.
The inhabitants of Srebrenica were trusting in the fact that in April 1993, as you will remember, their town had been declared a UN safe area.
They were bitterly disappointed when the Serb forces, under the command of General Mladic, took the town in July 1995.
I occupy room 238 in IPE 2, from which I normally have the pleasure of observing the French countryside.
I think we should be able to adopt the text by a majority of more than 314 votes this week, on the understanding that the Bureau is to be instructed to produce a definition, which will be important when it comes to applying the agreement.
Clearly, we are not opening a debate, but I think that before voting on whether or not to reinclude this item, it is essential for the group chairmen to express their views.
My group feels it is vital that we should vote on the Ford and Nordmann reports this week, and we support the Christian Democrats' proposal on the subject.
My group will support putting the Nordmann report on the agenda as long as it is clear that, as far as we are concerned, that agreement holds.
Madam President, with the same degree of seriousness and commitment as the other group chairmen, I wish to express the concern of my group at the way in which the Nordmann report is coming before plenary.
We believe that this amendment - which some people now wish to interpret, and which leaves the distinction between gifts and privileges to the discretion of the Bureau - is extremely confused.
Madam President, I also wish to say that our group is in favour of the Nordmann report being debated during this part-session.
Nevertheless, I should like to point out that we are only having to discuss the reinclusion of this report because the Conference of Presidents decided by a majority to remove it from the agenda, and that our group did not vote in favour of its removal - a decision which was adopted by a simple majority of the Conference of Presidents.
The European Parliament is capable of adopting these rules.
Madam President, the Union for Europe Group, like the Europe of Nations and PPE Groups, voted in the Conference of Presidents to maintain the Nordmann report on the agenda.
We are thus in favour of transparency, without indulging in demagogy of any kind, and I therefore believe that it is right that the Bureau should exercise a kind of moral authority in deciding what should or should not be termed a 'gift' .
Consequently, our group has absolutely no hesitation - quite the opposite - in voting in favour of the reinclusion of the Nordmann report on the agenda.
We hope that this report secures the 314 votes required and is adopted during the current part-session.
Madam President, it goes without saying that our group is ready to debate and adopt the Nordmann report.
However, in accordance with the procedural agreement reached by the group chairmen, we wish to vote on the compromise text without amendment.
I believe that the correct procedure is to agree on a text which will secure an absolute majority of 314 votes.
However, this provision for referral to the Bureau must not seem to negate immediately what has just been adopted.
May I remind you that 45 % of trade with Cuba is carried out by European companies.
Madam President, if the PPE Group were really so interested in postponing this report, it would present its reasons to the House.
Madam President, I am in favour of it being postponed, provided it comes back on a Friday morning as the last item on the agenda! (Parliament decided to keep the report on the agenda) Madam President, I wanted to raise something on Tuesday's agenda - not to change the agenda but to ask for clarification from you.
On behalf of all Members of the House, I sincerely welcome you to the European Parliament, and I hope that our work together will be extremely successful. (Applause) Major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0224/96) from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the common position established by the Council (C40222/96-94/0014(SYN)) with a view to the adoption of a Council Directive on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances (rapporteur: Mr Bowe).
It is only when something goes dramatically wrong - serious explosions or fires and people injured or killed - that we realize how important this legislation is to ensure the safety of the people of Europe and that our industry can operate not just economically and profitably but also safely.
In fact it has certainly been improved by the addition of some of Parliament's amendments from first reading.
Thirdly, we feel that there is a lack of clarity with regard to the time limits to conform with the provisions of this directive and that insufficiently binding obligations are placed upon certain operators to ensure that they are fully adhering to the provisions of this directive within appropriate time-scales.
We feel it is important that we, the Council and the Commission go back and re-examine these issues and ensure that the ordinary development of cities and towns does not threaten or create new dangers.
It is also essential that there is proper public participation and that the public is informed and given full information about the planning and licensing procedures for these sites and for new installations in particular.
There are a number of other technical issues with regard to harmonization of certain reporting criteria and harmonization of certain aspects of the inspection of these installations.
However, that does not in any way exempt the Commission or the Council from guaranteeing the safety of the people living around these dangerous chemical sites and other dangerous, large installations that have the potential to create such cataclysmic damage.
Nevertheless, they have not managed to prevent some 130 accidents from occurring since 1982.
In the past, the legislation has affected some 1866 undertakings.
Basically, Ireland is very ill equipped for dealing with major accidents in the chemicals industry.
Mr Bowe has said that it is essential that the public should participate and also that there should be proper training.
It is a bit like going to Fort Knox to go to visit a whisky bond.
The protection of workers and the public in general is important enough to warrant legislation of the very highest quality.
That directive was adopted in 1982 following a series of accidents involving dangerous substances and was amended following two major accidents, namely the one at Bhopal and the one at Basle which polluted the Rhine.
Many of the amendments improve the quality and clarity of the proposal, and the Commission can accept the following either wholly or in principle: Nos 1, 4, 5, 10. 11, 13, 25, 27 33, 37, 39, 40, 42, 44 and 45.
Amendments Nos 2, 29, 30 and 32 can also be accepted in part.
However, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 26, 28, 31, 34, 35, 36, 38, 41 and 43.
The Commission entirely agrees that there is a need for Community legislation on land-fills, and we are therefore in the process of drawing up a new proposal on waste disposal sites.
The debate is closed.
The fact that these proposals are being introduced to eliminate disadvantages created by the implementation of the GPA demonstrates how we are all intertwined.
What is essential, in my view, is to maintain strict reciprocity, as already called for by Parliament - with regard to economic relations with third countries - in its resolution on the G7 conference, and hence to bring out clearly all the special practical features of tenders from GPA third countries.
In other words, it should be made clear that implementation of the draft directive being proposed by the Commission would amount to granting foreign suppliers - and, above all, US suppliers - total access to the European market, whilst European suppliers would only be able to operate in the US public market.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my main observation to the House regarding the Langen report concerns the clarification of the legal scope of the Commission's proposal.
We are dealing here with two different legal orders: the international agreement on the one hand and the Community directives on the same subject on the other.
Consequently, the GPA entered into force in the Community on 1 January 1996, as provided for in its Article XXIV.
Its implementation in the Community does not in itself require any transposition.
The GPA governs the relations between the Community and third countries, so the rights of third-country businesses to participate in Community contracts are laid down and circumscribed by the GPA itself.
In the present situation, even when Community businesses take part in the same calls for tender as third-country firms, they do not enjoy the same rights and advantages as businesses from third countries which have been signatories to the GPA since 1 January 1996.
It may be, for the reasons mentioned by Mr Katiforis, that not all of these points emerged at the hearings.
As I have already said, and as Mr Langen has been kind enough to acknowledge, the Commission intends to take account of these concerns, and to this end I have made known the details of our proposed amendments to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
I can therefore confirm that the Commission intends to present an amended proposal based on the suggestions made in the committee.
In conclusion, I can summarize my position by saying that I intend to present an amended proposal for a directive, taking account of the concerns expressed in the course of the debate in committee.
I hope that in this way, we shall soon be on the same wavelength as Parliament and thus achieve what I believe we all wish for: the restoration of a level playing field for third-country firms and European businesses, in a context of adequate legal certainty.
The debate is closed.
However, it is important to note that the common position incorporates some new features in relation to Regulation No 1601/91, notably the amendment to Article 1(1)(i) concerning Article 2(1)(a), first indent, of Regulation (EEC) No 1601/91, which consisted in changing the form so that the first indent of Article 2(1)(a), as reworded, remained consistent overall and there would be no detrimental anomalies in legal terms.
Accordingly, this amendment was included in the common position established by the Council on 29 April 1996 in a reworded form.
The amendment to Article 1(1)(i) concerning Article 2(1)(a), penultimate subparagraph, of Regulation (EEC) No 1601/91 was incorporated in its entirety into the common position.
The amendment to Article 1(3), concerning Article 5(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1601/91 was very largely incorporated into the common position.
These amendments should therefore be agreed to as they stand.
It is therefore important to take this opportunity to say that the consumption of wine must be encouraged in all the Member States.
I think that wine-based cocktails and drinks aromatized with wine products are now being recognised as traditional in certain markets and for certain consumers.
With regard to aromatized wines - for example 'Glühwein' , for which the possibility of adding water has been eliminated - our principal demands have been met, notably as regards the requirement of a minimum wine content of 75 %, the use of grape musts, and the need for a clearer classification and definition of products.
I am thinking in particular of 'Fernet Branca' .
On behalf of my group, I would urge all colleagues to approve this common position, which reflects a consensus in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, and which forms part of the efforts to strengthen our European agricultural identity.
Mr President, I also wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr Martin, for his report.
Nevertheless, at second reading of this proposal, I should like to make one or two critical comments.
We must bear in mind that, in using the word wine to describe a composite drink with a minimum wine content of only 75 % - aromatized wine, that is - we are to a certain extent undermining the significance of this natural process, which has been employed by man for over 5500 years.
I do not believe that it is outside the remit of the report that we should demand respect for our stricter import regulations which limit the amounts which may be imported and for the stricter conditions we impose on the sale of wine, wine-based drinks and other alcohol and the system of selling alcohol only in special establishments - state off-licences - which we have in Sweden.
You will no doubt be aware that they have all been incorporated into the common position established by the Council on 29 April 1996.
I am pleased to be able to say that we are also in agreement at second reading.
The common position contains only a few new features and makes only a small number of changes, principally of wording.
Parliament was informed of the Commission's approval of the common position on 23 May 1996.
The debate is closed.
It is not just because of my inconvenience, but many people were interested in this particular debate and have made arrangements to be here tomorrow.
I and members of the Committee on Transport and Tourism wanted to be positive about this draft directive.
Everyone felt that the amended directive was then acceptable.
Even in the United Kingdom, to my amazement, British Airways and British Midland both feel that this common position should be rejected and have asked Members to do that.
The user committee has been emasculated and the social safeguards that Parliament felt it very important to insert in the draft directive have been mostly ignored.
Parliament recognized these problems at the first reading and amended the proposal accordingly, particularly in the area of social protection.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, in approving - with amendments - the Council's common position, or rejecting it, Parliament will have the choice of assuming its political responsibilities or, once again, bringing discredit upon itself.
I shall therefore vote against rejection of the common position and in favour of the amendments which seek to ensure increased safety, improved quality of services and the maintenance of social protection.
Mr President, the draft directive on groundhandling at airports, now before the House for second reading, does not take account of the principal amendments adopted by Parliament at first reading.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism - and I welcome the fact, since we contributed to this outcome - has delivered an opinion in favour of the rejection of the common position.
At the time, we in the ARE Group advocated abstention, since we believed that rejecting the Council's common position without having voted on the amendments tabled by the various groups was a very strong measure, in political terms.
Secondly, we would have preferred to support the common position, had it incorporated our two amendments to Articles 4 and 5, concerning respectively the separation of accounts in the management of airports and the user committee.
Faced with this impossible situation, we have no option but to announce our rejection of the common position.
But there are also various points where the Council has tried to accommodate Parliament's wishes, for example in providing protection for the rights of workers and its extremely cautious approach to liberalization, where it makes provision for a number of exceptions.
Parliament did in fact attempt to improve the proposal for a directive by submitting various amendments, almost all of which were ignored by the Council.
Who would not be in favour of the liberalization of competition?
The Council's common position incorporates only some of Parliament's proposals.
Mr President, in my opinion Mr Seal has done an excellent job, as regards both the approach to the subject and his proposal that the common position be rejected.
However, we have been confirmed in our decision by the numerous comments of all the interested parties.
Mr President, I welcome the Commission proposal which attempts to introduce a degree of liberalization and competition in groundhandling services in airports from 1998.
I fear personally that Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty would achieve more in the way of opening up groundhandling services at European airports to competition, defeating national monopolies and ending the privileged and protected position enjoyed by many of Europe's flight carriers.
The Council's common position appears unable to resolve any of the problems created in the European airport industry by the whole air transport liberalization policy.
Lastly, it has ignored the special interests of airlines which account individually for more than 25 % of the traffic at an airport and also the special factors affecting island airports.
In the circumstances, I think that the only thing that the European Parliament can do is to support rejection of the common position.
Mr President, the Council proposals liberalizing airport groundhandling services could actually have very serious consequences for jobs and safety at the airport in my own constituency, Dublin, and indeed at other major airports throughout Europe, as has been mentioned by other speakers.
They would also lead to a serious deterioration in safety standards, a matter which we must all be very concerned about.
Aer Lingus estimates that up to 200 jobs would be put directly at risk if it is forced out of airport groundhandling services while the central representative Council of Trade Unions at Dublin Airport envisages a steep decline in safety.
It has refused to take up any of our suggestions to safeguard jobs and ensure safety standards are improved.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say first of all that the common position of the Council is clearly better than the Commission proposal.
The Council has improved on the Commission's positions and recommendations, and I must also point out that a number of provisions approved by the European Parliament at the first reading have been accepted by it.
Mr President, I see that a considerable number of amendments have been tabled by various groups, including those who are in favour of rejecting the common position.
I have to say that whilst I am not in the least bit concerned about my personal inconvenience - that does not matter at all - I must urge the authorities of this House to reform procedures both for the sake of the good name of this Parliament and out of respect for the general public, some of whom, of course, wanted to be able to attend this debate and had made arrangements to be here tomorrow and found it impossible to change them in order to be here today.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal on groundhandling has, not surprisingly, as we have heard this afternoon, proved to be controversial and that - of course - is demonstrated by the recommendation of the Committee on Transport and Tourism that the common position be rejected by this House.
First of all, the need to adhere to the competition rules of the Community and secondly, the diversity of interests involved in groundhandling.
When, as a teacher, I took account of these two intractable and unavoidable questions I would give at least 8 out of 10 for content, 9 out of 10 for effort and 10 out of 10 for originality.
The problem raised here is not a matter of conflict between airlines and airports despite the efforts in some quarters to use the vocabulary of the battlefield; the issue relates directly to applying the Treaty rules on commercial activities to monopolies or quasi-monopolistic situations, whether the holder of the monopoly is the airport itself or the dominant carrier of the airport.
At Parliament's request, the common position includes the possibility for Member States to take measures to ensure an adequate level of social protection and respect for national social legislation.
It is clear that Directive 77/187 will certainly apply in many situations.
First, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1, 8, 9 and 39 in part, and Amendments Nos 27, 31, 34, 37, 38, 40, 42, 43 and 45 in full, since they have been accepted at first reading and they contribute to the improvement of the text.
Second, the Commission can accept, in principle, subject to some redrafting, Nos 7, 11, 15, 17, 20, 21, 30, 33 and 36.
The Commission cannot, however, accept parts of Amendments Nos 1, 8 and 39 or any of Amendments Nos 2, 3, 12, 13, 14, 18, 22, 23, 25, 26, 28, 29, 32, 35 and 44, either because they do not correspond to the scope of the Directive or because they reduce the scope too much.
We cannot accept part of Amendments Nos 9 or 39 or any of Amendments Nos 4, 5, 10, 24, 41 concerning thresholds, dates, subsidiarity and comitology.
Finally, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 6, 16 and 19, which are considered inappropriate in this context or are contrary to normal business practice.
The debate is closed.
