In particular, I would like to hear your views on this latest edict that has been passed down from on high regarding the rules governing Question Time.
On the proposal of the Vice-President who chairs Question Time some rules - not new rules, but measures to organize Question Time better - were adopted by the Bureau.
The period fixed in the rules runs from the end of one partsession's Question Time to some hours before the next part-session; and we simply remind you that this is the period fixed, not some months in advance.
If anyone thinks there has been a change in the rules, which of course is not the case, I will submit the question to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
So your report will come up as soon as the Conference of Presidents can find a place for it on the agenda.
There is no discrimination against any report, and this afternoon I will be seeing the chairman of the committee at his request, precisely to consider the best time for its inclusion on the agenda by the Conference of Presidents.
Of course, if there is any doubt you may be assured that we will refer it to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and we will await its decision before introducing any changes.
This concerns the Pex report on information policy, which we tried to put on the agenda for this part-session and which was then going to be on the agenda for the part-session at the end of next month.
My view is that this report goes against the rules of the House and the Treaties.
The Conference of Presidents will examine it tomorrow and take what decision it feels appropriate.
Mr President, out of respect for you I have kept quiet this week about this matter, but now that it is being raised I would like to make some comments, otherwise you might think I agree with you.
If you are now saying in this sitting that the report goes against the Treaties, then I would like Members to be able to read the report, so that they can see for themselves what, according to you, is questionable.
Finally, the issue here is communication.
My report therefore deals with improving this situation.
Mr Pex, I can state categorically that I myself, in the presence of other people, warned you about this several months ago.
You carried on with your report without taking account of either the Rules of Procedure or the Treaties.
Just like any other Member of this House, you should know them, and the Rules of Procedure too.
No report is granted any privileges, whether it comes from your committee or from any other.
If you do not think it is good enough, then present the Rules Committee with a proposal to amend our Rules of Procedure.
I would like to make one comment on what you have said.
Mr Pex, I am not reproaching you about anything.
I do not reproach any Member of this House who acts in accordance with their convictions.
Mr President, I wanted to comment regarding the vote on Mrs Theato's report.
However, it should be noted that the conditions under which this vote took place may raise questions regarding its future interpretation.
The President did not use the powers bestowed upon him by Article 102 of the Rules of Procedure.
We will therefore be faced with a problem in the future.
If the words were incoherent in all languages other than German, it shows how ill-prepared the debate was in committee because we have debated all the way through on the use of those words 'European Public Prosecutor' .
We have a heavy agenda, and I am not continuing something which was closed yesterday by the President in the Chair. (The Minutes were approved) Topical and urgent debate (objections) The next item is the voting on any objections concerning the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
After the vote on point II: Human rights Mr President, I am only commenting as a matter of interest, given that the vote has taken place, but I was surprised that the code of conduct for arms exports was included within the issue of human rights.
It could have been a supplementary point within the framework of a topical debate, but certainly not a point connected with human rights.
Thank you very much, Mr Pasty.
One of the major priorities for our Presidency is settling the mandate for the Lomé renegotiation.
As you all know, Lomé is one of the major foreign policy instruments of the European Union.
It is the basis for the trade, development and political relationship between the Union and 71 African, Caribbean and Pacific countries.
There has been a process of considerable and very useful consultation which has started to build growing agreement about what the next phase of Lomé should be about.
There was also agreement that we must at least maintain the current access of the ACP countries to the European market and that the agreement should seek to be World Trade Organization - compatible, that further work is needed on reciprocal free trade agreements on either a regional or a country basis, but we will also consider the possibility of enhanced GSP access for those countries that cannot or do not want to agree reciprocal free trade agreements.
The next stage of these discussions will be at the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in April and my deputy, George Foulkes, will represent the Presidency there.
The second major priority of our Presidency is to seek to persuade the Union to shape our development strategy around the international poverty eradication strategy.
Obviously, if the European Union embraces this strategy firmly, the possibility of mobilizing that international political will becomes much greater.
Our third priority concerns the resolutions that have been passed previously on making the eradication of poverty and promotion of equality of women central to the European Union's development efforts.
Under the Luxembourg Presidency the Development Council set a path for further work and detailed work is taking place in the working party.
In conclusion, the other theme for important work in the Development Council for our Presidency is to strengthen evaluation of the European Union's development efforts.
I am optimistic that we will make major progress and that under our Presidency we will agree a useful mandate for the Lomé renegotiation and have broad agreement across the Member States and within the Commission for making the international poverty eradication strategy the framework for all our development efforts.
It was in this spirit that the Committee on Development and Cooperation made me responsible for drawing up a further report on the said communication.
I would like to draw your attention, Madam Minister, Commissioner, to certain issues included in the Martens report which the draft communication from the Commission to the Council overlooked but which Parliament would like to insist upon.
It aims to ensure a better future for our overseas countries and territories.
The major problem, Mr President, is our concept of partnership.
But in this Parliament we, too, represent our electorate.
Our governments are ever more demanding in terms of the quality and effectiveness of aid and increasingly insist upon conditions of good governance and respect for human rights from aid recipients.
On the issues, that is, the substance, we are in agreement and have the same objectives.
very well, Mr President, I will stop there.
Owing to its characteristics, decentralized cooperation is very different from the usual methods of providing state aid for development, and yet the insufficient results obtained in this field have led us to consider new forms of cooperation.
To conclude, decentralized cooperation seems to be a privileged means of meeting the new challenges of development, particularly the fight against poverty and the development of the private sector, but also the protection of human and civil rights, which is so important.
We therefore believe that we need to move on from a marginal and experimental decentralized cooperation to its development as a priority, be it within the framework of external cooperation - Lomé Convention, MEDA Programme, and so on - or in the direct actions of the European Union.
Whereas the Green Paper on relations between the European Union and the ACP countries only makes an oblique reference to the issue of gender, the communication which we are now discussing says that gender issues must be incorporated into all macro-economic, sectoral and project assistance.
The Commission recognizes that there is a direct link between improving the position of women and the fight against poverty, that sustainable economic and social development cannot be realized without equality between men and women and that human rights are also women's rights.
The new development cooperation agreements must promote equality between men and women in all areas, not only political and social, but also economic.
It must be clear to everyone that economic equality will exert influence over social structures and the balance of power within a country.
A fairer partnership should therefore not only deal with the relations between the European Union and the ACP countries, but also with the distribution of power within a particular society.
Mr President, may I first of all welcome the Secretary of State and thank her for her excellent overview and also, of course, thank Michel Rocard for his report.
Although the political guidelines proposed by the Commission for negotiating the new cooperation agreements with the ACP provide a starting point for discussions on the renewal of our relationship, in too many areas I am afraid they are not much more than that.
We must not therefore promote a solution which puts their livelihoods in danger.
If by doing so we will be standing by the so-called commitment, we will not be standing by our commitments to attack poverty, to prevent conflict, as Michel Rocard says, and to promote gender equity.
That is why I have consistently proposed the idea of a ten-year waiver to cover the current trade arrangements, so I am very pleased that the Rocard report has taken up this point.
I urge the Council and the Commission to take on board the issues raised in the Rocard report.
For the first time the Commission communication allows Parliament to state its views on the guidelines put forward by the Commission for the negotiation of new cooperation agreements with the ACP.
Even more pleasing is the fact that Parliament's views are closely aligned with the Commission's thoughts.
Firstly, the Council agreed that the political scope for the ACP-EU partnership should be enhanced.
One of the original features of the Lomé Convention was, on the one hand, including trade and, on the other, upholding provisions in this area designed to encourage the diversification and development of the ACP countries.
Sadly, efforts to improve trade have not been successful and many developing countries have much reduced export trade compared with ten years ago.
Regional cooperation should give them the strength to improve this situation.
I support a strong political dimension to the new cooperation agreements with ACP countries, especially in the areas of human rights, good governance and the rule of law.
I am entirely in favour of the struggle against poverty being the central theme of post-Lomé IV arrangements.
Ireland has consistently emphasized the importance of the semi-integration of the ACP countries into the world economy and the compatibility of new trade arrangements with the World Trade Organization.
Compare this with the lack of European regulation or competition checks on arms movements from the EU to third countries.
There appears to me and to many other people in my country to be a conspiracy of silence on this issue.
A European Union arms export control agency should be set up in order to protect the human rights of the citizens of the ACP countries.
We must recognize economic development, social development, environmental protection and human rights as mutually reinforcing components of sustainable development.
Mr President, the Rocard report before us is a good report on the orientation guidelines of future cooperation agreements.
Mr Martens made a start on this in his report.
On the other hand, we want to take account of the regional situation and drive development forward here.
The regional situation is in the foreground in this report too, and I think that is right and important.
I therefore consider that paragraphs 59 and 77 of the motion for a resolution are important.
I believe that support for the process of African unity is important.
The credibility of countries must be measured by this too.
In view of the imminent failure of the code of conduct, I would like to point out that in Amendment No 18 we put forward many specific proposals, and I ask you to support this amendment, and also Amendment No 17, which concerns the prohibition of antipersonnel mines.
My colleague Mrs van Dijk has pointed out the problem of women, the role of women in the development process.
There is more in it than in the Green Paper.
It relates to the possibility of countries who are recipients of aid themselves proposing the criteria relating to democracy and human rights which would need to be respected to avoid a suspension of European Union aid.
On the one hand because it is in keeping with all our principles of intervention and, secondly, because it should prove to be more effective than the current measures.
If the democratic criteria for aid are from now on defined by our partners, they themselves will be obliged to denounce violations and to apply sanctions.
Perhaps this will be the occasion to deepen the dialogue on values mentioned in point 29 of the motion, from the basis of a respect for our differences.
You could be forgiven for wondering whether the eighth EDF, which is ECU 13 billion over the period 1995/2000, that is FF 85 billion, is or will be put to better use than the seven preceding ones.
But Michel Rocard himself, far from considering these three points and learning lessons from them, and whilst remaining faithful - let us recognize this - to his socialist ideology, proposes a policy which will be detrimental to the nations of Europe as well as to the people of the ACP countries.
Diplomatic and political links between supra-national bodies such as the European Union, on the one hand, and the African Economic Community, established in 1994, on the other.
The aim in Article 130 u of the Treaty of Maastricht is global.
Development cooperation should promote sustained development, particularly in the poorest countries, for the fight against poverty and a harmonious, step by step inclusion in the world economy.
It is a mark of the Lomé culture that conditions are not just imposed on the contractual partners, but that efforts are made to ensure that the measures proposed are supported by the country concerned, in agreement with the governments and the population.
Certainly participation on the part of civil society still leaves something to be desired.
I think that one particular aspect of cooperation within the agreement must be extended in future: close cooperation with nongovernmental organizations, particularly those which are active in the ACP countries, and not just with our organizations in the Member States.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first, sincere thanks to both the rapporteurs.
There is a special passage about it in the Rocard report.
In this connection, I also draw your attention to the question of the CFA zone in the context of European Monetary Union.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation agreed.
We believe that the time has come to emerge from a rationale of strict conditionality and to concentrate on a more fruitful dialogue, with a view to assessing governments' endeavours in the areas of human rights, democracy and good governance.
I will end, Mr President, by expressing the hope that the Joint Assembly, which is the prime instrument of political dialogue between the European Union and the ACP, will be strengthened.
It is also excellent news that discussions are taking place on this agreement in the various Member States.
This should preferably be achieved through revision of the list of countries covered by the Lomé Convention, but could if necessary be achieved by assuring countries not covered by Lomé V that they will benefit from the same conditions in relation to EU support and equal access to EU markets, regardless.
Mr President, could I welcome the President-in-Office here?
I commend in particular the cause of Jubilee 2000 which I think has caught the imagination of many people and which says, with a new millennium, let us cancel the debt of the poorest countries.
Paragraph 77 talks about the need to develop fisheries agreements with a development component instead of a purely commercial one.
I would commend the report and perhaps I can finish by saying that 'Nous sommes tous des rocardiens maintenant' , we are all Rocardians now.
Mr President, research into and the implementation of effective measures to combat poverty will constitute the EU's greatest undertaking in its future relations with the ACP countries.
Following the Committee on Development and Cooperation's discussions in Brussels, the overall strategy proposed by the Commission within the framework of negotiations for the renewal of the cooperation agreements with the ACP countries, will be submitted next month, during the course of the Joint Assembly planned in the Mauritius Islands.
This is a new way of preparing for the review of these agreements, which must not be called into question.
An effort is being made to define cooperation and partnership more effectively, by reviewing the way of working but also looking at the mistakes and inadequacies so far, by looking critically at the disguised plundering by the large European companies, by looking to replace huge projects which are not always useful with a vision that is closer to the work and life of the people and the democratic development of society, by looking at new fields of intervention such as women, civil society, health, education and, as I said, by using more penetrating and effective ways of working.
Simply continuing the status quo is certainly not a model for the next millennium.
Countries like Bangladesh, Nepal, Bolivia and Nicaragua are excluded, although these are developing countries which need our help just as much as the present ACP states.
At its Congress in Toulouse last year, the Group of the European People's Party demanded that future cooperation should no longer be based so much on colonial links, but on income per head and its distribution, and above all on the willingness of those in government to contribute genuinely to the development of people in their country.
What is important and fundamental is that, when we talk about development cooperation, we should not forget foreign policy and humanitarian aid.
The EU should thus have a foreign policy on common security, that will enable dialogue in a field where we can really make substantial impact and a significant economic contribution.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two or three years ago we were quite sceptical s to the future of the Lomé agreements, for many reasons.
A decline in the geo-strategic interest of the ACP countries after the end of the Cold War, the need for the European Union to contribute to the economic development and democratic strengthening of central and eastern European countries, the wave of ultra-liberalism created by the WTO along with, of course, a decline in the financial capacities of a Union sharply touched by crisis, can all be given as examples.
All of these factors came together to overshadow the horizon which, at last, seems to be clearing.
The Commission's Green Paper is clearly the source of this awareness, but we can be proud of the European Parliament's active contribution, and especially that of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, in reflections on the renewal of the Lomé agreements.
Ladies and gentlemen, the game is not yet won with regard to the Lomé agreements for the year 2000, but we will from now on have, thanks in particular to the Rocard report, intellectual instruments which will ensure that we do not miss this great opportunity.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a change is necessary in the way in which we pursue cooperation between the European Union and the ACP countries, with a view to establishing a renewed, real and fairer partnership.
The main feature of this new partnership should be that populations themselves take their place in cooperation, while its main aim should be to eradicate poverty, prevent conflict, defend human rights and promote good governance.
I would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere support for Commissioner Pinheiro for the intelligence he has shown in presenting and developing the new strategic approach which he proposes for such a very important issue.
In addition to over 70 ACP countries, there are 20 overseas countries and territories, many of which are located in the Third World, often amongst ACP countries.
The far-reaching equal status they were granted in 1991 has meanwhile been reversed.
Mr President, I would like the Commission to tell us when it thinks it will have a new OCAT agreement, and perhaps the President-in-Office can add something to this.
Alongside our bubble or jar, a meteor has appeared - the appearance in Africa of the President of the United States, after twenty years of US presidential silence.
I think the appearance of this North American meteor in the sky of our relations with the ACP countries justifies an initial comment now from the Council and the Commission, and perhaps a fuller explanation to this Parliament's Committee on Development and Cooperation.
Mr President, I wish to devote my contribution to this morning's debate to the report on decentralized cooperation drawn up by its excellent rapporteur, Mr Vecchi.
It is decentralized civil society organizations within developing countries which have the ability to adapt cooperation policy to local conditions.
It is decentralization which makes our aid more visible, thereby improving accountability.
It is decentralization which leads to better identification of need and support for smaller projects, with quicker funding availability than is possible in traditional programmes.
It is decentralization which builds the capacity of civil society to monitor and assure norms of democracy, thereby promoting principles of good governance and respect for human rights.
The Council seeks to restrict rather than encourage this approach by proposing a regulation which will remain in force for just three years.
It seeks to subject programmes to the bureaucracy of the restrictive II(b) commitology committee and to limit the finance available to just ECU 18 million over the three-year period.
Parliament wants the legal base for pilot initiatives on decentralized cooperation to be a strong - not a weak - instrument and one which is a starting point for mainstreaming this philosophy as a defining element in all of the EU's development cooperation efforts.
For all my political career, I have been a decentralizer, whether it has been in UK local government or in seeking to open up the workings of the European Union.
The EU and ACP must reaffirm their partnership by strengthening democracy and respect for human rights, especially the rights of women.
The fight against poverty and illiteracy must form the basis of any new arrangements and the acquis communautaire must be built upon in political economic and financial terms.
In order to ensure maximum development in the ACP regions it is essential to take on board the question of peace and security.
The sale and distribution of dangerous weapons including, in particular, landmines must cease.
GATT and the WTO have done little or nothing so far to make increased trade a reality for these very poor economies.
This also justifies the unusual length of the text of this resolution, but greater conciseness in the details might have led to a more correct emphasis on the principles guiding the new partnership agreements between these countries and the EU.
Paragraph 18 of the text affirms the desire to use contracts instead of applying too many conditions.
I do not think we can disregard this fundamental point, which forms a part of our cultural heritage.
We think it would be better to establish a completely equal relationship between the Commission and these countries and we are proposing our amendment to that effect.
I also think it is good that clear emphasis is placed on increased regionalization and thus also decentralization, since it is clearly difficult to see how else we could achieve effective cooperation between ourselves and 70 states as different as those we have in the ACP agreement.
Personally, I think it is also essential for us to pay more attention to the issue of population, which is a very important one.
I also think that long term protection of European agriculture is not a durable solution.
We must have the same standards for trade and agricultural policy as we have for aid policy in general.
On that occasion, I stated that the political guidelines of the Martens report would certainly be followed by the Commission.
Today, the Rocard report not only consolidates Parliament's earlier guidelines, but it innovates and proposes a number of measures which the Commission will, again, be very pleased to pursue.
This is for a number of reasons: firstly, because the manner in which the political dimension of this new convention is presented in the Rocard report persuades us that these are not merely hollow words, but that a genuine desire exists to enter a new phase in our relations with the ACP countries.
And now, together - the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council - we are endeavouring to ascertain the best way to combat poverty, to draw the ACP countries into the world economy and to counter the ACP countries' exclusion from that world economy.
I regret that, for reasons of political consistency, and for these reasons alone, the Commission must say that it cannot follow the Parliament regarding Amendment Nos 11 and 12.
Mr President, like Commissioner Pinheiro, I think what is most impressive about this debate is the amount of shared thinking there is across the Commission, the Council and Parliament - and right around Parliament.
This is a very powerful alliance and it bodes well for the next phase of Lomé that there has been some very careful thinking and there is a lot of agreement about the direction in which we need to travel.
There are some details we need to discuss further - for example the best way to deal with AIDS in some of the poorest countries in the world - but we can come back to that.
I would agree with the stress on all sides on support for good governance and human rights as a precondition for eradicating poverty.
The Asian crisis shows that and, therefore, it is not an optional extra; it is part of sustainable development.
I should like to say to Glenys Kinnock, who was very worried about the stress on regional free-trade agreements, that what we got out of the last meeting of the General Affairs Council was agreement that regional free-trade agreements are one option but an enhanced GSP is another option that must be at least as good as the existing Lomé access.
Within that kind of framework - this, of course, is the area of greatest complexity and needs more discussion - there is room for different countries to choose the way in which they wish to travel.
If we can preserve those options, then it will be possible to go forward in the way that the countries concerned wish.
Mr Andrews stressed the need for simplification of the instruments, and we all agree.
As you all know, the Maastricht Treaty provided for a separate EDF, and that remains the position of some of the member countries.
In fact, the WTO is an organization of Member States with one state, one vote, and is potentially democratic.
I just wish to remind Parliament that all our countries have signed up to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Mr Antony said that some of the progress under the ACP-EU relationship in the past had not been as effective as we would hope.
That is absolutely right, and the stark statistics of terrible infant mortality, low-life expectancy or maternal mortality are part of the picture of gross poverty in the world.
It was one of the commitments made in a previous General Affairs Council agreement.
The Council wholeheartedly supports the HIPC initiative.
That is part of the broad agreement on development assistance - that there should be differentiation between the investment needs of the very poorest and the technical cooperation needs of the middle-income countries, and more resources ploughed into investment in health, education and so on, in the very poorest countries.
We need to decentralize our efforts and then we need to decide in what areas the Member States should take the lead and in what areas the Commission should take the lead.
The consensus between Parliament, the Council and the Commission bodes very well for our future endeavours.
If you look at the Lomé agreement, it is enormously complex, with very complex channels of funding, and we are all agreed that they have got to be simplified.
We must improve our capacity to do so.
I would like to thank everybody who took part in the debate, in particular the President-in-Office.
The bonds that tie Russia and the European Member States are centuries old.
Russia is also important as a bridge between Europe and Asia.
Russia, as a superpower, however, goes its own way in matters of geography, natural resources, its population and its culture.
Progress in Russia is unpredictable, often chaotic, following no western model or timetable.
For that reason, an understanding of Russia's special features is a key factor in a successful partnership between her and the EU.
The challenge for us is, above all, to give our support to nationwide and local democracy in Russia.
Nevertheless, we are at a crucial time in the development of Russia's economic and democratic reform process, and the EU's future relations with Russia can play a vital part in supporting and invigorating the push for reform in the Russian Federation.
The EU and the European Parliament must exert their influence through the TACIS and democracy programme, the partnership and cooperation agreement and the newly established Parliamentary Cooperation Council.
Russia - building on the mutual founding act between NATO and the Russian Federation - must not be excluded from discussions on the future security architecture for Europe in the twenty-first century.
The Council must play its part - and I hope Commissioner Van den Broek will endorse this - in building a new relationship with a new Russia.
One cannot be complacent about the tremendous difficulties Russia still faces a decade after the change, a vast country with a heroic people and with a rich historic tradition and spiritual heritage.
On the contrary, it is in everyone's interests to contribute to the consolidation of democracy, the development of society, so that Russia can play the role it should, both within and beyond the continent of Europe.
Russia was subjected to communism for 75 years, that is, three generations.
Today, 50 % of the population are poor - it is true - but the other 50 % are experiencing a continual increase in their standard of living and there are already the beginnings of a middle class.
This means that whatever happens, she will make up the lost ground in terms of political and economic backwardness in the near future, as she was doing at the turn of the century before the revolution put a stop to that progressive momentum.
She will turn to the United States, or Asia, or the Muslim world, and our part of the continent will be weakened by this.
All eastern European countries, Russia included, are on the path to democracy and a market economy.
Mr President, the European Union must support the greatest possible development of relations and cooperation with the Russian Federation.
It will be impossible to build a stable Europe if we turn our back on that country or try to isolate it.
The enlargement of the European Union to include the central and eastern European countries, and the enlargement of NATO to the east, should be accompanied by a proportional increase in relations with Moscow.
Russia is going through a difficult transition in political terms, with a democracy marked by Boris Yeltsin's presidential authoritarianism.
It is a question of having a reliable partner on the international scene, one which cannot be forgotten, as we saw during the most recent Iraq crisis and with the situation in Kosovo.
I want to end by saying that I am worried that countries such as France and Germany obviously might be tempted to enter into bilateral relationships with the Russian Federation, independently of moves from the European Union.
Anyone who does not accept this not only ignores the EU Treaty on this point, but also rejects involvement in this great restructuring task of Europe.
It does not contribute to the settlement, peace and stability of this continent.
The plan seeks to ensure good coordination between the various actions, both bilateral and Community, aimed at supporting the transformation of Russia.
Finally, to ensure lasting peace for Europe and the world, we hope there will be a reinforcement of the political, economic and cultural partnership with Russia, which is undoubtedly a great world power today.
In this agreement, there is already an effective instrument for carrying on a permanent dialogue with our Russian partners about all those questions of a political and economic nature which are central to our mutual relationship.
We know that we must improve this TACIS programme, but we also know that preparatory work is essential for our future cooperation between Russia and the European Union.
I would like to point out the following above all else here: Russia is today, in an era of worldwide decolonization, the last great colonial empire on earth.
At any rate, I do not want any of my 18 grandchildren to die in a colonial war for the defence of Russia.
We do not need Russia in the European Union before decolonization has taken place, afterwards yes, but not before.
If Russia's development is successful, a natural further step should be that Russia becomes a member of our democratic union, the EU.
The EU was founded by six states with around 200 million inhabitants.
Mr President, Russia's population is falling and poverty is spreading.
The EU should not be sending any military signals that Russia might interpret as a threat to her national security.
A country like Finland should remain non-aligned, even if the EU were to have a common foreign and defence policy.
If enlargement of the Union to the central and eastern European countries is to be brought to a successful conclusion, it must not be done to the detriment of our sister countries of the former USSR, in case we merely rebuild a new wall of shame a little further east.
It is probably unrealistic to envisage the accession of Russia to the enlarged European Union.
Mr President, the report on future relations with Russia is an important one.
It would be quite inappropriate to adopt paragraph 54 in its current form.
The other flaw which I would like to mention is paragraph 46, in which the rapporteur suggests that it will only be possible to develop security relations with Russia once it has been decided to incorporate the WEU into the EU.
A few days ago, the Russian human rights activist and Duma member Kovaliev expressed his concern about the anti-democratic tendencies which still exist in his country.
Russia has joined the Council of Europe, to which all the Member States of the European Union belong.
We in the European Parliament will approve the relationship with Russia, we want close cooperation, but we shall also pay close attention to, and when necessary issue a reminder about, the reform process in Russia towards a state which operates under the rule of law, respects human rights and establishes a civil society which acts democratically.
Whereas in the joint sessions in the initial phase after 1994 we very often indulged in reciprocal statements - whereby the Russian side was sometimes quite emphatic in forcing us onto certain subjects, for example NATO membership of some east European states, subjects which really had nothing to do with the bilateral relationship between the European Union and Russia and prevented a rational dialogue - this has essentially changed.
It is now the case that we discuss many subjects of mutual interest and thus achieve agreement on many points, or can at least have an effective exchange of experience.
Take, for instance, the debate about TACIS, about the development of the partnership agreement, about Russian or European internal questions, such as the development of international crime, the rule of law or the tax system in Russia.
The Nordic dimension is a security project, broad in scope, which focuses, for example, on the TACIS programme, on Russia's commitment to regional cooperation in the areas of environmental concern and nuclear safety, and on the multi-faceted relationship that exists between the Baltic states.
This Cooperation Council finally became a reality once the cooperation agreement with Russia had entered into force at the end of last year, after a three year ratification period for the partnership.
In this context I would like to mention our TACIS programme for democracy.
On the subject of strong trade relations, I refer to what I said about membership of the World Trade Organization, and strengthened cooperation in the sphere of security within Europe.
I am leaving aside the European cooperation with Russia taking place via the Security Council, and cooperation in the OSCE, cooperation within a contact group.
This is a solid basis for the further discussions we will continue to have in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, in the Committee on External Economic Relations and in other committees which deal more specifically with the relationship with Russia.
The debate is closed.
The European Parliament wanted to declare 1999 the European Year against Violence against Women, and to start a European campaign for this.
We have 323 votes.
The women in our countries are waiting for support.
There are ten roll-call votes for this particular session.
Therefore, if I stay for seven roll-call votes, I could then leave having completed the 50 %.
There are about fifteen roll-call votes, Mr Falconer.
Madam President, on a point of order.
I alerted the services to this point in advance this morning, but it was not taken even though it is relevant under Rule 19(4).
Last month this Parliament passed a resolution in favour of human rights in Nigeria.
I ask you, Madam President, on behalf of Parliament to write urgently to the Nigerian authorities to press for respect for this Parliament's will consistent with human rights law and our February 1998 resolution.
Mrs Schaffner is showing her approval of this proposal.
Thank you, Mrs Lindholm, you have an answer to your question and, as you see, we have done what was necessary.
Proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the noise emission by equipment used outdoors (COM(98)0046 - C4-0122/98-98/0029(COD)) (Parliament approved the Commission proposal) Madam President, today I do not want to ask for signatures against criminality in Brussels, although we have only until Friday to do so, but I would like to propose, in accordance with Article 129, that the Murphy report should be referred back to the responsible committee, since there are over 100 amendments, which are mainly of a purely technical nature, and to make a SLIM initiative myself.
We should therefore agree in a working party on how we intend to proceed with these three directives, in accordance with the rules.
As Parliament, in the case of this legislation, we can contribute to ensuring that the protection of the health and safety of citizens and of disadvantaged people is taken into account.
I ask that this should be minuted, because as a parliamentarian I am not prepared to cooperate in this nonsensical kind of legislation. (Applause) Madam President, I hope not to take as much time as Mr von Wogau.
Commissioner Bangemann, when this point was put to him, said he could see no reason why Parliament should not actually take a position on the report and, indeed, he gave an indication that the Commission was prepared to accept 22 of our amendments.
Mr President, I have just one question for the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy who was speaking here in person.
I proposed this before the vote in the committee.
The result was that the Murphy report, which in my opinion was not ready for discussion, came to the House against my will as committee chairman.
In French it is called, "Le contrôle démocratique dans la troisième phase de l'UEM' .
There is a difference between responsibility and control.
There are in fact two versions of this independence: a strict one, according to which the ECB is able to choose the means through which it directs monetary policy within the framework of support to Community economic policies in general and a more extensive version whereby its independence relates not simply to the methods but also to certain overall objectives, with no control and no possibility of reforming the institution.
Mr President, I would like us to put an end to the ambiguity concerning this subject.
This European Parliament, in its decisions and reports, has left no doubt that the future European Central Bank, in the conception of independence, is also a constituent part of European monetary union, which will begin on 1 January 1999.
Besides, the Treaty of Maastricht and the statute of the European Central Bank already provide for a duty of the future European Central Bank to report.
The place in which this duty to report as an expression of transparency must be fulfilled is Parliament.
This transparency is an obligation in a democratic system for all institutions and establishments, and therefore also for the first supranational, federal European institution, the European Central Bank.
We must also consider the ideas of the Treaty, which says very clearly that the European Central Bank must pursue the aim of price stability and also support the economic policy of the European Union, provided that the aim of price stability is not affected.
It will therefore be particularly important that this European Central Bank should gain trust, credibility and acceptance.
But at the same time, in all Member States, the national parliaments will have to enter into a dialogue with their national central bank presidents.
I hope that the stable community of the European monetary union really will offer possibilities of creating the overall economic conditions within the European Union that enable the euro to contribute to the fight against unemployment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the power to mint or issue a currency is a considerable one, and history shows that those who hold this power have rarely resisted the temptation to abuse it.
The independence of the future Central Bank will be stronger than that of any other similar institution, as I explain in the opinion which is submitted to you.
But independence does not imply irresponsibility.
In a democracy, all holders of power must be answerable to those who gave them that power and in whose name they exercise it, in this case the people of Europe who we here represent.
The Randzio-Plath report, as it has been adopted, finds an acceptable balance between independence and responsibility.
In today's world, the credibility of the future Central Bank will depend on its accuracy of analysis and its explanation of decisions.
I want to say to my German colleagues in particular, who seem to feel that those who want accountability of the Central Bank in some way want to impede its operation, that the citizens in the rest of the European Union do not have the same confidence and warmth for the ECB that you probably have for the Bundesbank.
The Bundesbank has been enormously successful.
The Socialist Group will defend the independence of that bank wholeheartedly.
But we want to make sure that the currency we are creating is a citizens' currency; something that the people in the European Union feel confident with and feel is acting on their behalf.
This is not merely a currency for the large financial institutions and multinationals.
There is another point which is important from the point of view of accountability: we will have a centralized monetary authority but we will have a decentralized fiscal policy in the European Union.
We have to make sure that there is a link between the work of national parliaments and the European Parliament in ensuring that we have the democratic accountability of our Central Bank.
If we fail in this project then I think it will impede any further development we want to see in the future of the EU.
The European Parliament today shows by a convincing majority - at least in the vote - that it is conscious of its great responsibility for the independence of the Central Bank and for the lasting stability of the euro.
Trust in the euro and European monetary union depends on the time and progress of this decision.
I am outraged that this historical hour is being used in this way, that we are squandering this time, which has been provided for the important democratic debate that should really do honour to this European Parliament.
This legitimacy will come rather from its success in managing the European Union's monetary policy.
I would merely like to remind you that some of the initial proposals of the rapporteur were not acceptable, nor were they in accordance with the measures of the Treaty.
It was the same for the idea of giving the European Parliament the right of censure and of joint nomination of the Executive Board, which assumed a revision of the Treaty, in particular paragraph 4 of Article 109.
On 18 March, the initial report was substantially modified in committee and our group is extremely pleased with this.
Thus modified, Mrs Randzio-Plath's report is acceptable to us.
Secondly, we are well aware of the need to establish an interinstitutional agreement to allow us to participate in directing the economic and monetary policy which, in fact, must provide the background to the management of the euro, and is determined by three fundamental elements: the annual economic report from the European Central Bank itself; the European Monetary Institute's report; and obviously, when required, a report on excessive deficit.
Mr President, this report seeks to set down the rules of "democratic play' after the euro.
It cannot be said that the exercise is encouraging as regards effective and democratic monitoring of the future European Central Bank, which was created with the aim of making it more independent than any other bank.
According to the report, monitoring is to be exercised at European level, since the European Central Bank will pursue a single monetary policy for all EMU Member States.
Finally, a single monetary policy, which is drawn up by such an independent institution, in addition to all the requirements for transparency and all the concerns for democratic accountability, cannot, in the name of price stability, ignore or remain indifferent to all other economic policies.
Democratic accountability must also preclude the dictatorship of a monetary policy that is drawn up without regard for other economic policies in general, for each national economy, or for the Community economy, or for its social ramifications.
Parliament plays a central role in democratic control but, vis--vis the Central Bank, it cannot be solely responsible for such monitoring, either under the philosophy of a process of integration of Member States, or in the real balance of institutional forces.
Mr President, I think it is plainly dangerous that the world's most independent bank, the European Central Bank, is going to become a sort of ivory tower in Frankfurt.
The danger is that the bank and its directors will withdraw from normal society and that exaggerated price stability will, in the end, pose a threat to peace within EU society.
I consider it an excellent text which attempts to show what dialogue there could be between the Central Bank, which in fact will be the most independent in the world, and other institutions, especially Parliament.
We must strengthen the possibility of the European Parliament becoming the place of dialogue with the ECB, the place for transparent and regular exchanges - at closer intervals, in my opinion - the place where the President can express himself and where, on behalf of our people, we can question him without challenging its independence.
I think such dialogue would be extremely important to show public opinion that we are not creating an ivory tower but a body required to account for its actions before an institution such as the European Parliament.
I think this could strengthen dialogue, not only in spirit.
I understand the President of the Federal Reserve appears before the American Congress every fortnight.
Mr President, scarcely a month before the choice of countries to be irreversibly, according to the expression drummed endlessly into us by Commissioner de Silguy, blended together in European Monetary Union, Parliament has finally become concerned with the essential question of its democratic accountability.
It limits itself to a number of pertinent comments, it recognizes that the ECB will become the first supranational monetary authority in history and will thus consequently hold unprecedented power, far greater than that of the German Bundesbank or the American Federal Reserve and that, for the first time, an area in which federal political decisions are taken within the European Union will emerge.
But whilst the report admits that this unprecedented independence calls for a similarly high level of democratic accountability, no concrete proposal is made as to how this might be achieved.
The report makes no mention of the essential role that national parliaments have to play in this control.
Mr President, under such conditions we cannot support this report and we fear that the birth of the first truly supranational institution of the European Union may be synonymous with a decline in democracy.
Mr President, the problem we are dealing with today is both a theological and a teleological one, that is, a question of purpose.
The independence of central banks should be a factor of efficiency.
If we look at German history we can see there is a German desire to resolve their neuroses: Weimar, independence.
In this case, let's dye all the Spaniards' hair blonde and there will no longer be an economic problem in Spain.
Perhaps the German situation is explained by the fact that they have not been involved in wars in Indochina, or in Algeria?
I believed that Europe was the little Eurasian continent, a model of democracy.
There is therefore nothing more important than democratic accountability of monetary policy.
It has to be noted that within our institutional framework - which has been ratified by our people, our parliaments and our authorities - the current Treaty gives the European Central Bank power and independence without democratic accountability.
It would be appropriate, in the future, to provide national parliaments, and above all the European Parliament, with the means to have an influence in this direction.
Secondly, it is important to highlight the fact that the Ecofin Council now finds itself in a position where it has the capacity to intervene with regard to the exchange rates of currencies such as the dollar or the yen, but with limited powers.
Mr President, should the Central Bank be accountable to this Parliament?
The answer is certainly not.
Economic research has shown that independent central banks are more successful in achieving lower inflation rates than banks which are guided by politicians.
That is why it must be guarded with a long term perspective in mind.
Finally, the bank will not receive political instructions, but neither will it be blind or deaf to the needs of European society, because it will be in touch with all the important forces in society.
Mr President, as the structures of the single currency are put in place, fundamental questions are coming to light.
Today's debate on democratic accountability of the ECB is a significant example of this.
This seems unquestionable.
On the other hand, the mission conferred on it by the treaties is to ensure, not a high level of employment but price stability, which is totally different.
As the reports on convergence from the Commission, the European Monetary Institute and the Bundesbank have reminded us, this stability will be obtained by keeping salaries in check and lowering the overall cost of labour.
It is the same throughout Europe.
Mr President, the establishment of a European central banking system is drawing near, planned for the first half of 1998, following the decision to participate in the third stage of EMU.
Price stability throughout Europe and the independence of the European Central Bank will give rise to trust on the markets and, consequently, we should achieve a fall in interest rates, particularly in the long term.
As laid down by Article 7 of its statutes, it is certainly the most independent central bank in the world.
The sovereignty it will hold should, however, ensure an impartial monetary policy for all the Member States, thereby ruling out the risk that, lacking any democratic control, the European Central Bank is free to interfere at will in any questions dealing with the monetary policy of Member States.
Mr President, the European Central Bank, which will be set up in three months time, will be more independent than any existing bank in the world.
Moreover, although the ECB will be born in an era of historically low inflation, no one knows how the monetary instruments which have proved their usefulness on a national level will work on a European level.
We therefore think it would be useful to reach agreement with the ECB on how, in the interests of both, this transparency and accountability can be effected in as meaningful a way as possible.
Mr President, the establishment of the single currency is an unprecedented historical phenomenon.
Mr President, the full independence of the European Central Bank is quite rightly anchored in the Treaty.
The highest aim of its monetary policy is to ensure price stability.
That is why it is necessary to involve the European Central Bank in a dialogue about politics.
In a democracy, every power - and the European Central Bank will be a power - even if it is independent of political power, as is the case with the European Central Bank or, in another area, the judiciary, should be able to explain to the citizens and public opinion the reasons underlying its actions and its choice of objectives, and why it chose the methods it adopted in order to achieve those objectives and goals.
At the same time, it must also be stressed that along that road we should not rule out the possibility of eventual reforms, even of the Treaty itself - as has been called for here this afternoon - in order to give greater depth to that same democratic control of the European Central Bank.
Mr President, as has been clearly stated, the independence of the European Central Bank is a valuable asset and is therefore beyond discussion.
Accountability, which we have been talking about this afternoon, is not only a democratic requirement but also an essential requirement for maintaining the authority and credibility of the Bank.
Mr President, unlike all the other people who have spoken in this debate, I come from a country where, prior to the euro, there has never been a political debate on currency.
With monetary union, the citizens of my country are discovering the importance of everything surrounding the issue of currency.
This is why the purpose of dialogue between the European Parliament and the Central Bank is to raise awareness amongst the general public of the importance of monetary policy within social and economic policy in general.
It is an important factor in my country's policy of redistribution of income and social policy in general.
Mr President, all the speakers have said we are facing the most historic event since the signing of the Treaty of Rome.
And in order for the euro to be a success, we are all agreed that we need to guarantee price stability.
As noted in the report, the economic government of Europe constitutes a necessary counterweight.
To conclude, I think it is important that the European Central Bank should not just be a bubble in the air, a sort of aristocratic Neoplatonism, and the European Parliament should play its part here.
Mr President, in a few weeks' time the European Union will be choosing the governor of the European Central Bank and Britain's future bank manager.
This point was itself made to me by candidate Duisenberg last week in the European Parliament's monetary sub-committee and this committee, too, must adopt and adapt.
Its fledgling role as banking committee for the citizens of Europe must be developed and essentially the ECB governor should present not only the bank's annual report but also offer regular, possibly quarterly, explanations of its interest rate decisions, and the minutes themselves should be published in summary form showing the decisions made plus explanatory commentary.
Ladies and gentlemen, the euro has to create stability for Member States.
The euro should become the third international reserve currency alongside the dollar and the yen.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the reports by the Commission and the European Monetary Institute have brought us into the finishing straight for the single currency's establishment, an historical event for the building of a single Europe.
For the single currency's management, Europe is at last getting a Central Bank equal to the task, a bank that will exercise Europe's monetary policy in a unified way that takes into account the needs and interests of all the single currency Member States and, I hope, those of the countries which are not yet members of the single currency but aspire to become so soon.
That will not happen in the future.
But to be able to implement its monetary policy in a fair and balanced way, the European Central Bank must be sure of its independence.
It is with regard to Article 3 which points out that monetary policy has an influence on growth and employment.
It would only be a question of the President of the Central Bank getting into his helicopter - for I am sure he will have one - and throwing tonnes of 500 euro notes down on the heads of the astonished but delighted populations of Europe.
It is in order to avoid this sort of misunderstanding that I thought it necessary to clarify this point, for it must not be misunderstood by the Commission, the Council or public opinion.
Mr President, this report is fundamental to the future of the European Parliament.
The European Central Bank is totally independent, and that is how we perceive it.
However, the legitimacy of its operations and the possibility of monitoring it in a democratic manner are matters that have been widely discussed in all countries.
In Portugal, one of the most controversial and widely discussed subjects is the European Central Bank's lack of democratic accountability.
The European Parliament, which will examine the candidates to the board of the European Central Bank, is entitled to hear the President and respective board regularly.
In our view, in the European Parliament, when we vote for and approve the Executive Board of the European Central Bank, they assume the responsibility of any elected individual to render accounts.
European citizens will then know that the European Central Bank will hear and render accounts to those who legitimately represent them in Europe.
Consequently, the European Parliament is the place in which this discussion with our people must first be concentrated.
We need a broad dialogue with the Central Bank President, not just about the specialist questions of monetary policy, but also about economic policy, tax policy in the European Union, about budget policy, competition policy, to the extent that these policies have an effect of the stability of the currency.
The real challenge which faces us is that of carrying on this dialogue firstly with the Central Bank President, but secondly with the European Commission, as we already do, and with the Council Presidency and the finance ministers of the Member States, who have become accustomed to reporting at regular intervals to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy about their stability programmes.
We have the Ecofin Council, and we have the European Parliament, where this debate must be focused, and where the reasons for certain decisions at European level must be explained to the people.
I believe that it is important, when we discuss today Mrs Randzio-Plath's report, which I approve in its present form, that we are clear that it is not just a question of the monetary policy of the European Union or the control of the European Central Bank, as some people say, but a question of a broad dialogue about the future monetary and economic policy of the European Union.
Indeed, there is clearly a fundamental problem in the democratic accountability of Economic and Monetary Union.
We live in a democratic world and consequently I think that we must take all precautions necessary to ensure that this project commences with, and is supported by, all the necessary democratic safeguards.
Although the European Central Bank plays a vital role, its task is limited to that of monetary policy.
If we want European public opinion to support the single monetary policy which the Central Bank is going to implement as from 1 January 1999, this policy must be clearly explained and well presented.
Let us start by implementing a treaty which will be applied as from 1 January 1999.
On the first point, I would like to remind you that Article 105 fixes the European System of Central Bank's objective as that of maintaining price stability.
I would like to congratulate the House, on behalf of the Commission, for recalling that the precondition for achieving this objective is the independence of the Central Bank.
Similarly, Article 105 specifies that, without prejudicing this objective of price stability, the ESCB supports the general economic policies of the Community with the aim of contributing to the achievement of Community objectives, as defined in Article 2.
But monetary policy can no more be isolated from economic policy as a whole than can budgetary policy.
Clearly, nobody questions the fact that the independence of the European Central Bank depends on the credibility of its actions and thus the effectiveness of its fight against inflation.
But the independence conferred on the Bank through Article 107 of the Treaty does not, and this is very important, signify its isolation.
Its independence must go hand in hand with efforts to explain its policies and only an open, permanent and in-depth dialogue between the institutions is likely to establish this dialogue and to facilitate the search for a satisfactory balance between the different components of economic policy in order to increase growth and create jobs.
My second remark relates to relations between the Central Bank and Community institutions.
Firstly, according to Article 109a, the House will be consulted regarding the nomination of the President and other members of the board, since they cannot be appointed until after consultation with the European Parliament.
Furthermore, Article 109b requires the Central Bank to present an annual report on the activities of the ESCB and on monetary policy for the preceding and current years to the European Parliament.
Concerning the House specifically, Article 109b states that the President of the European Central Bank must present a report to the European Parliament, which could serve as the basis for a wider discussion on the issue.
The level of your debate shows that there is room for a wide exchange of views between the House and the European Central Bank, in particular on the objectives of price stability and the instruments required to achieve this objective.
The Treaty's measures show that independence and dialogue can and must go hand in hand.
The obligation to be accountable is not incompatible with independence, Mr von Wogau.
For the Commission, the methods of dialogue between the ECB and the Community institutions must in all cases fully respect the independence of the members of the ECB's governing body.
As for the rest, I can assure you that the Commission will do its best to ensure the maximum of coherence in the definition of economic policy in Europe.
I believe that, in actual fact, the possible debates on this subject which could take place in the European Parliament at this time would be desirable, for it is at this time when the broad outlines of European economic policy are drawn up for the subsequent twelve months.
I believe that transparency in, and publicity of, these presentations to Parliament and the European Council would also form an effective way of informing public opinion.
It would be an institutional agreement for ensuring coordination of economic policies, as Mr García-Margallo also mentioned.
It is now up to that third party, that is the Council, to agree to take part in such an exercise.
In conclusion, I would simply like to underline the fact that rather than established principles or declared ambitions, it is practice that will be determinant in assuring the credibility and recognition of each of our institutions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Results of the European Conference in London The next item is the statement by the Council on the results of the European Conference in London.
We successfully launched the accession process on 30 March and we launched accession negotiations with the Six on 31 March.
Each of these points represents a vital element in our efforts to secure successful enlargement.
The first meeting of the Conference on 12 March was a historic gathering.
The 26 countries agreed the chairman's conclusions establishing the broad framework of the Conference.
The 26 countries also agreed a statement on Kosovo and they decided to set up an expert group on drugs and crime which we are taking forward urgently.
We are pleased that we have established a Conference as a body which addresses the issues that have a direct impact on people's lives and which enables all the participants to consider issues on an equal footing.
We regret but respect Turkey's decision not to attend on 12 March in London.
Secondly, we were pleased that the accession partnerships could be adopted on 24 March.
The process was successfully launched at foreign minister level on 30 March in Brussels.
We hope that at that meeting the 26 countries will conclude the pre-accession pact on organized crime.
These negotiations were launched on 31 March by foreign ministers.
The task ahead of us is a great task.
It will be especially important to explain the benefits of enlargement to our citizens and to win their hearts for this historic project which will at last enable us to spread the benefits of the European Union to the wider Europe.
Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I truly believe that this has been a historic month for Europe, because of the European Conference, the discussions about accession partnerships and the first round of negotiations.
I say that because I was recently in the three Baltic states with Pauline Green and saw how hungry they are for signals from Europe.
Mr President-in-Office, I thank you for your report.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this first European Conference was an important contribution to the whole field of the enlargement and unification process in Europe.
It was developed to involve one country, but I believe that we should make it clear that such a European Conference only makes sense in the long run if it is open to all those who from their own point of view or that of the European Union do not yet want to hold accession negotiations but feel that eventually they belong in the European Union.
I hope that the foreign ministers at their first conference under the Austrian Presidency will continue this initiative accordingly.
Mr President, I would like to say a word or two of appreciation and thanks to the President-in-Office for his valuable contribution to the European Parliament this afternoon and to take the opportunity of wishing him and his colleagues who are guiding the UK Presidency continued success for the remainder of their term.
The opening of negotiations with six applicant countries this week in Brussels constitutes an historic step in the evolution of the European Union.
I welcome this first step in the process of expanding the Union into central and eastern Europe and I look forward to the opening of the negotiations with the rest of the countries who have applied for membership.
The process of enlarging the Union will be difficult both for the applicant countries and for the existing Member States.
The recent publication of the Santer package of proposals has clearly shown that the existing Member States will have to take difficult decisions concerning the size of the European budget and the future operation both of the Structural Funds and of the common agricultural policy in order to prepare for enlargement.
The applicant countries will also be confronted with a difficult process of adaptation in many areas; for instance, justice and home affairs issues are central to the enlargement process.
It is essential that the applicant countries put into place the body of EU law already adopted to fight organized crime across Europe.
The full extent of the EUROPOL convention cannot be enforced unless this procedure is completed and it is a poor example to the applicant states if we ourselves cannot complete the ratification process.
Another set of symbolic photos has been taken recently, and I hope that in 20 years time, these will be another illustration of success.
The Union must learn its lessons and be brave enough to act as one with respect to Cyprus.
We, too, are sorry that Turkey was not there, and believe that as a country it will take the necessary steps in relation to democracy and respect for its neighbours that will soon allow it to upgrade its relations with the European Union.
I think the European Union, working together with the Republic of Cyprus, has a responsibility to ensure the integrity of the Republic and this should be made clear to Ankara, at the same time, of course, as the wish of both the European Union and the Republic of Cyprus that accession should include representation of the Turkish-Cypriot community with full rights, with respect for its special claims and problems but within a framework of the Republic of Cyprus's existence as a single and undivided entity.
Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, with merely one minute's speaking time I am compelled to confine myself to one point, namely Cyprus.
On the contrary, without a solution to this conflict, a successful accession is highly unlikely.
That is why the European Union should invest time in simultaneous negotiations with Cyprus, but also in seeking a way out of this political impasse.
The Union must not bow to threats from Turkey, but it must offer Turkey a better and more concrete perspective for accession.
Secondly, the Union must, in conjunction with the United States, ensure that the arsenal of long-range weapons in Nicosia is defused.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, there is a saying which says that if you are at the ball, you must dance.
This is indeed the situation we find ourselves in and when I hear Mr Brok say that everything is going well I have the impression of hearing, "things could not be going better, ma'am!' .
It truly shows great optimism to think that following this conference in London we are going to be able to resolve the drugs problem in twelve months when thirty years of prohibition have done nothing but aggravate the situation.
When I last spoke on enlargement in this Parliament, I said that I understood the disappointment felt by those countries which had failed to make it on to the list of the new Member States.
I was therefore pleased that the London conference brought together existing Member States, the fast lane applicants, and those in the slower lane.
From the point of view of the applicant countries, it must be encouraging for them to see their Heads of Government and foreign ministers now with a high profile and able to deal directly with the Heads of Government and foreign ministers of the existing 15 Member States.
The more that representatives of the applicant countries are involved with us, the more likely we are to achieve the goal of stable democracy and respect for human rights and economic development throughout Europe.
Mr President, the emphasis placed here on the conclusions of the London Conference seems to be inversely proportional to the attention given by citizens to what is considered an historic event by the Council.
The achievement of political union between 15 countries, which has not yet happened, will become even more difficult with 21, owing to the still unsatisfied need to establish the new institutional organization of the Union and the problems connected with common foreign and security policy.
The recent declarations made by the Slovenian Ambassador to Rome show how, in that country, at least one line of thought is quite different from the spirit of the governments and member nations of the EU.
Its territory is still divided and the problem of the Islamic unitary policy obliges the Union to work with greater commitment and good will to strengthen relations with Turkey, a necessary step to achieve greater protection of human rights and for Turkey to join the Union, a Union which needs to be rebalanced between north-east and south.
Finally, the Kurdish problem cannot be considered a problem of the individual states with regard to immigration control, but a Community problem.
Mr President, we started off with the President-in-Office of the Council giving us a report on the London conference, which showed that the European Council - and it is not a precedent - has in some way taken up some of Parliament's earlier proposals.
I think it is important for us to be able to admit, again with that political impetus, that many of those countries can even speed things up during the marathon process that incorporation will turn out to be.
I believe the British Presidency and the Commission are making efforts to reincorporate Turkey into this process, but I also think we must remind ourselves and our Turkish friends and partners that we currently have a customs union with them, and that to enter into a verbal escalation with one of our Member States is not the best way of conducting relations with us.
The Presidency emphasized that priority must given to good governance, democracy and human rights.
The third pillar is becoming increasingly important for the European Union, because we are characterized by the fact that we are an association of democratic constitutional states.
If this matter is not given the attention it deserves there will be a danger that the Union's short timetable for enlargement will mean the environment getting swept aside in favour of economic and trade agreements.
Mr President, all the speakers have said here that the conference was very important and a success, although Turkey did not take part.
That has not been stated here, and I am surprised that former presidents do not give this opinion here in the House, but in press statements.
Since the decision of the EU Summit in Luxembourg, relationships between Europe and Turkey are in a difficult phase, and likewise those between Germany and Turkey.
I must expressly point out that in Turkey women achieved the right to vote in 1923, and that many other aspects of a democratic constitution are in place.
I demand that the Commission, the Council and Parliament should start talking again with Turkey, and that we formulate preconditions which enable Turkey to be present at the next European Conference.
But it is precisely because they have not yet been fulfilled that the European Conference was founded, and it would be completely wrong now to make the next hurdles for the European Conference so difficult that Turkish participation is made impossible.
I therefore ask the Commissioner to negotiate with the Council and Turkey to change this situation!
But beyond that, the European Conference can achieve a Pan-Europe of law and internal security before the last agricultural problem in the European Union is solved.
People will only accept a greater Europe if it results in more, not less security.
I am therefore glad that the European Conference has concerned itself with this subject, although the outcome was inadequate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 noon.
But if we take as our basis the resources which have actually been used, in the years 1996 and 1997, less than ECU 100 million, that is about 15 %, were spent.
The USA, with its splendidly organized team on the spot, manages to spend 95 % of the US$ 200 million which are available each year.
The central government of Bosnia is still incapable of acting.
In 1996 and 1997 they were either non-existent or ineffective.
Nevertheless the resolute process of pacification of the country continues, under the decisive leadership of the High Representative Carlos Westendorp and his deputy Jacques Klein, with the help of SFOR troops.
That is our opinion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, but also the opinion of the ad hoc delegation which visited Bosnia from 21 to 24 February.
Summarized in one sentence: reconstruction aid for Bosnia with a non-existent or non-functioning administration of the whole state or the sub-states is something different from European legislative procedure or classical development aid with partners which can act and function administratively in the normal way.
The Council and Commission have not adapted to these circumstances.
The Council has stymied itself by subjecting all projects over ECU 2 million - that is Article 12 of the Regulation - to a complicated procedure of a governmental committee, which almost always delayed the necessary decisions by several months.
That may cost up to 10 % of the operating expenditure.
The Americans need 15 % for theirs.
I would therefore like to put the question to you, Mr President-in-Office, whether you are prepared to accept our amendments, as they are summarized in paragraphs 1 to 23.
Mr President, two years have passed since the Dayton Agreement and all the signs are that although important steps have been taken, the agreement's implementation is still very slow in many areas.
For example, we see delays in the operation of political institutions, there are still problems with freedom of movement and with the return of refugees.
The Peace Implementation Council has recognized and supported the existing understanding to continue the military presence after 1998.
But beyond that point, since the Union's political and economic commitments in BosniaHerzegovina and the military commitment of its Member States are huge, it would be better to have more consistent and visible common action for active Community participation in the multinational force that is to succeed SFOR.
With these thoughts, we call for common action for European participation in the post-SFOR force along with the other efforts already being made, such as the training of local police forces in the context of the UN policing mission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of the debate on the budget for the reconstruction of the former Yugoslavia on 19 June 1996, I underlined the unsuitability of the PHARE Regulation in respect of this situation.
These regulations are clearly useful when it is a question of making the countries of Europe participate in markets implemented in complete safety, but they are totally inadequate when it is a question of ensuring that the victims of the most recent European conflict are housed, looked after and reintegrated, after a period of insecurity and exclusion, into a Europe which is ashamed of having let this conflict get increasingly worse for six years, leaving 200 000 dead and more than a million and a half refugees and displaced people.
Konrad Schwaiger's excellent report, resulting both from your request for modification of the Regulation and the visit to Sarajevo on 21 February made by the delegation led by Tom Spencer, will definitely enable the process of reconstruction to be speeded up, but I consider that this remains largely insufficient.
Commissioner, please listen to the voices of Members who are often elected at a local level and who know full well that if there is not a "Mr Reconstruction' on the ground, who is responsible to the Council, the Commission and Parliament, many of the problems we have encountered over the last two years will be perpetuated.
Commissioner, make a true gesture of goodwill with regard to Parliament: accept the appointment of such a post, whose role will be to enable Europe to put to really good use the financial means so unanimously voted for on 20 June 1996.
In my role as rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets I have, for the moment, decided not to recommend the freeing up of the funds put to one side by Parliament.
Let me say this to the Council: you have a General Affairs Council on 27 and 28 April.
Mr President, this is a very important debate and people throughout Europe and in a wider field will be watching how we conduct our affairs in this matter.
I very much agree with Mr Schwaiger that we need the maximum of cooperation between the Commission, the Council and Parliament to overcome the problems we face.
Last October the Council called on the Commission to review the European Community effort in Bosnia.
The Council supports the Commission proposal.
What I can say is that the Presidency will ensure that we keep in close touch with him, as the rapporteur for that committee, on our thinking on timetables and on developments.
The Council shares Parliament's wish to improve the European Community aid effort in Bosnia to better meet the needs of the Bosnian people.
The Commission proposal already recognizes and addresses many of the key areas identified by Parliament's delegation which visited Bosnia in February.
In particular, the Council and the Commission are already agreed on the need to better coordinate on the ground in a regular and structured manner, making the best use of pooled expertise.
The decentralized Commission operation and the ability to deal with local authorities on the ground will give the greater flexibility needed to respond better to real needs in Bosnia.
Amendment No 15: Parliament proposes regular meetings between the heads of the mission and the Commission.
It is suggested at the moment that one of the main reasons why the aid cannot be disbursed effectively is that the current level of staffing is inadequate.
I can understand that there are special circumstances in an area like Bosnia, and the level of staffing appropriate in that situation would not necessarily be the same as in other situations.
If the Commission were to look at this again in a revised report at a later stage, then the Council would want to respond.
Projects over ECU 2 million currently have to be approved by the Member States' committee.
The proposal before us suggests that this should be increased to ECU 5 million and the Council has agreed.
Difficulties would arise if Parliament were to continue to push for a cut-off point of ECU 10 million, because as I understand it that would have a very significant impact on the number of projects on which the Member States' committee had to give an opinion.
Amendments Nos 13 and 18 are really matters for the Commission rather than the Council and they should be directed towards colleagues in the Commission.
The Council took the decision for very practical reasons: the situation was urgent.
Peace and stability in Bosnia are very much connected with success and the reconstruction of society.
We would all recognize that the spring is a key period for the beginning of work and if that period is missed it means a considerable delay in any reconstruction process which involves the building industry.
If Parliament does recognize that, then Parliament can play an important role in achieving what I think are our common goals.
In the past two years we have been confronted with situations that nobody could have foreseen; be it the lack of coordination in the central authorities; be it non-compliance with Dayton which, in the Republika Srpska, has led to only 2 % of the total aid going to that particular region; or other forms of non-transparent infrastructure at the receiving end which has made the distribution of aid and money a hazardous and often impossible affair.
We have embarked upon a strengthening of our staff in Sarajevo.
All of these meet the desires of Parliament, according to the recommendations in Mr Schwaiger's report.
I agree with the President-in-Office that there is very little chance - I speak from experience - of the Council agreeing to a further increase from 5 million to 10 million.
Eliminating any Member State's influence in projects up to 10 million is a bridge too far at the present stage.
With the President-in-Office I say: do not let this delay, in any way, the present proposals that are on the table.
In that sense there is no difference between Parliament and the Commission.
I hope that ultimately reconstruction and, not least, the return of refugees in Bosnia and Herzegovina will benefit from the results of this debate.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B4-0272/98).
Mr Truscott would like to speak on a point of order.
Mr Truscott, I respect your opinion, but this question has been accepted in accordance with all the established rules, and it is now up to the Council whether to reply or not.
Mr Henderson, I very much enjoy your presence here but I am not going to make you stay, or turn you into a hostage.
I am sure that many of my colleagues in the Parliament appreciate that and, if it cannot be done formally, perhaps some of us could meet him informally for a question session.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to deal with a block of ten questions.
In relation to Question No 1, as honourable Members are undoubtedly aware, although the 1982 UNESCO recommendation stated that the sculptures should be returned to Greece, the recommendation went on to say that they should be returned for reincorporation into the Parthenon.
He has only replied to Question No 1.
Before I have my minute, could you tell me if the Minister is intending to reply to all the questions separately or is that the complete answer to all ten?
Mr Lomas, now that I have explained that point, you have a maximum of 60 seconds.
Also, given that there is such overwhelming, massive support in the United Kingdom, as shown by the surveys, including a television survey which recorded 94 % of people in favour of their return, would the Council like to give an opinion as to whether this would be a practical and good thing to do, since it comments on matters all over the world on which it has not the slightest influence?
As I outlined, the constitutional position is that the Council has no competence on this matter.
We have tried to get it returned to Maastricht in Limburg.
The Council has a clear remit which is currently authorized from previous Treaties.
There are authorizations in the Amsterdam Treaty.
I am more than a little disappointed with the answer from the President-in-Office, but it may well be outside the competence of the EU as he has said.
The question of cultural standards and cultural policy within the European Union is largely a matter for the Member States.
When it is a matter for the Council, it is already established in the Treaties and subject to some modification in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Mr President, I wish to remind the British Presidency that the Treaty of Amsterdam has in some ways extended the EU's competence with regard to culture, in a paragraph which states that culture should be present in all aspects of Union politics.
Do you not think that the Treaty of Amsterdam also made an innovation from this point of view?
My understanding is that it would make no difference to competence in regard to this matter, and any points she wishes to raise on this she should raise with the British Government or the Greek Government.
That report was adopted by this Parliament.
So I know the views of the people of Elgin on these important questions.
In the directives referred to by Mr Cushnahan the Council agreed that duty- and tax-free sales on intra-Community journeys could continue for a transitional period up until 30 June 1999.
The answer again is more or less what I expected, because we have been listening to it for a long time.
It would be worthwhile if we had this study brought forward as quickly as possible, perhaps with a more open mind, to see if it is possible to retain duty-free sales.
It is up to the Commission whether it decides to produce a report.
However, I am particularly sad to hear the President-in-Office this evening talk about speculation.
But there are other wider considerations that the Ecofin Council and the Council of Ministers must take into account.
However, I was a little concerned because his reply to the earlier question appeared to be rather less forthright and firm than it was last time he came to this House, when he repeated - and I supported him - that there were no plans in Ecofin to return to this subject.
Subsequently, a decision has been taken by the Transport Council and the wording I have chosen today, that no decision has been reached as to whether or not to put this issue on the agenda, is a better way of expressing the kind of response that Ecofin might make to a request from a sister Council.
I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his clear answers, but the questions also refer to the social consequences and social benefits of this matter, and I wonder if he would agree with me that the abolition of duty-free would also reduce the levels of consumption of both alcohol and tobacco and that the consequences of this can only be beneficial to public health in Europe.
Just on that last point from the President-in-Office, I think he has answered the point that Ecofin ought to put to the Council of Transport Ministers: some more objective studies are needed.
It is not that long ago that a decision was reached on this but it was still seven or eight years ago and this has given outlets who benefit from duty-free the opportunity to consider the effect on their businesses and to make alternative provisions.
I cannot say more than that at this point.
The Council will continue to work with the Commission in bringing forward measures that benefit all citizens of the European Union.
I am curious to know exactly what you have in mind.
Mr President, I understand completely that you have difficulties in foreseeing the future.
Question No 14 by Ioannis Theonas (H-0278/98) Subject: Severe repercussions for weakest economies of introduction of euro Opposition is intensifying among workers and experts on economic affairs to the imminent introduction of the euro.
The Council has been very conscious of the need to ensure a social dimension to its work.
The policy changes which preparation for the euro has required make sense in their own right and will benefit workers.
They help to ensure the correct macro-economic climate for stability and growth.
Growth across the Union is in the interests of citizens of all our countries.
That entry was accompanied by a 14 % devaluation of the national currency.
Here, even if 3 % is too much, even with 4 % or 5 % devaluation for 1 % inflation, we will increase inflation in Greece by 2 to 3 %.
Public debt is increasing by 5 % of GDP.
The general principle is that it is in the interests of all citizens of the European Union to have a stable economic situation.
The Council believes that to achieve a stable economic situation there must be a stable monetary situation, and that is why many of the Member States within the European Union have tried to put their economies in a position where they can contribute to that stable monetary situation and benefit from it.
I wish to congratulate the President-in-Office on his last answer.
However, I am here to respond on behalf of the Council and the Council has acknowledged the coherence in the British Government's approach to the euro.
The Council has acknowledged that the Chancellor of the Exchequer, speaking in the House of Commons, indicated that between November 1997 and a time after the next general election a convergence process could take place and the British Government could then decide whether or not it was in the economic interests of that country to seek membership of the euro at that date.
The stability brought to the British economy by this relationship to the European economy and the euro has been acknowledged.
Secondly, would he like to comment on the fact that we need to make sure that all countries of the European Union, not just those that will be joining on 1 January 1999, must start preparing, because all their businesses will be affected?
It is very important for the governments of those countries to do what they can to assist their industry and commerce to make the changes that are necessary.
The European Union is developing cooperation with all 12 Mediterranean partners, including Algeria, within the Euro/Mediterranean process launched in Barcelona in November 1995.
A wide range of initiatives have taken place in fields as diverse as the environment, investment, cultural heritage and industry.
However, I would remind him that at the moment, Europeans want to get involved and do something to support the people of Algeria.
I cannot add a lot more to what I said in my original reply.
That will be a further opportunity to discuss many of those issues.
Question No 16 by Jonas Sjöstedt (H-0285/98) Subject: The EIB's information policy The European Investment Bank lends money to a series of projects both in the EU and in the applicant countries.
For example, the EBRD - unlike the EIB - publishes an environmental impact assessment before decisions are taken on various projects.
Since the European Investment Bank's task is to contribute to the balanced and steady development of the Community, it is bound to act in respect of the provisions of the European Community Treaty concerning the environment, in particular Article 130r which states that 'environmental protection requirements must be integrated into the definition and implementation of other Community policies' .
The Council has not taken a view on whether the information provided by the European Investment Bank on the environmental impact of particular projects is adequate.
I think the Council itself should have an overall view about how the European Investment Bank acts in eastern Europe, and about the fact that it has a significantly worse policy than, for example, the World Bank or the EBRD.
Indeed, in the Amsterdam Treaty which has not yet been ratified, of course, there is an additional Union obligation to give environmental considerations a higher priority.
In relation to the countries who wish to accede to the European Union, environmental matters are important matters for them and from my discussions with them they have all recognized that.
One of the things which can be identified in the accession partnerships is the need to take action on the environment.
I think all the countries who want to be on the negotiating line for membership of the European Union - at the moment there are six - recognize that they have to make many environmental changes before they will be able to accede, and that involves very many issues.
Only today we have discussed a matter in Parliament relating to the follow-up of the Copenhagen Summit on Social Development, especially in developing and less developed countries.
I see the Council's answer as very positive and would just like to ask a supplementary question.
I am sure that the first to recognize that would be the governments and the peoples of those third world countries themselves where they genuinely want to develop their economies, but they want to do it on a sensible basis.
Question No 17 by Veronica Hardstaff (H-0288/98) Subject: Arrangements for the agrimonetary systems for non-EMU states Will the Council be making recommendations on arrangements for an agrimonetary system for countries remaining outside the "Eurozone' when the decision is made in May as to which countries will be the founding members of EMU?
The Commission has indicated that it will submit draft proposals to the Council for agri-monetary arrangements to apply after 1 January 1999, shortly after decision on single currency participants are taken in May.
The Presidency will ensure that the Council undertakes an examination of the Commission's proposals as early as possible after due consultation of the European Parliament.
That would be a matter that the Commission would need to consider, and the Council would liaise with the Commission on that matter.
Thank you very much, Mr Henderson.
This Presidency greatly enjoys your company and the chance to listen to the answers you give to the honourable Members of this House, but I cannot keep you here against your will, when you really cannot stay.
Questions Nos 18 to 40 will be dealt with in writing.
Secondly, we have made progress in economic and infrastructural development.
The second thing which is very serious is the situation in Kosovo, in Albania, in Macedonia and in Serbia itself.
I am therefore glad that the Commission has presented the proposals, and I am also glad that the Presidency is going in this direction.
I had the honour of leading the ad hoc delegation to Bosnia some weeks ago.
I have to say that until about 5.25 this afternoon I was also extremely angry with the Council because Parliament had been very critical - the delegation had been very critical not only of the Commission, but also of the Council for its failure to coordinate on the spot in Bosnia, for its insistence on lunatically complicated tendering arrangements.
I want, however, in a rare mood of openness to congratulate Doug Henderson, the President-in-Office, for what I thought was an extremely constructive speech earlier this evening.
That timetable, which would culminate in a parliamentary vote at the beginning of the next plenary, would allow us to have time for discussions with the Council and with the Budgets Committee so that we could honour our side of the bargain by releasing the ECU 30 million that could be immediately spent in Bosnia.
The first thing we have to bear in mind is that with the Bosnia-Herzegovina question Europe has given off its worst impression of the last 40 years, since the Second World War in fact.
We have witnessed a massacre, a massacre a few steps away from home, without the European Union being able or knowing how to say a word.
That is how it has been set.
Madam President, as a member of the ad hoc delegation I was able to see for myself how difficult the situation for people in Bosnia is at this time.
For this reason, the return of refugees cannot yet take place this year in some places, but must be properly prepared, so that the refugees themselves can decide to return.
I think this is a very important issue and I thoroughly welcome the fact that it has been given so much attention in this report.
The return of refugees, and the restoration of order in a strategically positioned enclave in Europe is, of course, of significant interest to Europe.
First, it makes quite clear that peaceful reconstruction work is obviously a priority after such a terrible war, but that unfortunately it can also be necessary to secure reconstruction militarily, as we are finding in the case of Bosnia.
Secondly, this report appeals very clearly to Europe's own responsibility in matters of securing peace and of reconstruction in this war region.
My plea, therefore, is that we should finally work consistently to construct a common foreign and security policy in the European Union, a common foreign and security policy which actually deserves the name.
The Daskalaki report about a strategy for the period after the expiry of the SFOR mandate next June therefore comes at just the right time before the decision of the North Atlantic Council about the new provisional operation plan, which will then be confirmed by the NATO foreign ministers in May 1998.
Securing a peace - perhaps we should rather say a state of non-war - must become more and more a European responsibility.
The demand that the Western European Union should organize military action in the context of a joint SFOR operation led by NATO with Austria also taking part would be an appropriate symbol of a European security policy in the Balkans.
Unfortunately the reconstruction of Bosnia leaves a great deal to be desired.
Not because the European Union has made too little money available for it - on the contrary, it is the biggest donor, with ECU 408 million last year - but because these resources, as the Schwaiger report shows in detail, are not being appropriately administered and distributed on the ground.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the two reports with which we are dealing today are closely related, and anyone who, like me and others here, has followed events on the ground for years, realizes that without the presence of the SFOR soldiers the civilian peace process has no chance.
For our financial help to flow and reconstruction really to start, we need an instrument other than the PHARE programme, which, for its implementation on the recipients' side, assumes structures which do not yet exist and will not exist for a long time.
Just imagine that the Marshall Plan had had to function in these circumstances after World War II.
The debate is closed.
However, on the one hand, it is somewhat late given the commitments made and our support, demonstrated in Maastricht and Amsterdam, to lead our society towards a sustainable model.
In general, the initiative is positive since it sets out all the undertakings given under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Kyoto Conference, the Fifth framework action programme on the environment "Towards Sustainability' , as well as the Environment Council of 1994 and the demands of the Council's Ad Hoc Group on Climate, in accordance with the Berlin Mandate.
This is important because we believe that we are missing the train in terms of providing instruments and materials in a growing market, precisely on this issue of controlling methane emissions.
This puts me in a reflective mood, because it is quite possible that in future we shall discover that other commonplace things are also vitally important.
The problem which faces us in this context is that methane, like other gases which affect climate, has a global impact, but that we have no global decision centre.
But I ask, in a world in which there is no proper decision centre, where can global management be done if not in new institutions which we set up?
Mr Marset Campos has indicated what these sources are.
Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and to thank him for the work he has put in on it.
On behalf of my group we welcome the report, although we have reservations over one or two of the paragraphs, particularly the recommendation on the European Climate Agency and paragraph 5.
When this point was taken up by the Committee on the Environment, I as rapporteur was told by various officials in the Commission that 90 % or at any rate 100 % elimination of methane emissions via energy recovery systems or flaring was virtually impossible.
What will now happen is that we have two Community instruments fighting against each other.
The landfill directive will now make it very uneconomic for landfill operators to invest in methane recovery systems because the Commission's own instrument demands of them that they put less biodegradable waste into landfill progressively over a period up to 2010.
The report by Mr Marset Campos and the accompanying motion for a resolution show that he is fully in tune with the concerns that are set out in the Commission's communication.
Reductions in methane, as the second most important greenhouse gas, will certainly be an important consideration in the Community's post-Kyoto strategy.
In 1990 agriculture accounted for 45 %, waste for 32 % and energy for 23 % of European Union methane emissions.
Calculations in the communication show that by 2010 a reduction of up to 15 %, compared with 1990, is feasible based on current policies.
On paragraph 3: the Commission is in the process of drawing up a strategy to meet its Kyoto commitment of reducing its emissions of six greenhouse gases by 8 % by 2008-2012 compared with 1990.
On paragraph 9: the Commission recognizes that gas leakage from old pipelines - a point made specifically by the rapporteur - in the former countries of the Soviet Union is an important source of methane emissions.
On paragraph 21: the Commission certainly subscribes to the view that greater public awareness is essential if emission reductions are to be achieved.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
This first section is devoted to the safety of transfusions and more particularly to the two primary conditions of this safety: donor suitability and screening of donated blood.
Firstly with regard to donor suitability, the Council wishes to have exhaustive information on these donors, whose gift is clearly a generous one - this needs to be underlined as we are asking, in Amendment Nos 14 and 18, for the application of the principle of voluntary donations - but it is not without consequence for the donor or for future potential recipients of transfusions.
To reduce as far as possible the harmful consequences that a donation could have on either the donor himself or on possible recipients, the Council is proposing a detailed questionnaire on donor criteria.
This questionnaire is in response to the demands of Parliament itself in its previous resolution on blood safety.
The first relates to risks connected with journeys outside of the European Union.
Nevertheless, it would be useless to discriminate in this matter and to exclude certain third countries such as North America, where some illnesses are, nevertheless, endemic.
The second point relates to sexual activity.
This is why we recommend voting against the two points in the Council's questionnaire which mention sexual activity.
The third point relates to homosexual practices between men.
We therefore reject Amendment No 29, which would limit the danger to high risk male homosexual relations, as if no other male homosexual relations carried a danger.
I repeat that, medically, all male homosexual relations carry risks, very considerable risks.
The exclusion of donors on the basis of these criteria could be definitive or temporary, depending on the case and the illness.
Full and specific tests must be carried out on donated blood and plasma and we must be continually informed of the existence and validity of new viral markers.
But these tests only show positive after a certain period of time in the contaminated donor, a period during which antibodies are produced yet during which the antibodies are still not sufficient to be detected by the tests.
This is where the need for a questionnaire comes in, as it is the only way of removing these high risk donors during this period.
Finally, the Council makes recommendations on the volume of blood to be taken from donors, and the frequency of donations.
In conclusion, Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the important questions we have raised, we advocate voting for this recommendation and our amendments.
All of us here want to see a speedy passage for this Council recommendation.
my group is concerned that the proposal before us has no binding force.
We look to the Council of Health Ministers on 30 April.
In Amendment No 17 we call on the Member States to work together and with the Commission on binding legislation by the end of this year, and certainly no later than 1999.
The Commissioner will know of the concern in my country, and probably in his also, at the danger, however remote, posed by new variant CJD in the matter of blood plasma products.
We may be a single market but there is not a market in blood: there is a community in blood.
Madam President, I think we all agree that this proposal is aimed at establishing a Community strategy to improve confidence in the safety of the blood transfusion process.
Secondly, Amendment No 14 refers to the establishment of the legal principle of voluntary and unpaid donations of blood or plasma.
But talking about the legal principle seems to me to be truly absurd.
Confusing a political orientation of an ethical nature with a legal principle is a legal aberration which should not be brought about by any report from this Parliament.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the safety of donated blood is a matter of life and death.
On behalf of my group, and of my colleague Mr Eisma who is not able to be present here tonight, I would like to draw attention to the following points.
This has not been expressed clearly enough in the proposal, which is why we fully support Amendment Nos 14 and 18 which deal with this issue in greater depth.
Moreover, we consider it extremely important for health reasons that the amount of blood a donor is allowed to give per session is reduced from 800 to 650 millilitres.
We think it is essential that all applicant donors are fully aware of the risk that donated blood and plasma can transmit contagious diseases.
Homosexuals might only pose a risk when they engage in unsafe sexual practices.
Madam President, Commissioner, our group is in complete agreement with Professor Cabrol's report on the Council's proposal on the suitability of blood and plasma donors.
Secondly, in our view, it is very important that donations are voluntary since we must remember that AIDS in fact originated in North America due to the abuse of trade in blood from Haiti.
The fact that it is considered far more dangerous to have a sexual encounter in Pretoria than in Bangkok leaves me truly confused.
On the other hand, it is a little ridiculous to make no mention of whether sexual relations are protected or not, whilst male homosexuality is rejected as a whole regardless of the methods practised when it relates to blood donations.
But there are two things I would like to draw your attention to.
Neither for the donor, nor for safety is it desirable that blood or blood products are donated for money.
In my amendments I point to the ISBT 128 system for the identification of donated blood.
ISBT stands for International Society for Blood Transfusion.
The system I have just referred to amounts to a standardized, personal identification code which is allocated to each blood donation.
The questions about sexual behaviour may come across as a little inappropriate, but we all know that certain types of sexual behaviour are more dangerous than others.
Finally, a word of thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Cabrol.
Parliament has noted that the recommendation is a logical sequel to the Commission's communication presented on blood safety and selfsufficiency.
The Commission proposed such measures in its prospective donor deferral criteria.
Part of No 19: rewording is necessary here due to potential legal difficulties with the term 'partner' , which must be linked to legal and administrative provisions in the Member States.
Part of No 21, which exceeds the Commission's intention of proposing that Member States pose questions if they so wish.
There are some additional amendments as well - Nos 27 and 28 - and that is dealt with under Amendment No 11; and No 29, which is acceptable.
Amendment No 1: it is important to recall that in adopting Directive 89/381/EEC, which governs the placing on the market of medicinal products made from human blood and plasma, the Council agreed that Member States should encourage the voluntary and unpaid donations of blood and plasma as the starting material for the manufacture of medicinal products.
The definition of voluntary non-remunerative donation adopted by the Council of Europe is much more restrictive than what applies in most Member States and strict adherence to it in the Community may have an adverse affect on supplies.
The Commission considers therefore that any reference to international standards should be as general as possible.
Amendment No 4 which is unacceptable as written because the concern is not at the risk of new variant CJD to blood products but the still theoretical risk, not yet scientifically proven, that new variant CJD could be transmitted by them.
Amendment No 6 would only lead to some confusion and final medicinal products like plasma derivatives, derived from blood and plasma, can already move freely in the internal market, as long as they meet requirements of quality, safety and efficacy and therefore may be shared with other Member States.
But the difficulty arises when labile components, for example red blood cells, platelets or plasma prior to fractionation, are prevented from being shared with other Member States.
Amendment No 7 is unacceptable as it implies that there are Member States that are not responsible for collecting blood and plasma, which of course is not the case in reality.
Amendment No 13 is unacceptable because the Commission uses the word 'blood' in its generic sense.
With regard to 9c, whether the plasma is recovered from a whole blood donation or is collected through the process of plasmapheresis, it is a sample of the donor's blood taken at the time of donation that is tested, not the plasma.
In Amendment No 25, the whole purpose of course of automated plasmapheresis is to arrive at volumes that may exceed 15 litres but in a way that is safe for the donor.
As Members will be aware, this is the first proposal for a Council recommendation from the Commission under Article 129 of the Treaty.
Parliament must have the opportunity to actively contribute to recommendations with a bearing on public health.
The Commission considers that this recommendation is a major step along the road to giving effect to the Community blood strategy that the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament helped to put in place in the years 1994 to 1996.
I regret the length of my reply, but this is a vitally important matter for all citizens of the European Union.
The debate is closed.
I will then go on to look at the guidelines for the 1999 budget procedure in - if you do not mind - a lighter tone to make these late hours somewhat more agreeable.
This year, we must take account of the fact that the adjustment is different from that of previous years, since 1999 is the last year of both the financial perspective and the Structural Fund programming period.
And this has led to the Commission transferring all the unused appropriations from 1997 to 1999.
Taking into account previous adjustment decisions, we find ourselves with an increase in the Category 2 ceiling of approximately 18 % in relation to the 1998 budget.
Until now the Commission proposal has strictly adhered to paragraph 10 of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
Although I know fully well that an adjustment in the appropriations for payments is not limited to Category 2, I believe that the ceiling for appropriations for payments is underestimated and that the increase in Category 2 for 1999 will worsen to an even greater degree the proportion between the appropriations for commitments and the appropriations for payments.
I believe that the Commission is combining two procedures: on the one hand, the financial perspective, which is a framework in itself; and on the other hand, the 1999 budget, which sets out the estimated actual requirements.
I would insist that we keep these two procedures separate and consequently call for the overall ceiling for the appropriations for payments to be raised by ECU 300 million.
If it does not, there will be a new tripartite dialogue before the presentation of the draft budget.
The budget is, in fact, the practical concretion of the principles of every Community policy that we debate and approve in this House.
I have tried to make this report as brief as possible so that the political priorities can be clearly distinguished.
The report aims to present the 1999 budget as a bridging budget between the financial perspective which is ending and that which we are discussing.
Since that year marks the end of the current financial perspective and the beginning of the consideration of the new one, with the debate on Agenda 2000, this budget not only brings to a close an era, but also must be considered as a "bridging budget' towards the future.
The millennium is ending and we have the honour of witnessing a historic change in our continent.
In this respect, the report refers to Article F.3 of the Treaty which states that "the Union shall provide itself with the means necessary to attain its objectives and carry through its policies' .
In addition, we must note that the European Parliament has acted and cooperated responsibly in recent financial years in order to ease the path towards convergence for the Member States.
Parliament is in favour of rigour, in the sense of a more efficient and rational use of financial resources.
I do not want to wave the teacher's stick, but I must in order to reprimand the Council and the Member States for not having done their work, since in order to fulfill the commitments made at Edinburgh concerning the package for Structural Funds, and at Cannes, for the PHARE programme, this 1999 budget must face increases estimated at around 18 % for Category 2 appropriations and 36 % for Category 4.
Moreover, we must condemn the scandalously inadequate implementation of the Structural Funds in certain Member States.
Nevertheless, Parliament must be clear on the fact that, in the budget procedure, the Council is neither an enemy nor an adversary nor a rival.
The Parliament and the Council share piano and stool in playing a "duet' .
We need loyalty in the interinstitutional dialogue through which the two branches of the budgetary authority come to agreement on the score.
Among the main tasks of the melody to be interpreted are the priorities established in paragraph 3 of the report: the creation of employment through investment in infrastructure and research and development; support for small and medium-sized enterprises; and measures to combat youth unemployment.
We also want to develop the concept of the Europe of knowledge which encompasses education and training as well as research and development.
In the same way, the 1999 budget must pay careful attention to the environment, in accordance with the commitments made at the Kyoto Conference.
I hope that the genius of our great composers enlightens us and that Parliament and the Council can emulate Arthur Rubinstein in the interpretation of this "suite' which is now beginning.
This enables us to observe the timetable we set ourselves in committee, and observe the tighter deadlines we have this year, which could allow us to begin the budgetary conciliation procedure with the Council on 17 June, as planned.
This means for example that for the European Parliament, as 20 % is allocated to Parliament, a margin of ECU 36 million.
One of the lines I have indicated, with the consent of the Committee on Budgets in these guidelines, concerns firstly changing the nomenclature; this is a requirement laid down by Article 19 of the Financial Regulation, which talks of harmonizing the nomenclature.
This will necessarily lead to greater facility in reading the budget and a greater transparency in it.
The first reading will obviously deal with the results of the implementation of the previous budget.
Both the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development are determined to continue the procedure followed for the 1998 budget as far as agricultural expenditure is concerned.
It is important that this procedure, which in the meantime has been christened the "Tillich-Mulder' procedure, is also adopted by the Commission and the Council in equally positive terms.
The precise description of this procedure can be found in the working document of the Committee on Budgets, namely Working Document 12 of 2 February this year.
Three points are emphasized in this paragraph.
The continuation of the information campaign about the introduction of the euro remains an important matter, to prepare the European population fully for the conversion, because in this field we can look very positively into the future.
We should therefore pay special attention to suitable measures such as the action plan for the internal market.
Therefore, in the budget procedure, we should conform exactly to the principles of SLIM legislation, that is of a SLIM initiative, on which we have already voted today in this House, or to general bench marking.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy has naturally considered in detail the guidelines for the 1999 budget.
On the other hand, the rapporteur promised us that in a kind of new Dührkop Dührkop procedure all opinions of the committees would be included in the decision.
It would have been very sensible if the Committee on Budgets had accepted the proposals of the Research Committee, so that, in particular, we can manage the transition next year in an orderly fashion.
Mr President, the 1999 budget exercise is getting under way in an atmosphere of serenity and interinstitutional cooperation.
The guidelines concerning the Community budget for 1999 show that all institutions are ready to assume their responsibilities in this respect.
Bringing the increase of payment appropriations roughly in line with the growth of national budgets - as proposed by Barbara Dührkop Dührkop - indicates a very responsible approach by the European Parliament.
Within a rigorous setting, the 1999 budget must meet the obligations of the Union and focus on growth and employment creation.
With regard to agricultural expenditure, the Commission expects - for the time being - credit requirements at the level of the 1998 budget.
I take note of this procedure - it is called the Tillich-Mulder procedure in your report.
For the structural actions, 1999 marks the end of the current programming period.
The tentative agreement at the budgetary trialogue yesterday to increase the ceiling of category 2 by EURO 1534 million in commitments and the overall ceiling for payments by EURO 300 million paves the way for correct conclusion of this programme.
The 'employment and growth initiative' is a joint success of the European Parliament and the Council.
On external action, the particular emphasis will be the transformation of PHARE into an effective pre-accession instrument.
The Commission will propose reinforcing PHARE by ECU 150 million in a supplementary and amending budget for 1998 to bring its multi-annual envelope into line with the decisions of the Cannes summit.
On these elements there seems to be a convergence of views among the institutions.
It is in this framework that the Commission will discuss and adopt the preliminary draft budget for 1999 at the end of this month.
If we do vote against, let me make it clear that it will not be because we disagree with the content of that report, but because we took a stand to keep this report as short as possible.
The thrust of the report you can find in paragraph 8, and I think we can give our full support to what it says there.
It is hoped that the 1999 budget procedure will maintain a similar procedural basis and form as that used in 1998, when the European Parliament was able to defend its own priorities before the Council, thereby achieving the extension of the ad hoc procedure including that of the late rectifying letter to the PDB, not to mention the almost unanimous commitment of this House to defend appropriations earmarked in the PDB for the Structural Funds in Category 2.
It is true that this year the process is even more complex since it marks both the end of the current financial perspective and the beginning of Agenda 2000 and the problem of using up the remaining appropriations for commitments.
Our opinion is that the appropriations provided for in Edinburgh for 1999 should be strictly respected, and among the existing alternatives we should choose that which guarantees that every last ecu available will be fully committed for the Structural Funds for Category 2.
We will continue to show that the current financial perspective should be the basis for the next perspective, particularly as regards the percentage of own resources: taking 1.27 % as a base and not as a ceiling should be the financial expression of the European effort for enlargement.
Ladies and gentlemen, there is a common link between this evening's discussion on the guidelines for the 1999 budget exercise and yesterday's debate on the procedure for discharge of the 1996 financial year which has of course not escaped you.
The link is the importance recognized in the execution of the budget and the fight against fraud, whilst proposing to make the 1999 budget the "taxpayer's' and the "citizen's' budget.
Indeed, having arrived at a crucial and decisive stage in its development, with the creation of the euro and the commencement of accession negotiations, Europe needs to be explained to its citizens and to be understood by them more than ever before.
Europe can only be credible and can only inspire confidence if the tax payers' money is managed soundly.
The rapporteur's second concern is to make the 1999 budget the budget of the people and on this point also, I like the sound of what she is saying.
More than a management budget or a simple "bridging' budget, the 1999 budget could, above all, be a pivotal budget which will determine the conditions of the financial future of the European Union.
With the new financial perspective, with a new interinstitutional agreement at the beginning of the third stage of Economic and Monetary Union and within the context of the Agenda 2000 negotiations, the 1999 budget will be seen as a budget for revival, whilst at the same time taking up the already well known priorities which must be continued: budgetary action for jobs - a commitment in the 1998 budget gained support from the European Council of Luxembourg in November 1997 - priority to jobs through investment in infrastructure and research and development, support to SMEs, measures to combat youth unemployment, and to provide education and training for a "Europe of knowledge' .
A pivotal budget, a revivalist budget, but a realistic budget as well, one which recognizes that the increase in appropriations for payment for 1999 must not surpass the average growth in Member States' budgets in relation to the 1998 budget, but within certain acceptable conditions such as respect for the Edinburgh objectives for Structural Funds.
When Parliament itself give clear and concise guidelines it will have an impact on the Commission's preliminary draft budget.
The ELDR largely share the priorities expressed in the House by many others.
It concerns the Treaty of Amsterdam.
That Treaty will enter into force by 1999.
In this connection, we consider that the proposal of the Committee on Regional Policy, contained in the amendment relating to this point, is much more reasonable.
Indeed, we do not understand how this budget can be even one of the foundations of future financial perspectives.
That is, moreover, consistent with what we earlier approved when we voted for the Colom i Naval report, specifically regarding the ceiling of 1.27 % or, more correctly, of 1.13 % of GNP for payments at the end of the period, as is proposed by the Commission.
I believe that they are balanced guidelines, and it seems particularly important to me that we should build a so-called bridging budget, which begins to mark out our vision for expansion in the years 2000 to 2006.
I believe that if the rapporteur, as she has shown until now, is disposed to 'putting butter on the fish' , and to allowing the priorities to be followed by deeds, a real contribution to the post-Kyoto process can be made in the next budget.
Madam President, budgetary discussions continue and I am extremely happy that this debate is taking place in Strasbourg and not in Brussels like last year.
I hope I see in this a desire to respect the decisions of the Court of Justice rather than a simple hazard of the calendar.
However, the discussions are being undertaken in an almost grotesque fashion, to such an extent that one wonders if some people are not celebrating April Fools' Day in their own way.
In fact, 24 hours ago, we were rejecting the 1996 discharge because the Court of Auditors could not guarantee the overall regularity of payments in the 1996 budget.
The most flagrant example of this perversion concerns the Structural Funds.
But decisions taken in the past should not prevent all political reflection in the present per se .
I refuse to let myself be dragged into the scandalous situation whereby we are constrained to search desperately for a means, a way, a legal loophole which will enable us to spend the money of the Member States' taxpayers.
One of the main priorities mentioned by the rapporteur is that the budget must continue to be a budget for employment.
In 1998, Parliament devoted as much money to the acquisition of the ostentatious D3 building in Brussels as it did to the famous "jobs' initiative.
Finally, the Treaty of Amsterdam has not yet been ratified by the Member States and yet we are already applying its financial measures - a good example of respect for democracy, and a further reason for the Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations not to vote for this report.
Madam President, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, the new buildings in Brussels also created work, at least in Brussels.
You yourself classified it as more sexy.
As for the 1999 budget, I would like to make five points.
No one can explain away the fact that an 18 % rate of growth in the appropriations for commitments for Structural Funds is of a dimension which is beyond the discussions and the possibilities of a budget discussion.
Third: in the case of the foreign policy programmes, we have a spending situation which is equally haywire.
If resources of ECU 2 300 000 000 were not committed and ECU 3 200 000 000 were not paid out within the PHARE programme alone, it must be clearly said that in 1999 it makes no sense to increase the PHARE programme by 36 %, only to put into the budget cashbox money which was deducted from other foreign policies by 10 % reductions.
But prepare yourselves - I am not fooling around - there will be no 1999 budget if this problem is not solved.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, we started the 1998 budget procedure during or around the time of the Ajax Amsterdam football match.
This evening there is also a football match, between Real Madrid and Borussia Dortmund.
For the first time, information policy is not firmly anchored in the guidelines.
We have assumed that we shall have a viable concept between the Commission and the European Parliament of how information policy in 1998 is finally to be controlled.
However, unfortunately this does not seem to be the case, and I would like to remind at least those who have been elected from this House as representatives to the Bureau or the Conference of Presidents to look again at the budget decisions of 1996, 1997 and 1998 in paragraphs 18 of the 1998 guidelines, 30, 31 and 32 of the 1998 first reading, and 11 of the 1998 second reading, and paragraphs 9 of the 1997 guidelines, 17, 48, 49 and 50 of the 1997 first reading, because precisely in view of the morning discussion today that is certainly not unimportant for the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents.
Therefore, our party will apply for a split vote, above all on the question of a vote on the critical mass and the policy of the Commission, because in our opinion this does not belong to it in principle.
In paragraph 15, which concerns the employment initiative which was defined and voted on in the 1998 procedure, the second part is at least unclear, if not actually wrong.
The other point I would highly commend her for is the incorporation in paragraph 9 of her report of the response to the challenge laid down by Commissioner Liikanen some two years ago about the policies of critical mass.
The points I would underline in his report are as follows: in paragraph 4 he makes the very important point about the European civil service.
I commend very fully all the points that are laid out in clear chronological sequence in paragraph 8 of the report, where there are a whole series of matters on which this House, as part of the budgetary authority, needs further information.
I received, I suppose, what has been the most complicated April Fool's Day hoax in the form of what purports to be a report to the European Parliament from the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions, a report that would have us believe that something like ECU 36 million is going to be spent on converting the Belliard I and II buildings to meet their purpose.
We have lots of discussions coming up on communications policy.
As you might expect as the Committee on Budgets' rapporteur for the satellite agencies, I would like to concentrate particularly on paragraph 18 in her report.
The question is why should we have a paragraph on the satellite agencies again.
Many Members of this House and members of the Committee on Budgets will think that with Parliament's acceptance of the Kellett-Bowman report on matters relating to satellite agencies, the matter has been done and dusted.
I am sure the Commissioner is aware of these.
We have succeeded in persuading the agencies to do this, but the work programmes are costed and we can see horizontally through Title I, Title II and Title III expenditure of the agencies' report, what each project is going to cost.
This means that the budget should favour employment, as has been point out, through investment in infrastructure, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, investment in research and development, but also support for measures within the framework of local employment initiatives and regional pacts for the third system, in line - unlike what Mr Tillich maintained - with the commitment assumed by the European Parliament last October, as precisely stated by Mrs Dührkop in her report.
That is why the LEONARDO and SOCRATES programmes and, more generally, education and training programmes need adequate financing.
I wish to conclude by taking up a point, mentioned by Mr Samland, that seems particularly important to me: an essential condition for ending the procedure on a positive note is for the Council to sign the agreement on the legal bases.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
However, I would like to draw your attention to one more thing.
