Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 23 July 1999.
At this point in the proceedings, out of respect for the memory of the victims and the profound grief of their families, I ask you to please observe a minute' s silence. (The House rose and observed a minute' s silence) Ladies and gentlemen, as you may also perhaps have noted, as soon as I learnt of the deaths, in particularly tragic conditions, of Yaguine Koita and Fodé Tounkara, I felt bound to express how shocked I was by these tragic deaths.
The letter they wrote addressed to the leaders of Europe was obviously of prime concern to me in my capacity as President of the European Parliament.
We have really gone into a great deal of detail and, if you agree, I would like to organise a sort of question time on Friday morning, which I shall chair, when you can report any problems you may have again noted this week so that together, we can see what we can do in order to be able to conduct the October 4 part-session in better conditions.
But I shall, of course, give you a reply before Friday, if you so wish.
I do not mean one for following the plenary part-session but an actual TV channel such as Nederland 1,2,3 or RTL 4, as we had last time.
I would ask you to please keep your comments concerning the premises until Friday so that we can have a comprehensive debate on the subject at that time.
Madam President, I believe that it would be appropriate if we now, having observed a minute' s silence for the victims of the earthquakes in Greece and Turkey - with good reason since, quite apart from the large numbers of casualties, these events have a deep political significance - observed a minute' s silence for the victims of Indonesian repression in East Timor.
It is certainly very unpleasant, and we shall ensure that these areas are scrupulously respected.
Madam President, as well as supporting my colleague' s proposal regarding the victims in East Timor, I would like to remind you that, a year ago, a peace process was launched in my country.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of the sitting of Friday, 23 July have been distributed.
Thank you, Mr Posselt.
We hope this will be a truly serious debate, and I do not doubt it for an instant, a debate which will result in some conclusions on the political role which the European Parliament considers it must play in this situation.
But that will suffice, as we must take care not to set a precedent which may, in other circumstances, seriously impede the running of our House.
Thank you for your understanding, and as an expression of thanks I am going to grant your request and propose that you stand to observe a minute' s silence for the victims in East Timor. (The House rose and observed a minute' s silence) Interpretation of the Rules of Procedure I am sure you remember that during its meeting on 27 and 28 July, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (AFCO) examined a request for interpretation of Rule 29(1) of the Rules of Procedure put forward by the Conference of Presidents during the meeting on 21 July.
It will then be inserted into the Rules of Procedure, but if this interpretation is opposed tomorrow, before the Minutes of the current sitting are adopted, by a political group or by at least 32 Members, in accordance with Rule 180(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the matter will then be immediately referred to our House for a decision, as is usual, by simple majority vote, with at least one third of members in attendance.
Madam Chairman, I rise with regard to an item on the agenda for Wednesday, 15 September.
I have the document of this report in which it says that the committee voted it.
Obviously, Mr Chichester, if this report has not been voted on by the committee concerned, there can be no question of voting on it in plenary session.
I would remind you that at its meeting on Thursday, 9 September, the Conference of Presidents decided to refer the matter to the Committee on Budgetary Control so that a report could be drawn up.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last Friday the Commission received the text of the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts, which analyses the administrative management of the Commission and puts forward proposals regarding its reform.
This Commission, the outgoing Commission, held what will probably be its last meeting last Wednesday and, therefore, has not had the opportunity, in the short time which has passed since the document was issued, to carry out a thorough analysis of its contents or to establish a final position in relation to it.
Having said this, please allow me briefly to address certain comments to you, from the point of view of the outgoing Commission, regarding the work carried out by the Committee of Independent Experts in this second report.
This was the case with the first report of the Committee of Independent Experts and the events that followed its presentation, which led to the resignation of the Commission.
Lessons can no doubt be learned from a reading of this second report.
But, furthermore, there is one issue that appeared in the first report and which is repeated in this report on various occasions: The limited human resources available for the tasks taken on by the Commission in response to public opinion or at the request of the Council and, on occasions, also of Parliament itself.
There have been cases of abuse, but they are very limited, very limited indeed.
It has always seemed to me unjust that, as a result of very limited cases, generalisations have been made in the past with regard to the European civil service.
The report proposes a large number of changes which are summed up in 90 recommendations.
Finally there are others, with a greater content and on a higher level, which will even require the reform of the Treaties and, in some cases, probably the reform of the Constitutions of some Member States.
I freely admit, Madam President, that as a European citizen after next week, I will be very curious to observe the attitude of the Member States and the European Parliament when the new Intergovernmental Conference opens in Helsinki.
The other day, we briefly analysed the work of the Committee of Independent Experts.
Look at the case of van Buitenen.
It is a question of the responsibility of the Commission to the European Parliament.
The citizens, not only the Parliament, have a right to receive an answer from the Commission in a reasonable timeframe if they address the Commission.
Therefore, we must say to this Commission that is still in office, but also to the Commission which may perhaps gain our trust on Wednesday, that we are ready to cooperate extensively and that we need convincing solutions.
But we are also standing by the fact that, in addition to this, we have to find the means of incorporating individual responsibility of the individual Commissioners.
Such clear regulations are also particularly necessary in those instances where responsibilities have to be delegated elsewhere.
The report of the Wise Men is also very clear on matters relating to control in the Member States.
And, my colleague Mr Pöttering, Commissioner Kinnock has already said that certainly as far as whistle-blowers are concerned, there will be new support procedures in this regard, and this House will certainly fully endorse that.
The final point, which this report also goes into in detail, is openness and transparency.
I will cite just two examples.
It could have been an interesting debate with Commissioner Kinnock.
In the course of the last six months, they have spoken to many people working at the Commission, and their analysis is damning and sometimes caustic.
As a matter of fact, I feel that it would be a good thing if the Commission, which is soon to take office, were to provide answers on a point by point basis to the proposals and comments made by the Committee of Wise Men.
Madam President, my colleague Herman Schmid will be making a contribution on behalf of my group in this debate.
I would, however, like to make a preliminary comment and ask a very concrete question of Mr Kinnock.
Another document had already been produced on this subject, proposing an analysis which was, in my view, lucid and pertinent.
What is more, it had been commissioned by the Commission itself from its own Forward Studies Unit in preparation for the European Council of Pörtschach, and was subsequently classified as not to be followed up.
It seems to us, though, that the Committee of Independent Experts does not go far enough in the analysis of the political causes of the crisis, but perhaps, after all, this was not its role at this stage.
Is it not true that a lot of people found advantages in these imperfections?
Control by the European Parliament of course; for example, our House should, following this Experts' report, request new audits on specific points or even appoint one or more committees of enquiry in order to shed light on some still obscure areas, for example, the evaluation of the actual impact of community subsidies.
But if it stands alone, European Parliament control over the Commission will be insufficient for two reasons: firstly, because the European Parliament shares the objectives of the Commission and because Parliament is not subject to the pressure of pubic opinion.
But perhaps I should not be surprised because it seems to me that in the European Union one is drowned in paper to the level where the European Parliament - and, I am sure, the Council of Ministers - cannot actually read what they are being asked to approve.
But the real meat of this is Recommendation No. 59 which urges strongly the appointment of a European public prosecutor, which urges strongly a European prosecution office with delegated public prosecutors in Member States to create "an area of freedom, security and justice as laid down in the Treaty" .
The British Government has repeatedly told us that corpus juris was merely a discussion document.
And yet it would appear that we are at the beginning now of an entirely new legal system just for the sake of a few fraudulent officials.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, naturally the Wise Men' s report is an excellent report, and naturally their recommendations must be studied in great detail.
Mr President, the Committee of Independent Experts has provided us with a comprehensive and constructive report which shows impressive insight and makes practical proposals for progress that is deep, broad and indeed essential.
As the committee acknowledges in several references, some of the changes needed have taken place and some are in prospect.
The cumulative efforts to modernise have therefore not been strong enough to replace an outdated and deficient culture with the practices and instincts of what is generally termed new public management as it has developed over the last 20 years in several other modern administrations.
A complete overhaul of personnel policy will take place and it will focus in particular on the areas of weakness identified in the report and elsewhere including the Commission' s own stringent report, notably recruitment, discipline and career development and training.
I hope therefore that all the European institutions will be willing to proceed on that basis.
Given the chance by the vote of this Parliament, we will show that, not in our words but in our deeds.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have impatiently awaited the second report from the Wise Men and I cannot conceal the fact that I would have preferred to have had it before the hearings of the Commission candidates were held rather than afterwards.
Even where the subject of this second draft of the Wise Men talks in somewhat theoretical terms of "cultural practices and Commission procedures" , the question of the improved utilisation, supervision and thereby protection of Community finances runs like a red thread through the thoroughly analysed areas.
Mr Kinnock, we will have to take you at your word.
With close cooperation between Parliament, the Council and the Commission, within three months we have succeeded in establishing the new, independent anti-fraud office OLAF.
A kind of vision that certainly was not always of central importance in this Chamber.
I want to restrict the comments I make now to a few major points.
Finally, a few words about Paul Van Buitenen.
But I am sure the Commission was already aware that we will continue to keep a very close eye on this.
The third proposal relates to a European bureau, a European Prosecution Office, an EPO.
It is not just to do with the abbreviation EPO, which is just a little too reminiscent of doping scandals for my liking; it is our view that that third institution, that third step in the process is taking things just a touch too far at this stage, and that we are being a little premature in concluding that it all has to be done at a European level.
I think that it is crystal clear to anyone who has read through 300 pages, or even 100 pages, that the European Commission needs to be reformed if not just the Commission, but also the European Union, wish to retain their credibility.
The report demonstrates again the importance of control before the event.
The new Commission should make the improvement of financial management and combating fraud its highest priority, but this would mean making a lot of changes.
Up until now, most Commissioners were interested primarily in new policies.
The Wise Men refer to it as expansionism in the Delors era.
Practically all the instruments for tackling fraud originated in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
The agreement can only be a transitional regulation.
The next few months and years will be critical.
Commissioner Kinnock will no doubt be delighted to have this guide and, perhaps, alibi.
Some of our colleagues have dedicated dithyrambic eulogies to the report, which we might have been spared had they paid more attention to the work of the Committee on Budgetary Control or had they not voted against some of our suggestions.
I requested it myself from this bench last year from Commissioner Liikanen on behalf of the Socialist Group.
And lastly, chapter 5 refers to "whistle-blowers" .
That is all well and good, but it should also be the case for the staff of the European Parliament.
There is also the problem of social welfare cover according to local law.
And these are just a few examples.
I do not know whether or not you will have time to include in the agenda of that Council meeting some of the questions put forward in the report of the Committee of Independent Experts which I believe are supported by general consensus.
But I do not wish to dwell on these issues, since I agree that the enormous majority of people who work for Europe are competent and honest.
Chapter 6 of the report of the Committee of Independent Experts, which we have not had time to study in detail, demands absolute transparency.
I have noticed that, amongst the 90 recommendations of the Independent Experts, some describe an Anglo-Saxon style administration, where more responsibility falls to managers.
Not everybody is responsible for everything, neither in the management carried out in the Member States, nor in the Regions nor in the Commission.
Therefore, Mr Kinnock, time is running out.
Mr President, President-designate of the Commission, Romano Prodi, spoke in July of a revolution of the working method which it is now time to translate into action.
In fact, the statements from the Wise Men make it clear that we in Europe need a new culture of responsibility and I would like to add, Mr Kinnock, that on this very point it would be an enticing prospect to continue the hearings from the past week because many issues from the hearings which are still unclear have to be tidied up in terms of definitions and clarity since we would certainly like to know how exactly the Commission should look and function in future.
The Wise Men' s second report contains approximately 90 recommendations which are worth analysing and discussing carefully.
Mr President, we are debating a report of around 200 pages which contains an exhaustive analysis of the structural operation of the Commission' s departments, and yet we have had only 48 hours in which to read it and give it our consideration.
It is a great source of satisfaction for me - and I would like to make this known - to have heard the current Commissioner Manuel Marín refer today to the Commission' s future with the same honesty he displayed throughout his terms in office, and the same dignity with which he took on the problems of the previous College of Commissioners.
As spokesperson for the Socialist Group on the Committee on Development and Cooperation, I would like to make a few observations regarding the idea put forward in this report on the future functioning of the Commission.
Mr President, I hope that this report will prove to be a useful contribution to the reform of the Commission' s functioning.
Mr President, I shall just comment on one point made in the report by the Committee of Independent Experts, which is chapter 5, concerning fraud in the European Union.
We must remember, for example, that only four States have ratified the European Union Agreement on cooperation in the fight against fraud in the European Union and that, at the moment, there is no legal framework for combating fraud.
The Committee of Independent Experts' report has some practical conclusions to offer on this matter.
The most important is the creation of a European Ministry for Public Affairs in various stages.
But the question we should ask is, is it not time, if the European Union wants to protect its financial interests effectively, for a Community Criminal Law which would allow us to establish fraud against the Community' s financial interests as a Community-wide crime, and to have a competent criminal legal system?
Time and again many Eurosceptics have used fraud within the European Union institutions as a battering ram to beat us with.
We look forward to developing the action programme for reform with the Commissioner responsible and although we have not had time to look at it in detail, I believe it would be fair to ask the Commissioner for a clear discussion and justification on why steps are not taken if some recommendations are left out.
I hope people will take time to read the report which clearly distinguishes between fraud and irregularity.
The report states that of all the thousands of transactions which take place within the European Union institutions there are only 30 investigations involving Commission officials in fraud.
Of course that is 30 too many, but the main cause of concern are the many examples of irregularities.
The report also correctly referred to the regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the European Community and points out that only three Member States have ratified the regulation.
The report itself should also be a lesson to us all within the European Union institutions.
We are at the dawn of a new era within the European Union institutions.
But most of all we look forward to a time when every official and Member State Government responds to a new culture of responsibility.
Depending on the vote on Wednesday, either I have taken up much too much of Parliament' s time already in putting forward a point of view or we are at the start of something big.
I can certainly sympathise with his sentiment, but I rather regard the publication of the second report of the Committee of Wise Men as more of a stage in necessary progress than any sort of a finishing line.
I am sure on reflection that will be the view of a large number of Members of this House.
I hope I can say conclusively that in all the words I have used, both in that written reply and last week in the hearings, there is no intention of trying to obscure or to evade the full requirements of transparency.
Can I now move to this question of a European Public Prosecutor' s Office that has been suggested, not for the first time.
All I can say is that we can only speculate about the response of Member States on that proposal.
I am certain that no responsible person, certainly no elected representative or Member of the Commission, would want it otherwise.
I look forward to the continuation of the debate launched in many ways by reports from this Parliament.
It was said indeed during the debate that we should try to ensure that we get that kind of association as a precondition for successful change.
If I can come very quickly - because I do not want to detain the House for too long and I am conscious of the fact that this is the second speech that I was invited to make by the Parliament - to this question of Recommendation 36 and Commissioner' s responsibility.
Mr Elles raised several interesting questions.
In trying to secure real and durable improvement in what he described as the financial control environment, he will know that there have been efforts to achieve this through more effective allocation of responsibilities and effective central coordination monitoring unnecessary control.
The idea set out in the report of the Committee of Wise Men for the establishment of the internal audit service in the way that they described it represents in my view and the view of my colleagues a significant step ahead.
In the course of doing it we will have extensive opportunities to discuss in detail what was produced last Friday by the Committee of Wise Men.
This report acknowledges the need for establishing cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution.
The transboundary nature of the marine environment, which means that pollution in one area can impact on a wider region, leads to the need for a Community-wide framework for cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution.
It is quite clear that it should be explicit and if it is already implied then I do not see what the problem is about ensuring that it is explicit because as time goes by radioactive substances are going to pose an even greater danger and - as I have already said - we are very lucky that there has not already been a serious accident.
It has come to my attention that British Nuclear Fuels Ltd.
If BNFL has problems in discharging radioactive products such as technetium 99, it should store such waste materials on land in Britain as opposed to dumping them in the Irish Sea.
Ever since the opposition to the THORP nuclear plant in 1993, the level of radioactive discharges from nuclear operations in Cumbria has substantially increased.
This framework has proved to be very useful when, in cases of severe spillage, it has been necessary to coordinate the work of various Member States.
The Commission can completely or partially accept 20 of the 29 amendments proposed, which obviously improve the proposal.
Amendments Nos 3, 6, 8, 9 and 13 and part of Amendment No 15 would be acceptable in principle, although we would like them to undergo another rewrite.
The 9 remaining amendments pose difficulties for the following reasons: Amendment No 1 and, in part, Recommendations 5, 15 and 24 make specific reference to contamination caused by radioactive substances which are already regulated by implication in the proposal.
The debate is closed.
The likelihood is that if we leave it as a recommendation somebody in five years time or so may or may not remember to report to the European Parliament that a recommendation was passed and that very little was done about it.
We can progress in a reasonable and strict manner towards effective European inspection of Member States, within the framework of a European vision.
The proper response is inspection, control, regulations, managed politically by the representative authorities of the Union, and in which the European Parliament must have entire responsibility.
But laws which are not enforced equally by all 15 Member States will be cynically ignored by those who seek financial gain at any cost and will generate a sense of injustice and eventually hostility in all those who play by the rules.
It emphasises our commitment to protecting our environment and applying equal procedures in each Member State.
I believe strongly that this report should be given Parliament' s wholehearted support and a message should be sent to both the Commission and the Council that we are determined that these essential measures should not be diluted or weakened in any way.
My group gives its full support to this report.
On the other hand, it incorporates rules and, I believe, it satisfies all the citizens of the European Union, who not only want the legislation to be enforced but who also want it to be enforced to the same degree and at the same level in all the countries.
For this to be a success the Member States must implement the directives, regulations and recommendations in the right and proper manner.
We cannot allow an industrial sector in one Member State to expel far more polluting substances than the same industrial sector in another Member State.
However, in future, this Directive on environmental inspections must not be further embellished.
Firstly, Mr President, because the Commission, before making a legislative proposal, holds appropriate consultations with Member States.
Of the fifteen Member States, only one is in favour of a directive.
Presenting a directive when you know a priori that 14 Member States are against it, is still a task fit for heroes.
I think that this will prove to be extremely useful for the European Parliament, because maybe then you will discover that working with the Council of Ministers is much more difficult than just producing a report.
