Tribute Ladies and gentlemen, I have the sad duty of informing you of the death of the Greek Deputy Foreign Minister, Yannos Kranidiotis, in an accident, and also that of five other people who were accompanying him, including his 23-year-old son.
He was travelling with 12 other people to Bucharest when his plane lost altitude and dropped from 25,000 feet to 3,000 feet without crashing, finally coming to land at the airport in Bucharest.
Some of you will certainly recall that Yannos Kranidiotis was a Member of the European Parliament between January 1995 and February 1997, when he was appointed as a Minister in the Greek Government, and you will remember that he was, within our Parliament, a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgets, as well as being the Vice-President of the joint European Union/Cyprus delegation.
As I have here the text of my intervention, I confirm what I said yesterday.
And, as he accused me of dishonesty, all I want to say at the moment is that, in accordance with the principles and indications of President Prodi in relation to the responsibility of Commissioners, I believe that, if today this Parliament approves the political resolution, with the consensus of all the groups, on the new Commission, Mr Galeote will find himself part of an Assembly of dishonest people.
Madam President, I have also had a problem with the machine.
Thank you, Mr Rack.
We will amend this. (The Minutes were approved) Madam President, may I remind all those present, and yourself, that in this week 55 years ago a forgotten concentration camp, located in our immediate vicinity here, was liberated.
Mr Sichrovsky, I think you might make this proposal in writing, according to the Rules of Procedure, and we would then see what the best follow up might be.
We have built a single market in which people, goods, services and capital may circulate freely.
Before I go into the details of the Tampere agenda, may I be so bold, although I am at a sitting of the European Parliament, as to remind everyone that, happily, we are not alone in Europe.
It is my intention today to inform you of the agenda and preparatory work relating to the European Council meeting in Tampere.
We are hoping that the Tampere meeting will produce policies and commitments, the necessity for which our citizens in the various countries can also understand.
Apart from that, I want to make the point that when we respect the rights of minorities, we not only respect their human rights and dignity but, at the same time, we also increase the stability of our society and, hence, the security of all our citizens.
A key aim of the European Council meeting in Tampere should be an agreement to create for the Union a common policy on immigration and asylum.
The crisis in Kosovo showed that it is high time the Union agreed, inter alia, the divisions of responsibility and principles to follow in times of temporary protection.
The Union must be ready to offer swift protection in mass evacuation situations.
The Treaty of Amsterdam provides new opportunities for planning a policy of repatriation.
The Union' s immigration and asylum policy must form a properly integrated part of our current, more standardised foreign relations policy.
The Union could try to influence the situation by means of various arrangements for co-operation in the areas of foreign and security policy, development co-operation, economic co-operation and migration policy.
In this way, we safeguard our future.
When we discuss the development of co-operation relating to matters of law and internal matters, the main emphasis is perhaps too readily placed on action in connection with security.
However, it is at least as important to consider how we may improve the situation with respect to human rights in the European Union.
The creation of the single market and the adoption of the euro have increased dealings among people in many ways.
The creation of a European judicial area will be, however, one of the most important challenges for the Union in the next few years.
I have spoken very clearly in favour of closer co-operation and the harmonisation of legislation.
An immediate project to reinforce human rights also constitutes an enforcement of Article 13 of the Treaty on European Union.
In preparatory work for the meeting, we are also making use of, inter alia, the results of the work of a top-level working party on asylum and immigration and the viewpoints of the European Parliament.
The Finnish Minister for Justice and Minister for Home Affairs attended the Inter-Parliamentary Conference organised for 24 and 25 March this year by the European Parliament on the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice.
The meeting will start with a speech by the President of the European Parliament.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Heads of State and Government took the initiative almost a year ago to call an Extraordinary European Council meeting which would be principally dedicated to the area of freedom, security and justice.
This is therefore an act of great importance which will guide the activities of the Union during the coming years.
In this context, it is important that the European Parliament, whose activity during this last year has been considerable, ensures that its voice is heard after the resolution adopted in its April plenary part-session which established the political framework which is now required.
The resolution on what we are debating today, furthermore, will have the advantage that it will be adopted on time so that it will be known in the informal meeting in Turku which begins tomorrow.
And the fact that you are talking at the same time about the area of freedom, security and justice and the Charter of Fundamental Rights illustrates the unavoidable political relationship between the two objectives.
The Commission, for its part, totally shares this approach, and will firmly commit itself to the process of drawing up the Charter and, of course, Mrs Halonen, we will communicate to the next Commission your invitation to the Commission to make specific proposals in this regard.
The Commission fully shares your opinion on the contents you wish to see for the area of freedom, security and justice.
These are very sensitive points and they will all firstly require a broad political consensus and a great political will in order to find common solutions.
As I said before, the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice is a basic objective in bringing the Union closer to the citizens, and this matter forms part of the daily concerns of the citizens of the Union.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, you rightly pointed out that this summit in Tampere is an Extraordinary Summit on the subject of making preparations for an area of freedom, security and justice.
We are therefore waiting for EURODAC to be quickly set up and the Schengen security system to become effective at all frontiers in Europe.
Cross-border collaboration between police forces must be extended to provide co-operation in training and co-operation with applicant countries.
I also wish to express my satisfaction regarding Mrs Halonen' s urgent call in her speech for the implementation of Article 13 of the Treaty on European Unity, and I too would like to see initiatives from the Commission on this issue.
The European Council meeting in Tampere on 15 and 16 October will be a historic attempt to shape EU common policy in the prevention of cross-border crime, and in the creation of a European judicial area and a common policy on immigration and asylum.
Closer co-operation will also create a basis for unhampered interaction with the Union' s neighbouring regions.
The fact that Parliament is debating this important subject right now, well before the Extraordinary Summit at Tampere, indicates that the spirit of the Treaty of Amsterdam is being realised in the way intended.
Madam President, the Council Presidency' s tour of capitals has identified three areas about which the President-in-Office has spoken this morning: asylum and immigration, the fight against cross-border crime and the establishment of a European judicial area.
The political challenge in asylum and immigration is striking a balance between the need to safeguard asylum as an individual right and to ensure the proper protection of refugees and the desire to resist economic migration.
At the very least we need minimum common standards.
Those must be based on the 1951 Geneva Convention and on the UNHCR guidelines.
Events in recent years show us how easily situations of mass influx of refugees can come about.
Much has been said about making life more difficult for the criminal but harmonising offences and penalties is an ambitious project.
When we deal with harmonisation of criminal law the key concept is full confidence in each other' s legal systems.
Finally, we need from Tampere a summit that will carry public opinion, that will tailor its ambitions to the human and financial resources available but will give us guidelines to demonstrate the relevance of the area of freedom, security and justice to ordinary people (Applause) Madam President, despite the splendid presentation by the President-in-Office of the Council, Mrs Halonen, I have to draw attention to the secretive way preparations have been made for the meeting at Tampere, which last week led to a grotesque incident after the Danish newspaper Berlingske Tidende published a story saying that a curb would be put on immigration from third countries, even with recourse to scare campaigns and threats.
Madam President, democracy demands that we take decisions through a system of majority ruling.
There is legal provision for the protection of privacy in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the European Convention on Human Rights.
We have to fight against such things and crimes of this type with transparency and by drawing public attention to them.
It will not be possible to stop organised crime, the trade in human beings, money laundering and terrorism just through co-operation between police forces if, at the same time, the doors to the free movement of people between EU countries are opened, both for EU citizens and everyone else, and certainly not if controls on the EU' s external borders are weakened, as will inevitably happen when the EU is enlarged.
As a prior condition of creating peace and security in Europe, the EU' s Member States must work more actively to create this peace, security, economic growth and democracy in the EU' s poor neighbouring countries.
Immigration to Europe helps only a minority and often a quite random minority, while the majority of people in the immigrants' home countries continues to suffer under existing conditions.
The motion for a resolution is devoid of any reference to these central solutions, and it is aimed solely at promoting federalist development in the European Union, a form of development which a majority of the population in my country, Denmark, dissociated itself from in the 1993 referendum on the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The institutions have high expectations in terms of what the further development of the European Union will bring its citizens.
A number of countries, of which the Netherlands is one, have had to deal with a disproportionately large influx of asylum seekers in recent years.
The reality of the situation is compelling us to bring about substantive harmonisation of legislation in order to prevent a "race to the bottom" .
Madam President, like the previous speakers, I believe that, firstly, the creation of a European judicial area and, secondly, the introduction of general regulations for the control of immigration, will not contribute in any way towards solving the problems of cross-border crime or immigration.
The response given in many countries, starting with the Netherlands - which in fact surprised me a little, because it was in the Netherlands that the Maastricht Treaty and the Treaty of Amsterdam were signed - has been negative.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, in a few hours, you will have in front of you a resolution of the European Parliament on these issues.
The European Parliament must therefore appeal to the Council and the Commission.
The European Union did not and still does not have any arrangements in place for the temporary protection and reception of these groups of people.
The relevant proposal was put forward by the European Commission two years ago, and was adopted by the European Parliament last year.
Madam President, the one thing the Tampere Summit needs above all else is the political will of the Member States.
Only a few years ago, the governments of Member States were not prepared to co-operate with the European Parliament on important matters such as collaboration between police forces, migration or common asylum policy.
We also hope that, on this basis, in trying to create a common area of freedom, security and justice, they are inspired by the principles of solidarity and inclusion and are not thinking about creating a European Community that is peaceful and wealthy on the inside but which is impenetrable to those pushing to get in from the outside on account of hunger, war or social difficulties.
Madam President, after employment, the most pressing issue that European citizens bring to the Community' s institutions is the security emergency which, because of its nature, cannot be solved by the Member States on an individual basis.
We must commit ourselves fully to this issue, with the aim of strengthening the faith that the European citizens have in Parliament.
Under cover of the concept of an area of security, peace and justice, what we have here is an enormous leap forward in the development of the Union.
In the Watson resolution, it says it is convinced that European citizens are tired of proclamations and fine declarations, and in the Napolitano resolution, it proposes nothing less than to carry out a purely stylistic exercise, grabbing the bone which the Council offered its pet dog, in the form of the writing of this great Charter of Fundamental Rights.
For two or three years, or perhaps a little less, this Parliament will debate this great Charter, thereby affirming its own European view of human rights, while we know full well that the Chinese have a quite different view.
Yesterday, we witnessed, and I thank the 90 Members who did not go along with this reasoning, we witnessed, once again, the denial of the rights of minorities in this Parliament.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, in fact, in these matters of European policy on rights, even with reference to the considerations for a Charter of Fundamental Rights, we have entered a decisive phase of the development of the European Union.
In this crucial area of the law, involving not only the protection of citizens with regard to the outside world, but also the protection of citizens against state institutions, a situation whereby protection from incorrect executive measures and corresponding control in the interest of the citizens is not provided must not be allowed.
This is not just a matter of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, but rather a rehearsal in the new meeting procedures between national parliaments, national administrations and the European Parliament, which can provide the European Union with great legitimacy for these cornerstones.
The Union' s policy must draw on this principle.
I hope that the Finnish Presidency, whose statements I welcomed this morning, wishes to take the credit for having started the implementation of the promises enshrined in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Madam President, speaking for the first time here I want to insist that this summit be more than a committee on public safety.
The Treaty prescribes the creation of an area of freedom, justice and security, but the Tampere summit is in danger of turning only into a security summit.
The Treaty stresses liberty and respect for human rights as fundamental principles.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the holding of a European Council dedicated in part to the area of freedom, security and justice, testimony to the recognition by the European institutions and States of the importance of these essential questions to the future of Europe.
These questions are important for all citizens living in this area, since they affect their individual and collective freedoms.
Tampere will also provide political orientation on such sensitive questions as immigration policies, which will necessitate a new look at North-South relations, and freedom of movement, which will necessitate real harmonisation of visa policies in Europe, such as the right to asylum and the right to health for all refugees.
Other important questions include integration policies, which also affect the cultural rights of minorities, the right to family life with dignity and political rights for all citizens residing in Europe.
All these rights must, of course, be included in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, a Charter which must address all these men and women who live in Europe and thereby enrich it.
It is, therefore, necessary to reinforce democratic control of the choices which we are going to make, as today there are still too many shady areas such as Europol.
That is why the European Parliament, the product of the will of the people, must be closely associated to meetings such as Tampere.
The choices of the European Council must be transparent, in accordance with human rights and the wishes of the European Parliament.
Madam President, the European Union is now quickly on the way to developing a common policy in the legal field by means of a series of different measures and programmes.
Madam President, the European Council of Cologne had the unfortunate idea, without, as far as I know, any national Parliament ever requesting anything of the sort, of initiating the preparation of a Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
These are then rights which already exist and which are found in a variety of documents: treaties, the European Social Charter, the European Convention on Human Rights and above all, of course, national constitutions.
What is more, these rights, as far as citizens are concerned, are already properly protected by the legal systems in force.
Clearly the Cologne Council has set in motion a chain of events of which it is going to lose control.
I believe that in fact it would be better to leave the rights of citizens to national constitutions and the protection of those rights to the national parliaments who have perfected them over the centuries.
Yet Mr Patten insists that the police must be responsible to a new ruling body on which the IRA will be represented.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I appreciate that the task is very difficult.
As for you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, it is clear that we are talking about an area in which an obdurate attachment to sovereignty is in evidence which, in my opinion, should be totally banished.
It cannot only be a summit on immigration nor, of course, only on security.
Madam President, the decision of the Council of Cologne to proceed with the drawing-up of a Charter of Fundamental Rights will involve our Parliament in a long and complex process.
We will have to discuss the nature of the Charter, its contents, the relationship between the Charter of Rights and the process of creating a Constitution for the Union.
And now a personal view on the fight against crime and the challenge posed by immigration.
I am convinced that the fundamental objective of this European Union is to enable the integration of immigrants.
To sum up, let us take immigrants out of their precarious administrative position and let us offer them a lasting residence permit, enabling them to stay as long as they think fit in a country they have come to, precisely because it was the countries of Europe which colonised their own country in the first place.
Finally, this Europe of ours must ban all forms of discrimination, in recruitment, in housing and in access to leisure pursuits, and remind all those who deny the existence of the gas chambers and believe that races are not equal that racism is not an opinion, but a crime.
On behalf of the European Parliament, I would like to express my deepest sympathy to the Turkish Grand National Assembly and to the people of Turkey for the tragic losses which this natural disaster caused.
Finally, I would like to express the hope that the debate which you will be having today and tomorrow with the members of the European Parliament delegation will be productive and that dialogue between our two Parliaments will continue in the near future within the framework of the joint parliamentary delegation.
There was no dialogue with the European Parliament.
Madam President, may I congratulate the Finnish presidency on this initiative in which I fully support him.
Only four countries to date have ratified the Rome Statute: Trinidad and Tobago, Senegal, San Marino and Italy.
This applies especially if the Charter is to include citizens from non-EU countries who are resident within the European Union.
If too great a proportion of publicly financed social and economic entitlements were introduced, the walls shutting off the outside world would also be raised at the same time as the level of social provision in the European Union increases.
The Treaty of Amsterdam introduces the concept of a European judicial area.
Madam President, the President-in-Office has said that if you were to ask the people in Member States what they want you would get a clear message.
Many of them are not really concerned about the extension of qualified majority voting, important as that is, but they are anxious for progress on citizens' rights, progress on free movement, progress towards a real integrated Europe where people know and understand their rights and responsibilities.
Freedom, justice, security and transparency before we enlarge is, I am sure many would agree, absolutely crucial.
Earlier Mr Camre spoke against support for poorer countries.
I say to him and others that you cannot have real prosperity and real security for 350 million people in 15 countries if you deny hope and similar rights to your neighbours.
Some UK Members on this side of the House may have reservations about one or two points but we fully believe in the principles of this resolution, the points that are practical and enforceable.
May I also say to Madam President-in-Office that subsidiarity must be as vitally respected at Tampere as in all aspects of the work of this Union.
I represent an electoral region which has had an independent legal system with a distinct tradition in justice and home affairs for over 500 years.
It is vital that this and other such regions are fully and properly borne in mind when policies are developed dealing with these matters.
Madam President, I hope that, following the declaration which the President-in-Office of the Council has made, this Tampere Summit may lead to a firm commitment of political will on the part of the Union, and that we will adopt a whole series of clear and necessary positions which will allow us to move forwards.
In attempting to do so, with regard to the area of freedom, I believe that there are two issues which warrant preferential treatment: the harmonisation of asylum procedures and illegal immigration.
To these two matters we should add temporary protection, which is an issue with great currency given the recent Kosovo crisis, and the internal solidarity between Member States of the European Union.
In my opinion, Madam President, the means which should be used are three in number: police co-operation - bearing in mind the progress that has been made through the Schengen Agreement - the prevention of crime and external relations, given that security in the Union cannot be isolated from security in the rest of Europe and throughout the world.
The European Union must pay very special attention to the South, as well as to the countries adjacent to Russia.
Lastly, with regard to the area of justice, our aim should be to do everything possible so that citizens have the sense of being, throughout Europe, within a framework of justice which is appropriate and within which their rights are protected in a similar way, not only with regard to criminals, but also with regard to the possible abuses of public power.
The European judicial network is, undoubtedly, the least developed of the three areas we are dealing with and, in this sense, I believe that the creation of a stable unit, charged with giving continuity to legal co-operation and acting as the judicial counterpart of Europol, would be appropriate.
I believe, finally, Madam President, that the objectives of the European Council meeting in Tampere are very ambitious, but I believe that by simply being ambitious in our efforts to turn this area of freedom, security and justice into reality, we will persuade the citizens of the European Union to see our work as an effective instrument with which to confront their problems.
Madam President, here we stand in Strasbourg, in the unique tradition of Robert Schuman, whose European Coal and Steel Community was not only a step towards economic integration, which has now been crowned with the euro, but also a step towards political integration.
The Council now has the opportunity, at the Tampere Summit, to achieve something like a Coal and Steel Community of freedom, security and justice within this European Union.
Firstly, the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The citizens of Europe are represented by the European Parliament.
European solidarity required clear, set rules which must be determined before the crisis arises and not in a mad rush once it is already underway.
Madam President we do not know if Tampere will be a success or not.
We feel though, after the speech that we have heard here this morning, that it may be because that item in the Treaty of Amsterdam which was, of necessity, destined to be almost a dead letter or just hot air, is now gaining a certain visibility, creating greater consensus and asserting itself naturally, thereby making the path towards a common area of freedom, security and justice seem much more credible.
Madam President, Madam President of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the increasing sophistication of international crime means that the efforts to combat it within the confines of individual countries are becoming insufficient.
Although much has been done relating to the economic aspects of the Union and the strengthening of its political dimension, there remains a great deal to be done in the area of genuine freedom of movement for our citizens.
Not only because the Treaty of Amsterdam enshrined the right to security, but also because the concept of European citizenship will not become real without a genuine area of freedom, security and justice.
In this respect, we should really ensure parity between representatives of this European Parliament and representatives at a national level.
Madam President, we find ourselves, in this legislature, with a momentous challenge with regard to the construction of the European Union.
During the previous legislature, this Parliament said "yes" to Monetary Union, "yes" to social integration, making employment the centrepiece and the motor of European social policy, and now we must also say "yes" to a European area of freedom, security and justice.
The European Council of Tampere, which is the result of the initiative - it must be said - and the efforts of the President of the Spanish Government, José María Aznar, must confront this issue with the same political will that it displayed at the Extraordinary Summit in Luxembourg when it confronted the serious problem of unemployment.
As has been said here, any solutions which are legal, economic, social or based on controlling the flow of migration, should be adopted according to a common approach, in accordance with a common policy.
To this end, the very concept of immigration should be defined at the next European Council meeting in Tampere.
We should also establish, as laid down in the Treaty of Amsterdam itself, a balanced effort amongst all the Member States to confront the consequences of accepting refugees, displaced persons and the powerful migratory pressure which is of an exclusively economic nature, such as that which originates from non-EU countries in the Mediterranean or the Southern flank of the Union.
It is not enough for the European Union... (The President cut the speaker off) Madam President, as I am taking the floor just hours after the terrible accident, I must say just how distressed the Greek representatives are and how much they grieve the tragic loss of the Greek Deputy Foreign Minister, Yannos Kranidiotis, killed while performing his duty: he was a remarkable politician and European visionary who worked hard for peace and co-operation in the Balkans and for reconciliation between Greece and Turkey and who was once himself a Member of the European Parliament.
I personally succeeded him in February 1997 in the European Parliament when he assumed his services as Deputy Foreign Minister.
We hope that, like the European Parliament, the Council will send a clear signal to the citizens of Europe, reassuring them that the European Union is indeed interested in and seeks to promote their vital interests, such as heightened internal security, freedom of movement, free access to justice, the fight against international organised crime, cross-border controls and respect for fundamental freedoms and rights.
The President has had the opportunity to express Parliament' s sharing in your loss and that of your people.
Madam President, Mrs Halonen, security is one of the main causes of concern for the citizens of Europe.
The Tampere Summit will attempt to respond to this important challenge: the creation of a more secure Europe.
The idea of a common policy on asylum and supranational burden sharing sounds fine, but it will be very difficult to put into practice.
The right of our citizens to fair treatment - access to justice - must be ensured and the public must be guaranteed adequate aid if they have to confront the legal authorities of a foreign Member State.
The creation of a European judicial area has to be part of the new people' s Europe.
It referred to the life of the liberator, Simón Bolívar.
Reading Annex IV of the European Council of Cologne gives the impression that, on the subject of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Council is also in the middle of something of a labyrinth.
It must reinforce the rights of the citizens and, at the end of the day, of European citizenship.
It must encompass all those who live and work in the Union.
And above all, the Charter must be approved.
The term "proclamation" , which was used in Cologne, is clearly insufficient.
The Tampere Council is extremely important, Madam President.
Of course, Europe cannot close its doors, but neither should it open them so wide as to create ghettos or open them without having laid down the necessary preconditions beforehand.
Justice and security are absolutely essential, Madam President, and harmonisation is absolutely essential, but to make all that happen, the necessary political will is essential.
To the question asked by Mr Schulz and others on the issue of the legal area and fundamental rights, I would like to state that I stressed that we must build an area of freedom, security and justice on the basis of common values, with respect for human rights and, in the same way, reinforcing the issue of non-discrimination.
Obviously there are problems there, but there are also countries which have a high standard of development and which are willing to work in co-operation with us.
Very often it is a question of our compliance with decisions that have already been made.
It may be that, because of this air crash in Greece, I was rather more sensitive, more sensitive than usual, to your rebukes regarding a lack of co-operation, but I would like to assure you, on behalf of the Council, that we must also be confident among ourselves in the European Union that national democracy is doing the job of complementing right here among you a growing democracy for the European Union itself.
Situation in East Timor The next item is the Council statement on the situation in East Timor.
The General Affairs Council stated on Monday that the East Timorese also deserve all our support in the future.
In this connection, I would like once again to thank the UN' s UNAMET operation for its staff' s tireless work in bringing about the referendum in especially difficult circumstances.
I also wish to thank the delegation of observers from the European Parliament and everyone else that took part in the observation process: the importance of an international presence was vital for the success of the voting operation.
The Union has the whole time stressed and demanded that Indonesia take responsibility for order and security, but as we have seen, the Indonesian authorities have unfortunately ignored the obligations they have agreed to in this respect.
I would now like to speak of a serious matter, which is the climate of fear and deeds of terror that are gripping East Timor at present.
There has been evidence that the Indonesian army and the police have taken part in acts of terror in East Timor.
At the same time too, bilateral military co-operation between the Member States and Indonesia was discontinued.
In Rome, the third parliamentary group, which comprises 130 Members, is a group which unites Members to the right of Le Pen and to the left of Cossutta.
Emma Bonino will have the time to explain.
I can inform you that the European Parliament has just voted by a very large majority in favour of the resolution concerning the Commission, and I give you the floor immediately.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now at the decisive moment of what has been, in my opinion, a good exercise in democracy.
They represent the basis of a new start in relations between our two institutions, a new culture of openness and above all, mutual co-operation.
A key element in those points concerns the question of the individual accountability of Commissioners.
We have to engage the citizen, and this is a fundamental challenge for all the institutions.
They have of course to be worked out in detail in the future Code of Conduct.
It has also made strong commitments, within its sphere of competence, to see how we can improve the involvement of Parliament in all policy areas.
We have pledged to give Europe a new institutional order and prepare us for this Intergovernmental Conference which is of fundamental importance for our future.
The future of this, our Europe, is grounded in our brilliant dialectic but also in our spirit of co-operation.
Madam President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats yesterday had a passionate debate about how we should vote today.
I would like to begin this short statement by giving a heart-felt word of thanks, respect and acknowledgement to our colleague and friend, Jacques Santer, for his wonderful contribution to Europe as Prime Minister of Luxembourg and as President of the European Commission.
The overwhelming majority of our group will say "yes" to the Commission of Romano Prodi.
We expect you to discuss your programme up to the year 2005 with Parliament and that it will be a politically balanced programme.
The resolution would have been approved with an even greater majority if the translation had been available in a certain language for one of the groups.
In this sense, we say "yes" to the Commission-designate. (Applause) Madam President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, Commissioners-designate, ladies and gentlemen, my group, the Group of the Party of European Socialists, announced yesterday that it had taken, almost unanimously, the decision to vote in favour of the Prodi Commission, on the basis of what President Prodi had stated and committed himself to in the Conference of Presidents last week.
As well as the five points, there is also that commitment, which seems important to us, to embark on a new stage in the construction of Europe which, I believe, we should reaffirm today.
The President has restated today a commitment which seems to us decisive, which is to carefully prepare, announce and debate his programme of political action for the whole of the legislature.
He has also announced the programme of reform of the Commission and, therefore, we believe that, if we jointly embark on this new stage, we will be able to build together, like bricklayers and architects, the Europe of the future.
Another point which the President has mentioned, and which seems to me important to specify, is our approach towards the Intergovernmental Conference.
My group has very much appreciated the fact that three experts have been given the task of clearing the way, but I believe that it would be very positive if the Commission were to make use of that capacity for initiative which is conferred on it by the Treaties - and Parliament - and if we could agree on how to go forward together on all fronts, with a view to the new millennium and above all, and firstly, for the sake of our fellow citizens.
We require a new contract with the peoples who form the European Union to resolve questions such as employment, prosperity, the defence and adaptation of our social model, the preservation of our environment and consumer protection, in order to achieve a foreign and security policy which will allow us to integrate those countries which wish to form part of our common adventure, which will allow us to stabilise our continent, in the East, and also in the South, in the Mediterranean.
Today we vote in two parts: a political resolution and on the Commission.
The political resolution supported by more than 500 deputies foresees a new accord between Parliament and the Commission for the new millenium.
The message should go loud and clear from this House today to the capital cities of the Union in particular, that the rules of engagement have changed utterly.
Reinvigorated by the crisis we have passed through I believe there is a new energy and that there shall be a new synergy between our institutions to put the Union to work.
My group - the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Group - should vote unanimously for the Commission and its President.
Let the work begin. (Applause) Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, at this, the final stage of a long process, I am obliged to report on the debate which my group held last night and to make a comment on our appreciation of your speech today.
We voted unanimously on the joint resolution which has just been adopted by this Parliament.
I therefore believe that I can say, on behalf of my group, that we are satisfied on this aspect.
Having said this, although the way the institutions are run is one of the most important issues at stake, the political future of the European Union and its role in the world is just as important.
The European Commission is the driving force of the Union and in this capacity has the power to steer the general policy of the European Union.
Indeed, quality of life also covers, in my view, security of employment, working conditions, public liberties and employment.
Unfortunately, at the present time, the majority of citizens do not actually receive this added value.
Furthermore, the Union must implement fundamental action on a world-wide scale to ensure that the differences in living standards between North and South stop increasing and that globalisation is not synonymous, as unfortunately it is today, with ecological and social damage throughout the world, including within the European Union.
It would, admittedly, have been ridiculous to expect that the incoming team would have a political plan which reflected our own, but we did think we were entitled to expect some indication of an ambitious vision of the role of Europe.
Some are betting that, thanks to some of its members and thanks to the changes in the attitude of the Commission to Parliament, the incoming team is capable of instigating significant political reorientation.
I hope that you will accept it as constructive criticism, and that our unanimous desire for dialogue will not be in question. (Applause) Madam President, in the course of the debate yesterday, I presented the reasons why my group could not affirm its confidence in the Prodi Commission.
While highlighting the interesting "shift" in the relationship between this institution and Parliament, as well as our desire to work towards the success of the administrative reform announced, I expressed the conviction that in order to respond to the urgent expectations of our fellow citizens it would have been necessary to take the initiative on significant changes affecting not only the operation of the Commission but also on its political orientations.
My conviction is that Europe will win back credibility in the eyes of many of the peoples of the world, and their sympathy, by clearly stating, in the face of the advancing tide of neo-liberalism, its own values and plan.
Madam President, Commission President, 1999 has been a difficult year for the mainstream EU institutions in that problems which surfaced over issues such as the accountability about the administration of various EU initiatives had strained relations between the European Parliament and the Commission.
In the resolution tabled today by my political group, we stress that there must be sound management in the administration of all EU programmes and initiatives.
The challenges facing the European Union are too great for institutional deadlock to hamper the Commission and the European Parliament in dealing with their legislative programme.
The European Union cannot operate effectively unless there is cooperation and understanding between the Commission, Parliament and the Council.
I believe that the Commission too must recognise that the expanded remit of the codecision procedure means that Parliament has an equal say in the enactment of EU directives and regulations encompassing 38 different economic and social sectors.
If the codecision procedure is not operated in an effective manner, then inefficiency will take root in the internal decision-making procedures of the Union.
There are currently 37 different chapters of negotiation to be discussed between the Union and the new applicant countries.
In conclusion, the Commission and Parliament must ensure that tough decisions are worked through in a spirit of understanding and common purpose.
I hope that all of us have learned this lesson from the events of the last year.
The Irish delegation will vote for President Prodi and the Commission.
The result will be more centralism and more fiddling and, in five years' time, a new Committee of Wise Men will be preparing a new report on increasing fraud within the EU, for it is secretiveness and centralism which give rise to fraud.
We must move in the direction of a slimmed down, open and democratic EU.
My group, the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities, cannot offer the Commission political support but, instead, hard-working, critical and constructive opposition.
You Italians live in a country whose Parliament has a mixed group, the second group, where Members from the extreme Right, extreme Left and the Greens all happily co-exist.
Three groups said they did not have a common political position.
I believe that I can now congratulate you, Mr President, Romano Prodi, and congratulate all the Commissioners who are now no longer Commissioners-designate but full Commissioners. (Loud applause) Mr President, we have a new Commission for a five-year term, and I would like to clarify somewhat my group' s attitude towards it.
Mr President, the French delegation of my group, like the Danish delegation, have already presented, in the main debate, the fundamental reasons why they could not support a Commission which believes itself to be the government of Europe even though the citizens have never expressly approved any such status.
But I would also like to take advantage of this explanation of vote to mention the parallel resolution combining a number of the undertakings made by the Prodi Commission in areas that were often technical, but important, relating to the Code of Conduct, ethics and transparency.
I hope that, thanks to this, the Members of Parliament will, for example, be better informed regarding the negotiations of the Millennium Round than they were for the Uruguay Round, although this Europe has to date been obedient to the powerful forces which want free trade to prevail absolutely, but which prefer to act in secret.
Unfortunately, this resolution is contaminated by a number of irregular conditions, for example, the one which stipulates that the Prodi Commission undertakes to include on the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference, in addition to the three points already determined, an important programme of institutional reforms.
This phrase at least has the merit of showing that the European Parliament and the Commission are going to back each other up in order to increase their respective powers and trample on the decisions of the Council.
In any case, we are voting against the resolution which includes this condition.
If this vote had been taken before the elections I am sure the vote would have been somewhat different.
As I have already stated in this House this morning, the people I represent especially have no confidence in Commissioner Patten.
Mr Patten may forget, we will not forget.
A few months back, during the election campaign for this Parliament, the people heading the list of candidates of almost all the Dutch parties were quite vocal in saying that Mr Bolkestein should not be permitted to become a Member of the Commission.
According to many historians and anthropologists, the Basque people form the oldest nation in Europe which, in spite of its limited population, has maintained its own ancestral language for centuries and millennia, as well as a distinct culture and traditions.
But, despite all of this, there are many other manifestations of the Basque uniqueness, not only in social, biological, civic, legal or administrative terms, but also, and above all, economically and fiscally.
The gradual historical absorption and integration of the Basque Country into the Spanish State, which has always been the result of military defeats in the past, as well as the mass arrival of immigrants from other parts of the Iberian Peninsula, has resulted in the blurring and dilution of our personality and of native Basque uniqueness.
For this reason, the Basque country maintains a political conflict with the Spanish State which has manifested itself in a violent way, a violence which the majority of us reject, but which, nevertheless, has left a trail of deaths, injuries, pain, extortion, fear and many innocent victims.
But there is a distinguishing mark, a clear tendency towards self-government and sovereignty which has resisted all the historical upheavals and misfortunes.
The armed organisation ETA has declared a cease-fire and the majority of Basque political parties, unions and civil organisations have signed an agreement in Lizarra-Estella (Navarre) which aims at dealing with the Basque conflict through dialogue and negotiation.
In these historic days when the Basques are opting for European construction as a democratic path to understanding, conciliation and peaceful co-existence with all Spaniards, as well as all the other peoples of Europe, the thing that we need least, the thing that could affect the peace which we are seeking and which we yearn for is for our remaining fiscal sovereignty, our economic harmony, not to be respected.
We would have liked to have voted positively, in the affirmative, for this new European Commission which you have presented to us.
But the replies given by those responsible for competition and other issues relating to the European regions have caused disquiet and concern in the Basque Country, and for this reason we have not been able to put our trust in them.
But, above all, there is one thing you can do for the sake of our peace and that is to promote the respect for the historic rights of the Basques, amongst which is fiscal sovereignty, which is the right of any other Member State of the EU.
We trust that your well-known democratic disposition will help to find a satisfactory solution for all of us.
I cannot, in all conscience, justify to my constituents in Scotland the casting of an affirmative vote today.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that four members of the old Commission have reappeared in the new Commission, despite the fact that they were part of that collegiate body which, on account of mismanagement, was forced to resign, is one of the reasons why we have refused to give our approval to this Commission for the current period.
He would have had a green light to replace the members from the previous Commission and thereby give a signal of transparency and integrity to the citizens of Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a plethora of reasons for rejecting the Commission.
The resolution includes one point (b) which, in my opinion, undermines an essential foundation block of European institutional architecture: the Commission' s right of initiative, since the Commission must act as a College and have the sole right to put forward European legislation.
Parliament believes it has won a great victory since it has obtained the guarantee that President Prodi is going to take account of the legislative initiatives of the European Parliament.
This Parliament has considerable political influence on the Commission as long as it remains a political body, but this will no longer be the case when the Commission' s right of initiative is weakened.
Mr President, one question before I give my explanation of vote.
Rule 214 is strict on this point: it stipulates the precise sequence of procedures and a distinction between the time when the President is nominated and the time when the College is approved.
This is intended to protect the political authority of the President.
By voting in this way, what we were doing was to approve the Commission each time before actually nominating the President.
We should have been more scrupulous than the Council in respecting the very strict terms of Rule 214.
After this morning' s spectacle I doubt that Parliament has the confidence of most Europeans, in other words those who believe that it is still possible to build a new European Union in which freedom and justice are the guiding principles.
This "final examination" of the future College of the executive body before the elected representatives of the citizens of Europe is an important phase in the democratisation of the European institutions which the Socialists have made their key issue.
The main thing is, in my view, to find once more a credible partner, putting an end to this interminable state of transition, and enabling the European executive to resume its onerous duties and finally make progress, in close consultation with the Members of the European Parliament, on the crucial matters of concern to Europe and its citizens.
The first conclusion I draw from this is that we are faced with a reliable team of Commissioners who, by and large, are competent in their own areas.
The second conclusion is that the ideology expressed by this team and also many of their proposals are far removed from my own ideas regarding the construction and management of Europe, with an extremely worrying predominance of Liberalism over social aspects and citizen' s rights.
This is why, even though I shall be voting at noon, with no qualms, in favour of the appointment of this Commission, wishing it every fortune and good luck, nonetheless in a few weeks I shall be paying particular attention to the programme which will be announced for the year 2000 and the legislature.
My vote on this occasion, and any subsequent votes, will depend on the extent to which the proposals made to us reflect the propositions on the basis of which I was elected on June 13.
I share a lot of the concerns and reservations expressed by the majority of my parliamentary group regarding the Commission' s programme and composition.
The record levels of abstention at the European elections in June, particularly in working-class residential districts, showed that Europe is still remote from its citizens.
And, going on from that, what approach to negotiations with the WTO in order to defend the uniqueness of the European social model and to promote a new type of co-operation between the countries of North and South?
The guidelines presented are still far removed from the priorities which were at the centre of the campaign by Socialists, in France and also in many other countries.
But this approval of the membership of the Commission, which must be capable of getting down to work, is not tantamount to a vote of confidence in a political programme which has not yet been presented, which must be debated with Parliament at the earliest opportunity, and which must take into account the aspirations and expectations of the citizens of Europe.
Eriksson, Frahm, Herman Schmid and Sjöstedt (GUE/NGL), in writing. (SV) It is not on the basis of individual Commissioners' ability to carry out their official tasks that a position for or against the European Commission is to be adopted.
Future aims On 14 September, Mr Prodi spoke in the European Parliament about the need to introduce glasnost, but he said nothing about introducing a measure whereby employees of the Commission would be free to provide information.
Therefore, in spite of individual questions which concern certain Commissioners which, in any case, belong to the past, I have given my vote of confidence to the new Commission in the knowledge, furthermore, that Parliament has the necessary mechanisms in place to withdraw that confidence in the event that it is betrayed.
The restoration of the hope and confidence of the European citizens now depends on the Commission which, under the direction of President Prodi, today embarks on its course.
The complete lack of confidence that our citizens have in the European institutions, which was clearly demonstrated by the low turnout in the recent elections, requires not only "a modern and efficient administration" , but new policies which will respond positively to the socio-economic problems currently experienced by the European Union' s Member States.
The European institutions, particularly the European Commission and the European Parliament, emerge with increased statures from the hearings of the Commissioners-designate, and the European citizens who followed them (in the press) may find in them, I hope, good reasons to become more interested in the building of Europe.
For these reasons, taking account of the generally acknowledged competence of the Commissioners and the intention expressed by the majority of them to work in close collaboration with Parliament, I voted in favour of the appointment of the European Commission.
In addition, with regard to the OCT associated to the European Union, Commissioner Nielson acknowledged the need to present as quickly as possible a wide range of proposals intended to give these countries a status appropriate to their current situation, with a view to the forthcoming Association Agreement and, in particular, the consequent renewal of the financial instrument allocated to their development.
We are therefore voting against the Prodi Commission for the period of 23 January 2000 to 22 January 2005.
We have therefore abstained in the vote concerning the remainder of the present period of office. .
My main consideration in passing judgement on the Prodi Commission is whether this team of 20 has convinced me of its ability to significantly restore public confidence in the European Union and its institutions.
The strong pressure on MEPs to approve the new Commission, thus allowing a return to 'normal' business, must be balanced against the many doubts and reservations which surround aspects of the Prodi team.
I want to see real and radical improvement in management and financial control within the Commission.
I want to see genuine change in the Commission' s attitude towards the European Parliament.
Over the winter of 1998/99 the European Parliament came of age, bringing about the resignation of the Santer Commission and in so doing established its proper place in the European political order.
There is nothing in what we have learnt during the Commissioners' hearings to justify, at this stage, a veto on any one of them in particular.
My decision to vote against this Commission was not taken lightly.
And so, in order to be able to vote in favour of this Commission, I would need to be able to say that, as a bloc, these are Commissioners whose commitment to introduce exactly such fundamental reforms I can endorse.
I would need to be able to say that these are all Commissioners whose integrity and good judgement are beyond reproach.
I would need to be able to say that these are Commissioners whom I, and the citizens of Europe, can wholeheartedly trust.
I greatly regret that what I have heard and read over the past few weeks and months means that, for a number of Commissioners in the proposed new Commission, I cannot yet say these things.
My reason for this: in May of this year, Commission President Prodi received a convincing vote from the European Parliament to initiate a comprehensive reform programme with a new team for a Commission in need of cleaning up.
The majority of the Commission is from the Left.
In contrast to his predecessor Helmut Kohl who, five years ago, accepted the opposition' s nomination for the Commission - and it was not easy for me to vote for Monika Wulf-Mathies in 1994 - Schröder was not prepared to give consideration to the views of today' s opposition, the CDU/CSU, the victors in the European elections in Germany.
I recognise that he has taken on board five demands from the Group of the European People' s Party, inter alia, with regard to the legislative right of nomination of the European Parliament, the conduct of the Commissioners in the case of a vote of no-confidence and the necessary permanent dialogue concerning Commission reform.
Moreover, I personally cannot place my trust in certain Commissioners because I have doubts as to how effective the fight against fraud will be under their leadership.
Mr Poettering, on behalf of the PPE, welcomed this drift in direction.
Firstly the 1999 budget was defined at the time as a "bridge" towards the new financial requirements, that is towards the financing of Agenda 2000.
Secondly, it was also a bridge with regard to the political priorities which this Parliament wanted to establish with a view to the future, with a view to the new millennium, especially in category 4 - external activities - where the European Parliament made an effort to increase the commitment appropriations.
And finally, the European Parliament also increased the payment appropriations in the 1999 budget in view of the clear shortfall of one billion in payment appropriations, a shortfall which had appeared, above all, in the Social Funds.
Now, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we find ourselves with four supplementary and amending budgets (SABs), with 41 transferrals and a fifth amending budget.
It is also a record that we have taken less than 150 hours to arrive at the first and only reading of this SAB 4.
On the one hand, we have amending budget no. 1.
But it deserves to be taken into account when we speak of the other amending budgets.
I will turn directly to SAB 4, which proposes 137 million in commitment appropriations for the creation of an Agency for the Reconstruction of Kosovo, for macro-financial aid for the former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia and 30 million in humanitarian aid for Turkey as a result of the earthquake.
It is that when I read page 12 of the Spanish version of the preliminary draft supplementary and amending budget no. 4/99, I realise that we are only dealing with the tip of the iceberg.
Because here the Commission tells us literally that, despite the fact that we have made this financing effort through reallocation, a further sum of 570.5 million is required, which the Commission intends to reallocate in the global transferral or in a supplementary transferral during this financial year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this terrifies me, because at the end of the financial year of the 1999 budget - to refer to a Spanish proverb - "not even the rapporteur is going to recognise her own budget" .
Add to this the fact that an SEM 2000 forecast says that the possible shortfall in payment appropriations for the Structural Funds in 1999 is going to be even greater than in 1997 and 1998.
I hope that the 1999 budget will serve at least to prevent these mistakes in the future.
With regard to the SAB 3/99, Mr President, there are two cases, which are not of that type which we have often criticised in the Committee on Budgets for the use and abuse of the supplementary and amending budgets, but which I believe are well justified cases.
This is all that would remain in this SAB if it had been taken into account earlier, since we began to speak about it in 1998, but it could not be covered in the 1999 budget without recourse to an SAB.
We all know that the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee has a common organisational structure, the COS, but that as a result of the Treaty of Amsterdam and its implementation, it was decided that this common organisational structure would be dismantled.
I would ask the person responsible for the 2000 budget to bear in mind the needs of the Committee of the Regions and consider whether this post can figure amongst posts included in the 2000 budget for that Committee.
We have often been a little mean in the granting of staffing increases but it is also true that sometimes we do not allow the institutions to function totally efficiently through a lack of personnel.
I can only say two things to him: one, that the task has been difficult and, two, that the result has been good.
Thank you very much, Mr Fabra.
Actually, after 14 years as a member of the Committee on Budgets, this is the first debate that I will follow as President.
But this is my second Presidency in this Chamber.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a couple of basic observations regarding this matter of supplementary and amending budgets.
The one great advantage of that is that because you are there and not here the Socialists now get more speaking time since you would have had speaking time in this debate.
The second surprise is to see Commissioner Liikanen, after I praised him yesterday.
I have said this at a trialogue meeting, we have said it in our committee and I now wish it to go on public record.
One is that the 15 extra posts for OLAF are there, which we accept, but we need to stress that there has to be an SAB5.
SAB5 should be imminent because of the Commission' s needs for payments but within the resolution that we will vote on we will insist on an SAB5 and an extra 15 posts for OLAF.
Mr President, the Commission' s proposals for supplementary and amending budgets 1, 2 and 3 have been dealt with in Parliament unusually quickly and very flexibly.
It shows that Parliament and its Committee on Budgets show real responsibility for the European Union economy and, in addition, real responsibility for the development of different policies and adjusting promptly to prevailing circumstances.
Budgets 1 and 3 are mainly technical; they concern a surplus and certain computer-related purchases.
The most interesting additional budget is number 4 which channels significant sums in respect of reconstruction and humanitarian aid to the Balkans - Kosovo and Macedonia - and aid to Turkey.
Putting this fund together was a significant challenge to EU credibility and the fact that they were dealt with by the Committee on Budgets leading to amendments being made shows just how great that responsibility is.
Mister President, amending budget 4 proposes that hundreds of millions of euros should be reallocated.
This newcomer had to make up her mind on the matter based on this little piece of paper.
The proposal provides for the reallocation of commitment appropriations to the value of EUR 137 million, 30 million of which is for Turkey, largely for relief action in the form of temporary accommodation now that winter is on its way, emergency aid in other words.
Yet only 15 million in payment appropriations is being reserved, and under certain conditions at that.
Plugging holes and robbing Peter to pay Paul creates a lack of transparency in relation to the budget and also compromises budgetary authority, a point clearly made by Mrs Dührkop Dührkop.
Cutbacks are also being made in spending on projects for furthering the peace process in the Middle East, and on projects for reintegrating demoralised soldiers and refugees into society.
Consequently, some of the 500 million needed for the reconstruction of Kosovo will be borne by those countries for which the European Union is providing development assistance.
I would also like to make two comments on the amending and supplementary budget 4/99 and I believe that the matter should be discussed with a representative of the Council.
Mr Alavanos, I am sorry that the text is not available in all language versions.
You know that the Committee on Budgets discussed this report last night, but I can guarantee that, before the vote, you will have it in all versions.
Hence the resolution put forward by Mrs Dührkop Dührkop and Mr Fabra Vallés deserves all our support.
Additional appropriation requirements should, in the first instance, be met by making economies in programmes which come under the same budgetary heading, i.e.
category 4 in this case.
At the beginning of September, only 24% of the payment appropriations for 1999 had been spent.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
Given that we have had our quarrels over the last five years as well as some excellent co-operation, I would like to say good-bye to him and to wish him every success in his new task.
Until the next part-session, Mr Liikanen.
Situation in East Timor (continued) The next item is the continuation of the debate on the declaration of the Council regarding the situation in East Timor.
Mr President, I was a member of the European Parliament' s delegation which observed at first hand the referendum in East Timor which took place on 30 August.
This is why thousands of deaths were recorded, hundreds of thousands of refugees left without protection, starving, many of them wounded or ill.
Twelve days of genocide is too long to wait for the international community to reciprocate the trust placed in it by the Timorese - and also in us, Members of the European Parliament.
Humanitarian aid must be guaranteed, and the European Union must play a leading role in this.
The European Union must support reconstruction and participate, in joint action with the Commission, in the development process of the new independent state, which must be recognised immediately.
Mr President, I should add that an agreement was signed under the auspices of the United Nations and its Secretary-General in May of this year, precisely in order to conduct a serious consultation with the people of Timor.
We have now had a statement from the Security Council of the United Nations which condemns what has taken place in Timor, recognises the rights of its people, and orders the dispatch of a peacekeeping force.
And therefore, the whole international community, and therefore the European Parliament too, must demand that these two things be done; that the peace corps go as quickly as possible in order to re-establish peace in East Timor, and so that humanitarian aid should get there.
I hope that the European Parliament can match up to its responsibilities and is able to condemn what has happened in East Timor and to come to the rapid and efficient aid of its people.
Mr President, to begin with, I would like to express my regard for the statement made by the President-in Office of the Council this morning.
It underlined the urgency and importance of what is happening in East Timor, where militias continue their endeavours to smother the struggle for independence in blood.
Therefore, as a Parliament, the least we can do here is to express our support for that civilian population and for their legitimate aspirations.
Mr President, I would like to join our parliamentary delegation of observers which was sent out on the initiative of the President of our Parliament and under the excellent leadership of the Vice-President of our Parliament, Mr José Pacheco Pereira.
The Finnish Presidency is deserving of praise here too, for it initiated the idea of sending a delegation on behalf of the European Union.
If we were to do so, it would mean that our delegation had been nothing more than a pointless exercise in referendum tourism.
I would also like to draw your attention to developments in East Timor in the longer term.
There has been an immediate and generous response from the European Union in terms of humanitarian emergency aid, but once the country has gained its independence it will be necessary to provide support for economic development and it will be at least as important to give our support to the establishment of democratic institutions.
The protection that the Indonesian authorities were unable or unwilling to provide must now be immediately provided, without prior conditions, by an international peacekeeping force.
Mr President, the people of Indonesia are themselves, or at least we hope this is the case, on the road to democracy, and have more than enough problems to come, even without East Timor.
In May, we discussed here what sort of international presence was needed in East Timor.
It is well known that East Timor has been illegally occupied by Indonesia for around 24 years, which has resulted in successive resolutions by the UN demanding Indonesia' s withdrawal and restating the people of East Timor' s right to self-determination.
But with the signing of the New York Agreement between Portugal and Indonesia, under the auspices of the United Nations, it was thought that the way was finally clear for the resolution of all these problems.
The turnout of 98.6% on 30 August, in the referendum which was held with the overwhelming majority of the people of East Timor, with over 78% coming out in favour of independence, showed clearly that its struggle deserved to be recognised by the whole world.
The truth is though, that later, both the UN, and international observers and the Indonesian authorities themselves, who thought that the elections had been held in a free and fair way, in spite of the pressure and the campaign of intimidation carried out by the pro-Djakarta militias, the truth - as I was saying - is that when the results were made public, terror was once again given free rein in East Timor.
It is therefore essential that we urgently and immediately put a stop to this situation, and that the people of East Timor are helped, using all possible humanitarian aid.
As we stated in our motion... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on Timor has come two weeks after the terror began, in this new phase of the territory' s history.
It has been abandoned twice in twenty-five years: once by Portugal in 1974 and, until now, by the international community which has been unable to honour the commitments it made to the Timorese people.
On the other hand, although de-colonisation under the auspices of Portugal was a rushed affair, this self-determination, without making provision for the consequences and under the auspices of the international community, has not prevented deaths and bloodshed either.
Here are two more questions for your consciences.
Look at the list of countries which supported Indonesia in the United Nations: Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Sudan.
The reason for the current great suffering of the East Timorese people is clear: pro-Indonesian militias are endeavouring to smother in blood the desire expressed by the vast majority of people for political independence, and take careful note, this is a downright denial of the outcome of the referendum which took place on 30 August 1999.
In fact, the latter bear full responsibility for what, according to reports, are thousands of dead, hundreds of thousands of refugees and hundreds of thousands of East Timorese deported to West Timor.
Following heavy international pressure, President Habibie has at last said that he will accept military intervention in East Timor.
In other words, the peace mission can begin its task in East Timor without delay.
The tragic events in East Timor have shown the cowardice and opportunism of the international community.
I extend this invitation especially to the governments of the fifteen Member States of the European Union.
Secondly, the inhibition and passivity of the international community, which initially did not want to complicate its relations with other regional powers which - clearly - have little respect for human rights.
And the result has been that the entire world has had to remain impassive in the face of "plan B" which was not much different from the "operation horseshoe" led by Milosevic.
Human rights and the right to life cannot be preached with regard to one region, one country or one continent, but rather they are of a global or universal nature.
We must therefore welcome the brave approach of Portugal and other countries such as the United Kingdom and Australia.
It is late, too late, but, on a Community level, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must ensure that the humanitarian aid, mentioned this morning by the Minister, of EUR 8 million, and the aid to follow, arrive at their destination immediately.
Secondly, the European Union must support the arrival, as soon as possible, of the international force which can guarantee the life and rights of this tortured and martyred population of Timor and finally put an end to this nightmare.
A crime, because Indonesian colonial occupation has lasted for 24 years.
On-going human rights violations, terror inflicted on a people that is peace-loving, unhappy and defenceless have become widespread, but have existed there for 24 years, as I myself have seen.
If it is not the civil government, then we should denounce a bloodless coup in Indonesia.
If it is not the army, we should denounce the disappearance of any representative institution in this country.
The Indonesian army must withdraw from East Timor.
And the Indonesian State must be held clearly responsible for its present prevarication.
An international commission must be set up to look into the acts of violence in East Timor and the people responsible for these crimes must be brought before the International Criminal Court.
All trade with Indonesia must be conditional upon the definitive restoration of peace in Timor.
Mr President, can I put this debate in context?
After the Indonesian invasion in 1976 the UN did not recognise the Indonesian sovereignty over East Timor.
The peace-keeping force must go in now.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, visitors, as a Member for the Basque Country I would like to believe that raising our voices and asking for intervention and aid for Timor will be one more step towards ending, not only the killing by people protected by the Indonesian military, but, above all, the hypocrisy which dominates international politics.
Peace, human rights and prosperity, inside and outside the European Union, cannot wait for days, weeks and years while we come to agreements amongst ourselves.
Mr President, it is not in a spirit of sterile recrimination but because of our concern and alarm about the way the situation is now developing that we feel compelled to recall and stress the direct and indirect responsibility of the United States of America for the massacres, the ethnic cleansing, going on unabated at this very moment in East Timor.
Anybody in this House who is not familiar with Washington' s role in the tragedies in Indonesia and Timor, from 1966 to the latest genocide unleashed by the military on 30 August, should read the analysis published today by the Washington Post and the Herald Tribune under the banner headline 'Pentagon defends Indonesian military contacts as useful' .
We are reminded of the close personal friendship between the Chairman of the United States Chief of Staff, General Henry Shelton, and the butcher from Jakarta, General Wiranto.
The top military man in the United States aiding and abetting the violence in East Timor and last Monday ordering his Indonesian pal to accept an international peace force.
May we suggest that in order to avoid future surprises, the Council and Parliament monitor very closely the peacekeeping mission of the United Nations, the humanitarian aid plan by Europe, the integrity of any present or future programme designed to put an end to the suffering of the Timorese to guarantee their full independence and sovereignty free of any threat, interference or pressure by the Indonesian military and their American mentors.
Mr President, I would like firstly, as a member of this Parliament' s mission sent to observe the elections in Timor, to tell you of something I witnessed myself, so that you will all be able to understand what has happened in Timor.
Maybe this will give some idea of the scale of events in East Timor.
Secondly, from the political point of view, there are various decisive factors in determining our action as an international community.
There is a conflict between the Indonesian army and its cohorts - the militias - and the majority of Timor' s population.
We could see that the Indonesian army could quite easily have kept the peace and security situation under control if it had wanted to.
We must be aware - and I speak as someone who knows the area - that these forces are going to face opposition, and will probably encounter a much more serious conflict situation than the one encountered by forces in Kosovo.
But they must also apply to East Timor which has now become a moral test for the whole world community.
If we do not contribute to solving the tragedy in East Timor, the message to East Timor' s people and to others is this: democracy is synonymous with death.
The international community was warned well in advance.
It has sat and twiddled its thumbs, waiting for an invitation from Indonesia, the country that has been illegally occupying East Timor for the last 25 years, whose Foreign Minister has stuck his fingers up at the UN General Assembly when the issue was raised.
It is completely unacceptable.
What we want to see now is a complete arms embargo on Indonesia and also an economic embargo.
We want an international peacekeeping force.
We want an end to the tyranny that has been perpetrated on the people of East Timor for the last 25 years with the help of EU countries, America and all these hypocritical people who want to sell arms to tyrants in Indonesia and other countries around the world.
Mr President, we do not yet know how the steps adopted by the Security Council are going to be applied, but we do already know that assistance will arrive too late to save a great number of lives.
The Indonesian army, the body chiefly responsible for the current massacres, was set up, trained and equipped by the major powers of the West in 1965 in order to massacre the Indonesian population itself, in order to eradicate a Communist Party whose influence was troublesome.
At the time of the bombing raids on Iraq or the former Yugoslavia, the great powers spoke of human rights.
The Security Council of the United Nations yesterday adopted a decision which, I hope, will be up to the task and adequate for the seriousness of the situation.
Three or four weeks have elapsed from the start of the massacres until this decision.
But I would like to highlight the fact, since there is much talk of hypocrisy in this Chamber, that in other cases, we have wasted not months, but years.
If a different international law must be created, with a real duty to intervene incorporated in it, not because Indonesia is right-wing or allied to Clinton, whereas Milosevic is supposedly left-wing, but a true right to intervene like the one we have just seen emerge, then we should draw our lessons from this in order to set the right of the individual before even the right of peoples, and to ensure that such massacres cannot be repeated in future.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is one thing to look back, and that is surely sensible, but it is another thing to look forward quickly.
Indonesia still has the opportunity to maintain good relations with us over the coming years.
I must tell you that we did our duty, and added to this Parliament' s good name because we visited, I believe, more of the area than any other delegation (we went 200 kilometres to the East), and checked more polling stations than anyone else.
The Timorese created a flower, a castle of hope which, in one outburst of violence, was brought down and destroyed in blood, violence and death.
Mr President, as an MEP for Galicia, I would like to express my solidarity with the people of Timor, my total condemnation of Indonesia' s genocidal repression and my concurrence with all those who recognise and defend the Timorese people' s right to self-determination as expressed today in favour of independence.
In accordance with its historical responsibilities in Timor, the UN and the European Union' s protection of Timor is imperative, not just in the face of the current aggression, but also in the face of any future threat by Indonesia.
It is perhaps appropriate that I should now begin my parliamentary duties with reference to Indonesia and another State that is in creation - East Timor.
It is over two weeks since the referendum took place in East Timor.
Over the years the United Kingdom has developed a highly effective military capability and yet the United Kingdom armed forces are now desperately overstretched and most Member States of the European Union spend a smaller proportion of their GDP on defence than the United Kingdom.
The most useful European Union contribution in a situation such as East Timor is more likely to be civil rather than military.
We heard from Mrs Halonen that the Commission has been asked to prepare a socio-economic programme for institution building in East Timor.
This is most welcome but the programme will require early implementation once the security situation permits, coordination with contributions from other institutions and countries and very careful management to ensure effectiveness.
Finally, there is yet another aspect of this tragedy which we must not forget.
Over the past few weeks the most horrific crimes have been committed against Timorese and others, and those responsible must be brought to justice.
And everyone knows that the Indonesian military had no intention whatsoever of stopping the militias, indeed it has itself been actively involved in orchestrating the operations that have taken place in recent days.
That is my first comment.
Just as we must give unequivocal support to East Timor, and I support the sanctions and give my signature to and support the resolution, so we must also stand by the people of Indonesia as a whole.
In my view, the best way to support East Timor is to support the Indonesian people as well.
As we speak, the UN Security Council has passed a resolution under Chapter 7 of the United Nations Charter to allow a peacekeeping force under Australian command into East Timor.
The UK, US, New Zealand, Canada, Philippines and Thailand have now committed manpower and material to the peacekeeping force.
Perhaps we should now reconsider this definition and encourage an international debate on whether democracy such as ours should give equal recognition, treatment and respectability to regimes throughout the world which refute democracy and the rule of law, human rights and good governance.
If good governance is a fundamental prerequisite for development aid, why should good governance not also be a fundamental criterion for international recognition, bilateral relations and trade development?
Mr President, we were told by Council this morning that East Timor deserves our full support.
We were told that we supplied observers that were crucial to the success of the referendum when the East Timorese said a very loud and very large "yes" to independence.
We were told by the Council that the Commission is preparing social and economic assistance for a newly independent East Timor, all of which of course we welcome.
It was clear to me then and more importantly to everybody else in Jakarta that firstly there would be a resounding yes in a referendum and secondly that the army, or at least large sections of the army, would try to subvert that process by engaging in and encouraging terror.
It may be that it needs to be continued but at the same time we also need to be helping the Indonesians by providing them with assistance to ensure that very fragile democracy elected in the last general election is able to establish itself.
Mr President, the referendum in East Timor, which was supervised by the United Nations, has turned into a drama.
I hesitate a little to address Indonesia in harsh terms, representing as I do, a country that held sway as a colonial power there for 300 years.
What happened in East Timor is serious and requires us to impose sanctions and take international action with all haste.
They murder and plunder in the Moluccas, in Aceh and in Irian Jaya too.
If the murder does not stop in those other regions too, and if the Indonesian government doesn' t offer protection, then, in our view, the United Nations should also take action in those other regions of Indonesia.
Mr President, human rights and democracy are at stake in Indonesia.
I do not believe that anyone in this Chamber would deny that recent events in East Timor were totally predictable and therefore to some extent preventable.
The international community, in particular the United Nations, has to ask itself some searching and probing questions.
The provision of such information would greatly enhance Parliament' s contribution to the development of a more effective and cohesive EU foreign policy, which is long overdue.
This is why we feel that the European Union - and we are appealing directly to the Council and the Commission - must take the decision to move forward with an initiative which will ensure that this process towards independence for the people of East Timor is respected.
It is therefore necessary that we arrange for emergency humanitarian aid and an international peacekeeping force.
In addition to the debt we have owed to East Timor for 24 years, there is the fact that, while there have been demonstrations about East Timor, we are not taking into account the political hypothesis that we must in any case once again beg the United States for the favour of possible military intervention.
Mr President, a feature of the current situation is the anger and the frustration of the men and women of all our Member States.
The President-in-Office here this morning declared that the Council was surprised at the events of the last two weeks.
Unfortunately this government has had many friends in this Parliament over the years and many EU governments have put the profits of their arms industries above those of the basic human rights of the unfortunate people of East Timor.
Perhaps it is because East Timor is very far away and a very small country, that the crucial issues at stake in this dreadful catastrophe engulfing the country at the moment have been of little concern either to ourselves within the EU or, of course, to the United States.
Mr President, as a little boy growing up in Portugal I collected Portuguese stamps and particularly remember the colourful and attractive ones from East Timor.
Sadly, I have never been there but I feel passionately for the Timorese people suffering since Indonesia' s annexation in 1975 with almost one third being killed - an even greater proportion of deaths than in the former Yugoslavia.
The UN recognises the right of the Timorese people to self-determination and Portugal' s sovereignty in its territory.
In the West we did not seek a UN resolution to bomb the former Yugoslavia over Kosovo which still remains part of Yugoslavia, and yet we have felt willing, for whatever reason, to avoid any military intervention on behalf of the Timorese in the past.
I have always believed that foreign military intervention should only take place in the national interests of the nation-states concerned, yet the serious deterioration and spiralling violence in the region demand action and meet the test of the new ethical foreign policy of which Portugal is a full Member State.
As a Briton, I am happy to support Portugal in its attempts to secure a just outcome, not only because Portugal is Britain' s oldest ally, but also because Portugal should be given the opportunity to grant independence to all its colonies, including its last colony now, other than Macao, namely East Timor.
We granted self-determination to all our colonies where it was legally possible to do so.
Therefore I fully support and welcome the UN Security Council resolution for the establishment of an international peacemaking force involving willing and principally neighbouring countries such as Australia and New Zealand.
This will enable the 78% of East Timorese who voted on 30 August to establish their own independent sovereign state and to look forward to a peaceful and prosperous future within their own homeland.
Pursuant to Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure, I have received six motions for resolution to close the present debate.
Thank you very much, Mr Seguro.
Commissioner Liikanen will therefore speak on behalf of the Commission.
The Commission will have its first meeting on Saturday.
In that first meeting the situation in East Timor will be on the agenda.
They were fully in action until 9 September when they had to be evacuated for security reasons to Australia.
One key principle of international law is the right to self-determination of nations.
Indonesia must respect and comply with essential commitments to human rights, and, above all, the UN agreement made in New York on 5 May on the question of East Timor.
The Union and the whole international community had had an assurance from the Indonesian government that they would be capable of keeping order and maintaining security in the region.
As Mrs Halonen said, it is probable that people in the region are also guilty of crimes that violate international human rights.
Thank you very much, Mr Portas.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B5-0029/99).
This is the first sitting of this parliamentary legislature in which we will have Question Time, in this case to the Council.
Neither has the Community drafted any provisions for the temporary protection of nationals of third countries.
The Member States themselves have authority in procedure relating to deportation.
In carrying out their tasks, the authorities in Member States must act in compliance with their own national legislation and be subject to legal and political monitoring by national bodies, and also act in compliance too with the relevant international provisions relating to the safeguarding of human rights.
They did not act in the defence of public order, they did not defend human rights and they did not safeguard national security.
The Spanish authorities acted against that European spirit which is the driving force behind the European Charter of Fundamental Rights which affects all of us, Members of the Council.
We require an initiative and a commitment which affects all of us, even the most reluctant of governments, which is, unfortunately, the case with the Spanish government in this field.
Furthermore, if the perpetrator of the violation, Members of the Council, is a democratic government, ladies and gentlemen, there is no third way or means of escape in the defence of human rights, not even by giving a reply in this Parliament.
I must remind her that one Socialist Minister has been found guilty of kidnap and the Socialist Government of her leader, Felipe González, was found guilty by the Court of Human Rights for the expulsion of 103 immigrants on the border of Melilla.
But, furthermore, I believe that the Council has responded correctly and it would be a good thing if the Socialist Member, who is also spokesperson for her delegation, would do her duty and study this thing called European construction in a little more depth and not make fools of her parliamentary group with questions concerning issues which are not within Community competence and which need to be resolved on a national level.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask you what policy of economic and social solidarity the Council intends to propose in the case of the numerous families that move from one country to another for purely economic reasons.
Mr President, the question is a very far-reaching one: what can be done in this respect?
But we cannot forget that not only in my country but also in the rest of the European Union, in the years to come, we will continue to experience migratory pressure from nomadic groups, which is the case in Spain with the group of Romanian and Gypsy origin.
And faced with this pressure, which we all know will continue to increase on our borders and within our countries, we believe that it is essential that we develop a general plan to attend to these populations.
A general plan in which the competences and responsibilities of the European Union are defined, as well as those of each Member State.
It is absolutely necessary to co-ordinate actions to the benefit of these groups so that at all times, in all circumstances, the human rights and dignity of people are respected.
But the required co-ordination can never allow any Member State of the European Union to shirk its responsibilities: neither the State nor any of the administrations into which that State is divided, which has happened in the case that has been mentioned in my country.
Mr President, since you know me, you will have no doubt that this is going to be a procedural motion.
Mr President, today I received a letter from the services department informing me that the question which I submitted to the Council will be answered alongside another question submitted by another colleague.
Mr Korakas, when we reach the questions which we have decided to respond to jointly, I will give you an explanation, but we must follow an agenda, we must follow this agenda so that the sitting may be satisfactorily completed and I am not prepared to allow any more points of order or procedural motions which disrupt the normal functioning of the question time.
Question No 2 by (H-0407/99/rev. 1): Subject: Common EU defence policy During the European election campaign this year, the Swedish Prime Minister, Göran Persson, said that there was no possibility of a common EU defence becoming a reality as Sweden would use its veto as soon as the question came up for discussion.
The Article also states that Union policy will not prejudice the specific character of the security and defence policies of certain Member States.
The European Council at Cologne discussed Europe' s capacity for attending to the so-called Petersberg Tasks, which are in accordance with Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union, and which are humanitarian and rescue actions, peacekeeping and action by combat forces to restore peace in crisis situations, including when there is a credible military capacity.
Under the Treaty, all Member States have the same rights and obligations.
Furthermore, the third subparagraph of Article 17 (3) provides for the participation, fully and on an equal footing, of all Member States in planning and decision-taking in the WEU.
Let it be said that decisions taken in respect of crisis management action, especially decisions having military and defensive effects, will be taken in compliance with Article 23 of the TEU.
Member States will maintain the right, in all circumstances, to decide if and when they will use their national armed forces.
We also recognise the Cologne resolution which says, amongst other things, that the EU must become better at organising military and civil crisis management.
The action plan for organised crime sets out the joint strategy which the Member States have chosen as a means of combating such crime.
During the German presidential term, the Council confirmed the common position on the proposed Convention based on Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union on 29 March 1999.
Member States agree that it is desirable to avoid inconsistencies between the proposed Convention and the instruments drafted in the European Union, which include, for example, joint action, as agreed on 3 December 1998, on money laundering, recognition of the means of committing an offence and benefits associated with it, tracking down criminals, freezing assets, seizure of goods and successful conviction, and joint action, as agreed on 21 December 1998, on involvement in organised criminal activity.
The Commission is fully involved in this work.
Question No 4 by (H-0409/99): Subject: Access to Schengen documents When the Amsterdam Treaty entered into force, the Schengen Agreement, together with its implementing regulations, became EU law.
The opportunity is now there to increase transparency and, thereby, democratic control over Schengen issues.
The more than 700 pages long Schengen Convention is to be published in the Official Journal, and it will be accessible on the Council' s web site as soon as it has been translated into all the Community languages.
Question No 5 by (H-0414/99): Subject: Establishment of a universal moratorium on capital punishment On a number of occasions, the European Parliament has called for the EU to promote an initiative within the UN aimed at establishing a universal moratorium on capital punishment.
I wish to thank the Finnish President' s team for the action it is taking at the United Nations on the matter of abolition of the death sentence, and I am delighted to know that thanks to the Finnish Presidency - not just them, of course - we will have a decision this year in New York.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my question concerns the last part of your intervention.
I am in complete agreement with the spirit of the question and the intervention of Mr Dupuis.
Question No 6 by (H-0416/99): Subject: EU support for Ireland's maritime services Ireland has one of the largest maritime areas to patrol in the EU, a responsibility which is important to Ireland and the EU as a whole and extends to activities such as drugs surveillance and interception, fisheries protection and the safety of shipping.
The present long-term interest rates in the euro area should, in principle, therefore mean cheaper mortgages.
It is a very serious problem for a very large number of borrowers who are finding it increasingly difficult to meet interest rates which prevailed five, six and seven years ago at treble the rate which we have at the present time.
Although there are some requests for the floor, I have to apply the rules, and point 4 of Annex II of the Rules of Procedure says that each Member may ask only one supplementary question during questions to the Council.
I do not want to be alarmist in any way but the fact that the British Government has already acted is something which should be taken into consideration.
As the author is not present, Question No 9 lapses.
Question No 10 by (H-0424/99): Subject: Youth crime, drugs and the Tampere European Council What assurances can the Finnish Presidency give that at the special European Council on Justice and Home Affairs to be held on 15 and 16 October next in Tampere a common strategy will be adopted aimed at tackling youth crime and delivering a clear message that the EU will not introduce a liberal policy towards drugs? ) Mr President, at this stage I cannot give any guarantees to the Honourable Member of what issues will be discussed at the Tampere Summit, although mention has been made of them today.
The purpose of this Question Time is to allow Members to raise issues of importance and try to get some information from the Council.
As the author is not present, Question No 11 lapses.
I am saying all this because my question has been written incorrectly.
Mr Alavanos, it seems to me that the Spanish version says the same thing that you have mentioned.
The Union will, however, determine its final position only after it has received further information and reports from the countries in question on the scope and consequences of the requests.
I have made it clear in all discussions that Union regulations cannot be changed, and that applicant countries must accept the acquis communautaire in this regard also.
Question No 14 by (H-0437/99): Subject: WTO Millennium Round At the European Council held in Cologne in June 1999, EU Heads of State agreed that the forthcoming "Millennium Round" WTO trade negotiations should include workers' rights. "Negotiations covering a broad spectrum of topics, including labour standards, environment, development and transparency" , they argued, "are the most appropriate approach for achieving substantial and balanced results for the benefit of all WTO members" .
The Council has, however, decided to return to the preparatory work in respect of the WTO' s third ministerial meeting in October this year, when the new round has been planned to start.
The Council, in its resolutions of June 1999 on preparatory work in respect of the WTO' s third ministerial meeting, clearly made reference to the President' s conclusions at the European Council at Cologne on 3 and 4 June 1999, which stated that talks on various subjects, including rulings on employment, are the most appropriate way to approach the achievement of significant and fair results for the benefit of all WTO members.
As we are aware, the Council meeting in Cologne fully endorsed the need to include minimum core labour standards in the negotiations for the WTO millennium round.
I hope, therefore, that the Council will take on board many of the issues which have been raised in this Parliament, both in committee and in plenary regarding such measures.
I can also assure you that the country holding the Presidency is determined to seek a solution whereby labour standards will be on the agenda for discussion at Seattle, and in that way we should be able to make real progress.
The Commission has primarily tried to find a solution that would involve some sort of quota system, but it has been very difficult to move from any kind of banana quota system to consensus on the matter with the banana-producing countries and the United States, as the interests of the countries concerned are very different regarding quotas.
Question No 15 by (H-0438/99): Subject: Situation in North Korea For many years now, the situation in North Korea has been catastrophic: the total lack of freedom and democracy has been exacerbated by a food crisis of tragic, not to say apocalyptic, proportions.
According to the estimates of international organisations, between one and three million people have died in North Korea since 1995 in the wake of the chronic famine which resulted from natural causes and, more specifically, from the nature of the nationalist-communist regime in power in Pyongyang.
In reaction to that situation, not only has the North Korean regime not shown the slightest inclination to initiate political and economic reforms but, on the contrary, it has imposed even harsher measures on the people of North Korea, maintaining total control on missions by expert advisers and on the food aid provided by the international community to the people of North Korea (600,000 tonnes of cereals in 1998, and 530,000 tonnes in 1999) and refusing to allow the international organisations involved to monitor the use and effectiveness of the aid.
The EU is urging third countries, in its political contact with North Korea, to try to influence the country in its compliance with all these undertakings.
Mr President, Mr Member of the Council, I think it is not enough for the European Union to be concerned.
Obviously it is a distant country, but nonetheless the regime in power there is literally a criminal one; the Union ought to make efforts to overturn this regime, before we are obliged, as in the case of Kosovo or other regions, to adopt drastic means.
The United Nations could set up a major diplomatic initiative in order to isolate North Korea completely.
Many countries in the world have certainly used their imagination, but so far nobody has yet found the philosophers' stone enabling us to find a peaceful solution to the problem which is simple and easy, or even one that demands considerable effort.
These are exactly the reasons why, Mr Member of the Council, it is necessary, in my opinion, to come up with alternative solutions.
Question No 16 by (H-0440/99): Subject: Situation in Kosovo During two and a half months since the introduction of KFOR into Kosovo, not only has there been no progress in calming the situation in the region and promoting a climate of stability, security and peaceful co-existence among the populations, but the unstable situation created by the NATO bombings has been further inflamed and exacerbated.
The international community is committed to full implementation of Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council for the establishment of a democratic and multicultural Kosovo within the internationally recognised borders of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The KLA must comply with the imposed deadline of 19 September.
The Council also expressed serious concern that Serbs and non-Albanians have left Kosovo in large numbers, and it reminded everyone that Resolution 1244 of the UN Security Council states that all refugees and those forced to move out of their home regions have the right to return.
The fact that Romanies have also left shows that internal problems and disputes between ethnic groups in Kosovo are very serious and difficult to solve.
Obviously, it is absolutely essential that KFOR troops protect and help all ethnic groups in Kosovo equally.
Question No 17 has been withdrawn by its author.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the case of Morocco the issue concerns the building of a nuclear power station to produce 600 MW of electricity.
The European Union has agreements with Morocco with regard to economic aid and, it seems, the reason for constructing this power station is because there is Chinese aid available.
Obviously, we will be monitoring the situation as closely as possible to ensure that the buildings are up to the approved standard.
Mr Sasi, we thank you for the great effort that you have made today in response to all of the questions.
Since the time allocated to questions to the Council has expired, Questions 20 to 26 will be replied to in writing.
