That seems to me to be the most important point in political terms!
In my country there has been a stir in the media about a false report concerning the European Parliament.
In the Dutch media a report is circulating suggesting that the European Parliament has proposed that its members should receive a monthly salary of between ECU 9, 000 and 13, 000.
Madam President, we all know that our Parliament has made no such proposal and that no proposal whatsoever from any body exists.
This might be a possibility, according to a letter from the chairman of the working group to the President of this Parliament, José María GilRobles.
I call on you, Madam President, to ensure that the Bureau denies this report forthwith, and confirms that no decision whatsoever has been taken yet on this matter, that it merely appears in the report of the working group, and that the Bureau has not made any proposal in this respect.
Mr Martens, this matter appears on the agenda of this afternoon's Bureau meeting.
Madam President, you know very well, as do all the Members of the Bureau, that no decision has been taken and that no proposal has been submitted so far.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that no decision has been taken within any European Parliament body on a statute for Members of the European Parliament, or on the issue of a possible salary.
There is an old decision of Parliament to draw up a statute and there is also, as you are aware, a commitment in the Treaty of Amsterdam which has not yet been completely ratified.
This working group has drafted a document which was submitted to the Bureau this week.
Calendar of part-sessions 1999 With regard to the calendar of 1999 part-sessions, I suggest that the vote should be adjourned until Thursday lunchtime, when as you know, since we discussed the matter yesterday, the Legal Service's opinion on the admissibility of the amendments seeking to bring forward the July part-session will be available.
Mr President, thank you for giving me the opportunity to open the debate on the Middle East peace process.
The sides must show courage and vision in the search for peace, based on the principles agreed at Madrid and Oslo, especially the essential principle of land for peace enshrined in the United Nations Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338.
The Union remains committed to its positions of principle regarding the peace process, as set out in its previous declarations, particularly the call for peace in the Middle East, issued in Amsterdam in June 1997.
The European Union has intensified its efforts to help the sides overcome this stalemate by playing an increasingly substantive role in the peace process.
The British Prime Minister, as President of the European Council, was involved in talks between Prime Minister Netanyahu, President Arafat and Madeleine Albright in London in May.
The European Union participated in negotiations on interim economic issues before and during the Prime Minister's visit to the region from 17 to 21 April.
The European Union has also concluded a joint declaration with the Palestinians on security cooperation and is implementing a counter-terror assistance programme to assist the Palestinians.
Our special envoy, Ambassador Moratinos, has played a key role in these efforts and is continuing efforts to close gaps and move the peace process forward.
The European Union has deepened its cooperation with the United States on the peace process.
The Union's Foreign Ministers agreed at the General Affairs Council meeting on 23 February to renew the European Community aid package to the Palestinians beyond its expiry at the end of this year.
The presidency and Ambassador Moratinos have taken the initiative to intensify this dialogue.
As Mr Henderson says, it is true that under the British Presidency the European Union has intensified its support for US efforts at mediation.
One tangible result of that visit was the meeting in London on 4 and 5 May between Americans, Palestinians, Israelis and the EU presidency.
Unfortunately, that meeting did not manage to shift the stalemate as regards the outstanding technical questions: the Gaza airport and port, free movement between the West Bank and Gaza and, in short, the whole joint dialogue agenda with which this Parliament is so familiar.
As you know, the stalemate still persists, and after the London meeting President Clinton himself even had to call off the three party talks in Washington because of Israel's unwillingness to accept the US compromise proposal.
Despite having reservations, the Palestinian Authority has formally expressed agreement in principle with the US proposal.
In the Commission's view, it is now up to Prime Minister Netanyahu to show the necessary flexibility in order to revitalize the peace process as soon as possible, by accepting the US proposal which, I repeat, is a minimum proposal but which, as things stand, is the only realistic proposal for further progress along the road to peace.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I should like to outline my group's view on this difficult and delicate issue in 10 points.
Unfortunately the Israeli government, which had started to embrace a more peaceful attitude, in particular towards Lebanon, now seems to have lost the courage of its convictions.
Two: the European Union is part of the peace process.
We do not want to enter into and fulfill this commitment in place of the USA, but rather with the USA as an indispensable partner in the peace process.
The breaking off of the peace process by the Israeli government disrupts the good neighbourly relations which exist between Europe and the other countries of the Mediterranean rim.
On the contrary, we urge the Israeli government to do everything in its power to ensure that its attitude does not actually promote terrorist or radical movements in the Middle East.
This is absolutely essential, and Europe's commitment on this point remains unshaken.
Six: We all want to support - primarily through financial aid, but also by giving political and moral backing - those people who are fighting for human rights in Palestine, those who are fighting to stop financial abuse and corruption, who are also advocating that good relations be forged with the Israeli population.
Similarly, and this is my seventh point, we also want to support all those peace-loving forces in Israel who want to build bridges to the Palestinian and Arab population, who recognize the rights of everyone in Israel - including the Arab population - and who, above all, are promoting religious tolerance.
On my last visit, I was particularly impressed by the people who are fighting for peace and making a stand against fanaticism and religious intolerance in their own country for Jewish religious reasons.
Eight: We know that Jerusalem is a particularly delicate issue.
We are also absolutely and unequivocally in favour of adherence to binding agreements and support the Commission in its efforts to ensure that they are respected.
Ten: We recognize the right of the Palestinians to their own state and we hope that Israel will play a role in its founding, so that it can be founded with and not against Israel.
The complexity of the situation has of course grown out the fact that the political movement around Netanyahu has gained so much influence.
Madam President, the Group of the European People's Party therefore supports the resolution wholeheartedly.
That is why it is in Prime Minister Netanyahu's interest finally to enter into agreements about further withdrawal from the occupied territories.
American plans in this direction could break the impasse, and therefore deserve every support, but great vigilance is also required.
Netanyahu and Arafat must return to the dialogue.
But I am also sensing an increasing dissatisfaction amongst the Palestinians with regard to the judicial process in their own territories.
That is why I would have preferred it if our resolution, under point 4, had not spoken about a joint EU-Palestinian security committee, but rather joint EU-Palestinian legal support.
The meeting with the Hamas leaders was not very promising.
But, in all honesty, Israel has a right to security.
Madam President, the recent visit by the European Parliament's delegation for relations with the Palestinian Legislative Council highlighted a truly dramatic situation.
Instead of 'peace for land' , we have learned that on 9 June the Israeli government decided on a new settlement of the Mount of Olives in the heart of East Jerusalem.
Given the context, the living conditions of the Palestinians are obviously dramatic, in particular because of the shortage of work, especially in Gaza.
It is therefore obvious that we must do all we can to make sure that the Palestinian National Authority is able to play its role and is in a position to continue its action, including in economic terms.
If we want to avoid this catastrophic solution, we must act as soon as possible to relaunch the peace process, using whatever form of pressure and diplomatic effort it takes.
These decisions, this timetable and this code of conduct must be respected.
But we also have to consider the problems of security and terrorism.
It is true that in this respect, nobody is safe, neither Israel nor, unfortunately, perhaps in the short-term, Palestine.
In any case, terrorism can come from any quarter and Israel itself lost its Prime Minister in this way.
The fight against terrorism, and against those who incite it, is clearly a necessity.
We must make sure that the American diplomatic effort is supported, for without it nothing will be possible.
We have an important role to play in ensuring respect for previous agreements and, in relation to this, the Commission's proposal regarding products coming from Israeli settlements outside Israel should be welcomed.
You only have to see the reception given to this proposal in the Israeli press and by Israeli government circles in general to understand that the demand for respect of the agreements, in this case Article 38, is there, which is perhaps an indication of the direction we should be taking in the future.
Madam President, the potential impact of the European Union on the Middle East peace process is primarily indirect, and it could be both positive and negative.
The Commission also wants to subject the goods imported from Israel to special controls, because the country is alleged to tamper with certificates of origin, and is also exporting goods from Palestinian territory under the description "Made in Israel' .
In addition it is debatable if we can already pass judgement on whether the accords are being met or not, whilst the term which has been set in them has not yet expired.
Instead of wanting to play the leading part in the Middle East, the European Union could follow the example of the United States, which just recognizes the peace process and tries to support it.
As far as peace in the Middle East is concerned, we must honestly ask ourselves whether the European Union has done all that was essential to help restart the interrupted process.
To help Israel find peace again also means helping the Palestinian people and preparing a liveable future for the entire region which is in need of economic and social development.
Many of the European Union's efforts are frustrated by the absence of a political union, of a common foreign policy.
Madam President, I must say that, after repeated visits by our delegation these past four years, we have recently found a situation more difficult than in the past.
Regarding the second phase of the Oslo Accords, the proposal by the United States of a partial withdrawal from 13 % of the territory, accepted by the Palestinians - although they do not agree with this - is still, after much delay, awaiting a reply from Israel.
As time passes, all the extreme components of Israeli and Palestinian society are growing stronger.
The Union must step up its political presence in the area with a series of initiatives.
First of all, it must insist so that the United States makes its proposal official in order to obtain an answer from Israel.
Secondly, the Union must ensure funds for Palestine.
We cannot now cut off support which is essential in maintaining Palestinian autonomy.
I am referring not only to nuclear tests, but to countries such as Iran, because although we quite rightly talk a lot about Syria and the Lebanon, there are other countries such as Iran which influence or try to influence the situation.
To achieve a satisfactory outcome, we need a new framework which will secure the continued presence of Europe in the region and which will also ensure actions in concert with the United States, though I would go as far as to say that there may be other powers in the world who will take an interest.
Madam President, during the past 16 months, little or no progress has been made in the Middle East peace process.
Fortunately, since last week there appears to be some movement in the negotiations following the latest American proposals.
The European Union's weak political role is out of balance with our major financial contribution, our economic interests and our security.
Madam President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that this Parliament does not just act like a notary, in other words, that it should not merely record how the situation stands.
Personally, I consider it unacceptable that Israel has not yet given a reply to the American proposal, which was in itself a compromise, for a partial, a very partial withdrawal - the famous 12 % or 13 % or 11 % - from the Occupied Territories.
Unfortunately, Europe has not been absent, in the sense that it has sewn further confusion: the Middle East peace process is the mirror of Europe's impotence and incapacity.
We continue to be 15 political dwarfs unable to have a single voice in any peace process, in any foreign policy process currently under way in the world.
Madam President, once again we are debating the crisis in the Middle East.
Furthermore, he is blocking any attempt at negotiation, as was seen at the meeting of 4 and 5 May in London.
Even the US attempt to initiate new negotiations with a minimum proposal has also been blocked by Israel, as Mr Marín has confirmed.
We in the Union should block our existing agreements with Israel and promote all efforts to help the Palestinian National Authority.
The Gaza port and airport and the recovery of the territories are demands which cannot be withdrawn.
If Mr Netanyahu wants security, he must understand that security is only possible through the agreements.
Madam President, we all know that the Israelis could not care less whether we speak with one voice, fifteen voices or a hundred voices.
We all know this.
I am convinced that that would be able to influence Israel.
Historically speaking it is the Palestinians' home as much as it is the home of the Jews; they have the right to a free, independent and sovereign State.
But Syria and Lebanon are also going through a peace process.
This is the reality which my movement has been contemplating, for the National Front does not fight immigration through some form of racism but, on the contrary, in order to avoid an irreversible situation similar to that in Lebanon, Bosnia or Kosovo occurring in France in the future.
Of course Israel must withdraw from Lebanon, but so must Syria, for whilst Israel occupies the south of the so-called security zone, Syria occupies the rest and, what is worse, has the Lebanese State held under some kind of protectorate where political skill combines with military presence and police terror.
But the Christians of the Middle East remain in this state of dhimmi which the great Israeli historian Bat Yeor described in his remarkable work "Christians of the Middle East - between jihad and dhimmitude' .
Lebanese Christians must restore their country's independence, they must be able to find once more the role that was theirs, regain their freedom within their own lands where, according to the expression of Béchir Gémayel, the bells must be able to ring unhindered in the country which guarantees not only their own people the right to government, but also offers other Christian communities of the Middle East assistance, solidarity, and even a safe haven.
I have been president of the Europe-Israel delegation for five years.
Ladies and gentlemen, I mention all of this in order to be able to say clearly to you, in the name of my friendship, of our friendship with Israel, that we are very worried at the sight of the dangers and internal and external demons which are threatening Israel and the region.
And if I remind you of all this, it is also in order to say clearly, on a personal level, that I largely approve of the joint resolution which is being proposed to us.
For once the text is short, clear and readable.
In my opinion, in Point 3 of the resolution there is insufficient emphasis on Syria's serious responsibility in the field of security, both towards and from Lebanon.
To mention this today is also a way for me to pay homage to Yitzhak Rabin, the soldier, the pioneer, the builder of Israel, subsequently the initiator of and the first Israeli signatory to the Oslo agreement with the Palestinians.
But that was necessary - if we are blunt about it - because of the ineptitude of the President-in-Office when he tried to visit Har Homa and created a very definite hardening of positions and opinions within Israel and within Palestine.
I believe we must appeal to our Israeli friends and tell them that the Masada syndrome and creating a Bantustan are no solution to the problems of the Middle East.
The debate has clearly shown that there is widespread concern about the situation in the Middle East and the failure in the recent past to make further progress.
I have received seven motions for resolutions, pursuant to Rule 37 (2).
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, first of all I would like to welcome the President-in-Office's remarks on my report in the last debate.
The Commission proposal for a Council Regulation amending the Council Regulation of 11 July 1994 must address two questions: the question of the legal base and the question of the duration of the regulation.
The amendments of the Committee on Budgetary Control are clear.
Amendments 1, 3 and 4 are proposed to simplify the recitals and to include a mention of the duration of the regulation.
Amendments 5 and 6 cite the Council decision, which expires in the year 2000 and in Amendment 5 gives justification to the subsequent Amendment 6.
That latter amendment proposes a change in terminology to be used in this measure.
Amendments 2, 7 and 8 incorporate fully in the text of the Tomlinson report the amendments that were proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs which clarify the objectives and modalities of the action, underlining its contribution to consolidation of the peace process.
In fact I would go so far as to say that they have behaved badly in relation to the European Parliament.
In response to my request he came to see me on 2 March and I raised specific questions.
At the Committee on Budgets discussions on 17 March, 21 April and 30 April I re-emphasized all the questions that I had raised with the Commission representative and on which I had not received a reply.
Finally, I received a reply on 8 June, i.e.
We have not had the fruitful dialogue that we would have liked and yet, despite that, we produced amendments which improve your proposal and help the Commission, Council and the whole European Union to do what we all want - to make a meaningful and constructive financial and political contribution to the resolution of the Middle East process.
Therefore I commend all 12 amendments to the House.
Mr President, it would be difficult not to agree with the Commission's proposals on granting financial assistance to the administration of the Palestinian Territories which we propose calling from now on the West Bank and Gaza.
Obviously under these circumstances, we must, like in the case with the other proposal on subsidising interest on loans granted by the EIB, give a legal base to a de facto situation like the one we have seen until now, meaning we must grant financial assistance to the administration too.
Furthermore, the Commission is proposing a few changes to the regulation: that is, it is underlining the fact that financial and technical cooperation is fundamental to the development of the peace process and stressing the importance that civil society has for the democratic development of this area.
Having said this in very brief but rather specific terms, please allow me, Mr President, to add a few observations to the debate that we have had so far, stressing, in particular, how impossible it is for the European Union to do much more with the means that it has at its disposal.
I say this not to play down the importance of the efforts that the Commissioners and President-in-Office are making in this direction, but to underscore a political and an institutional fact, that of a European Union that does not have a political entity in a position to act.
Please allow me therefore, Mr President, to conclude with a remark, with the agonising memory of the political intelligence and the capacities of a Prime Minister like Yitzhak Rabin in Israel.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it had already been said with great clarity and at some considerable length that the Commission's proposals are a step in the right direction and that the amendments on which Mr Tomlinson, in particular, has put in a very great deal of work, have improved and where appropriate modified them.
It is for this very reason that the Tomlinson Report is so important today, because it should provide the appropriate financial and other backing required to ensure that the European Commission really can use the money it is spending and its political and moral commitment to best effect.
We are a part of the peace process and there is nothing anyone can do to change that!
If we spent just part of the money on demonstrating what we want to achieve with it, namely that we have a European obligation to peace, not only in the interests of our identity as a group, but also more generally for our public image and our image in Israel and Palestine, then our aid would be much more efficient.
I would urge you, Commissioner, to continue with your policy, but to examine how we can better present the policy we are operating, particularly in critical phases, particularly in countries where the official propaganda perhaps presents our work in a somewhat more critical light than the population at large sees it.
I returned again this year on Good Friday, and that hospital has not received one single patient, has not received one single trainee, nurse or medical assistant.
Mr Swoboda has called for more obvious public perception of our role in the area.
That, I am afraid, is exactly what is happening in Gaza.
Most important of all, are we to see nothing but white elephants as our contribution to the Middle East peace process?
Since we are discussing the budget and our contribution, we have to look into our souls, and I very much hope that the Commissioner will give us an adequate response to the concerns I am expressing about this issue.
It is a question of contributing to the development of peaceful co-existence between Jews and Arabs in the Middle East.
Owing to circumstances, this aid is increasingly concentrated on the development of support structures for the Palestinian Authority which, unfortunately, is interpreted as a sort of anticipation of the peace process and consequent recognition of a still doubtful State whose borders remain, at the very least, to be defined.
The result is that this political anticipation which underlies the aid is perceived, especially in Israel, as unilateral encouragement of one side rather than both.
The model for reconciliation which Europe has represented and must continue to represent for the Middle East is an excellent thing.
We must talk of European Union aid to Palestine.
Palestine must be built and I think that we should not lose faith in the Palestinians.
We have to contribute financially to the construction of Palestine, but we also have to contribute to it politically.
I think this is precisely one of the points on which the countries of the European Union are agreed.
Mr President, Council Regulation EC 1734/94 lays down the terms of financial and technical cooperation between the European Union and the Occupied Territories with a view to promoting the process of development in these areas and creating conditions favourable to a positive outcome of the peace process, which unfortunately is not the case right now.
The causes are many: the difficult progression of the peace process that has not created the conditions of stability necessary for development; the blocking of the Occupied Territories on and off by the Israeli authorities in retaliation for terrorist acts; and a certain incapacity to manage on the part of the Palestinian Authority combined with the suspicion of illegal practices.
Amendments to the proposal for a regulation would therefore be helpful in order to better clarify the objectives and the terms of action, stressing the need to consolidate the peace process and coming up with a more detailed definition of the legal basis of this financial cooperation.
The fundamental role of financial and technical cooperation in developing the peace process and consequently in developing a civil society must be reaffirmed, the democratic development of these territories being hindered if a civil society fails to be created.
The importance which Members attach to the future of the Palestinians and the peace process gives me confidence that the European Union will manage to adopt a common approach to tackle the region's problems.
As you are well aware, the current regulation on assistance to the Palestinians was adopted on the basis of the declaration of principles signed by Israel and the Palestinians in September 1993, and was followed by the international donors' conference in Washington.
Unfortunately, the deterioration in the political climate in the Middle East and the successive crises in the peace process have seriously affected our aid programme.
In particular, the difficult political situation has caused serious budgetary problems both for the Palestinian Authority and for other Palestinian public institutions.
So the international donors - including the European Union, which is the most important - have been obliged to devote a large part of the project funds to recurrent costs and budget support.
The Commission will have no problem accepting these amendments, their essence and their stance at a later date.
Moreover, we also openly recognize, without any problem, that it is an excellent idea to present a two year deferment in order to conclude the financial perspectives and to extend them by a further five years.
Secondly, we have another problem I hope you will understand.
But again, I have to say that following the European Council in Cardiff, the Commission is going to present a communication to try to change the comitology involved not just in the Palestine regulation, but in the whole system as it currently exists, derived from the Maastricht Treaty.
And the plan under consideration today is a good example to demonstrate that the current comitology is a heavy burden, which helps neither Parliament, the Council of Ministers nor the Commission.
That point is also going to be included in the new regulation, and is a question which Parliament and the Council of Ministers will have to resolve.
And after what happened in Cardiff, the European Parliament and the Commission have no choice but to implement, with your amendments or my new regulation, what the Council is going to say.
I have spent ECU 15 million on it.
You have to back us up, otherwise in the end nobody is going to want to be responsible for the situation.
In short, Mr President, this is a very complicated situation.
The Commission's position is that it will present the regulation to the Council on 29 June.
It is my hope that this 23rd meeting, which is taking place at a difficult moment in the peace process, will mark a further stage in the necessary rapprochement between the countries and peoples we represent, with a view to peaceful and fruitful cohabitation around the Mediterranean which, as in former times, is a privileged and incontestable point of contact.
I will cut the words out of the Rainbow and make sure we keep them as a reference point for the future.
But equally, when we come to the vote on this report later, I will ask you quite explicitly at the end of the votes on the amendments, whether you can accept them.
As I said, the Commission will have no problem in accepting the spirit and the content of your amendments once we have presented the regulation to the Council of Ministers.
That is our opinion.
and resumed at 11.30 a.m.) Votes Mr President, Amendment No 41 is different to Amendments Nos 42 and 43.
Amendment No 41, with the date 2002, was not supported in committee.
Yes, Mr President, I want a separate vote for Amendment No 41 as it is different.
I wish to ask the rapporteur, just for clarification, whether it would not be easier, in the circumstances, to withdraw the amendment and leave the original Commission text.
But Amendment No 41 was also voted for by the Committee on Agriculture.
On the one hand, in the recital, 2005 was agreed on, whilst in the body of the text, it was considered to be 2002.
I therefore think that there is no reason now to remove the amendment relating to 2002.
Our group has always supported the correct application of what we consider a fundamental rule for this Parliament, namely the proportional distribution of members of the Bureau, President, Vice-Presidents and Quaestors.
We see the above rule as a fundamental rule for our Parliament.
The position of our Parliament remains extremely fragile.
We therefore think we should maintain this rule.
I understand that the major groups in this Parliament are prepared to respect this rule, the d'Hondt system.
For this reason, this candidacy is a candidacy which will bring a little more democracy into this House at a time when the Bureau is holding very important debates. (Applause) 544 Members voted.
Votes (continuation) Mr President, due to the uncertainties which have appeared in my own group as a result of the vote change, I am trying to make it clear to them that we are going to vote on recital B first, and that after that we will return to recital A.
We have already voted on A and it has been adopted.
Mr President, even if the other side of the House does have a relative majority for Recital A, in this case a qualified majority is required.
If a large group is against it, we simply need to check whether the others obtain 314 votes.
After the vote on the resolution Most certainly, Mr President, you should have a look at the text.
In paragraph 1© the second point which was voted on, there is the phrase: "takes account in this connection of the attached text' .
Mr President, as the rapporteur may I perhaps say a few words about this important vote?
If you do not agree to this now, then you yourself will effectively be making your previous decisions, that is Article 38 b and Rule 50, look ridiculous.
The Commission, too, can read, in all 11 languages!
The reason my group wants to reject Recital A is very simple.
Mr Robles Piquer, if I have understood correctly, you are requesting referral back to the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy.
Mr President, we had sufficient time to deal with this in the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy.
Anyone can make a mistake, but I do not believe that we will make any progress if we go back to committee now.
Mr Linkohr, you are opposed.
Mr President, I would like to argue in favour particularly because we, in the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, have been trying for a long time to change the aid models found in Mr Linkohr's report, which are extremely dirigiste.
Mr President, first of all, two Members have spoken in favour of this report, so at least two might be allowed to speak against it.
Mr President, could I support Mr Herman's proposal?
I would like to ask the House to bear in mind that the political groups that have tabled amendments must withdraw their amendments in order to allow this general vote to take place.
Mr President, we do not agree with that.
We want the stance of the party opposite to be made public in those roll-call votes and we want them voted on one by one. (Applause from the left) - After the vote Mr President, we are, nevertheless, still faced with the problem that we are referring back to committee an annex which we have now rejected.
It would certainly be a unique event in the history of Parliament.
Mr President, in addition to an error in the voting list, I fear you may have committed an error in the voting procedure.
The final vote can clearly not take place before the annex has been voted on.
And even before proceeding to the vote on the annex, but after the final vote had taken place, you agreed to put to the vote a procedural motion requesting referral back to committee, when in accordance with Article 129 it is clear that referral to committee cannot be requested after the final vote.
We cannot proceed to a final vote before having completed the voting on the text, that is, the text and its annex.
I am sorry, Mr Fabre-Aubrespy, but I do not agree with your interpretation.
The first part of the vote was clearly separate from the vote on the annex.
We could have two votes, as has been done, one on the motion for a resolution, the other a separate one, on the annex.
This system is unnecessary.
In other respects we are, of course, very positive towards helping ACP countries in various ways to get the chance to develop trade in their own products on the world market.
The Danish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of an amendment on common organization of the market in bananas.
The Commission's proposal is a reasonable attempt to strike a balance between the various considerations.
Thus, we have voted against a reduction in the dollar banana quota because it is at odds with WTO provisions.
We have voted against an increase in duties, because that would make bananas too expensive.
We have also voted against raising duties on non-traditional bananas because it would be obscene to add to duty on bananas from some of the poorest countries in the world.
We have voted in favour of the report because it contains a proposal for a fair trade banana system.
The system must include support for a changeover in production, support for consumer information and a system of labelling and monitoring so that consumers can be sure of what they are getting for their money.
We have abstained from voting on the actual report on the common organization of the market because the proposal indiscriminately gives traditional ACP countries an advantage.
The World Bank has calculated that only about 12 % of the additional price European consumers pay for bananas actually goes to the producers - the remainder goes to the importers, and with the existing proposal, there is no guarantee that the future will be any different.
This proposal, which follows a decision of the World Trade Organization, is particularly symbolic and important and, if approved in the form submitted by the Commission, will seriously change the present situation for the worse as regards the common organization of the market in bananas.
Of course, the WTO ruling means that we cannot help those ACP countries as much as previously but this report, in line with the Commission proposals is the next best option.
I share the rapporteur's concern that the abolition of the licences for individual producer countries could undermine the position of some countries in the EU market.
Additional support measures to balance this are clearly necessary.
The COM in bananas is of particular importance because banana production directly concerns both a number of European regions - particularly the ultra-peripheral areas like the French overseas departments - and a large number of third countries with whom we have longstanding and special links within the framework of the Lomé Convention.
In the face of this geostrategic and economic issue, both at European and ACP level, we must have a COM which clearly implements the Community preference and which is in accordance with the special agreements which link us to the ACP countries.
The result of the WTO panel shows us that our fears were not in unfounded.
In actual fact, the WTO does not recognize our special agreements with the ACP countries.
The question is now one of knowing if and how the serious error of negotiation committed by the Commission can be corrected, particularly in relation to the next "Clinton Round' .
We all know that these areas are particularly sensitive and incur specific costs due to their distance from continental Europe.
This is why we tabled an amendment which protects the guarantee of distribution and sale of Community products on the European market, along with an increase in the collection of customs duties for bananas coming from non-traditional ACP countries and a 20 % readjustment in the amount of the flat-rate reference income which had not been increased since 1991.
Within the framework of the WTO, it is absolutely necessary to introduce social, environmental and health clauses.
In this instance, we would like every Member State to be opposed to bananas imported from third countries where such clauses are not respected.
Our group thus supports Mr Thomas' report as amended by the Committee on Agriculture, which is in the common interest of European producers and producers from the so-called "traditional' ACP countries.
Since the start of the EU, this House has been concerned with the interests of the traditional banana producers, both Community - 20 % of bananas consumed in the Union come from Martinique, Guadeloupe, Madeira and the Canaries - and ACP.
Various protocols, especially Protocol 5 of the IVth Lomé Convention, preceded the Common Organization of the Market (COM) which came into force in 1993.
Following the actions inspired by the Chiquita multinational and brought by the United States, Guatemala, Honduras, Ecuador and Mexico, the World Trade Organization demanded that the EU should modify its COM in bananas as from 1 January 1999.
He has tried hard to find a compromise which is compatible with the WTO rules, by accepting the idea of an global quota which maintains the ACP preferences provided for by Lomé, protects Union producers and guarantees consumers a reasonable price.
The reform of the COM must be guided by the same principle.
Valdivielso de Cué report (A4-0223/98) I believe the proposal to tighten border checks on counterfeit goods will prove to be a positive measure by strengthening the pre-existing 1994 regulation concerning the suspension of customs operations for suspected pirated or counterfeit goods.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have elected to vote in favour of the report.
The purpose of current EU arrangements is that following an application by the holder of a right, it is possible to suspend customs operations where goods are suspected of being counterfeit or pirated goods covered by an intellectual property right (brand or trade mark, design right, copyright or neighbouring right).
Aelvoet report (A4-0194/98) To break off trade and relations with a State is always an important decision.
All the more so when it relates to aid to a country, and thus a population.
Article 336b of the IVth Lomé Convention, which provides for the possibility of a partial or full suspension of cooperation due to serious human rights abuses is no exception to this rule.
Any decision to suspend or resume cooperation is obviously a serious matter, in which Parliament should be fully involved.
Berger recommendation (A4-0215/98) The proposal submitted to us is aimed at amending the directive on access to the occupation of road transport operator.
I personally would like to insist on the need to harmonize not only the conditions of access but also the working conditions for road transport operators.
Everyone can still remember the inconvenience these actions have caused.
These strikes have also brought to light great disparities in working conditions between Member States.
I therefore think it is necessary to embark upon a serious consideration of the harmonization of social legislation within the Union.
Quisthoudt-Rowohl recommendation (A4-0226/98) Mrs Quisthoudt-Rowohl's proposal is a serious and well-founded one.
Everyone is aware of the eminently strategic role of research and development for the future of our competitiveness on a world scale, but many seem unwilling to accept responsibility for the financial allocations required to innovate and adapt ourselves to world challenges.
The European Council decided to end aid to this industry after the year 2000, recommending efforts at competitiveness through recourse to new technology.
We will not be able to say "white' one day in Paris, Berlin and London, only to demand "black' in Brussels.
Unfortunately, recent statements from some people do not encourage optimism.
Linkohr report (A4-0199/98) Mr President, as this explanation of vote begins, please allow me to point out that the way in which today's voting has been handled is somewhat surprising and I would ask you to pass this observation on to the Bureau: when the President of any Member State visits us, you do not interrupt the session and allow the Members to leave, making him speak to a House which is three quarters empty in comparison with voting time.
In fact, we already have a directive.
A report has been proposed to us, which is an own-initiative report on the same subject, and it is proposed to incorporate into this report an annex which, on closer analysis, is in actual fact a legislative proposal on the part of the European Parliament.
This practice naturally seems to us contrary to the texts which govern the functioning of the European Parliament, and contrary to normal practice.
The first vote we were asked to give an opinion on related to whether the Commission should take into consideration the text given in the annex.
So, it should clearly have been necessary to vote on the annex before proceeding to the final vote, since it formed an integral part of the motion for a resolution.
It thus clearly follows that the final vote on the report as a whole would probably have been negative.
The Linkohr report has one essential merit, which is that it raises the important question of the promotion of renewable energy sources.
Energy is too serious and strategic a sector to leave in the hands of the Commission's technocrats or in the hands of the obsessive federalists in this House.
The report proposes that the EU should draw up a new directive on the feeding in of electricity from renewable sources of energy.
Like Helmut Kohl and Jacques Chirac, I think that too many decisions that could have been taken at national level have been transferred to EU level.
I am therefore voting against this report.
And so there was no problem with the two votes.
It is very difficult for us to start a vote, to adjourn it, to wait until Members reassemble and so on, but I do not think this is the right time for us to revisit this issue.
As the European Council made clear on 15 June, no state which uses brutal military repression against its own citizens can expect to find a place in the modern Europe.
President Milosevic bears a personal responsibility for the actions of his security forces in Kosovo.
There have been expectations of the dialogue which took place in Moscow earlier this week between President Yeltsin and President Milosevic.
The European Union will now be working further with the Russians, the Americans and others to maintain pressure on President Milosevic to do all that is required of him - and work is continuing in New York on a draft United Nations Security Council resolution.
I can say to President Milosevic that if that is not the case and if the dialogue results in no major change in the situation then the European Union's view is unchanged - we will continue to seek to put pressure on President Milosevic, ruling out no action in order to try to bring about a peaceful situation and a solution to the problems in Kosovo.
Mr President, I think the European Union can say that it has assessed the situation in Kosovo rightly to date, and is not, as before, simply awaiting developments without taking the necessary measures and without preparing for the worst, as was the case during the tragedy in Bosnia.
We now have the first results from the dialogue between President Yeltsin and President Milosevic.
Along with Mr Henderson, I say, of course, that this dialogue is welcome, but at the same time I reiterate what he said, that it has been shown in the past that President Milosevic's word cannot be relied upon.
It should be obvious that the international community has taken a clear political stand in this matter and, for good and well-founded reasons, has opted for a solution within the borders of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Up to now we have lacked accurate information due to the absence of opportunities for access to the region.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, I should like to make a few remarks expressing my fundamental support, and that of my group, for the current policy, together with a few critical observations.
If Russia wants to play a significant and increasing role in overall European security policy - and I think it would be good if Russia were to do so - now is its opportunity to show it.
We will only be able to prevent a second or a third Bosnia or a second Kosovo if we have a strong foreign and security policy.
By we, I mean the European Union.
Unfortunately, Parliament cannot act, we can only suggest possible courses of action.
So we need to exert much greater political and military pressure on Belgrade.
The UN Charter was written in 1945, at a very different time, and is now out of date in this respect.
The problem is that Milosevic knows what he wants and is doing exactly what he wants.
Now he can see a new Dayton on the horizon, and because he can see this new Dayton, we are seeing ethnic cleansing in north west Kosovo.
This is why we should act now and not leave the people of Kosovo in the lurch.
Mr President, Commissioner, on this occasion I, too, am unable to share our view that Europe has acted in a timely manner.
Our policy should be directed against the leadership but, of course, not against the Serbian people.
I wonder whether there is not some instrument we could use to tackle the situation, for example by creating an alternative stream of public opinion in Serbia.
I am thinking of a model such as the Radio Free Europe of the past, by which we could give the population of Serbia access to accurate information.
Then I believe that the leadership in Belgrade would not be able to act in the way it is doing now and we would be nearer to achieving our goal of achieving peace, democracy and human rights for everyone in the area - for Albanians and Serbians alike.
Mr President, President-in-Office, Commissioner van den Broek, ladies and gentlemen, the Commissioner said that Milosevic's words in the past were not enough: a wonderful euphemism for what in Italy is known as a tall story.
Milosevic could be compared to the personality we in Italy call Pinocchio, meaning a liar, an out and out liar, as occurred in the past.
This morning I heard Milosevic himself say in English that civilians had not been harmed, that the special forces only intervened against terrorists.
The very fragile compromise reached between Milosevic and Yeltsin does not consider the most important point: the withdrawal of the special forces.
On the basis of these two principles, boundaries can clearly established by the international community and the two sides can be reconciled.
The first problem is that the resolution contains no reference whatsoever to the institutional framework within which a solution, a political solution, has to be found for Kosovo.
My second major problem is that a possible military intervention is not made subject to a Security Council decision.
As far as we are concerned, we absolutely believe that all forms of military action are possible, but only as a conditio sine qua non within the UN framework.
If, as many here think, there is just one root cause of all of these tragedies, and if we want to stop the Serbian people suffering a further defeat after the catastrophes they experienced in Croatia and Bosnia, we must try to ensure that our intentions are clear.
Mr President, the situation in Kosovo is untenable and unacceptable.
The regime in Belgrade seems indifferent to international pressure.
Mr President, what is missing so far in this discussion is a clear expression of how admirable the Albanian people in Kosovo have been and still are today.
My second point is the fact that all too little is being said about the most essential aspect of the problem.
Mr President, I do of course understand that the Members are unhappy that the Commissioner responsible cannot remain until the end of the debate.
Let us simply note that fact and continue the debate.
On these grounds, Serbia maintains its absolute sovereignty over the area, in spite of the fact that more than 90 % of the population of Kosovo are Kosovo Albanians.
But negotiations have never before prevented Milosevic from stepping up his military efforts.
What the citizens of Europe expect of the EU and NATO is that no country in Europe should be allowed to restrict freedom in any area of our part of the world.
The fact that it has not been possible to deliver humanitarian aid in any structured manner to people in the Kosovo region does not reflect very well on us in this House.
From an Irish perspective, we should assist in humanitarian missions to the region.
We should not have to wait for the United Nations in New York to give us the go-ahead on this issue.
He must be forced to observe the Dayton Peace Agreement and international law in practice as well as in theory.
We must not stand on the sidelines in a disjointed and idle fashion and allow Slobodan Milosevic to run rings around the 15 Member States as he has done in the past.
Ireland must be prepared to play a constructive and positive role within the framework of the European Union to assist in solving the crisis in Kosovo and in guaranteeing that Slobodan Milosevic does not achieve his aim of bringing about the genocide of the native Albanians in Kosovo.
Mr President, the people responsible for the conflict in Kosovo are quite clearly the Yugoslav regime and Milosevic.
That is, of course, why every pressure must be brought to bear on the Yugoslav regime.
If it is true that the people of Kosovo cannot easily be afforded the right of self determination because of the overall situation in the region, then a second conclusion also has to be drawn.
As long as Milosevic stays in power it is, of course, extremely difficult to tell the Albanians that they must continue to live under the yoke of Milosevic.
In other words, we must do everything in our power to show Russia and China that they cannot simply say, "Oh, you know, what is happening in Kosovo is not really so bad.
Having said that, we must be aware that, if there is military intervention in Kosovo, it will mean NATO declaring war on a European state.
Our first objective - and I support the conclusions of the Cardiff Summit - must be a cessation of hostilities to allow international observers into Kosovo to view the situation for themselves.
Mr President, it would be rather easy if Parliament could count on the will of the protagonists to find a solution to the problem.
We must keep these two points of reference and try to urge, to pressure the parties so that the negotiations are real, genuine and internationally guaranteed.
I don't mean González as a person, I mean where is Europe through González.
They want a peaceful settlement with respect for all minorities' rights, and they want with independence without separation, because otherwise we will never find a lasting settlement in Europe.
We are categorically opposed to any form of military intervention because it would have horrendous consequences.
The leaders in Belgrade need reflect on their heavy responsibilities towards the muchafflicted Serbian people and to consider where the imprudent policy of armed confrontation, the responsibility for which lies in the political and military regime of present-day Yugoslavia, is leading the Serbian people and the people of Montenegro.
I also wish to give equal prominence to the common and unanimous position of Cardiff, which is that the European Union remains steadfastly opposed to the idea of independence and that it will continue to support a special regime for Kosovo, which will provide for broad autonomy within the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Finally, we must understand that both Albania and FYROM need substantial support, especially FYROM, as an attempt to get closer to FYROM is being made by Yugoslavia, which is exploiting the problems this state is having with the Albanian minority in the Former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia.
What we are really talking about is Serbia and a province, absorbed by Serbia in dubious circumstances, that is 92 % Albanian.
The international community will intervene.
What we mean is that if this goes on Europe will fight and Europe will be right, even if that means the death of our own soldiers in former Yugoslavia.
I would like to ask Mr Henderson whether he wants to keep this order, because we will have to ensure, first of all, that Serbia withdraws its troops to Belgrade before we can invite Dr Rugova to resume the negotiations.
In any case, I also agree that assent from the UN Security Council is needed, but not on the backs of hundreds of thousands of victims.
Mr President, the situation in Kosovo represents a security problem of the first order for Europe.
The tragedy has proceeded according to the familiar pattern of Serbian politics we have already seen played out in Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina: targeted displacement of the population and massive streams of refugees shifting the crisis to neighbouring countries in the region.
So far the NATO manoeuvres have been purely symbolic in nature.
The fact that in Cardiff the European Council left open the carefully circumscribed possibility of a military option demonstrates the extent of the international community's paralysis is in relation to the crisis in Kosovo.
This crisis management is an embarrassing reminder of our reactions to Iraq and Saddam Hussein.
By waiting for the Security Council's green light on military intervention we have effectively provided Russia with a means of preventing NATO's involvement and, at the same time, we have given the Serbian leadership additional time by allowing the meetings between Yeltsin and Milosevic.
The conflict within the EU on whether military intervention by NATO should take place with or without a mandate from the Security Council has given Milosevic more time in which to continue his policy of expulsions unhindered.
In these circumstances, the call to the international community to use every means at its disposal to put an end to the attacks against the civilian population is in danger of remaining completely unheeded.
The statements made by the European Parliament are a feeble substitute for the lack of political will being shown by the EU Member States to avoid another tragedy in the Balkans.
In 1878, exactly 120 years ago, in Prizrem in present day Kosovo the Albanians founded the Prizrem League in a bid to reassert themselves as the oldest civilized nation in Europe in the face of the crimes of the Ottoman Empire.
We must see things as they really are.
The situation has indeed deteriorated now, but this campaign against the majority population in Kosovo has been going on for eight years.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon tomorrow.
Mr Posselt, you know as well as I do that it is for the Council to decide whether or not it wishes to speak at the end of a debate.
Mr President, as you know, the Conference of Presidents changed today's agenda, and Mr Pompidou's report should have been this morning.
In vitro diagnostic medical devices are taken to mean reagents, instruments and equipment for the examination, for medical purposes, of tissues or substances from the human body.
Unlike medicines, in vitro diagnostic tests are used outside the human body in order to allow medical tests to be carried out on samples taken from patients.
However a growing number of these devices are intended for use by patients themselves - for example, measurement of blood sugar levels in diabetes and for pregnancy testing.
The Council has taken up most of the amendments tabled by Parliament at first reading.
Thus the common position seeks to establish a balance between the aims of freedom of movement and protection of human health.
Amendment No 2 insists on the need to draw up - as quickly as possible - the legislation that is lacking on medical devices manufactured from substances of human origin, which are currently not covered by the scope of the directive.
Amendment No 3 aims at avoiding any distortion in competition which may be caused by certain Member States' own regulations with regard to devices for self-testing.
Amendment No 4 ensures that instructions for these same self-testing devices will be translated into the language of the final user.
Outside the laboratory the patient must be able to understand the instructions easily in order to avoid all possible error in the use of the test.
Amendment Nos 1 and 5 enable the quality and safety of two types of new test to be taken into consideration.
Amendment No 5 relates to the diagnostic device enabling the risk of trisomy 21 in the first few weeks of pregnancy to be assessed, whilst being aware of the fact that it relates only to an assessment of the risk which will then require further screening methods, carried out with the well-informed consent of the parents-to-be.
These devices enable genetic diseases, and a genetic predisposition to certain diseases, to be very rapidly and reliably identified.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the suggestion of the European Parliament the Council has made a whole range of important improvements to the original European Commission text.
However, there are two points I would like to raise which my group believes to be of particular importance and which are still missing from the text, although we introduced them at the first reading.
The first, Commissioner, relates to an ongoing dispute with you, and that is the issue of labelling in the broadest sense of the term.
This is absolutely imperative since these products have to be used in a very precise way.
And this naturally includes making sure that the public can read, in their own language, the instructions on how to use these products and the consequences of using them incorrectly.
For this reason it is very important indeed for us to make this improvement in this area.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the current phase of European integration, and particularly now with the Cardiff summit, the talk is once again of much greater subsidiarity.
This draft directive represents a further step towards the completion of the single market, in particular for medical products.
Nevertheless, we would like to stress that there is still room for improvement in the basic approach.
But this addition in Article 10 (2) must also apply in a consistent and logical manner to the provisions of Article 21 (2).
When the matter comes before Parliament, therefore, we often have to reach our decisions very quickly if we want to make the internal market a reality for the citizens of Europe.
The measures, which consist mainly of providing specific rules for in vitro diagnostic medical devices, in other words the examination, for medical purposes, of tissues or substances from the human body should, I feel, attract broad approval.
The need for rapid legislation in the area of medical devices manufactured utilizing products derived from human tissues or cells is clear if we want to avoid the risk of misuse.
Although testing is generally the role of doctors, in view of the development of self-testing, it is appropriate to ensure that care is taken by requiring that all users can read the instructions in their own language so that they clearly understand what they are doing, aware that any error could prove to be catastrophic.
The European Parliament introduced a series of amendments to the initial proposal to specify the rules for in vitro diagnostic medical devices to allow their marketing; in the past these devices were excluded.
In Italy, in particular, we have problems with HIV, HAA, and HCV, which are the markers of hepatitis and AIDS.
This equipment is, therefore, very important in avoiding diagnostic errors and in putting into effect the health protection programme in the sector of in vitro diagnostic devices.
As a result, the directive we are debating covers this field and will without doubt contribute to the needs of those industries which produce these devices.
To start with, the proposal was considered constructive, not only as it would have been useful for the reasons I have mentioned, but also as it contained many elements which would have contributed to a better qualitative control of in vitro diagnostic devices.
Firstly, some ill-defined aspects of the Directive have been clarified, as has its relation to other related directives.
Moreover, special importance has been attached to reagents used in the home, given that their users are not people with special knowledge and that instruction must therefore be clear and in the user's mother tongue.
The future directive on in vitro diagnostics, however, will both guarantee the safety and reliability of these products in relation to their application in medicine and strengthen the single market through the standardized requirements which it stipulates.
In any case, we will start by setting out a series of framework conditions within which the industry can work.
Therefore, in implementing the directive, the monitoring of the market by the Member States will have a very important role to play.
We hope that the setting up of a European database, which also springs from a suggestion made by Parliament, will contribute towards this.
In any case, we shall make every effort, in conjunction with the Member States, to set up this database before the directive comes into force.
Many thanks, Commissioner Bangemann.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my job is to illustrate a proposal for a resolution on the topic that has been stated, that is, a package of measures aimed at fighting harmful tax competition, a package that has been approved by a large majority of our Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
Indeed this matter not only closely concerns economic entities but also all citizens and is increasingly gaining in importance as the full effects of Economic and Monetary Union are being felt.
Ladies and gentlemen, you will remember that about a year ago Parliament approved by an overwhelming majority the first resolution on the matter in which there was full endorsement of the idea of elaborating a code of conduct on various tax issues and in particular on the taxation of company profits, a code that has since been created and is already operational, as I will explain in a moment.
Even the European Council in Cardiff that has just ended underlined these concepts in the spirit of encouraging the active continuation of work on the matter.
The package that we are dealing with in today's debate and in tomorrow's vote and that is the subject of this resolution was put together last year and presented to the Ecofin Council of 1 December which approved it and gave the green light for its implementation.
The other two provisions are the proposal for a directive to avoid double taxation on royalties paid between associated companies in various Member States, a proposal that is already being examined by our Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy; finally, the passage of the third part of the package will begin, the draft directive on the taxation of savings or, better, on a common approach to the taxation of financial income paid to natural persons who do not reside in the various Member States.
I will conclude, Madam President, by pointing out to the Members of this House that paragraph 28 suffers from the fact that it was written before the draft directive on the taxation of savings was tabled.
Madam President, Commissioner, the report presented by the rapporteur represents a real step forward, just as the package of measures put forward by the Commission has finally succeeded in stirring up the tax debate at European level.
In a world of globalized markets, the international competitiveness of locations is determined by their infrastructure and, therefore, also by their tax systems and tax scales.
There are certain Member States which are attracting inward investment through tax avoidance and tax exemption measures or tax reductions and thereby taking these resources from other EU Member Sates.
This constitutes anti-community tax competition in the form of tax dumping and is harmful to all the states in the European Union.
There is a conflict of aims between the wish of Member States to protect their fiscal sovereignty and the wish to structure corporate and capital taxation in such a way that they are neutral rather than restrictive to competition.
It is impossible to solve this problem by free competition and market forces alone.
As the Commission has very rightly outlined, the burden on income tax payers has increased by roughly 10 %, while that on capital factors and corporate taxation has dropped by some 20 %.
At a time of European and international competition, the coordination of tax policy does not represent a loss of fiscal sovereignty for Member States, but rather a gain in sovereignty for both the European Union and its Members.
Whatever happens, the tax oases in the European Union which currently allow transnational companies to transfer profits between countries in order to escape or reduce levels of taxation in their country of registration must be eliminated immediately.
Levying taxes is a very serious affair.
My group can therefore appreciate, to some extent, the extremely limited progress in the sphere of tax harmonization, or as it is being called more modestly now, tax coordination, and the prevention of mutually harmful tax competition which might erode tax proceeds in the long run.
Carlo Secchi's report is excellent; it is a coherent and well-structured piece of work.
We also welcome the Commission's proposals, not just because of the work the Commission has done, but because of its tenacity in trying to restore balance to the fiscal situation, which is absolutely necessary in the context of the constitution of monetary union and the euro.
But we are not making any progress in the area of fiscal harmonization, as we need to do, because of a real obstacle: the fact that we need the Member States to be unanimous in order to reach agreement in this area.
Nevertheless, the Luxembourg conclusions and agreements and the Commission proposals are headed in the right direction.
Let me immediately say how appalled I am by Amendment No 5 by the Greens, which I reject out of hand.
My country has a very transparent tax regime.
Authorities in my country - the Industrial Development Authority or Údarás na Gaeltachta, responsible for development in the Gaeltacht regions on the west coast of Ireland - have all tried over the years to attract investment.
We know that tax dumping is already at work in the free movement of capital and tax havens.
For years, deductions on income from capital within the European Union have been endlessly reduced, whilst those affecting salaried income have increased, in particular through indirect taxation which, as we know, hits the lower paid hardest.
In conclusion, it is only possible to respond to the enormous challenges of the technology and information revolution with policies aimed at human development as opposed to a decline in social costs, and a fairer tax system could contribute to this.
Madam President, our group supports the general ideas contained in Mr Secchi's report.
My group would like to warn against the picture that is being painted that tax competition is a very positive thing.
Madam President, this debate confronts us with the wholly individual character of the European Union as a closely-knit framework of cooperation between independent Member States.
It is a mystery to me why the Commission is quoting the subsidiarity principle in point B of the Council's motion for a resolution.
This type of competition is not only engaged in by Member States, but also -and perhaps especially- by regional and local authorities.
Madam President, in my speech I would like to focus on the taxation of savings.
It has sometimes been described as a tax haven, when there are as many tax havens for non-residents as there are Member States in the European Union.
The financial sector is a thriving service sector which provides hundreds of thousands of high-level jobs in each one of our States.
This needs to be taken into consideration in decisions at a European level.
For many years, global solutions have been advocated here with regard to the taxation of savings, without considering their impact on the European financial sector.
It is thus heartening to note that the attitude of the European Parliament in this report is becoming more qualified, more realistic and more pragmatic.
The current negotiations show that it is not easy to put into practice the Ecofin Council's agreement of 1 December 1997, which was obtained under the Luxembourg Presidency.
Thus the 20 % withholding tax on income from savings is clearly too high.
If this is not the case, there will be no unanimity within the Council, nor a large majority in the European Parliament.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the introduction of the euro the completion of the European single market is coming ever closer.
But, at the same time, Mr Secchi in his excellent report speaks of a "beneficial' degree of competition which we have to accept in order to guarantee competitiveness.
The package of measures proposed by the Commission is a step in the right direction.
I look forward to hearing some appropriate proposals from the Commission and hope that in this important area it will prove possible to achieve some concrete measures quickly.
Madam President, there are four things I would like to say in this minute.
The first is that tax policy is and should remain essentially a national concern.
Madam President, the main concern of the Commission's proposed package of tax measures will be to deal with the imbalances in competition that may be caused by the different existing tax rules and regimes.
Let us remember what some would apparently rather forget: that the peculiarities of national tax systems arise from the peculiarities of national economies, which cannot be eliminated, despite all efforts to ignore them; -that tax harmonization, if supra-nationally imposed after the adoption of the euro, which now serves as a pretext and justification, would take away yet another instrument of sovereign and (democratic) government, especially as regards savings, from the national authorities; -that the inequalities of the weakest in terms of competitiveness may be seriously aggravated in the name of standardizing competition by means of tax reforms.The tax reform we are fighting for, at Community and national level, is a tax reform, or rather a series of tax reforms, that aims to create fairer tax collection systems with a reduction of the tax burden on working people, and not harmonized rules that lead to fresh and increased exemptions in favour of capital that already circulates too freely.
What is at stake is not providing a clear definition of subsidiarity as a necessary dimension of European integration, but rather using it as a pretext to develop the EU, within the framework of the WTO, as a deregulated community in the face of the single market and the euro, introducing a system of dumping in which we will all be losers.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Secchi's report clearly highlights what some of us feared at the time of the Maastricht Treaty.
We are given an assertion: the high level of tax competition has reached a clearly harmful level.
Then we are given another assertion: the Member States are slowly abandoning their fiscal sovereignty, thus the best way of finding that sovereignty once more is to abandon it completely to the European Union.
This being so, the real question to be raised is whether this tax competition between States within the European Union is desirable and good for the citizens of those States or, on the contrary, harmful.
In reality, this tax competition may be perfectly healthy for both consumers and citizens.
The States which in the future will be successful in an open market, a market in which there is - and this is a good thing - freedom of movement of people, capital and industry will be those which ensure moderate taxation, flexibility in regulations and legal security.
Question Time (Council) The next item is questions to the Council (B4-0474/98).
In response to Question No 1, the Council is aware that the Turkish armed forces launched a cross-border operation into northern Iraq in the spring of 1997.
On 19 May the presidency issued a declaration on behalf of the European Union, noting with concern that fact and, inter alia, called on Turkey to exercise restraint, to respect human rights, not to endanger the lives of innocent civilians and to withdraw its military forces from the Iraqi territory as soon as possible.
I wished to ask whether, especially with regard to the Assyrian people, and especially with regard to the Assyrian minority both in Turkey and in Iraq, the Council will express its concern to the authorities of these countries and in particular to the authorities in Ankara.
I am grateful to Mr Sjöstedt for drawing to our attention the plight of the Assyrian people he refers to, but I really cannot add anything further to my original response.
Question No 3 by Felipe Camisón Asensio (H-0499/98) Subject: Measures to combat fraud in the sphere of excise duties In the opinion of the Council, what measures should be taken to combat fraud in the field of excise duties, especially in the tobacco and alcohol sectors?
The Council is aware that fraud in the tobacco and alcohol sectors has reached alarming proportions and results in very substantial revenue losses for the Member States and the Community.
Ecofin considered how to combat this type of fraud at its meeting of 19 May and concluded that, subject to a Commission feasibility study, the long-term goal should be a computerized control system.
In the interim an effective early warning system should be put in place so that customs authorities have better information about what goods are being moved.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have been told that the European Commission proposed some time ago to the Council that new measures should be adopted to combat fraud in the sphere of excise duties which, as the Council said, particularly affects tobacco and alcohol.
Furthermore, we know that the national authorities have the right to inspect goods being transported but, since they are not informed when they are being sent, they have difficulty in implementing effective control.
An early warning system will, we hope, help in the short term but if that was the solution then there would be no need for the long-term computerized way of tackling the problem.
Question No 4 by Susan Waddington (H-0502/98) Subject: Employment Guidelines 1998 - women's employability Given that the Employment Guidelines agreed at the special Luxembourg Employment Summit last December and the current Council presidency place great emphasis on developing women's employability, what specific measures are being taken by the Member States to increase women's participation in the labour market and encourage lifelong learning, whilst at the same time reconciling these activities with family life?
The measures being taken by each Member State are set out in the national employment action plans.
I thank the President-in-Office for his concise and clear answer.
I thank the honourable Member for her supplementary question.
There are clearly a number of high priorities in relation to unemployment and I hope that Members would understand that, given the high levels of unemployment that pertain in virtually all of the European Union countries and the need to tackle that problem of unemployment.
I would like to ask a more general question in connection with employment for women.
Each Member State within the Union is required under the Cardiff conclusions to come back in six months and show what it has done on those issues.
Tunisia was, in fact, the first Mediterranean country to sign such an agreement, establishing a political dialogue which allows both parties to discuss openly a range of political issues, including human rights.
The Council attaches great political importance to the promotion of respect for human rights in Tunisia and closely follows the evolution of the situation in that country.
Mr President, since the resolution which was adopted on 22 May 1996, we have indeed noted an improvement in the human rights situation in Tunisia, with the release of Mr Mouada and Mr Chammari.
However, it would be very wrong of me to act as some kind of jury and make assessments as to which of the countries which could be described as Arab countries - although I am not sure that definition would be too easy to make - was most democratic.
What would be right for me, the Council and, I hope, Parliament, is to encourage all countries to build democracy and to guarantee human rights.
Question No 6 by Mark Watts (H-0504/98) Subject: Failure of Member States to transpose EU transport directives The Council will be aware that a significant proportion of EU Directives have not been transposed by Member States.
The Council has made a commitment to transposing all overdue single-market directives in all sectors by the end of this year.
I thank the President-in-Office for what is clearly good news for the European Union.
And that is that, under the UK presidency and, indeed, the preceding presidency and no doubt the one that will follow it, we are making real progress towards completing the single market by ensuring that all Member States who have signed up to European laws comply with them.
Question No 7 by Freddy Blak (H-0508/98) Subject: Council of Ministers as a showcase for lobbyists The display of a luxury Jaguar in the entrance hall of the Justus Lipsius building in May was reprehensible.
The matter becomes even more serious with the Open Day arrangement on 9 May.
It is normal practice, as Members of this House will recognize, for Council presidencies to mount an exhibition of a cultural, social or historical nature in the conference part of the Justus Lipsius building.
I am sure all honourable Members share my satisfaction at Jaguar's success in boosting employment in Coventry.
I must say, you have quite a sense of humour, Mr Henderson.
Thank you very much, Mr Blak.
It is something which the Council would be wise to keep always under review, to see if any changes need to be introduced to current practices.
Thank you very much, Mr Henderson.
I hope Mr Henderson can agree with that.
If the same question had been asked in the British Parliament, I am sure it would have tried to have established itself as a genuine question, whether it was or was not.
Thank you very much, Mr Henderson.
The new aid regime certainly takes account of the interests of all Community regions with shipbuilding interests.
The purpose of changing the regulation is to allow more flexibility, to give each country a capacity to do what it thinks is necessary to restructure to help its industry and, of course, that applies to Spain.
Thank you very much, Mr Henderson.
So we need to be in tune to a certain extent, Mr Henderson.
In view of developments concerning relations between the European Union and Turkey and in the framework of the contacts with the Turkish Government and negotiations regarding the Association Agreement, what steps will the Council take in response to this and what explanations, measures and guarantees will it seek to obtain from the Turkish Government regarding the protection of the Greek Orthodox community in Turkey and respect for its rights, given that acts such as those described above are inconceivable and unacceptable for the European Union?
The European Council meeting in Luxembourg on 12 and 13 December 1997 recalled, in line with the Council position expressed at the Association Council with Turkey on 29 April 1997, that strengthening Turkey's links with the European Union also depended on that country's pursuit of political and economic reforms, including the alignment of human rights standards and practices with those in force in the European Union, which also encompasses religious minorities.
The situation of democracy and human rights in Turkey remains high on the Council's agenda.
The Commission's report to the Council in March 1998 on developments in relations with Turkey since the entry into force of the customs union, concluded on human rights that no substantial progress had been achieved as regards human rights and the democratic reform process in Turkey.
Cooperation in the field of human rights and humanitarian issues formed part of the Commission's European strategy for Turkey of 4 March 1998.
I have seen the general outlines of the Commission report on this matter.
The Commission proposals are not in line with what the honourable Member suggests.
As I have said to the other honourable Member, if there is a belief that the Commission proposals contravene Member States' other obligations, then I would urge the honourable Members to put their views or the views of their constituents to the Commission, so that the Commission may reassess their proposal.
Mr Gallagher, do you wish to put a supplementary on the same question?
In response to the general issue, whether public money should be used in some instances to restructure industry, the answer is that in some circumstances that will be appropriate if, in the location, there is a qualification for structural fund aid or regional aid within a country.
The whole purpose of the change in the regulation is to increase competitiveness, which should to lead to a gain overall for the public - if not in the immediate period ahead, then in the longer term.
Thank you very much, Mr Henderson.
Question No 11 by Angela Billingham (H-0520/98) Subject: The case of Els Pins Park, Moraira, Alicante Over 13 years ago, two Spanish nationals committed a crime against fifty-four European citizens (non-Spanish) when they sold them property in Els Pins Park, knowing that there was a 63 million peseta loan on the whole property.
This case took the Spanish judiciary until 28 May 1996, 11 years later, to bring to trial.
Mr Henderson, I invite you to reply to Mrs Billingham's question.
I thank the honourable Member for her further question.
However, I am in favour of a rational and, above all, manageable realignment of EU customs legislation based on the requirements of SLIM and the assessment form.
Mr Henderson, I invite you to reply to Mr Rübig's question.
Mr President, the problem with the Commission's current proposal on customs law and transit is that it is, in reality, unworkable.
We want to trade with these countries and the system is currently structured as if all goods were sensitive goods like cigarettes, meat and alcohol.
The fact is that normal trade accounts for 99 % of the total and the formal proposals currently under examination are completely unworkable in practice.
As a result, if the system were to come into force in the version currently proposed by the Commission, it would prove absolutely catastrophic for economic relations.
It has endorsed the general outlines of the plan and recognizes, as I said in relation to a previous question this afternoon, that computerization is a very important aspect of any changes which will enable a check to be kept on the transit of goods.
Question No 15 by Nikitas Kaklamanis (H-0524/98) Subject: Autonomy in Northern Epirus According to the UN Charter, autonomy is one of the inalienable civil rights of peoples.
Northern Epirus is a region of Albania whose right to autonomy has been established (as long ago as 17 May 1914 by the "Corfu Protocol' ) and provision made for the protection of the population's language and religion.
In relation to the general point, one cannot say that the solution should be the same in every situation in every region or country in the world where there is an argument about regional devolution in one form or another.
The regulation requires the Commission to request a Member State to take action within a period which it shall determine.
The regulation also sets up an information mechanism to keep all Member States informed of actual or potential obstacles and action being taken against them.
As the author is not present, Question No 17 lapses.
Question No 18 by Gary Titley (H-0537/98) Subject: Problems facing beneficiaries of wills across the EU One of my constituents has inherited a legal estate through the will of a relative.
Mr Henderson, I invite you to reply to Mr Titley's question.
Could I thank the President-in-Office for his very full answer.
Since putting this question down I realize that this problem is much more extensive than I had anticipated.
One of the benefits of the single market is that people can now own property anywhere in the European Union.
I recognize the impossibility of harmonizing legal systems but as the President-in-Office has said we have just agreed a convention on divorce.
In my original answer I explained the current position of the Council but it would be wise for all of us to think further on this.
Its inclusion would require amendment of Council Regulation 1842/83 or of the detailed implementing rules in Commission Regulation 3392/93 which provides for a derogation from specified heat treatments.
I am surprised that sterilized whole milk is the only type of milk supplied in glass bottles in some Member States.
I am so used to answering questions in the British Parliament by saying No that I find it quite difficult to say 'Yes' sometimes.
As I understand it, sterilized milk is 5 % of the European Union liquid milk market.
Question No 20 by Maj Theorin (H-0541/98) Subject: Relations between India and the EU India has conducted five nuclear weapons tests and created instability in its region.
The EU thus has an opportunity to criticize India not only in word but also in deed.
It also welcomed the decision by some Foreign Ministers on 12 June to establish a taskforce to promote non-proliferation in South Asia.
Member States have already worked for a delay in consideration of loans to India via the World Bank and other international financial institutions and will review the advisability of international financial institution lending to Pakistan in the relevant institutions in the light of the economic and financial circumstances.
Their new prime minister has proposed an increase of 100 % over five years.
I thank the honourable Member, as ever, for her supplementary question.
But even if there were, it would be doubtful if it would be effective because Russia is a main supplier of arms in this particular situation to India.
We ought therefore to have a fresh political initiative in order to ensure greater stability in the region.
Mr President, before I sit down, I just wish to say to you that this is the end of my six months of reporting to Parliament and it has been a pleasure to have operated under such a genial chairmanship as your own and one which has been courteous and fair.
Thank you very much, Mr Henderson.
Mr Henderson, Spain is a good place to go to even before you retire.
and resumed at 9.00 p.m.) Harmful tax competition (continuation) The next item is a continuation of the debate on the report (A4-0228/98) by Mr Carlo Secchi of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Commission's communication to the Council and the European Parliament concerning a package to tackle harmful tax competition.
Mr President, I would like to draw the attention of the Bureau to defects in the text of the report we are now debating.
The German version and the Swedish version contain 22 paragraphs.
It may be packaged under the heading 'countering harmful tax competition' , but ultimately it boils down to the same thing: the powers of the Member States are being moved in dribs and drabs, but very systematically, to federal level.
The need for such initiatives is obvious.
Since 1980, the burden of tax has been shifting from mobile factors such as capital to the least mobile factor of labour.
Europe will not succeed in drastically reducing unemployment, presently standing at 11 %, without departing from this trend.
The Secchi report recognizes the above mentioned necessity for some harmonization in the area of direct taxes in order to prevent the race to ruin.
Tax competition is inevitable in this sense.
Differences in taxation create a constant pressure on governments to lower their tax rates.
Mr President, the internal market is now five years old, and, as the rapporteur stated, the arrival of the euro will render it more transparent and efficient.
The package method is a step in the right direction for Europe and the Member States, but the package, which contains no more than three products, would appear to be rather minimal.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
Large savers will undoubtedly invest their money outside the Union.
However, the idea of more general tax harmonization is unrealistic.
It would be a serious encroachment on the prerogative of national parliaments and the rights of the citizens to shape their country's tax policy through elections.
The Member States have such different tax systems that they would be forced at the same time to harmonize all sorts of taxes.
The Commission therefore needs Parliament's backing on this, and I believe that, in the democratic spirit which drives it, Parliament will support it.
These oases spark off competition, and the competition system hampers the healthy and harmonious management of taxation which would create the results we are seeking, including in terms of economic progress and growth.
It is a fact that the single currency, the euro, amongst all its positive effects, will also have a politically positive side effect in that it will stimulate extra activity in the overall policymaking of the European Union.
In truth, it is only the international tax consultancies who really benefit profit from the situation.
We have also rejected the use of monetary policies as a national instrument to create employment in the oldest sense of the Phillips curve.
And here there are two conflicting ideas: one - from the Council - which is timid, narrow-minded and slow; and the other which is the one the Commission wants to opt for.
One thing that has been talked about during the days in the run-up to the Cardiff Summit is the desire on the part of some Member States for the principle of subsidiarity to be applied in an unequal manner, in such a way that the Commission cannot control, review or examine state aids.
In this respect, I believe that the code of conduct regarding corporation tax should be elaborated further.
I believe it is important for us to agree that tax coordination - in terms of reducing the labour factor - is necessary and can therefore also serve as an important instrument in the fight against unemployment.
The achievement of a compromise between tax sovereignty and stronger voluntary economic coordination is an inescapable necessity for any state which wants the single market and monetary union to work.
In my report on European industrial competitiveness, I myself proposed fiscal harmonization in order to avoid anarchic competition between Member States and in order to produce beneficial effects at the level of business competitiveness.
Similarly, I do not support the lowest tender fiscal policy which the rapporteur seems to suggest, for it encourages negative competition between Member States.
However, we must keep in mind that this fiscal policy is a way of constructing a political Europe, and that it is a political Europe alone that can legitimize a fiscal Europe.
The report presents us with a splendid opportunity to discuss the weapons the Union will choose to combat harmful tax competition between Member States.
Tackling this problem is at least as important as intervening in harmful positive tax competition.
The first concerns the Ecofin group which is to be set up to monitor the application of this Code of Conduct.
The second point which I find lacking comes in part two of the action plan, and concerns the duty to inform which people are considering applying to banks within the Union.
A very simple way to overcome this, Mr President, is to impose an obligation on banks to report to the authorities in the capital owner's home country that this income exists, so that they can be taxed.
There is no way we can be satisfied with a code of conduct in the area of business taxation whilst demanding a directive on the taxation of income from savings, especially given that harmful tax competition is far more important in the area of business taxation than that of the taxation of savings.
Mr Secchi's report calls for the elimination of tax havens in the internal market.
No Member State is a tax haven, quite the contrary, but many territories which have special relations with certain Member States, such as the Isle of Man, the Dutch Antilles and so on, may be considered as tax havens.
It is furthermore intellectually dishonest, if not hypocritical, to consider an eminently social model of taxation as a tax haven, such as that in my country which imposes reasonable rates of VAT and excise duties - to the advantage of the low paid - and taxes higher incomes more heavily; which treats non-residents the same as neighbouring countries with regard to taxation of savings but which fortunately refrains from confiscating income from savings, savings made, by honest people, on the basis of income on which the taxpayer has already paid his or her taxes.
Mr President, I fear that a number of exaggerations in this report hardly contribute to consolidating the Ecofin Council's decisions of 1 December last year, reached under the Luxembourg Presidency, which deserve credit for unblocking the process of direct fiscal harmonization, but which must not be the victim of a fool's bargain.
Mr President, I should also like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, and I would like to say that I understand that a certain degree of competition between national tax systems may in fact stimulate efficiency and benefit consumers.
Particularly in the area of taxation, bearing in mind that tax coordination can be used as an essential instrument for the practical implementation of our employment policy guidelines by reducing the tax burden on employment.
As the rapporteur quite rightly emphasizes, between 1985 and 1995 taxes on employment increased by 20 % while taxes on capital decreased by 10 %.
We shall only succeed in creating jobs when we have the political ability and the political courage to reverse that trend.
To succeed in our fight against unemployment it is important to counteract the disastrous consequences of harmful tax competition, and I would emphasize that, if it becomes necessary, we must retain beneficial forms of competition in taxation between Member States as an instrument for increasing the competitiveness of the European economy in the face of the present challenges of the global market.
Firstly, I must say it is a good thing that we are taking this up, and I would also like to congratulate the Commissioner on his excellent results in Cardiff.
The Council has also followed the recommendations in the document forwarded by the Commission.
From our political point of view, the idea that there should be no harmonization, and that the market should resolve the problems, is an attractive one.
For that reason the European Union must close the loopholes by demanding that third countries observe minimum tax rules, which would be just as legitimate as our requirements in the social and environmental fields, and would therefore act as a disincentive to countries outside Europe.
As I have emphasized, these havens are of no help to the products and areas most in need of support, and European citizens cannot understand why they continue to exist; or at least, I am unable to explain this in my own country.
The central problem is the ever greater concentration of tax on so-called immobile factors, that is to say the workforce.
Sluggishness, lack of political will and incapacity have hitherto been the hallmarks of this highly important tax harmonization dossier.
But the creation of a single market and the free movement of citizens and capital have already shown that the existing tax policy causes imbalances in the market that are in many cases highly unreasonable, prejudicial and indeed unfair.
The problem is that the results of that inertia are unacceptably harmful to taxes on employment and are too easy on other production factors, especially capital.
On this point Commissioner Monti has tried to take some positive steps which the Council has unfortunately limited to a few direct taxes.
I would like to warmly thank Mr Secchi for his excellent work on this realistic and balanced report, which provides a highly accurate analysis of the package of tax measures and questions related to harmful tax competition.
Every country - as Mr Fayot said, and I would agree with him - has become a tax haven for the rest.
This is the reason behind the fine line drawn in the fight against harmful tax competition - we do not indiscriminately want to tar everything with the same brush and attack every form of tax competition, even fair ones.
Finally, many of you pointed out that the euro is driving this harmonization or this tax coordination.
Unfortunately we are not yet at that juncture, but allow me to stress that, through close cooperation between the Parliament, in particular its Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the Executive Committee, we were able to get the support of Parliament even under the present institutional system - you are bearing witness to that this evening - and to provide Parliament with the greatest possible amount of transparent information on ongoing work.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
I am moving tonight a report on the tax treatment of private motor vehicles moved permanently from one Member State to another in connection with a transfer of residence or used temporarily in a Member State other than that in which they are registered.
The single market prevents the use of frontier formalities in the collection of taxes, but this has led to some Member States converting excise duties on motor vehicles into registration taxes or introducing new taxes to compensate for VAT rate reductions.
The measures that are proposed cover two broad categories.
There would be a right to use the vehicle for up to six months in any twelvemonth period.
Additional elements guarantee or include greater freedom to use rental cars in Member States other than that in which they are registered, and greater flexibility for cross-border workers who use vehicles provided by their employers.
The second is, in the case of infringements of the rules being encountered, to allow the citizen to have the right to remove the vehicle from a Member State without payment of tax.
The third is simply to bring the whole piece of legislation firmly into accordance with Article 95 of the Treaty.
The most important message that I have for the House tonight is that we must stop Member States circumventing internal market legislation and abusing the spirit of the internal market by applying new names to old taxes.
Indeed, when border formalities were removed on 1 January 1993, many Member States invented new taxes, particularly for motor cars.
These new deductions institute a de facto double taxation which is completely against our principles.
In fact, Commissioner, over the last few weeks I have had a number of problems of double taxation affecting employees referred to me, and these employees came to me so that I might intervene to help them get out of absurd and often difficult situations.
Tomorrow, when we vote on the Watson report, these dozens of cases will leave me with a bitter taste in my mouth, in spite of the responses the Commission has given me with regard to these dossiers.
Although, following this directive and our report, goods transportation will be carried out with increasingly fewer restrictions, the same cannot be said for the movement of people.
Although border formalities when importing cars following a change in residence or for temporary use in another Member State were abolished in January 1993, quite a few Member States have been ingenious enough to replace the border formalities and the accompanying taxes which were dropped with some form of registration tax.
The Commission's proposal rightly limits these practices, which often boil down to no more than double taxation.
My group, Mr President, is fully in agreement with the proposal for a directive, with regard to the basic problem as well as to the solutions found.
We have not tabled any amendments ourselves, but we will support the amendments tabled by the rapporteur on which we unanimously agreed in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
According to the Commission, this proposal is an important step forward towards a single market for the owners and users of private vehicles.
Its adoption will help solve problems that can crop up for people who change their domicile from one Member State to another or who temporarily want to use a vehicle registered in their country of origin in another Member State.
As for Amendment No 3, which is suggested in Article 11 of the proposal, I would just like to point out that Article 95 of the Treaty is already in itself directly applicable to all national legislation and does not need any additional clarification.
The direct effectiveness of Article 95 of the Treaty is upheld by what are now consolidated rulings by the Court of Justice and therefore, for this reason, I am sorry that the Commission cannot accept the amendment.
Secondly, the content of Article 11 of the proposal would not be amended by the insertion of a reference to Article 95.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Mr President, in its resolution of 29 January 1998 on the third generation of mobile communications, this Parliament clearly demonstrated its emphatic support for this extremely interesting project, which concerns nothing less than the nervous system of the global village of the 21st century.
The draft decision establishes the necessary guidelines in line with the directive on licences as well as in cooperation with the CEPT.
In short, Commissioner, we are satisfied with this proposal and we believe that it is perfectly legitimate not to reserve access to UMTS licences to present GSM/DCS operators, nor to exclude them in principle.
At the WRC, the Member States of the European Union negotiate on their own behalf by way of coordination with 28 other European countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Commission's proposal to introduce UMTS in Europe concerns an extremely important technological development in mobile telephony, one of the fastest growing markets, a sector in which Europe has been able to gain a competitive edge using the common GSM standard before the United States.
But on the UMTS standard, greater global convergence has been achieved than on GSM and American operators in particular are expected to rapidly adopt this technology, and will therefore be competing in this area from the very start.
We therefore fully agree with the Commission's proposal and with a rapid timetable to introduce new services and we in the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy encourage investment in the development of terminals that comply with the new standard.
UMTS offers Europe the opportunity to repeat the success achieved with GSM.
I believe that Commissioner Bangemann has already promised to contribute to such an investigation in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
An amendment to this effect was approved by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in this Parliament with a large majority.
Mr President, UMTS will become very important for Europe in the future.
But the emergency number 112 is now also very important for the citizen; the use of the emergency number 112 in the entire European Union should have been introduced a long time ago.
I have pointed this out many times and I submitted a written question on 22 October of last year, a question which was repeated later in the House.
Secondly, which steps and actions will be taken by the Commissioner to ensure that the Member States comply with this obligation?
It is important for both the EU and the Member States to play an active role in promoting the development of the new system so that it becomes just as big a success for Europe as GSM.
The Commission does not have a vote there.
I hope other countries will be able to do the same as the UK, which is setting a good example, and will think about starting to grant licences soon so that we actually achieve the target of bringing the new system into service no later than the year 2002, in accordance with the Commission's timetable.
For this reason we must endeavour to keep the cost of licence fees, regulations and other costs as low as possible.
I also believe that the discussion today has shown that there is no difference in the positions held by Parliament and the Commission on these fundamental issues.
So, let us move on to these individual questions which Mr van Velzen has once again asked.
However, we have taken the view that there is no need for a specific reference to the principles of transparency and nondiscrimination as this is clearly an integral part of Community legislation.
So, as you can see, we have a good chance of not only repeating the success of GSM, but perhaps even of surpassing it.
In further discussions, in particular with US industry and the US administration, we will stress the fact that UMTS is not a mandatory standard proposed by the Commission or by Parliament and the Council but, as ever, an industry-devised standard in our usual tradition.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Transport of nuclear waste The next item is the statement by the Commission on transport of nuclear waste in the European Union.
The Commission has remained in contact with the relevant French and German authorities, in order to monitor the results of these studies which have not yet been competed.
The first measure taken by the relevant authorities when the current situation became known consisted of immediately suspending the transport of irradiated fuel from nuclear plants, whilst awaiting a complete study of the situation and the adoption of additional and appropriate safety measures to guarantee the correct application of European legislation at a national level.
It clearly emerges from the results which are currently available that neither staff nor the population were subjected to exposure to radiation in excess of the limits set at Community level.
The Commission remains in contact with the Member States concerned.
Furthermore, the issue was discussed at a meeting of the Permanent Working Group on the Safety of Transportation of Radioactive Substances, on 18 May and lessons to be drawn from their analysis of the situation have been passed on to the relevant authorities of the Member States.
Nevertheless, as has already been noted, measures aimed at assuring the correct application of European Union legislation are still being studied by the Member States concerned.
If the hot spots where this sweat concentrates come into contact with the human body, these people are at risk.
Some of them work on these flasks and others watch over them.
We are dealing with an industry which is very highly regulated, one of most regulated industries in Europe, and we must take cognizance of the fact that contrary to what my colleague suggested, the containment in these flasks was not breached.
These are questions where we ask the Commission in a joint resolution to tackle the problem.
I stated above that two Member States have halted the transport.
The Commission must present a plan and submit it to our committee as soon as possible.
This debate seems long overdue.
The recent application by BNFL to the British Government for increased area discharges is another unpleasant episode in the ongoing saga of Sellafield and Thorp nuclear plants.
If BNFL had such a blue chip record in the field of public health and public safety why do lobsters along some parts of the east coast have levels of contamination 247 times greater than was the case only in 1993?
If Sellafield sinks we will all sink with it.
In the light of the fact that the Dounreay nuclear plant is now being closed because of the public health risks to the operations being carried out there, the Irish Sea must not be used as a dumping ground for nuclear waste materials from the Sellafield plant.
Mr President, the Commission would have done itself a favour if it had read its own papers, in particular the paper dated 3 April 1996, Commission, No 11.
Mr President, the question of the safety of Europe's citizens in relation to nuclear waste transport is obviously of great importance.
However, the subject can only be dealt with as one detail of a more complex overall issue which deserves our most serious attention.
As we see it, the European Union should do everything in its power to effect a complete withdrawal from nuclear power and, to this end, should promote alternative sources of energy to a much greater extent.
We have in Sellafield a situation I can only describe by saying that we are expecting a spectacular nuclear orgasm any time now because there is in that place a pit which it is suspected may explode at any time.
We will get another chance to do that when we debate the transport of nuclear material, when the Commission sees fit to bring their report to the Transport Committee.
However, the consignments pass through these countries too, because often there is no way round it in Europe for geographical reasons.
New standards must be established on a European basis for monitoring, evaluating risks during transportation, and subsequently a new set of uniform operating standards across Europe.
This is indeed one of the Commission's main concerns, and has been since the beginning of its term of office three and a half years ago.
So how could we not be sensitive to a problem such as this?
Furthermore, any reappearance of excess unfixed contamination during transportation must be followed by decontamination as soon as possible after detection.
A certain number of cases of this kind are thus to be expected, although I cannot give you an exact figure.
In response to part of the question raised by Mr Lange, I would also like to tell him that a report drawn up in 1985 by the International Atomic Energy Agency explicitly recognizes the possibility of the reappearance of unfixed contamination on the surface of the fuel casks during transit, even when this contamination had been wiped off before shipment.
Many of the Member States of the European Union, as well as the Commission, contributed to this report.
However, the responsibility for applying Community directives falls primarily on Member States, and the Commission was unaware of the possible extent of the problem of contamination of fuel casks attributable to this phenomenon before being informed of the situation in France by the relevant French authorities on 30 April 1998.
There are questions which, if I have understood correctly, do not exactly touch upon the problem of transport.
Allow me finally to insist on the fact that we are particularly sensitive to the problems which have just been raised.
As I said, I will immediately pass on your questions to Mrs Bjerregaard, who will be able to give you full answers.
I can see that four Members have asked to speak on very brief questions.
Mr President, a year ago last April we sent back from the Committee on Transport and Tourism a report to the Commission, for consideration also by the Council, on the transport of nuclear material by air.
But I am not in a position to give concrete responses and I do not want to give replies which are vague.
I have received six motions for resolutions , tabled pursuant to Rule 37 (2), on the agenda.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.30 p.m.)
