Thank you, Mrs Hardstaff.
Thank you very much, Mr Pasty.
Second point: this megatunnel, about which I spoke, is unfortunately not 20 km long but 50 km.
The long-term solution is combined transport, not only through the Swiss tunnels, but also through the Brenner Pass and the Fréjus Tunnel between France and Italy.
Goerens report (A4-0388/97) Mr Goerens' report is good.
The European Union and its Member States are the largest providers of Third World aid.
However, as regards general development and structural aid, I believe we must insist on the countries concerned agreeing to respect the human rights of all their citizens, including minorities, and promote democracy.
Imports into Europe from developing countries have declined substantially over the past 20 years or so.
Mr President, with today's discussion, the European Parliament intends to express its own satisfaction with the fact that, for the first time, the Commission has been able to launch an initiative to begin concrete intervention into the problem of the multilateral foreign debt of the poorest and mostheavily indebted ACP countries.
However, it is also necessary to recall the fact that these governments have often enjoyed the support of governments and political and economic groups in the more developed countries, and that the management of international credit has not always been characterized by honesty and fairness.
The exposure to the Community itself, of the 11 ACP countries for whom the Community initiative provides, is for a relatively small sum.
This initiative will have to be the first important step in tackling, in a more comprehensive way, the problems associated with the foreign debt, including the multilateral debt, of the poorest countries on a worldwide level, as a condition for the restoration of the minimum conditions of solvency and economic and financial practicability for many countries in the world.
Mr President, the report by the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on support for structural adjustment and debt relief in heavily indebted ACP states has received the assent of the Committee on Budgets for obvious reasons.
The support we give them by means of this report is therefore intended to provide a lasting answer to their problems, and the European Union, the largest donor to these countries, can act in three ways: by providing additional support for structural adjustment, case by case; by envisaging aid, case by case, to reduce the trade debt and by increasing support for debt management; by taking appropriate measures to reduce the present net amount of the debt of eligible countries to the European Community.
Direct budgetary control of these funds would make the European Union's actions even more efficient.
What doubt can there be about the demand for a sustained or efficient development, in many cases, the cancellation of a debt when it becomes impossible for a country to repay this debt and the interest payments without putting its future economic development at risk.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Union for Europe Group, on whose behalf I am speaking, accepts the EU's participation in the initiative on the debt of the poorest countries launched in 1996, during the G7-Lyons Summit.
As rapporteur, I think it will be necessary to accentuate the fundamental problem of economic and social development and to take the indicators of human development into account.
Finally, as rapporteur, we believe it important that the Council adopts the draft decision as soon as possible and that the Member States of the Union contribute rapidly with their financial participation to the institutions responsible for taking this initiative forward.
Mr President, the debt contracted by the ACP countries towards the member countries of the European Union, as well as towards the European Union itself, represents in many ways a stereotypical case of the heterogenesis of ends, the mechanism of which the Austrian economist Von Mises showed us so well.
Finally, this is why we find a sort of renewed economic and financial dependence on the part of the developing countries upon the countries of Europe, a dependence which is frankly neo-colonialist in flavour.
The second is that the developing countries should display genuine good intentions, through good management of the finance and structural reforms of their economies.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report discusses the issue of the debt burden of various countries in the southern hemisphere and as we all know, it is a heavy burden on the positive and dynamic development of these countries.
Mr President, the HIPC initiative on debt relief in developing countries marks a new approach on the part of the IMF and the World Bank.
We are talking about 5 % of the total debt.
The poor developing countries are in a grave state.
The situation for agriculture in the poor countries is also bad.
For the first time there is a framework which allows coordinated global action to take place, on the part of all borrowers, to help heavily indebted, poor countries who are struggling to put into action economic reform programmes.
This framework includes not only debt reduction, in the case of bilateral commercial debt, but also individually adopted measures in each case which are intended to reduce the multilateral debt load in these countries.
The European Community is offering grants to the heavily indebted, poor countries in the form of non-repayable aid packages.
And although the amounts are small, the Community can in no way remain on the fringe of these initiatives.
The Council has committed itself to a full Community involvement in this initiative.
Such financing adheres to the principle of providing extra resources and guarantees that the Community will give aid above the present aid levels intended for those countries.
Mr President, our two institutions, Parliament and Commission, support Community involvement in this initiative but the parliamentary proposal to resolve this requires a more flexible approach, intending to include a wider group of countries, and to guarantee the quickest and most effective reduction of debt.
The initiative may not be perfect, perhaps, but it is founded on a wide, international consensus of helping a group of countries whose development efforts continue to be hampered by their heavy debt.
Moreover, this initiative should be seen as part of an international collaboration intended to help poor, heavily indebted countries.
The debate is closed.
In Britain Chancellor Gordon Brown and Clare Short, as the first Cabinet level minister for our newly created Department for International Development, have met with church leaders and others to discuss debt relief issues.
I hope that my many colleagues in this House with influence over their respective churches will ask them to lobby their national governments as not all have so far followed the British in our enthusiasm for this important work.
The report is correct to link the need for sustainable economic reform by poorer countries with debt relief by the more developed countries.
Both north and south can work in partnership here so that for example environmental and poverty reduction work by indebted countries go hand in hand with debt relief.
It is important that we approach the Latvian agreement in that spirit.
We all want to encourage the people of the Baltic Republics to think in terms of their European identity and in terms of preparing for European Union membership.
It is very important in that context that we welcome all the moves proposed, including this fisheries agreement, to bring in all the countries of Eastern Europe from Estonia, through Latvia and Lithuania right down to Slovakia and Bulgaria and so on; that we do not say that there are two classes of potential Member States out there but welcome them all to be in dialogue with us.
The background to this report is that there were agreements in 1993 with the three Baltic Republics.
Latvia has a relatively small fleet. 186 vessels in the in-shore fleet at the last count and 15 longdistance vessels which fish mainly off Mauritania.
The important point is that the proposal will involve joint enterprises between the European Community and Latvia and also that there will be a grant of ECU 2.5 million to assist in the modernization process.
I should also like to concur with his remarks this morning concerning all the Baltic countries and their common progress towards EU membership.
It is important that we achieve a balance between enabling the Baltic states applying to join the European Union to modernize their fleets - in the case of Latvia, as has been said, boats are on average 20 years old - and the need to maintain overall fish stocks and not increase overall fishing capacity.
In the fisheries agreement between the EU and Latvia signed on 16 December, the contracting parties agreed to encourage the establishment of joint enterprises as laid down in the protocol conditions.
I think it is vitally important that there should be such enterprises and I believe those contributing from within the EU can play an important role in the development of the industry in Latvia.
On average, the Latvian fleet is some 20 years old, whereas the EU vessels which will be transferred can be as young as five years.
One of the lessons learned from my report on the control of the CFP was that even the EU vessels registries were not accurate.
The Council's negotiating guidelines were looking at the establishment of joint undertakings and joint enterprises in the fishing sector as a fresh element in the new fishing agreements.
The proposal here consists of a Protocol on the establishment of joint enterprises with Latvia as it applies to the fishing agreement which was ratified last year.
The debate is closed.
The European Parliament adopted the last report about mountain regions in 1988, that is ten years ago.
The system until now of restricting Structural Funds support to the defined areas has not made it possible to make regulations about a specific target area for mountain regions.
In Agenda 2000, the Commission defined its plans for this reform for the future period 2000 to 2006.
However, apart from these problems, for which there is room in other debates, it is right, here, to highlight the way in which the reform of the Structural Funds speaks directly a language like that of the mountains.
The European Parliament's last report on mountain regions dates back to 1988.
Ten years is a long time for a fragile and delicate policy area such as that of the mountains.
I say all this in the light of the reform of the Structural Funds which those of us who live in the mountains are watching with great concern; from seven funds we are reduced to only three, and furthermore both of the funds dedicated chiefly to agriculture, 5a and 5b, have disappeared, the second being specifically for agriculture in areas of hardship and mountain areas.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, my colleague Mr Bontempi (who has asked me to apologize for his absence as he has been held up in Spain today, for reasons indirectly connected with mountain regions) and I have, like other Members, noted the absence of any general debate in this house on mountain region policy, during the last ten years.
It notes the on the whole favourable effect of the reform of the agricultural policy, in all agricultural areas, but those who have gained the most, in this respect, are farmers in underprivileged areas but not in the mountains.
It is obvious that in mountain regions we need to have a policy of quality production, because it is impossible to compete with the milk factories in the plain.
This policy was encouraged, in France, by the Mountain Regions Act of 1985, which instituted a 'Mountain' label.
The label was declared contrary to the Treaty by the European Court of Justice, in the Pistre ruling of 7 May 1997, which, rightly in fact, detected discrimination against non-French products.
But it is at least necessary to confirm the specific identity of the 'mountain regions' , in respect of Objective 2, and to create a firmer link with physical handicap, instead of the simple criterion of income, because some economic activities can have a harmful effect on environmental protection, or agriculture in mountain areas.
Finally, to conclude, Madam President, Mr Commissioner, a word about cross-border programmes, which relate to several mountainous areas, certainly not all the mountain regions of Europe, but several mountainous areas, particularly the Alps and the Pyrenees.
The Commission has decided to develop these programmes and to give them larger grants.
It is a fragile heritage.
Madam President, it is very positive that Parliament is drawing attention to the special situation and the problems which the EU's mountain regions have.
Perhaps people could consider whether it would be possible to put eco-labels on certain areas where people work and live in a certain way, and also provide increased aid via the Structural Funds.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this matter allows the Commission to clearly state its stance on the reform of the Structural Funds and, more exactly, on the way in which it will take into account the specific characteristics of mountain regions.
As we think about adapting the structural and agricultural policy, set down in Agenda 2000, questions put to the Commission deal, fundamentally, with the possibility of producing specific measures for mountain regions.
The mountain regions should reap special benefits in relation to their definite needs and be reasonable about them.
Secondly, because attention given to agro-environmental measures in the Agenda 2000 proposals will also allow optimum use to be made of the specific features in the mountain regions.
On the fringe of this general proposal the Committee has put forward two more specific questions relating to the mountain regions; the first refers to the Alpine Convention and the measures which the Commission intends to put into operation to apply this; secondly, in relation to the classification criteria for the mountain regions and, in concrete terms, altitude.
And given the situation the Commission's action consists for the moment in the active involvement in the work of the Standing Committee on the Alpine Convention, and in the system to coordinate what we can see and find out about the Alps.
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the questions and explanations of the various parties have already shown in how many ways the mountains can be seen.
Madam President, Mr Commissioner, the European project is a project for civilisation.
But we also know what imbalances it can lead to in social and also in geographical terms.
And it is from that point of view that we must indeed reposition European social policy, and also regional policy, one of the areas of which relates to mountain regions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the oral questions raised by my colleagues relating to mountain regions and, in particular, to Alpine areas, raise for us a series of problems which are burningly topical.
This is why a particular status should be accorded the Alpine area within the concept of mountain regions, even through the Structural Funds, a particular status which could not fail to take account not only of the economy but also of the culture, not only of its belonging to individual States but of its specific transnational nature which is a real paradigm of what we are in the habit of calling a Europe of the regions, a Europe of the peoples.
Rather than questioning the actual provisions of a policy in favour of mountain regions, future reforms should on the contrary consider them as a good initial basis to be refined and complemented in order to go beyond the stage of occasional, experimental action, and to set up, within the framework of the revised Objective 2, a real permanent programme, which is predictable, and therefore stimulating, which will in particular attract young workers.
I am extremely pleased in this respect with Commissioner Ortega's remarks that, as wetlands are also ecologically sensitive areas in which this House is particularly interested, they should, like mountain regions, be given more specific support within the framework of the reform of the structural policy.
Madam President, the mountain regions in the European Union - as has already been pointed out in the debate - have similar features, and the mountain regions in nearby countries involved in the enlargement also have similar features.
There have been Community initiatives dealing with other European regions with common features, the outlying or maritime regions etcetera, but the mountain regions in the past have scarcely had any specific initiative; if any it was very specifically related to an aspect of agricultural policy.
The areas with important mountain regions - I live in one of them, where areas very close to the sea and predominantly mountainous areas live side by side - are an important part of the reality of this European Union.
For this reason, it will be necessary that the regulations which will govern the Structural Funds in the future, in the way expressed by the Commissioner or in an even more detailed way, will deal with implementing them positively and integrally in this common heritage, within the framework of a rigorous regional policy, with the aim of making progress in the cohesion of our regions and our peoples.
Madam President, the truth is that we are at a defining time in the new Community policies for regional development, within the framework of Agenda 2000, and this is the right moment to discuss this topic and formulate proposals so that the specific problems relating to mountain regions will be included in Community policies for regional development.
At present there are many pilot schemes which the European Commission might use to empower these areas in their proposals and use them as a model.
Madam President, this debate concerns regional policy and an equal Europe.
Therefore, the high position of the rural areas must be clearly established in Agenda 2000.
The EU average is 56 %.
Particularly for us in the mountain areas - there are very many mountain areas in my home country, although people generally do not know that, but Upper Bavaria consists partly of mountain areas - this means first that the small farmers must be maintained at any price, because without these people there are no more mountains.
Second, in the whole definition of transport we must put always the ecological aspects in the foreground, because when we see the destructive effect which certain roads have already had, through Trentino-Alto Adige for instance, when we know how dangerous certain projects are for us, we have to say that the ecological standpoint must be allowed a quite high status, because only in this way can we maintain the heart of Europe!
The second, and perhaps even more important point is education and further education in these areas.
There is a very specific subject here which has been put forward to which I cannot give you a reply, but indeed I have listened to you - which is what we are referring to in the classification criteria for the mountain regions which have still not been defined.
As you know, Mr Lindqvist, we are at this time examining reform of the Structural Funds.
Dr von Habsburg has made a specific mention of this and I wish to join him in that too.
I should also like to ask Commissioner Oreja, who I know has a very strong interest in these matters, whether he does not agree that this will weaken the voice of Scotland and Wales in particular at this time when we are talking about the future development of Agenda 2000 and all these vital issues?
Madam President, I can only agree with what you have just said - and I am speaking in my capacity as Commissioner in charge of institutional affairs: this decision affects each of the Member States.
It seems very important to me that a region as important as Scotland should have an adequate and meaningful presence on the Committee.
But this is a decision which affects Member States.
The debate is closed .
