The events which have taken place in Dagestan and Chechnya in recent weeks render it almost imperative that this pressing problem be resolved through military action.
The proposal in the resolution to convene a New Millennium Conference in which European partners and organisations would also participate and provide structures for such negotiations is, therefore, very important.
The European Union also has to look into the problem of refugees, and very closely at that.
Mr President, a brutal colonial war is currently taking place in the Caucasus which is being disguised as an anti-terrorist and anti-fundamentalist campaign, I could almost say a holy crusade.
Mr President, the Russian Parliament is trying to impeach this same President for the former war in Chechnya.
Russia has got its own Kurdish problem, which is evidently just as difficult to solve as it has been in Turkey.
It is therefore a question of a political solution - I do not believe a military one to be possible - and we now have the opportunity to help Russia, which is in a difficult political situation in any case, by offering help to find a solution and bring about negotiations on the Chechen problem.
I wonder: why is there this discrimination against a people which has every right to self-determination?
Mr President, there is nothing new about the conflict between Russia and Chechnya, that small country in the Caucasus with little more than a million inhabitants which, nevertheless, has the same right as any large country to freely determine its own future.
The last precursor to the current conflict took place between 1994 and 1996, a war which cost 100,000 lives.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
Secondly, if the rules are so totally different whereby arms exports to Yugoslavia are prohibited by law, but are permitted to Indonesia, for example, then clearly standards other than those contained in the Code, namely economic interests and trade, hold sway.
The topicality of the motion comes because the year 2000 has now been declared by the United Nations to be the year for peace and to usher in a decade of UN aims for peace.
Mr President, the reason for this urgent resolution is, of course, that we as a Parliament have produced a joint statement about the problem of bringing the export of small arms and arms in general under control.
Mr President, this resolution states that we are appalled by the atrocities in East Timor and that these awful events strengthen the need for effective controls on arms exports.
In the very week after Britain agreed to an EU embargo on arms sales to the Indonesian government last month, three British Hawk warplanes were delivered secretly to Indonesia.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
The important thing is to mark the end of the twentieth century by means of action by Europe - Europe as the home of human rights - involving the abolition of the death penalty.
I would ask the Commission to undertake to implement these objectives to make Europe the global home of political action against the death penalty.
Mr President, since I and my colleague Olivier Dupuis moved this draft resolution on a moratorium on the death penalty, a most grievous and sinister event has taken place.
Mr President, the fight against the death penalty in the world is, first and foremost, civilisation' s fight for the right of humanitarian intervention which is making headway in terms of global awareness.
Mr President, it is high time that we adopted a universal moratorium on the death penalty, that true administrative murder, as Albert Camus called it.
This is the purpose of our resolution directed at the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Like my colleague, I would like to devote a few words to the urgency with which we must intervene to save Moumia Abou Jamal.
Moumia is the black American journalist who was sentenced to death in 1982 after a police set-up and a rigged trial.
Having spent 17 years on death row, Moumia is now at the mercy of an execution order which the Governor of Pennsylvania can legally sign at any time.
The shock that this produced in public opinion and the resulting powerful international mobilisation, in which this Parliament took full part, already prevented the implementation of the first execution order, signed on 2 June 1995.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank Mr Frassoni, Mr Thors and Mr Manisco for their support for the text of this resolution.
The days and weeks to come must be used to give solid form to this great text in favour of the abolition of the death penalty by the General Assembly.
The initiatives of recent years have shown the Americans that this is not the case, but I believe that this point should continue to be stressed.
I would ask the House to take an urgent stand against the execution of the black American journalist, Moumia Abou Jamal.
Moumia Abou Jamal may be executed at any moment, since his appeal in the United States Supreme Court has just been rejected.
The United States is a signatory to the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, the Convention against Racial Discrimination, as well as the Convention against Torture, which is applicable in Moumia' s case since the racial factor weighed heavily in his trial and he has spent seventeen years on death row which constitutes, according to those Treaties, an unjust form of punishment which is equivalent to torture.
This is why I call on the House to vote not only for the resolution against the death penalty, but also for the amendment which adds that the European Parliament is appealing to the Governor of Pennsylvania to refrain from signing any new execution order against Moumia Abou Jamal and is renewing its demand for a review of his case.
Moluccan Islands Mr President, viewed apart, the problems facing Ambon have their own particular characteristics, yet at the same time there are certain similarities with the situation in East Timor and also in Aceh and other parts of Indonesia.
The international and European Community can only play a modest role.
Mr President, with all due respect to my colleagues in this Parliament, I think that it is a little odd - I thought I would just say this, looking at the list of speakers - that we are having what is almost an all-Dutch round on the Moluccas.
In August alone, there were 65 deaths and 242 people were injured.
In September, a further 40 people died and many people were injured.
The area is becoming more and more unsettled.
There are many people from the Moluccan islands living in the Netherlands and they also believe it is important for the European Parliament to speak out about the situation in that part of Indonesia.
We want the United Nations to play an active part in this, particularly in the interests of the people who live on the Moluccan Islands.
The current irregularities are much more organised in character than the disturbances that took place in January.
Democratic structures are not functioning and we are on the sidelines to some extent because the international community is disregarded by the authorities in Minsk.
We know that we are faced with a very, very difficult situation on account of the fact that in this country, such dubious Stalinist values are enjoying a renaissance and it appears that nothing has really changed.
The work of the OSCE is marking time, in spite of the enormous motivation of the working group and despite the fact that it is really looking into every opportunity in detail.
But it does have a point, because we would like to show the people that we will never lose hope for a change in Belarus, and that we will do all we can to ensure that democracy is restored to this country.
The situation of the Roma in Kosovo Mr President, it is an incredibly serious crisis we have in Kosovo regarding the Roma.
Mr President, we are now talking about the situation facing the Roma in Kosovo.
If the Albanian leaders expect us to support them in rebuilding Kosovo, then it is right that we should not hesitate to remind them of their responsibilities with regard to the Roma.
Only this week, I was confronted with one example of this in the form of a Czech local authority that wants to build a wall somewhere in the city in order to separate the Gypsies from the rest of the population.
The Council of Europe is very active in this area, for every day there are in fact reports of problems somewhere in the world.
The war against Serb ethnic cleansing in Kosovo was a just war.
It would be a betrayal of those who believed in the morality of the war in Kosovo for us now to tolerate discrimination against any minorities there - whether Serb, the subject of my Group' s amendment, or Roma.
The government is well aware of the Union' s view and acknowledges its responsibilities.
I heard the debate today and I interpret it as a very mature and very sober contribution to furthering these hopes that what I would call a soft landing for Indonesia and for all the peoples of Indonesia can be obtained.
The Commission and the EU have been clear from the outset in our condemnation of all ethnic violence whoever the perpetrator and whoever the victim.
The Commission continues through its assistance programmes in the field of democratisation and human rights to support confidence-building measures and dialogue between the different communities.
We fully support the efforts of KFOR to maintain law and order in Kosovo and to protect all citizens.
UNMIK has approached the Commission for support for the Kosovo protection corps.
We call on all others within and outside Kosovo to also support these aims and to support UNMIK and KFOR in their work to achieve them.
Kosovo must become a multi-ethnic society without distinction or discrimination on ethnic or any other grounds.
The vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it really is very important that a debate is taking place on the Ustica massacre here today.
It will take on particular importance if Parliament manages to exercise an appropriate political and practical role which will help shed light on this sombre event and bring justice for the 81 victims and their families who, for more than 19 years, have been waiting to find out what happened, why it happened, and who was responsible.
Over the past 19 years, we have seen numerous dramatic turns of events regarding the investigations to establish the truth that has still not emerged which, it appears, is also down to those involved preventing this happening and riding roughshod over the legal rights of the victims' families and over our basic democratic principles.
We do not want to apply a political interpretation or allow anyone to exploit a tragedy which has caused so much suffering.
After all, the relatives of the 81 victims are asking for nothing more than to know the truth and to see that justice be done.
Mr President, on the night of 27 June 1980, off the coast of Ustica, 81 innocent European citizens who were flying from Bologna to Palermo, lost their lives in the course of a military operation which involved the civilian airliner in which they were travelling.
The European citizens, including the 81 European families of the victims of Ustica, have the right to demand all our help in bringing justice to bear.
This is also of the greatest interest to us because this is the only way to prevent something similar happening again in European skies, and not only in European skies.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ustica tragedy - with more than 80 dead, almost 20 years of inquiries and more than 15 victims linked to this tragedy either during or after the inquiries - brings to mind three crucial points: the transparency, accountability and arrogance of a certain type of military power, but not only military power.
In my opinion, the Nevada desert is much more suitable because Italy has too many inhabitants.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1980 something happened in Italy, the scale of which, in terms of numbers of victims, made it a disaster.
The victims, their families and the entire international community have the right to uncover the truth, not in twenty years or more but as quickly as possible.
Mr President, today' s debate in this House is also an opportunity to highlight the extremely serious and unjustified delay of a magistracy measure arriving after twenty years of inquiries.
This is why the Commission has advocated in the past, in its White Paper on freeing European airspace, that European airspace should be managed centrally by a strong international organisation for all aspects of its use.
We shall therefore abstain in the vote.
Mr President, the accident which has just happened in Japan shows that nuclear power can never be completely safe.
The resolution which has been produced is a good one, even if I should like to have seen it go further still in the positions it adopts.
Nuclear power and the way in which nuclear fuel is handled are probably, all in all, no less safe in Japan than they are in our own countries.
But in Britain, BNFL has recently admitted the falsifications of safety checks on MOX fuel while in Japan the authorities have found that the plant at Tokaimura was operating illegally for four years.
The nuclear industry is clearly out of control.
But in Tokaimura, the Japanese authorities have themselves recognised that the safety procedures, both in the conversion plant and in the fuel production plant, had not been followed.
In the case of Tokaimura, the IAEA should, in any case, ask the Japanese authorities not to authorise the resumption of reprocessing activities before a thorough investigation is carried out and before public and transparent conclusions are published.
We are in favour, Mr President, of the use of nuclear energy and we know that, in the European Union, the safety rules and conditions are stricter and more respected.
But also on the other hand, the manipulation by too many people of public opinion in order to spread irrational fears and terrors which were well known a thousand years ago.
No, nuclear power does not kill any more than a traditional source such as coal has killed and still kills.
That is the purpose of our resolution today.
Two accidents have focused our attention over the last ten days.
The first was in Tokaimura in which some 45 people were injured and 3 are in a critical condition in hospital.
As a former Japanese civil servant, and as a member of the Japanese delegation for the last 15 years, I wish to put on our record, however, our concern for the victims of this accident in Japan.
Today, after these two bad accidents, the one in Japan and the other South Korea, we have to recognise that drawing this distinction between high-risk nuclear reactors and supposedly non-risk nuclear reactors was a serious strategic error.
The nuclear accident of 30 September in the private nuclear power plant in Japan proved once more that the use of nuclear energy is dangerous and that it is imperative that we establish tough safety specifications.
The Commission has already asked the Japanese authorities for detailed information on the accident and its causes.
The authorities have launched an enquiry.
The Commission will also undertake a review of the present levels of training in nuclear safety for operators and other workers in the different types of nuclear facilities in the European Union.
Research on safety culture in the nuclear sector is already included in the research and training part of the Community' s Fifth Framework Programme.
The Commission will respond positively to any request for assistance from the Japanese authorities in managing or exploring the consequences of the accident.
The questions relating to inspection of the fuel at the Sellafield MOX plant are within the competence of the national authorities and have been reported to the UK nuclear installations inspectorate.
Transport of MOX fuel is performed under the control of national authorities in the countries of origin and destination, taking into account the appropriate Community legislation and IAEA standards.
As the MOX fuel shipped to Japan is ready for use in the nuclear power reactors without any further processing, it will not pass through the Tokaimura facility.
Concerning the use of MOX fuel in nuclear power plants, this is a decision made by the individual electrical utility after licensing by their national safety authorities.
Motion for Resolution (B5-0188/99) on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on climate change: preparing for implementation of the Kyoto protocol (Parliament adopted the resolution) Explanations of vote According to the definition in the Kyoto protocol, only forests established in non-forested areas after 1990 can be considered as carbon sinks.
Under this method of calculation, only 1 to 3% of the network of European forest can be taken into account.
I welcome the fact that EU Environment Ministers have agreed to reduce the EU' s emission of six greenhouse gases by 8% between the years 2008 and 2012.
I welcome the debates which took place this week in the European Parliament on the uses of alternative energy resources.
This Green Paper discusses the framework for reducing CO2 emissions within all sectors of our society.
This more than doubles Sweden' s contribution to overall CO2 emissions from electricity production.
