We arrived here last night at 10.40.
Quite frankly, if Air France cannot provide a better service to Strasbourg airport then a lot of British Members are just not going to turn up in Strasbourg.
Mr Corrie, I would not be adding very much if I said that you have all our sympathy, but that does not change anything.
Mr Theonas, a debate will take place tomorrow in the presence of the Council and the Commission on the situation in Kosovo and all these problems.
With regard to the transport problems, I must remind you that we are allies and so, in this case, Air France should not be criticised because the problems are due to air traffic having been disrupted by the military flights over Serbia and Kosovo.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am today presenting my final report to this House as I will be standing down at the elections on 13 June.
I will be returning to southern Belgium to continue my work of promoting European construction in other ways.
Before the 1992 reform of the common agricultural policy, the report on agricultural prices was one of the most sought-after and most prestigious reports.
Although this has now lost its attraction, the prices for agricultural products still form the bulk of farmers' income, providing between 60 % and 80 % depending on the types of product.
We are increasingly telling our farmers about the necessary enlargement of the European Union and they are not against this.
Between 500 and 600 farmers are leaving farming every day, with this figure reaching over 3 000 per week in certain areas.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal amounts to minor modifications of the COM in fresh fruit and vegetables and the processing of citrus fruits.
As a result of the 1996 reform, most of the instruments designed to regulate the market were replaced by producer organisations' operating funds.
The producer organisations play a central role in the COM and it is essential to avoid any modification of the regulations which might weaken them.
We might wonder how a producer organisation can regard as a right the abandonment of its main purpose - marketing its members' produce.
This approach could have a negative effect on the main role of producer organisations - marketing their members' produce.
The Commission has come up with an appropriate proposal to resolve this problem.
The Commission's proposal does not resolve the imbalance between the thresholds set for the processing of citrus fruits and production reality.
This situation could result in the processing of citrus fruits becoming less profitable than withdrawal.
The lack of balance between the commitment appropriations and the actual payments highlights the imbalance between the instruments for the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables.
Following reform of the COM in fruit and vegetables, a surplus in commitment appropriations of ECU 400 million over payments was recorded.
It is therefore proposed to increase the threshold to the average quantities processed in the last four years.
This figure falls well within the financial margin of expenditure not incurred for withdrawals.
A 20 % limit on penalties should be set.
It is also a sign that agricultural products are in need nowadays not so much of policies to defend and protect them but of aggressive, innovative policies to promote them judiciously on third countries' markets.
Mr President, Commissioner, in the explanatory statement of the opinion I am privileged to present to you today, the REX Committee has indicated that, in its view, the Commission's proposal is very important and represents a great opportunity.
The reform of the common agricultural policy in the framework of Agenda 2000 ought indeed to include a package of external measures providing for the development of actions to promote and provide information on agricultural products in third countries.
Mr President, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I should like to put an oral question concerning the present state of the market for garlic.
I should reiterate that this is not a new situation, and the reason for putting this question now is that in accordance with Regulation No 1137/98 of 29 May, the period in which import licences may be granted for a maximum of 12 000 tonnes of garlic from China is due to expire on 31 May.
This concerns the following groups of amendments: firstly, Amendments Nos 13, 16, 23, 33, 38 and 42 on the rate of inflation; then Amendments Nos 14, 17, 24, 34 and 39 on the introduction of the euro; and finally, Amendments Nos 15, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 25, 27 to 31, 36 and 41 on raising prices.
The Commission cannot agree to these amendments, because they would run directly counter to the need to improve the competitiveness of Community produce, both in the internal market and on the world markets.
Incidentally, Council Regulation No 2799/98 on the new agri-monetary arrangements provides in any case that if there is proven loss of income as a result of the introduction of the euro, then compensatory payments may be granted, provided that the conditions specified are met.
Amendment No 2 concerns flax and hemp and aims to promote the use of these agricultural products for non-food purposes.
In the light of the new timetable for the reform of the common organisation of the markets in the milk sector, Amendment No 35 is unjustified.
Finally, as regards the three amendments on the beef and veal sector, Amendments Nos 37, 40 and 41, I would point out that they are unnecessary in view of the proposals to reform this sector.
In conclusion, I would ask you to bear in mind that while we are waiting for Agenda 2000 to be implemented, we should on no account lose sight of the fact that underlying these price proposals are efforts to achieve greater simplification and stability which are reinforced by the broad consensus in this debate.
I now turn to the report on a number of adjustments to the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables.
As you know, this is only the second marketing year that this new market organisation has been in force, and you also know that in any case it is intended to carry out a general review of the way this market organisation is operating next year.
Mr Peres also refers to a number of problems which we will have to deal with during the forthcoming review.
The Commission therefore believes that many of the proposed amendments are premature and would not appear to be feasible without a detailed analysis.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 2 and 5, because the producer organisations need to have the financial and technical capability to monitor their products appropriately.
We will therefore have to make considerable efforts in this field in the future and develop a wide range of information and promotional measures so as to consolidate our position in these markets, particularly because European products are as a rule highly processed and that can only mean that jobs are also at stake here.
As regards the nature and content of the measures to be supported, I can accept Amendment No 7.
The more precise statement of the target groups at which the measures should be directed, analysed in Amendment No 8, does not, however, seem to me to be necessary.
Introducing such rigid rules, as proposed in the amendments, could prevent our policy from having the best possible effect.
In addition, the professional organisations have to obtain the prior agreement of the national authorities before they submit their proposals to the Commission.
I cannot accept Amendments Nos 3, 4, 15, 19 and 24 on the tendering procedure, because the Commission believes that external support facilities must be selected on the basis of an invitation to tender, so as to ensure maximum transparency of Community interests.
The Commission is currently investigating the possibilities open to it within the WTO for resolving the problems in the garlic sector and is also preparing to introduce a new system which provides for an appropriately high rate of duty on all garlic imports, with the exception of imports falling within the proposed tariff quotas.
A draft recommendation for a Council decision authorising the Commission to hold negotiations with the third countries concerned about this change in the bound rate of duty is currently being prepared.
In the meantime, as an initial measure, the safeguard clause, which exists in principle and which we have applied in recent years, is being further extended.
Ladies and gentlemen, where expenditure is concerned, soundness, financial stability and continuity are of great importance, and in recent years - we can almost go back to the beginning of the European Union - they have not always been valued as much as we in the European Parliament, as representatives of the taxpayer, would have liked.
This opportunity must also be open to their successors.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to talk about the CAP reform negotiated in Berlin until tomorrow, in the debate on the summit's conclusions.
We now have this reform for 1999 before us in which, once again, agricultural policy is defined according to a medium-term horizon, in this case of seven years.
However, in the future the price packages will basically be used to adjust agricultural policy measures during the medium-term horizon.
If we are to have any sense of responsibility, there is therefore no point in proposing new measures, in particular price increases, when the Agriculture Council has just unanimously reduced these same prices within Agenda 2000.
Since the Berlin summit, the immediate future for farmers in terms of agricultural policy looks brighter than the Commission had previously envisaged.
However, we should be aware that in the slightly longer term, the significance of the market and competition will increase.
In this context, I should like to say that what emerges from Mr Fantuzzi's report about endeavouring to increase sales is constructive.
We therefore need a policy to promote our agricultural products, provided that this has adequate financial resources, unlike the current proposals.
Obviously, this view of general stability may seem outrageous and blasphemous but I understand and support it.
There is no doubt that the 1992 reform, which was based on historical production rates, created a sharp difference in aid throughout Europe, particularly between rich Europe and poor Europe.
My group therefore supports the proposal.
Finally, garlic is a normal problem.
We believe that, in view of the organised crime and laundering which the Commission has allowed in recent years, in this case strict control would solve the problem.
You said that you were against regulating the pig market, Mr Fischler.
Secondly, the increase resulting from this proposal must benefit the 80 % of farmers who are the most disadvantaged.
With regard to Mr Fantuzzi's report, this proposal is much more important than it seems at first sight.
In view of the changes in the world agricultural trade, it is clearly imperative that the European Union implements a common action policy to promote and provide information on its products in third countries.
Given that our main commercial competitor - the United States of America - spends approximately EUR 140 million per year on promotion, not to mention indirect aid, the Commission's proposal to allocate EUR 15 million to the promotion of agricultural products is derisory.
This is why we support the rapporteur's proposal to increase this figure to EUR 50 million between now and 2003.
I did in fact table these amendments last year when I was rapporteur on the price package.
The fall in prices and in agricultural compensation will end up forcing farmers towards greater intensification when all they want to do is balance their budgets.
In anticipation of a future reform of COM 1, it is essential to set up the mechanisms specified in this in order to prevent any breakdown.
These amendments involve extending the duration of planting rights, allowing planting in advance and providing for new planting rights in order to respond to market changes.
I deeply regret this situation which will unfortunately prevent a balance being achieved in European agriculture and between each Member State.
Mr President, as everyone else has already congratulated Mr Happart, I will refrain from doing so as well.
Both the official and illegal Chinese garlic leaves China at 10 centimes per kilo.
It arrives in Europe at 4.50 francs per kilo which is 0.70 euro, whereas our producers can only produce it for 10 francs per kilo which is approximately 1.5 euro.
This garlic is then offered to consumers at 3 euro or 20 francs per kilo.
The Netherlands and the United Kingdom, who are involved in these illegal imports, are being allowed to continue.
It is difficult to discuss these matters without also seeing them in the light of what actually happened in Berlin.
This is an important area in connection with both Agenda 2000 and the forthcoming WTO negotiations.
To use 40 % of the budget on this sector is perhaps a little excessive.
True to his record, he has once again presented us with a report which is not only technically accurate and thorough but also well balanced from a political point of view.
A central feature of the COM as it was set up in 1996 was the key role of the producer organisations in terms of both marketing their members' produce and regulating the markets financing withdrawal operations.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the average income of farmers in Portugal has continually and systematically shrunk in recent years, particularly between 1996 and 1998.
This means that less than 10 % of the cake will continue to be distributed to more than 90 % of those actually working the land.
In this context, the Commission is trying to bring forward the Berlin decisions and is proposing further price reductions for next season.
The Commission should draw the respective and requisite conclusions from this and accordingly not insist on, or even abandon, its proposals to abolish market intervention mechanisms in other agricultural sectors.
The fall in market prices which began in 1998 is continuing in 1999 and the prospects on the world market remain uncertain in some sectors.
The abolition of the green rates and the introduction of the euro on 1 January 1999 have resulted in a fall of 1 % to 2 % in the agricultural conversion rates in each Member State.
We must maintain a prosperous and successful agricultural sector and, in particular, we must prevent the disappearance of certain categories of farmers due to falling income.
Furthermore, European consumers benefit from this model because they are assured of quality products and a regular market supply.
Our agri-food industry also represents a high value added.
In twenty years, the price of a metric quintal of wheat has fallen by 40 % whereas production costs have increased by 20 % and more in certain sectors.
The European Union's role is not to sacrifice its agriculture on the altar of enlargement or Americanisation but to allow our farmers to carry out their work and to have a standard of living equal to the average in Europe.
Mr President, I welcome this opportunity this morning to speak on the situation regarding agriculture within the European Union and the effects of present policy and of the recent decisions at the Berlin Summit.
To some extent prices have very little effect on the farmer's actual future, because while we sit and talk about prices and say there will be no inflationary aspects, in the final analysis it is the actual income to the farmer that is important.
To some extent what we are involved in at the moment in Europe is short-term policies that have no long-term vision.
We require long-term vision for the future, for the future of agriculture.
There are also areas within European agriculture that are not covered by any regime, such as the situation in the pig industry and the situation in the poultry industry.
At the same time we are laying down standards, we are telling our farmers how they should produce food.
It begs the question of whether associations already in existence might not be able to perform this task.
That is why the amendment stating that the Community should pay 60 % of the costs in each case rather than a maximum of 50 % is not acceptable.
The extra expenditure is not justified overall and these amendments go against the whole thrust of the CAP reforms agreed in Berlin.
I wish to welcome the proposals on fruit and vegetables, in particular the move to allow up to 20 % of produce to be sold directly to consumers at the farm gate or through farmers' markets.
We have seen the growth of farmers' markets and the demand from consumers for less standardised fruit and vegetables in terms of size, seeking rather flavour and freshness at prices which provide a good deal for both producer and consumer.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ever since agricultural policy was converted into a price support system in the agricultural reform of 1992 to 1994, agricultural debates have in fact lost much of their charm.
However, its impact and the form it takes vary across the Member States.
However, I should now like to turn to the rural development programme - the second pillar of the new agricultural policy - and say the following: the remarkable feature of this programme is the variety of measures for farmers and rural areas.
Mr Prodi, you have the floor.
But I was even more conscious that solid links with Europe were the only means of guaranteeing every individual country and every individual citizen a future of peace and progress in the world of globalisation.
Today I am happy to be here before you, not only to assure you that I intend to apply the same determination to this new phase of the European venture, but also to assure you of my personal commitment and that of the future Commission to guiding Europe towards a great age of reform and change; I repeat, a great age of reform and change.
It is an age of reform which, as I have said, must affect all the European institutions: the Commission first and foremost, but also the Council and even Parliament.
Therefore, even at this very early stage of my relationship with the European Union, and at my very first encounter with Parliament in plenary sitting, it is legitimate that I should set out my vision of the European venture.
We must now face the difficult task of moving towards a single economy and political unity.
Even though competition is not the sole objective of the new Europe, I am nevertheless aware that a high degree of competition is a necessary tool to reduce our excessive pockets of inefficiency.
More direct action is needed from the governments and the Commission to promote investment in research and development, especially in the new electronic, information and communication technologies, but also in chemicals, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and more generally in the life sciences.
The future of our continent, not only that of its industry and finance but of European society as a whole, depends on high-tech, research-intensive, knowledge-based industries.
Where Europe falls down is in the ability to convert this tradition, this knowledge, into opportunities for growth, above all by improving the links between the academic world and the world of production.
It will fall to the Commission to endeavour to implement as rapidly as possible the agreements reached in Berlin on Agenda 2000 and, within the limits of the budget, to launch high-profile European schemes which not only boost internal demand in Europe but make the Union's actions visible to the people.
Growth is the necessary condition for Europe's economic policy to help reduce unemployment.
The new financial and monetary stability introduced through the establishment of the single currency can help to address this urgent requirement with success.
From EU enlargement to the universal affirmation of the principles of freedom and democracy, I feel a moral and political duty to interpret the desire for Europe and its presence.
Europe can therefore stand as a model of development and social cohesion, internally, and it has a growing presence on the international stage.
By strengthening the link between economic prosperity and trade, on the one hand, and political stability on the other, the European Union must continue along the road of multinational liberalisation under the auspices of the World Trade Organisation.
Finally, Europe must pursue its policy of partnership and cooperation with the countries of the former Soviet Union and the Balkans, above all those bordering on the Mediterranean, so as to create a large area of stability and a free market in which the European Union can prosper and invest.
An equally dominant role must fall to the individual national governments and, within them, to the bodies and institutions representing the local authorities, which have thus far been badly neglected in the building of Europe.
The highly ambitious tasks which I have outlined for Europe in the future certainly cannot be pursued with the existing Community institutions, which the Amsterdam Treaty has only begun to reform.
However, the democratic legitimacy of increasingly important European institutions and the effectiveness of EU policies create the need for a more ambitious blueprint, based on a strengthening of Parliament's powers of codecision, greater use of majority voting in the Council and proper implementation of the Amsterdam Treaty in respect of the Commission President's role in selecting the Commissioners and sharing out responsibilities among them.
These reforms, which will be a cornerstone of the new Commission's programme, will require the implementation of at least three principles: greater efficiency, absolute transparency and full responsibility, or what is usually defined as accountability.
Applause I have stated on several occasions that, in one sense, the search for a European soul appears increasingly to be the dominant problem for the future of our continent.
It is without doubt a sign of weakness to believe that Europe's institutions will have a future - a strengthened Parliament, the right of veto confined to exceptional cases, a reorganisation of the Commission and its powers - unless common European feelings can gradually be fostered.
The tragedy of Kosovo makes it tragically obvious that the European Union has a duty to assume an increasingly important role in guaranteeing security and democracy in areas crucial to our future.
The Commission will assume to the full its responsibility for letting the EU citizens know what reforms are needed to achieve this future.
My Group wants the new European Commission to come into office as soon as possible.
Given the European elections in June, given the imminent introduction of the Amsterdam Treaty and given the convergence of general elections in two of our Member States on the same day as the European elections, the timetable presents us with a logistic headache of monumental proportions.
All of us in this House want to see the present Commission leave office as soon as possible.
To carry out our role now with regard to the next Commission, we may have to put our own parliamentary calendar and personal diaries under considerable strain.
It is important that we now demonstrate our maturity and see the process through to its conclusion.
My Group believes that now, together with the Council and a reforming Commission, we can set up a structure and decision-making process which is more appropriate, more in tune with modern governance.
The new Commission must have clear direction, a firm political leadership which is open, it must practise genuine transparency and partnership with the European Parliament and not just pay lip-service to those values.
Mixed reactions Those concerned for the evolution of this House as the real democratic voice of Europe's people will work together to enhance its role and its rights, which is what our citizens are waiting and watching for.
My Group takes considerable pride in our role over recent months.
Mixed reactions Mr Prodi, you have come to this House today as the Council's designated candidate.
Hopes in this Parliament of just what you could achieve with those formidable skills as President of the European Commission are high.
Firstly, given the trauma which led to the collapse of the present Commission, we expect to hear a clear commitment - not just to implementing the programme of reforms already agreed by this Parliament and the current Commission in January and the subsequent agreement on the independent investigatory body OLAF - but to further and deeper reforms of substance, in particular (and I was glad to hear you mention it) with regard to the acceptance of political and personal responsibility for work done by officials at whatever level in the European Commission.
Secondly, for my Group, the real substance of the programme of the European Commission is political.
The new Commission must act like a college and not like 20 fiefdoms and the moulding of such a Commission will lie in the hands of the new President of the Commission.
However, for my Group the political content of the programme which will be produced by the new Commission is crucial.
We will judge the European Commission to be established in the coming weeks on both its political programme and its programme for reform.
I for one welcome your human and intelligent development of your thinking here this morning - economic, cultural, social, based on peace.
The sensitive balance between Member States and the institutions of the Union cannot be jeopardised by precipitous action which could damage the process of European integration, in which respect for differing political cultures and democratic practices are paramount.
In this respect, you, Mr Prodi, have already been unanimously nominated for the office of President of the European Commission by all the Heads of State and Government in the European Union.
In the last week of the last parliamentary term, in 1994, we had to mobilise all outgoing Members to vote on the enlargement of the Union.
On this occasion not only do we have Agenda 2000 but also we have to face the consequences of a resigned Commission and a new President of the European Commission.
Mr Prodi, the programme you develop after this debate and your discussion tomorrow evening with the European Council represent an important step in the development of European democracy.
Applause Mr President, president-designate Romano Prodi was nominated by the European Union Heads of Government just as NATO began its bombing of Yugoslavia.
You must reform the Commission and its services.
More than a year ago, in March 1998, our colleagues in the Committee on Budgetary Control, at the instigation of James Elles, called for measures to be taken by the middle of September 1998.
In October 1998, Parliament called for an independent anti-fraud office to succeed UCLAF.
Our group put forward an action programme to modernise the Commission by 1 January 2000, with codes of conduct for Commissioners, on relations between Commissioners and their private offices and services, and codes of conduct for officials, with a reform of the Staff Regulations involving transparency and good faith in the recruitment of officials and clear rules and restrictions on outside appointments.
But numerous political challenges also await you, very clearly formulated in documents of this Parliament, reports by our colleagues Mr Herman and Mr Brok.
Fernand Herman's report will be debated this week.
Applause The PPE and we as the PPE Group have said that we can no longer work with her.
Mr Brok spoke in his report, with the resolution that was adopted on 13 January, of the consequences of the Commission President's investiture and the independence of members of the Commission.
And that is the last thing we need between Commission and Parliament.
But you, Mr Prodi, will be able to demonstrate your political leadership once your appointment has been ratified by Parliament, in the appointment of the new Commissioners.
I hope that your legitimate authority as president will be a factor in their approval, in the giving of your agreement.
I think that once the period of bureaucracy is over, not to mention fraud or nepotism, a very important new task and new responsibility will be to ensure that the Commissioners put in an appearance in this House and in our committees.
Not just for the Europe of markets, of banks, but for Europe with its cultural and spiritual dimension.
I am one of the people who, as prime minister, took part in the negotiations on the single market and the Maastricht Treaty.
I venture to hope that you will bring this about, with your new Commission, with people who are aware of this aim and eager to play this pre-eminently political role.
The ELDR Group looks forward to deepening our engagement and dialogue with him, and to a very productive period for the future.
I should like to say to you, Mr Prodi, directly on behalf of my group, not as advice nor as an instruction but as a suggestion that you might like to think about, that you should seek in the coming days - and especially tomorrow in your dialogue with the European Council - to assert your own independence, not just of the needs of this House, but of some of the parameters of the Council itself.
I believe you should explain to the Council that it is not appropriate that we should, in a procedure in May, elect you as the legitimate head of what would be an illegitimate Commission.
Secondly, it would not be right for the process to appoint the new Commission, whose term of office will end at the end of the year, to overlap with the process initiated to establish the Commission which must be appointed to complete a normal term of five years from the year 2000.
Your vision of the future of European construction is all very interesting but you must, as a priority, return to working order the institution for which you will be required to assume responsibility when your appointment has been confirmed by the European Parliament.
The new President will be appointed at a critical stage in the construction of Europe.
As Mr Prodi himself pointed out, war has come to Yugoslavia 42 years after the signing of the Treaty of Rome and 10 years after the end of the cold war.
Human rights are being infringed in the Balkans, most particularly in Kosovo.
As far as we are concerned, this new era in the history of the European Commission must be defined by four conditions or characteristics: a sound democratic basis, transparency, the Commissioners' individual and collective political responsibility to Parliament, and effectiveness in fulfilling objectives.
Mr President, I shall finish by pointing out that in view of the serious problems concerning enlargement and our social and economic policies, our group feels that what we need is not just a President of the institutions, but a President of all the people of Europe.
We trust you will take on board Parliament's proposal that more women should be appointed as European Commissioners, that they should be able to play their proper part in developing further something which is a part of our acquis communautaire in this context.
The current crisis and the resignation of the outgoing Commission under pressure from Parliament have primarily been caused by the Commission's gradual loss of authority.
Even though important work has been achieved over the last five years, for example with the single currency, this loss of authority is serious because the European Union needs a politically strong Commission.
It must be strong faced with Parliament, as one of the elements of this strength is precisely its political responsibility before this House.
Although this political strength is our main demand for the future Commission, we also have other demands, particularly regarding the internal working of this Commission.
There should be an end to 50 years of secrecy and privilege.
If ever proof were needed, the tragic events in Kosovo and NATO's military intervention there demonstrate the pressing need for the European Union to adopt a common foreign and defence policy, without which it is as though Europe did not exist.
The European Council stated a long time ago that it would nominate the new Commission President before the elections.
It also requires the European Parliament to approve one Commission, which will be in place for six months, before a new Parliament approves another Commission which will remain in office for five years.
The Commission - and you are surrounded by outgoing Commissioners - was challenged initially by a majority in this House which refused to grant discharge for 1996.
The accounts for 1996 have therefore not been closed.
I must formally protest about the policy of war being conducted in Europe, supported by the European Union on the orders of the Americans!
The continued bombardment of economic targets and civilian populations is one of the most cowardly and unpardonable acts in 50 years!
Mr President, I wish to make a personal statement as my name has been mentioned.
You have the same right, Mr Martens, and you have the floor.
Applause I would just add that in January of this year she tabled a motion of no confidence, saying that the Socialist Group would vote against.
I would ask you to remove the word 'uncontrolled' from the last line of Amendment No 9, or to agree to a split vote in which people can vote for or against this word.
Parliament adopted the resolution Mr President, we have received a document today from the services telling us what Members should do to prepare themselves for the move to the new IPE IV building.
The problem until now is that work has been continuing in the building.
The objective of the IDA programme is to enable and to encourage administrations to exchange data electronically throughout the European Union.
The new proposal for a European Parliament and Council Decision on a series of guidelines, including the identification of projects of common interest, for trans-European networks for the electronic Interchange of Data between Administrations (A4-0131/99) and on adopting a series of actions and measures in order to ensure interoperability of and access to trans-European networks for the electronic Interchange of Data between Administrations (A4-0130/99) focus on the sharing of common concepts, tools and generic services among the different networks and applications.
The common position of the Council endorses in full or in principle most of the EP's amendments from first reading.
However, the tone changes completely in the European Parliament report.
Europol should merely complement and assist national police forces and not be able to take direct action against our citizens.
It provides a fair analysis of the action plan of the Council and Commission on implementing an area of freedom, security and justice.
This plan responds to the demand of the Cardiff European Council and is part of a clear and ambitious approach to engage the Union in reforms which will bring it closer to the people of Europe.
The Schengen Agreement, the Maastricht Treaty and, of course, the Amsterdam Treaty have been important steps in this construction process.
Such a text will clearly identify the rights which the people may assert within the European Union.
The level of these rights must be as high as possible.
I hope that the debate which will take place on this subject in October 1999 in Finland will be productive because there are still gaps despite the positive advances.
The role of the European Parliament must go beyond simple consultation and the unanimity rule must be replaced by the qualified majority rule.
If these efforts come to fruition, it would mean the establishment not only of a political area but also a judicial area in the EU, where Member States would be obliged to harmonise their different legal traditions and different moral views about what constitutes a criminal offence.
We do not believe that legal rights and public confidence in the judicial and political systems will be strengthened by undermining the various judicial cultures of individual Member States and by transferring competence to a system which does not have substantial support among the peoples of the Member States.
For several reasons, we are unable to vote in favour of this report.
According to the rapporteur, the combating of crime should be addressed at EU level and Europol should be given operational powers.
First and foremost, we believe it is unnecessary to set up another organisation when Interpol, incorporating as it does some 150 member countries, exists and functions very well.
In our view, harmonisation of the Member States' policies in the area of visa, immigration and asylum policy is undesirable.
Schmid report (A-0141/99) We think this is an excellent report.
The Danish Social Democrats have voted in favour of a joint action to combat child pornography on the Internet.
The fight against crime on the Internet is transnational by nature, and there is therefore a need for international and European cooperation in this area.
So this joint action, including practical cooperation which also involves Internet service providers, should begin as soon as possible.
I therefore believe that certain individual or collective initiatives must be welcomed.
However, in my opinion it is essential to pool our human and material resources through Europol in order to make the fight against these crimes more effective.
However, although the European Union is taking an important step in this fight, it is essential that we establish a strong initiative with regard to third countries so that these networks cannot gain a foothold in any other countries.
I will be supporting this report.
It has been argued that control of Internet content is very difficult.
The freedom and easy access offered by the Internet, that make it of such great use in business and education, also make it the ideal tool for those who wish to disseminate horrific material such as child pornography.
The Labour Government is determined to do all in its power to stamp out this vile trade.
We will also support this report's recommendations and strive for closer cooperation between national police forces, including exchanging information 24 hours a day.
In addition, we will cooperate with our European partners to develop Internet filters to stem the distribution of child pornography.
Reding report (A-0143/99) Mr President, the CDU and the CSU were obliged to vote against the Reding report, because it was rendered unacceptable by amendments from the left.
We regret that the important issues of asylum seekers and refugees from civil war are linked time and again to various ideological demands: see Amendment No 12 on voting rights and so forth.
The hypocrisy of those who vote in favour of amendments of this kind is intolerable, since it is precisely they who are then not prepared in cases such as that of the Kosovo refugees and displaced persons to take in their share of displaced persons.
In view of these objectives, we can only be concerned about the proposal for a new refugee protection system which in many cases risks forming an additional magnet.
It is specifically in the second chapter, involving the institutional instruments of the policies to be conducted, that the Austrian Presidency's document seems most lacking.
Specifically, the European institutional system, as provided for by the Amsterdam Treaty, with the Commission's monopoly on initiative and the codecision of the European Parliament, risks producing a laxer response.
Otherwise, we risk removing responsibility from the Member States and once again achieving a result which is contrary to that intended.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations therefore believes that this policy must be maintained in a context where decisions are taken unanimously, with a safeguard clause to be used at the discretion of the Member States thus allowing rapid corrections if necessary.
We voted in favour of the report, because it sets out a number of basic humane principles which should be incorporated in any refugee policy.
The idea that people as young as 14 are to be fingerprinted is completely unacceptable.
Zimmermann report (A-0115/99) Mr President, Europe cannot take all the misery of the world on its shoulders.
All the world's refugees cannot come to Europe.
If they must be accommodated somewhere, they should be placed in countries with which they have the closest ethnic, cultural or religious links.
We must improve the reception conditions in material terms but also in human terms because these people are more often than not in a state of utter psychological turmoil.
The Commission has omitted to include an essential aspect which the European Parliament put forward, namely emergency aid in cases of sudden influxes of refugees from a region affected by a severe crisis.
From the year 2000 this Fund should finance the whole refugee policy.
With the Kosovo crisis raging a new urgency is given to the two Council proposals to deal with the situation of refugees.
These two proposals are being made under the 'third pillar' and will need to be revisited when the Treaty of Amsterdam is in force.
The first measure is intended to support and develop existing measures at local, regional, national and EU levels to make refugees independent and prevent them from becoming socially marginalised.
The second measure is a proposal for joint action supporting the reception and voluntary repatriation of refugees, displaced persons and asylum applicants.
The action aims to improve reception conditions for asylum seekers and displaced persons and to facilitate their voluntary return and reintegration in their countries of origin.
In particular, the establishment of a European Refugee Fund and support for reception centres in Member States are important initiatives.
Second Cox report (A-0171/99) In general, we support the use of environmental taxes as a means of bringing about improvements in the environment.
However, we only support a common EU environmental tax as long as it focuses on the environment and as long as the proceeds are returned to the Member States.
The proposals before us are partly a response to the requirement to review the minimum rates of excise duty on hydrocarbons laid down in Article 10 of Directive 92/82/EEC.
We consider that a comprehensive ecologically-based tax reform may provide a real weapon for combating unemployment in the Member States, provided that an environmental clause is introduced into the WTO rules as we expressly requested during the last GATT negotiations.
This is why our group voted in favour of the amendments promoting simple taxation, including the various dispensation principles, but rejected all the amendments which would systematically increase the taxation of energy products.
These efforts need to be continued and intensified to prevent a good European initiative from being ruined, once again, by individual 'brakemen' in the Council because of the principle of unanimity, which still applies on fiscal matters.
This is an extremely important task which deserves to be pursued very energetically, with the sole concern being its effectiveness in practice.
This House is essentially asking for Europol to be converted into a European police unit with operational powers in the Member States and powers of command over the national police forces.
We therefore gradually learn that the supranational Europol should take orders from a European public prosecutor's office, itself under the responsibility of the European Commission, which would be accountable in this respect only to the European Parliament.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations prefers serious work.
Europol should merely complement and assist national police forces and not be able to take direct action against our citizens.
The Danish Social Democrats have voted against an extension of Europol's powers.
However, it has a credibility problem with the people.
Like the rapporteur, I hope that Europol can become a genuine police force with cross-border operational powers.
There are many cases which should prompt us to consider and accelerate this development in order to establish a unit which is capable of actively combating this scourge.
In this respect, the European Union must have jurisdiction in order to conduct the investigations needed to combat crime.
This House has already given its opinion on these matters on many occasions.
More extensive parliamentary controls over Europol, with frequent reporting, a greater obligation to keep Parliament informed and the incorporation of Europol's budget into the Community budget will reinforce democratic control over Europol.
Turning Europol into a European police unit with operational powers goes altogether too far along the road towards a supranational EU police force.
Cross-border police cooperation should take place through collaboration and the exchange of information between national police authorities, as well as through Interpol.
The proposal is to harmonise the EU criminal legal system on the continental inquisitorial model.
The British and Irish systems are very different.
The British and Irish systems are very much based on the presumption of innocence, trial by one's peers, as in the Magna Carta .
The British Members should look at whether they want to get rid of their own system and bring in this EU criminal legal system which will be based on the continental inquisitorial model.
Europol should merely complement and assist national police forces and not be able to take direct action against our citizens.
The Danish Social Democrats have voted against the introduction of a common European public prosecutor.
We can fight crime just as effectively with the existing instruments, including Europol and the conventions on extradition and mutual judicial assistance.
For these reasons, although I voted in favour of the report, I voted against the proposed appointment of a European public prosecutor in the final vote.
No good reason exists for seeking to establish a new Corpus Juris to integrate criminal and civil law at Community level, as proposed in the report.
On the basis of the above, I voted against this report.
d'Ancona report (A-0185/99) The report from the Council to the European Council on activities on drugs and drugs-related issues under the UK Presidency is, generally speaking, a constructive one.
I definitely share the rapporteur's demand that Commission and Council forces should be joined in a single document so that there is greater clarity and, above all, better coordination leading to more effective and rational action on drugs.
Mr President, I will try to be very brief and will confine myself to the oral question to the Commission on imports of garlic.
The problem does not lie in differences of analysis.
For once, everyone seems to be in agreement.
Triangular trade has therefore continued to expand, and garlic production in the Community is moving ever closer to extinction.
Furthermore, production is highly concentrated in certain geographical areas.
Developing countries must be given the chance to develop their own agricultural potential.
If the products concerned are made principally responsible for financing, that creates a new link between costs and benefits.
I very much agree with the price package that has come out of the Commission - it is very similar to a lot of the proposals I put forward two years ago when I was the rapporteur on that particular price package.
I am concerned that we are making a singular mistake today if we think that the price package and the Berlin Summit are not intertwined.
It was a total misconception, it was done in a hurry, without thinking about the future of agriculture.
That is why it is very important that we keep the discussions flowing and work for the benefit of agriculture.
You said this morning, Commissioner, that this is the second marketing year that the new regime for fruit and vegetables has been in force.
We should not forget that it was under the Luxembourg Presidency in December 1997 that the Council acknowledged the need to continue developing the current model of European agriculture while strengthening its competitiveness, particularly on the markets of third countries.
The proposal now before us is a result of that desire and also of the wishes of the Agriculture Ministers.
This proposal is laudable and should therefore be approved.
The financial participation of the Commission should also be rather more substantial, as we have proposed.
This amounts to a clear departure from the arrangements for commercial traffic envisaged in Article 115 of the Treaty.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity today to explain the Commission's position in some detail.
I should simply like to thank very much all those who spoke in the debate for their constructive contributions and to respond briefly to three specific questions which have been asked in the meantime.
It is quite clear that the task of monitoring falls on the Member States.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
It is therefore deplorable that the negotiations between the social partners at European level for an agreement in accordance with Article 4(2) of the Social Protocol have failed, in particular because of one side's total unwillingness to negotiate.
This is a plank in the Commission's overall plan, to have information and consultation of workers and should be considered along with the directives on consultation in collective redundancies, consultation in transfer of undertakings, the European Company Statute and the European Works Council directives.
The Committee on Legal Affairs has supported me and we have put forward a number of amendments.
My own country has some misgivings about the need for this legislation, but I would suggest that Her Majesty's Government visit some of the factories in my own constituency.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I should first like to thank Mrs Ghilardotti for her report, which we support in every respect.
I should, however, also like to thank the Commission for presenting a report here which has made it very easy for us to endorse its conclusions on this issue.
However, it also constitutes a counterweight to capital in Europe.
That is why we would have preferred the company size threshold to have been set at 20 employees.
Similarly, I also hope that you, Mr Menrad, and the other members of the PPE Group will vote against excluding certain media companies and charitable organisations from the information and consultation obligations in connection with the provision on the protection of certain interests, and will endorse our proposal.
Finally, I should like to express my hope and voice my request that the German Presidency and the Council as a whole should support this important building block in a social Europe as soon as possible.
Commissioner, a central tenet of Christian social doctrine and of the PPE Group's statement of principles is partnership; that includes participation and joint decision making, as well as informing and consulting employees.
It was on this basis that our group made an important contribution here in Parliament in 1994 to the directive on European works councils, which was adopted almost unanimously.
In the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, she accepted a compromise solution on thresholds of 50 employees.
However, in our amendments we propose a solution along the same lines as the works councils directive, which provides for this protection but severely restricts it.
A framework for national rules on information and consultation which is structured in this way and which respects subsidiarity, Mrs Ghilardotti, is something we want to vote for.
This proposal is a major step forward in terms of informing and consulting employees at European level.
The majority of my group will be voting for the compromise reached, namely that the legislation should apply to firms employing more than 50 people.
So I think we should wholeheartedly endorse this proposal, together with some of the amendments.
It would be even more controversial if participation in the decision-making process, which this House has already asserted in various resolutions as being the right of employees, were added to information and consultation.
There were therefore no negotiations because the Commission was forced to present its proposal for a directive outside the social dialogue.
I am referring to the report on the organisation of work which must be regarded as a minor issue as it was rushed through Parliament.
We particularly regret one of them: it is absurd enough as it is to bring company size into play where obligations to provide information are concerned, and then on top of that, 50 is far too high a figure.
We have therefore given Parliament another opportunity to go further and have tabled an amendment proposing 20 as the threshold, well aware that actually this figure is absurd as well.
As far as the protection of certain interest groups is concerned, we really have to say once again that this is a problem in any case because, for example, the freedom of the press is not the freedom of the newspaper owner, but the freedom of journalists.
I believe in particular that it is only right to try to reconcile this legitimate expectation of information and consultation with the actual requirements of companies, above all small ones.
Mr President, this report and the directive itself represent a very significant point in the progress of industrial relations.
I must draw the Commission's attention to the fact that, in countries such as Italy, Portugal, Spain and Greece, only 5 % of managers allow consultation and information on subjects which are not exclusively related to health and safety in the workplace.
We must hope that we can successfully implement this Commission initiative and the report which are intended to give people more freedom and make companies more productive while ensuring a greater human quality.
Amendment No 15 rescinds Article 2(2), which permits such derogations.
Secondly, Amendment No 24 (new) provides for final decisions to be postponed to allow consultations to continue so as to avoid adverse consequences for workers.
Thirdly, Amendment No 26 offers workers the possibility of requesting the assistance of experts.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I personally am going to vote against this report.
The proposal is a blatant example of a lack of respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
Firstly, there are no cross-border aspects to the proposal and, secondly, the matter is already regulated in most Member States, including my own country, Denmark, through cooperation agreements.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for what is an excellent report.
However, I do not think the proposal goes far enough.
After lengthy discussions in the committee, we agreed on the threshold of 50 employees.
However, we all agree that the minimum requirements must be adhered to, as must be the case for all minimum social standards.
After 25 years, I am looking forward to this directive for the benefit of workers finally being adopted.
Mr President, I could have done without this proposal for a directive.
Unfortunately, this point of view has not gained much support in Parliament.
In Denmark, both employers and workers believe the proposal could be a time bomb under the special Danish negotiating model whereby information and consultation are regulated in agreements on works councils between the social partners.
Mr President, I should like to see the European Parliament reject this report.
The proposal for a directive is at odds with the different traditions that exist in the Member States.
Our role in a Europe in which human resources are being misused through high unemployment should be to create the right conditions for new jobs.
Mr President, ever since the Community institutions first became involved in building Europe, especially social Europe, the information and consultation of employees has been a topic of substance, dating right back to the first Council documents in 1974.
Clearly, social dialogue is especially desirable for SMEs, which appear to be excluded from this document, although - as we all know - they account for 90 % of companies in the Community.
It is, in our view, an important proposal, which, once adopted, could add an indispensable missing element to Community European labour law.
Having listened to what has been said here - and I have read the draft opinion - I believe you are willing and ready to play a decisive role in the negotiations leading up to the adoption of this proposed directive.
In the end the Commission reached a delicate balance between the different points of view and divergent interests on what is regarded as a very sensitive issue.
It would be inappropriate to depart from this balance at this stage, at least as regards the proposed amendments relating to the four main sensitive issues of the proposal: the thresholds, the definitions of information and consultation, the extent to which the social partners may derogate from the directive's provisions and the question of sanctions.
I am sure that all your proposals on these central issues are going to be very much at stake in the discussions between the European Parliament and the Council leading up to the adoption of the proposal.
So you will understand my caution when reacting today to some of your amendments, even if some of them could certainly be envisaged by the Commission in the future, in the light of the developments that will take place in the Council.
This is the case for Amendments Nos 1, 17, 8, 10, the first and the third elements of Amendment No 13, and Nos 19 and 35.
A second category of amendments concern more substantial issues.
Nevertheless, I believe I can express my support for them as they are reasonable and do not seem to affect the delicate balance of the text.
This is the case of Amendments Nos 4 and 15, Nos 6 and 32 - they are related to the non-aggression clause - No 16 on the level of information and consultation, No 22 - the illustrative list of issues subject to information and consultation - and the first part of No 33, concerning the application of the principle of the directive to the public sector, which is referred to, although the proposed formula needs to be reworked somewhat.
While Amendment No 34 is wholly consistent with our approach of involving the social partners, we could not envisage that change to the basic formula used for the implementation of Community legislation.
It is very important for the European social model.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
But a number of sectors and activities have so far not been covered by this directive, namely a number of transport sectors, sea fishing and other activities at sea, and doctors in training.
We are required today to look at the legislative proposals to bring these excluded sectors within the scope of the directive.
The Commission has opted for a twin-track approach, on the one hand amending the existing horizontal directive and on the other hand putting forward three specific vertical directives for the transport sector, EU seafarers and seafarers aboard vessels entering EU ports.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has followed this dual approach, with Mr McMahon's report on sectoral legislation and my own report on adaptation of the existing directive.
Like transport workers, seafarers can make use of the derogations provided for in the directive.
The second point of debate was Sunday as a day of rest.
The 1993 directive provided for this, but the 1996 judgment of the Court of Justice declared it invalid.
The European Parliament adopted a position on this in its resolution of 12 December 1996.
You backed that resolution, Commissioner, and you also confirmed it in a letter to me dated 8 January 1999.
In seeking a solution, I would point to the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty and in particular Article 151(4), which together with Article 128(1) of the Maastricht Treaty provides a suitable legal basis.
A few words now on doctors in training.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs arrived at a compromise, to accept the extension from 48 to 54 hours but for just four years, not seven.
We have in front of us today a comprehensive package of proposals to protect about five million workers in road, rail and sea transport, as well as junior hospital doctors in training and offshore oil workers who are not covered under the original working time directive.
The debate today is the first step in this Parliament, following the new Amsterdam Treaty, to ensure that minimum standards of working time are established for all workers throughout Europe.
In drafting my report, which deals with the various transport sectors, my paramount concern has been the need to protect workers against the adverse effects on their health and safety of working excessively long hours.
The report is also about ensuring safe and competitive transport systems in the interests of the general public.
This is particularly true in the road transport sector, where 78 % of transport companies are small businesses operating with less than five vehicles.
I fully support, therefore, the Commission's proposal to extend the working time rules to all mobile workers in road transport, including self-employed drivers.
I am particularly concerned about two areas.
Back in 1993 the working time directive excluded some six million workers.
Mr President, my group is naturally delighted that we are able today to look at two reports which in effect deal with cornerstones of social policy.
And that sits very well with Fiorella Ghilardotti's report.
Mr President, first of all I should like to thank the two rapporteurs.
Mr van Velzen, I think that we should actually make renewed efforts within the two large groups - and perhaps with all the others who are willing to cooperate - to reach compromises on the amendments.
I would see this as particularly important in these two areas.
My group will be supporting an overwhelming majority of the proposals and also some of the amendments.
Mr President, firstly I must underline the importance of the working time issue for the excluded sectors, in particular road transport, as this involves both social justice and road safety.
Allowing the possibility of a working week of 60 hours, provided that the average of 48 hours is respected over a four-month reference period, constitutes a blank cheque for all kinds of abuse.
Remember that accidents increase after 55 hours' work.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on their work and also the draftsmen from the various committees for their assistance on what is a very difficult area to legislate on.
Junior doctors play a critical role in patient care.
There are instances where junior doctors in training are working 120 hours a week.
Some of them are working straight shifts of 36 and 37 hours without any rest period or sleep.
I hope this Parliament, the media and the public will recognise his tremendous record in not only completing his legislative programme but bringing Parliament along in support when people said it could not be done.
Having said that, I must also welcome the compromise reached here, because it is a first step towards bringing these sectors - whose exclusion, when we have an internal market and when these very activities are expanding, was unjustified from the outset - back into a system of statutory regulation.
Mr President, the main principles underlying the directive on working time are important and are indeed worthy of this Parliament's support.
However, measures designed to achieve desirable objectives, I would contend, must be practical and be capable of recognising the special nature of certain sectors and the unique working conditions and practices therein.
We must make sure that our policy is flexible enough to target the real problems.
European legislation applying to all sectors and to the whole of Europe should not stand in the way of these traditions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent and well-informed report.
The need to promote workers' mental and physical capacity for work through the regulation of working time still exists.
Mr President, first of all my compliments to the rapporteurs, Mr McMahon and Mr Chanterie, for all the hard work they have put in on this directive.
The working time directive is one of the most complex, but also one of the most important directives in the area of safety and health.
The 1993 directive on the organisation of working time was therefore a major achievement.
Problems arose over these, to which satisfactory solutions have been found in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
The sentence read as follows: 'The (minimum) rest period referred to in the first subparagraph shall in principle include Sunday'.
That is an important value in our in some respects totally unregulated society.
Consequently, we are not in favour of Article 1(b) of the Commission's proposal and will request a separate vote on it.
Every Member State should therefore have the right to draw up tougher rules in the interests of both the environment and safety: that much is crucial.
The fishing industry in my country and in Europe generally is not like any other commercial and economic activity.
It is a peculiar industry with its own special characteristics and needs and European legislation should be tailored at national level to suit the unique circumstances.
I have represented the fishing industry's interests in Ireland, both at local and national level, for many years and at European level for the past five years.
I agree with this proposition, but the European Union must at all times take cognisance of the special nature of the industry and of fishing villages throughout the length and breadth of the Union.
The proposals in the maritime sector also include the European Commission's recommendation on the ratification of the ILO Convention on seafarers' hours of work and the manning of ships.
With regard to the verification of working hours, the European Commission has annexed a model format regarding hours of work and rest for seafarers and has suggested that the Member States should harmonise their legislation in this manner.
In conclusion I wish to congratulate Commissioner Flynn on his persistence in having the original directive accepted despite the many obstacles at Member State level.
In its opinion on this report, the Committee on Transport and Tourism advocated extending the directive to non-mobile workers and including other aspects such as annual leave and rest periods for mobile workers.
For this reason, I believe that talking about annualising working time should not be regarded as outrageous, as long as this provides a clearer view of the real situation in this profession and provided that we can perhaps tackle its shortcomings more effectively.
Working time could be reduced by taking the average weekly working time, calculated over the year, and prohibiting anything over 48 hours per week.
While Europe as a force for labour remains restricted by this framework, it will never become sufficiently visible to the public, just like the monetary side of Europe today.
Mr President, like Mr Sainjon I believe both that this directive is long overdue and that its content does not match the hopes of employees in this sector.
It is overdue because the road transport market in the Community was fully deregulated over a year ago and the social dumping which was already very apparent in this sector is simply increasing.
It is inadequate because it does not provide any significant progress overall in terms of either public safety or the working conditions of employees or self-employed workers in this sector.
The figure of 48 hours proposed as the maximum working week is more than what was specified in Regulation 3820/85 establishing the organisation of road transport.
Yet it is clear that this figure of 46 hours is well in excess of the target of 35 hours and is by no means a massive reduction in working time, which seems to be one of the main areas of progress to be prepared and achieved in this century; this will also leave gaps in terms of public safety.
I should therefore like to thank both the Commission and the two rapporteurs for their work, and in addition express my hope that the same opinion will prevail in the Council.
I am speaking here on behalf of the PPE members of the Committee on Transport when I say that it is good that road transport - a sector with over five million employees - is not going to be excluded any longer; in my view, it is simply obvious that this should be the case.
In road transport in particular, there is a direct correlation between working time and the numbers of accidents.
I should like to stress once again how important it is for this to be implemented quickly, but also for compliance with all the measures to be enforced in all the Member States.
Even though there is strong competition in the transport sector, it should not come at the expense of health or public safety.
I welcome the attempt to provide greater regulation and I regret that agreement could not be found with the social partners on road transport.
This leads to problems in two areas.
The first is safety.
These proposals are designed to ensure a high level of social protection for workers as well as a high degree of safety for passengers.
They tell us that 18 % of fatal accidents involve trucks or coaches and yet buses and coaches are actually one of the safer forms of road transport.
Indeed, in the United Kingdom, only 2.2 % of fatal road accidents involve buses or coaches.
It seems to me that the extra costs that these proposals will put on small businesses - in particular small coach companies - will lead to reduction of investment in safer and newer vehicles, which will hit the industry and perhaps undermine passenger safety.
But the fact is that in rural areas, such as the one I represent, bus services are becoming increasingly rare.
If that is true, then we wait to see the Socialist vote against these two reports because these proposals would cost jobs.
My own group has put down some very helpful amendments to them, but, as amended by our rapporteurs, these show old-style, old-Labour, Euro-social-engineering at its worst: inflexible, authoritarian and unrealistic.
The contribution of our two rapporteurs is to make things worse.
Mr McMahon hammers the taxi drivers of Europe by insisting in his amendment that the 48-hour week they are compelled to work within must include standby time, that is, time when they are not earning anything.
I urge colleagues to vote against these damaging reports.
The Commission and Parliament have been working together for over six years now to ensure that workers currently excluded from the working time directive have appropriate protection.
There is complete agreement between the rapporteur and the Commission on the objectives to be achieved.
They are Amendments Nos 1 to 8, 10, 11, 13 and 16.
In particular, I welcome Amendment No 11, which provides a useful definition of share-fishermen.
I also welcome the support from the rapporteur for the Commission's proposal in respect of the annual leave as far as share-fishermen are concerned.
I completely agree, for example, that no sector or activity should be excluded from Community legislation on working time.
The only difference between the Commission and the rapporteur in relation to seafarers is the way in which this is to be achieved.
The Commission proposed, at the express wish of the social partners in the maritime sector, that only the directive implementing the agreement between the social partners should apply to the workers concerned, but only these workers are excluded from the general directive.
The sole purpose of this proposal is to protect workers in the sectors and activities currently excluded and it has taken over five years to get this far.
I do not want to open up the debate on other issues as we would then lose sight of our prime objective.
I cannot, therefore, accept this part of Amendment No 9.
Here the Commission proposed a transitional period of seven years for the application of the maximum of 48 hours on average, under certain conditions.
While I would dearly love to support Parliament's Amendment No 15 on this point, I believe that the Commission's proposal is more realistic.
Another issue in this report concerns the annual limit on working time.
Again I can understand the amendment proposed but our proposal seeks to establish minimum provisions which can be applied right across the board.
In certain circumstances, in particular in the sea-fishing and transport industries, the calculation of the limit on an annual basis is justified and Amendments Nos 17 and 20 are too restrictive, while Amendment No 18 does not really add value to the proposal.
I am very pleased that the rapporteur accepts the Commission's proposals, subject to the two directives being implemented simultaneously, with the ratification of ILO Convention 180 and the Protocol of Convention 147.
On road transport, I welcome the broad support in the report for the initiative on working time in this sector and, in particular, for the inclusion of the self-employed.
I am very happy to say that the Commission can accept those amendments which clarify the text.
They are Amendments Nos 4 to 7, 11, 14 and 15 and the first half of Nos 1 and 16 and the second half of No 8.
The Commission accepts in principle the need to insert a definition of a self-employed driver, as proposed in Amendment No 10, but intends to cover a wider scope in its definition.
In order to maintain the integrity of our proposal, we must reject Amendment No 25, which seeks to exclude urban passenger transport from the scope of the directive.
As regards the derogations, we are prepared to accept part of the compromise Amendment No 12, which relates to Article 7(2) of our proposal.
We have found a general lack of support for the existing proposed derogation of up to 12 months, not only in the Council but also in the industry itself.
Parliament is aware that the Commission's stance on derogation is generally to maintain a balance between flexibility in work organisation and a minimum level of social protection.
While I appreciate the emphasis given by Parliament to collective agreements or derogations in Amendment No 12, nevertheless the Commission considers that Member States should be offered the opportunity to provide clear rules through national legislation as in the general working time directive.
In addition, the Commission is still convinced that, to facilitate the organisation of work in the urban transport sector in general, the derogation offered in Article 7(3) should be retained and so we cannot agree with Amendment No 13.
The same argument obliges us to reject Amendments Nos 22, 24 and 27 to 30.
There are other amendments which the Commission cannot accept as they fall outside the remit of the proposal, thus Amendment No 19 and the regulation of contracts between transport agencies relate to contract law.
As to Amendment No 18, on establishing a common range of penalties, it is difficult to see how Member States acting individually can establish a common range while detailed prescription by the Community in this sensitive area would be inappropriate.
Similarly, we must reject the second half of Amendment No 16 which is over-prescriptive.
Certain other amendments would not clarify the text.
Amendment No 17 adds a non-regression clause which is already in Article 11(3) and the Commission text reflects what is set out in the general working time directive.
Amendments Nos 21 and 23 would potentially cause some confusion.
As the rapporteur has accepted the Commission position on the location of the maximum weekly working time provision, in Article 3, the part of our Amendment No 1 which proposes to change recital 16 should also be deleted.
Amendments Nos 2 and 20 include a clarification on emergency mobile workers and as the primary function of these workers is not road transport, the Commission considers that they come under the general working time directive and therefore we cannot accept these amendments.
Amendment No 3 and the first part of amendment No 8 include standby duty within the definition of working time for the self-employed.
Finally, as regards Amendment No 9 on night work, in recognition of the diversity of geographical locations and legislative arrangements within the Member States, the Commission considers the proportion of annual working time which determines whether workers may be classified as night workers should be left to the Member States in consultation with the social partners rather than applying a rigid 48 days.
I know that this view is shared by my colleague Mr Kinnock and that as a result the Council, under the German presidency, will be able to adopt the directive putting into effect the seafarers' agreement and to reach a common position on the other three points.
To Pat the Cope Gallagher I would say that the Committee on Fisheries agreed to all these matters and we are pleased to have that support.
The question about the 48 hours, the reference period of one year, the holidays - unless we are dealing with share-fishermen - the question of medical assessment and adequate rest will be defined in a further directive which has been promised.
I would suggest to you and to the House that the social agenda has advanced quite a lot over the past number of years.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The Council's common position does incorporate - sometimes only in part or with changes - a number of the amendments made by Parliament at first reading on the basis of the report by its Committee on Development and Cooperation.
Consequently, this premise must form a cornerstone of the EU's policy for cooperation and development with the developing countries.
The Community action for promoting human rights and democratic principles must respect the principle of the universality and indivisibility of human rights as these form the key elements of the international system for protecting human rights and the basis of European construction.
In this respect, the European Union cannot have different levels of action and different measures according to whether the context is Kosovo, Africa or East Timor.
When international public opinion is told about the Indonesian Government which is carrying out terrible massacres in East Timor and is continuing to attack the basic rights of the Timorese population, it should also be told that the German Presidency, which is fighting Milosevic in Kosovo, is in favour of President Habibie in Indonesia.
It is this type of duplicitous position and these double standards which frequently discredit the Union and ensure that international public opinion does not always understand the value of our measures and policies.
Mr President, today sees the culmination of a procedure which turned out to be longer and more complex than expected, due to the need to break down the Commission's initial proposal into two texts according to the various geographical areas where Community cooperation action regarding human rights and the development of the rule of law and democracy might be called for.
Our main aim has been to strengthen a range of principles and criteria that are considered to be of fundamental importance for the promotion of a coherent, systematic and effective policy in this area.
When the budget for 1998 was being debated, Parliament agreed that an advisory working party on human rights should be set up.
Mr President, thanks to the generosity of your predecessor I had five and a half minutes to present my proposal for second reading on this subject.
I must thank the political groups, in particular the Group of the European People's Party, the UPE Group and the Green Group, which have all contributed in a decisive manner to the vast improvement of these documents.
Congratulations, Mr Galeote Quecedo.
This is actually a good example of how the heavy burden of procedures prevents our parliamentary work from being as versatile and flexible as we would like.
A further debate on my own report on the same issue took place in January.
I am convinced that this is not a good example of how to carry out a task efficiently.
My parliamentary group has been active within the Committee on Development and Cooperation and has tabled amendments.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the opinion of the Liberal Group, Mr Torres Couto has without doubt taken great pains in his report to sum up relations between the EU and the developing countries in respect of human rights, consolidation of the rule of law and the close links which must exist between development cooperation on the one hand and, on the other, development which is not merely economic but also - and perhaps above all - human, cultural, ethical and civil.
This must apply likewise to the developing countries.
Mr President, I can return Mr Torres Couto's compliment.
For our group, in any event, it was very gratifying to see how well we worked together.
I think that a democratic state with the participation of the people is the only way in which peace can be created in the long term, as we have seen over the last 50 years in Europe.
In this respect, it is right and necessary for us to support efforts to encourage a transition to democracy and respect for human rights there.
Finally, I have two further points: it is important to support smaller non-governmental organisations and smaller state-run bodies, because they are the ones which have a multiplier effect.
I have been assessing for some months and even years this idea of involving Parliament in administration or, in any case, in decision-making on projects.
I am against the two amendments.
I hope that my colleagues will follow the rapporteur's opinion.
The cooperation which is urgently needed in these areas in both cases ultimately needs a solid foundation, however.
However, promoting the rule of law, democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms is a need which we have already made a prerequisite - or wish to do so in the future - in the democracy programmes under PHARE, TACIS and MEDA, and also when granting financial aid to developing countries.
We have introduced this into many cooperation agreements in the form of so-called democracy and human rights clauses.
It has helped us to have a period of stability and peace in the European Union, and this is what we want other countries to have as well.
The European Parliament should insist on these amendments if it wishes to strengthen its own role in the future.
Mr President, the general principles in these two reports are broadly accepted by this House.
They quite rightly encourage the Union to link these cooperation and development agreements with the improvement of respect for human rights, the consolidation of democracy and the proper management of public affairs by our partners.
Having said this, the Union must demonstrate humility and caution in these matters.
The development in the right direction of the internal situation of certain countries is, in my opinion, more important than the excellence of a situation at a given moment.
I can cite two examples in this respect.
My second example is Cuba which we discussed a few weeks ago with Mr Galeote Quecedo.
The current developments in Cuba seem to me to be problematic and must be subject to the utmost rigour on our part.
I would like to thank Parliament for its considerable efforts as regards both the time taken and the quality of its work in the process of adopting the future legal basis for the appropriations of the European initiative for democracy and human rights, an initiative launched in 1994 at your instigation.
The amendments that were discussed in December are logically enough retained in the reports that are before us today.
The Commission's position is also qualified when it comes to the series of amendments calling for clarifications or adjustments, especially on the subject of strengthening of programmes, annual evaluations and the relative importance accorded to recipients' experience.
Whatever solution is adopted you can rest assured that the Commission will continue to look to Parliament as a key interlocutor, not only in its formal role as a Community institution, but also because of its wealth of experience in this field and the deep personal commitment that has been exemplified by so many of its Members.
This cooperation will give ample opportunity for the representatives of civil society to be heard too, for the Commission appreciates that policy in this field cannot be made in the absence of a true dialogue with civil society as a whole.
I should like to touch on two further issues specifically related to management of the European initiative for democracy and human rights.
Firstly, in November, Commissioner van den Broek discussed with this Parliament the need for technical assistance to help in managing the budget headings covered by the European initiative for democracy and human rights.
It has been decided that there should be a contract to cover the services related to the budget headings managed by DG IA, including the needs of the RELEX common services and DG IA itself, and those related to the running of an enhanced programme of micro-projects led by the delegations.
Secondly, the initiative for democracy and human rights will operate this year through two main windows, apart from activities such as joint programmes with the Council of Europe which are concluded directly by the Commission.
The first main window is the micro-projects programme which has been extended to cover each of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, former Yugoslavia, and the former Soviet Union and Mongolia.
This scheme has already been praised in the past and its extension in 1999 is the cornerstone of a strategy of keeping NGOs closely involved in the democratisation programme despite the limitations on managerial programme support which have militated in favour of larger projects.
The second window is a call for proposals to be issued any day now which will cover not only all the budget headings managed by DG IA but also those concerning ACP countries, including special programmes for Nigeria and for Southern Africa.
The decision to run the budget headings together is part of an ongoing process of unifying the approach to human rights support right across the world.
The call for proposals has already elicited the interest of NGOs which look to these budget headings as an important source of support for their activities.
There is evidence, both from the Court of Auditors' reports and from the independent evaluation of PHARE and TACIS democracy, that there is no mismanagement and fraud in this programme.
To sum up, we are at the closing stages and soon we can look forward to the legal and financial framework that puts an end to the uncertainty that has surrounded this particular initiative.
The investment will therefore be substantial.
Nevertheless, Commissioner, we must also bear in mind the proportionality principle and the Batneec concept: the use of best available technology not entailing excessive cost.
The levels proposed by Parliament's Committee on the Environment are particularly demanding.
The problem of acidification needs to be dealt with, but not all countries are affected.
As rapporteur, with the backing of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I therefore amended those requirements.
As we were drafting this directive, I came across the Dutch Government's 1997 order which contains requirements for large combustion plants which are considerably stricter than the ones before us today.
My colleagues from the Socialist Group have tabled amendments to the effect that the requirements which I propose to apply in respect of existing plants by the year 2005 should be postponed to the year 2010.
In response to these colleagues, I would say that if the Council wants to act and wants to change this result of codecision, it has to do that by unanimity, and unanimity means that Parliament and the European Court of Justice also have to have their say.
Mr President, I should first of all like to welcome the work done by the rapporteur and her report.
Parliament's report and the amendments tabled tend to extend the scope of the directive and make the limits with which both existing and future plants must comply more stringent.
For that reason we have to recognise that and recognise that we have to give a degree of flexibility within this proposal.
Coupling this proposal with the national emissions ceilings limits and with IPPC we can do that.
One last comment.
I have visited large combustion plants in two or three different states in the Union, particularly in my own, the UK.
Mr President, first of all I should like to congratulate Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on an excellent report.
The Commission agreed with the line taken by Parliament.
This is also an area in which the trading of emission rights provides a means of achieving some stability in our efforts to reach the requirements laid down in the Kyoto Protocol.
In Germany, 67 % of the forests are exposed to acid emissions containing sulphur dioxide and nitrogen compounds which exceed the critical level.
In France, 22 % of forest areas are affected.
There are of course other countries whose forests are relatively unaffected, for example Spain, where the corresponding figure is only 1 %.
Moreover, nine EU countries are net contributors to the acidification of areas outside their own borders, while five countries - Germany, France, Austria, Sweden and Finland - contaminate in this way an area smaller than that of their own forests.
These figures show that emissions from large combustion plants create a problem which should be a priority for common, supranational regulation.
The problem of emissions does not affect Spain, as one third of its energy is hydroelectric and another third nuclear.
Mr President, large combustion plants account in total for 63 % of sulphur dioxide and 21 % of nitrogen oxide emissions in the European Union.
Rigorous standards apply to waste incinerators, but the emissions caused by the burning of fossil fuels may also impair air quality, and consequently public health.
I am therefore pleased to note that the majority in the Environment Committee has actually had the good sense to support the rapporteur's proposals to tighten up the requirements contained in the directive.
Should the Oomen-Ruijten proposal be adopted, it would mean a reduction in sulphur dioxide emissions of 1 to 1.5 million tonnes a year.
That is equivalent to between 10 and 15 times Sweden's total output of sulphur emissions.
But the benefits would be incalculable.
Mr President, a technical directive being is amended and there are many aspects being addressed by different speakers.
I very much favour trying to move to more cogeneration, as other Members have mentioned.
The first is covered in Amendment No 1 which links what has been done in this directive to the still-awaited long-term ozone strategy.
The aim of this must be to bring harmful emissions from these plants in line and to below the level of critical loads.
If we fail in this, we are doubly failing, both in protecting the environment and in protecting public health.
Although we do not yet have the ozone strategy because of the paralysis in the Commission, we know that sooner or later the emissions limit values will have to come in line with it.
I commend them to the House and trust that they will have the support both of the Commission and, more importantly, of the Council.
In Germany, the rule is 200 mg/m3 .
If we now want to bring it down to 100 - and from a technical point of view, this is no problem for gas - it will mean a corresponding increase in price.
Then the regions concerned will receive regional aid from the European Union or the nation state.
But 200 mg/m3 is, I believe, a perfectly appropriate value, and we should stick to it.
For many Members, including some in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the limit values put forward by the rapporteur for reducing emissions of certain pollutants from large combustion plants up to the year 2005 went too far.
We are hearing similar arguments in the discussion on car exhaust gases.
Mr Linkohr, you are familiar with the car debate.
As many speakers have emphasised here this evening, large combustion plants account for a substantial proportion of the emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrous oxides in the EU.
The Commission understands very well the European Parliament's interest in allowing economic instruments to be considered as a means of reducing emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrous oxides, as expressed in Amendment No 3.
This will set national limits for emissions of a number of pollutants.
This will give Member States the opportunity to achieve the required reductions in emissions in the most cost-effective way, while at the same time the EU's environmental targets will be met.
Consequently, the current proposal only covers new plants which receive operating licences after 1 January 2000.
Even tougher emission limit values can be used if they are justified by local circumstances or are necessary to meet national emission ceilings.
Amendments Nos 2, 4, 6, 19, 22 and 23 cannot be accepted for technical and other reasons.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The new Commission proposal is a good one, but can be improved in one or two respects.
The Commission's proposal for the incineration of municipal waste covers both hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
Amendments Nos 7, 9, 15, 18, 19, 56 and 61 are needed to make the new directive applicable to hazardous waste as well.
These amendments are derived from Directive 94/67/EC on the incineration of hazardous waste.
The Environment Committee urges the European Commission to do its utmost to persuade the Council to adopt the common position on a single directive in June.
Mr President, waste is not an aim of production, although the amount of waste produced might well give that impression.
The idea of combining these directives is that the incineration of waste can create a pollution problem regardless of the type of waste being incinerated.
The Commission's proposal on municipal waste mentions kinds of waste which to the best of my belief are hazardous, such as waste oil and hospital waste.
So co-incineration, including in the cement industry, must comply with the requirements for tough emission values.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I wish to thank the rapporteur for his dedicated work.
Two countries have transposed them, with the result that these countries and these companies have invested a great deal of money and will probably have to do so once again if we reach different conclusions today.
I do not, however, consider it to be a particularly good thing that some countries and therefore some incineration plant operators abide by the rules and obey the laws in Europe and have spent a great deal of money, for example in France, but in my own country too - and I would be happy to show you this, Mr Blokland, after all you do not live so far away - while others have done nothing at all, and I do not see why, with these new values, some of which you want to halve, these others should now be able to save themselves the cost of the first investment.
That is a competition policy which I cannot support.
But Mr Blokland should please define the 'best available technology' in Europe for me.
Here too, there are enormous differences in Europe.
If we go along with Mr Blokland's proposals, I believe that in the long term the sensible process of co-incineration in cement kilns will be banned, and that does not make any sense at all, precisely from the point of view of environment policy, because they will still have to use gas or coal, and you want to ban that too.
But the bottom line is that we shall have 50 million tonnes of waste to deal with in the year 2000.
At the moment, the cement industry processes a lot of waste, hazardous waste.
I do not think derogations are appropriate, especially in view of the fact which Mr Florenz mentioned just now, that this standard of 500 mg NOx per cubic metre is already met in the Netherlands, Austria and Germany.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the incineration of waste has already been the subject of various European directives, the most recent of which is Directive 94/67/EC, which deals in particular with the incineration of hazardous waste.
The proposal for a Council directive concerns the incineration of waste that is not covered by this directive, that is, non-hazardous waste, such as urban waste and certain other types of hazardous waste that are excluded from the scope of the previous directive.
We shall not dwell at length on the numerous amendments that were tabled, but we would like to protest strongly against those tabled by the rapporteur which seek to merge the two directives on hazardous and non-hazardous waste into one.
The second argument put forward is that the limit values, the quantities of emissions from residues, are very similar.
The handling, management and treatment of both categories of waste - hazardous and non-hazardous waste - vary a great deal.
A genuine waste treatment policy requires selective sorting and treatment, rather than an anachronistic and anarchic mixing of waste.
I should like to finish by saying that the proposal to merge the directives on hazardous and non-hazardous products contained in the rapporteur's text seems to be completely unreasonable and a source of grave danger.
Finally, we are against certain amendments that call for controls that are too stringent with regard to emission standards.
These measures would require significant and costly investments but would not have any real benefits for the environment.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I should like to thank the rapporteur who has produced an excellent piece of work.
The European Commission already proposed such a measure in its draft directive on the incineration of hazardous waste in 1992.
That being the case, we might wonder about the reasons for a backwards step in this area and the fact that the main political groups in this House have not supported our proposal.
An initial step would consist of adopting a measure to that effect for plants which cause as much concern as incineration plants.
This means that 10 picograms per kilo of body weight would be reduced to a minimum of 1 picogram - that is, ten times less - and a maximum of 4 picograms.
I would point out that in many European countries, and particularly in my own country, Belgium, these limits have already been exceeded.
Mr President, it is clear that incineration capacity requirements are constantly increasing, but it is wrong to automatically present the burial of waste as an anti-ecological concept.
We are using a resource that is virtually comparable with a biofuel, and thereby helping to combat global warming.
The limits for particulates and cadmium have already been exceeded, and still the government has given the green light to construction of what will be a new source of pollution.
The Commission has already brought an action against Belgium for infringement of the directive on environmental impact assessment.
Madam President, I do not support the integration of the two directives - namely on municipal waste, waste oil, solvents and clinical waste, as well as other non-hazardous waste - into one composite European piece of legislation.
For more than 20 years European policy in respect of waste management has been based on the principle of treating hazardous industrial waste and household and similar waste in a different way.
From an Irish perspective, we generate over 42 million tonnes of waste each year.
The future of waste disposal must not and cannot lie in the continued search for more landfill up and down the length and breadth of our country.
Investment in a clean environment in my country will in the medium to long term justify any additional expenditure incurred and the European Union will support any innovative measures in this regard.
The Irish Government is presently putting together a national development plan outlining our economic and social investment priorities for the seven-year period post-1999.
Included in this plan must be a comprehensive and integrated proposal that deals with the issue of eliminating the use of landfill sites in Ireland in the medium to long term.
The facts speak for themselves in this regard: only 8 % of all municipal waste is recycled in my country.
The cost of disposal of this waste would drain the resources of our local authorities in terms of landfill sites, transport and manpower, and there is also the loss to the economy of the valuable materials which were dumped.
For example, it is estimated that over 70 million polyester bottles are sold in Ireland each year and the improper disposal of even a very small proportion of these could make a significant contribution to environmental litter.
Recycling rates for polyester bottles of up to 70 % have been achieved in Germany and the Netherlands to date.
It is an extremely dangerous situation that we have here.
The Greens want to see a lot of improvement on this report before it is accepted.
Incineration means you have to encourage waste production to make it viable.
The Irish Government really needs to get its act together.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am actually against waste incineration because I believe that it does not solve the problem, it merely shifts it elsewhere, and in the end the volume of waste may be reduced a little but does not disappear.
If there is any doubt about the danger of co-incineration - its effects are difficult to identify and only perhaps become apparent in the long term - we must ensure that the waste is incinerated in special incinerators, away from any population centres, as has just been said.
Madam President, the French Socialists are completely in favour of making standards more stringent and, in particular, of substantially improving the standards provided for in both directives to combat dioxin levels.
Indeed, in Europe we have already witnessed the catastrophic effects of mixing hazardous waste and household refuse in this way.
The overcapacity of the kilns for household refuse in some countries tends to encourage these countries to allow household refuse to be mixed with hazardous waste.
We might therefore end up in a situation where hazardous waste will be processed as cheaply as possible, under conditions where it is not properly controlled, and where the transfer of waste within the European Union increases with all the risks that this entails.
I believe we all agree that there must be stringent guidelines for limit values for waste incineration.
In other words, I am in favour of a single directive but I am not in favour of all the strict guidelines that have been suggested, as these are not feasible.
America estimates that the greenhouse effect of a one per cent increase in recycling is equivalent to taking one million cars off the road.
Europe can and should follow suit.
But in the end we have come up with something which is equitable, sensible and just.
We are going to continue to ensure that there are additional requirements upon dangerous or hazardous waste disposal because it poses risks over and above that posed by municipal waste in terms of handling and other controls.
The Socialist Group will be supporting the vast majority of his amendments.
Madam President, as a Socialist and Frenchman, I should just like to mention the great interest we have taken in the study of waste incineration and in the need to improve the standards in this area.
We also believe that it would be worthwhile if Europe provided more assistance to the countries or local authorities that have been making great efforts over the last few years to reduce the dangerous nature of incineration.
For this reason, we cannot support the co-incineration of household and hazardous or industrial waste.
The Commission has worked hard to be able to present a balanced proposal which can achieve a high level of protection for the environment and human health, while at the same time taking into account the special needs of incineration plants and co-incineration.
The combining of the two directives on incineration has been a very important point in the debate here this evening, and the report also quite rightly focuses on that.
Neither the Commission's proposal nor Directive 94/67 contains any provision which prevents co-incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
These are Amendments Nos 7, 9, 15, 18, 19, 24, 50, 56, 60 and 61, which we accept either in part, in principle or in full.
In addition to what the report says about the combining of Directive 94/67 and the Commission's proposal, we consider it necessary to introduce a transition period for existing plants for the incineration of hazardous waste, in accordance with Article 14 of Directive 94/67.
Parliament's Amendments Nos 8, 14, 23 and 55, which are aimed at including certain questions of waste management, are unacceptable on grounds of principle.
The aim of the Commission's proposal is to set emission limit values and operating conditions for all waste which is incinerated or co-incinerated, and not to interfere with the rules on waste management.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 12, 16, 17, 21 and 22, which seek to introduce provisions on quality standards for air and water.
For this we already have legislation either in existence or under preparation, such as the IPPC directive or the proposal for a framework directive on water.
Therefore we do not accept Amendments Nos 13 and 20.
We can accept in part, in principle or in full Amendments Nos 4, 10, 19, 24, 28, 33, 35, 56, 59 and 64, which we think clarify the Commission's intentions and otherwise improve the quality of the document.
Thank you, Mrs Bjerregaard.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, LIFE is the only financial instrument the European Union has to intervene directly in the field of the environment.
The breakdown of the appropriations is as follows: 47 % for LIFE-Nature, 47 % for LIFE-Environment, and 6 % for LIFE-Third Countries.
LIFE-Nature mainly accompanies the Community policies that are connected with the protection of the biotope, the conservation of wild species, the implementation of European directives - particularly the directive which protects migratory birds - or the Natura 2000 directive, and the protection of the natural habitats of different species of fauna and flora.
The actions implemented within this framework cover a wide range of areas from water policy to air pollution control.
This new programme encompasses various objectives.
That is why, generally speaking, the regulation states that the appropriations set aside for accompanying measures should be increased from 3 % to 5 %.
As a result, LIFE's broad guidelines in each of the sectors have been somewhat tightened up.
LIFE is being implemented by the Commission's services with the help of a management committee made up of Council representatives and with the help of experts.
In short, our report and the proposals by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to some extent accompany the Commission's broad guidelines.
I am more modest than she was, since I am suggesting a sum of ECU 850 million over five years, which is a little less than what she wanted for each year, but a little more than what the Council had granted the programme.
Madam President, to start with I must compliment the Commission on the way in which it has drawn on the outside evaluation of the LIFE-II programme in drawing up this proposal for LIFE-III.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on External Economic Relations, I have limited my opinion to the external effects of the LIFE programme.
I would like to add a footnote to one or two amendments tabled by the rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the environment programme 'LIFE' is the European Union's most important instrument for the financing of environmental projects.
It is thanks only to the action of the European Parliament that we now have access to considerable funding from the European budget, at any rate ECU 613 million for the next five years.
My group considers all projects funded by LIFE to be extremely important, of course, but we also fully support the objectives proposed by the Commission, such as the 'starter' and 'co-op' measures.
We shall certainly not be prepared to agree to anything less, because the current figure of EUR 450 m is decidedly inadequate.
If Europe truly wishes to look kindly on nature and the environment, it must be prepared to pay for it.
I therefore appeal not only to the Dutch Government but also to the Council.
Madam President, the rapporteur and other speakers have reminded us that LIFE is the only instrument devoted exclusively to the environment.
We believe that the LIFE instrument can contribute to job creation in the field of the environment.
Reports on the LIFE I, LIFE II and LIFE III projects should be presented in 2002 as this will give the necessary impetus to a future LIFE IV.
Madam President, in principle the LIFE programme is extremely welcome from an environmental point of view.
The most important prerequisite for success is sufficient funding.
Almost every type of environmental initiative also creates jobs.
The involvement of the applicant countries in the LIFE programme is of enormous importance.
The European Union should therefore signal to these countries that their own efforts in the whole area of environmental protection are an essential condition for closer relations and, finally, accession to the European Union.
In these countries there is the danger that environmental dumping is practised both in industry and in energy production.
The improvement in the dissemination of information on LIFE projects and the associated increase in budget appropriations from 3 % to 5 % are also to be welcomed.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the LIFE programme is the Union's main financial instrument for promoting action in the environmental sector.
It was launched by the Commission in 1992 and will reach the end of its second implementation phase on 31 December of this year.
The regulation under discussion will cover the administration of the third phase of the programme for the next five-year period 2000-2004, and funding of EUR 613 million has been made available.
This new proposal for a Council regulation is important because it focuses on priorities such as: firstly, helping local authorities to integrate environmental considerations into land-use planning; secondly, promoting sustainable development and incorporating environmental aspects into industrial activities; and thirdly, distributing financial resources for the protection of nature, for other actions and for actions in regions bordering on the Mediterranean and Baltic Seas.
As far as third countries are concerned, it is particularly important to pay greater attention to the means and funds at their disposal, given that - as we all know - programmes drawn up by us, here in Europe, cannot be put into practice unless other countries' governments are able to cofinance them.
I nevertheless believe that the third phase of the LIFE programme should be extended from five to seven years, with a proportionate increase in funding.
The report and the comments which have been presented here this evening are in line with the Commission's primary objectives, and many of the amendments emphasise the most important features of LIFE.
Around 1 300 projects have been cofinanced, with a total EC contribution of EUR 643 million.
I would like to take this opportunity to stress that in budgetary terms, LIFE has proved to be an extremely effective tool.
As mentioned in the Commission's report pursuant to Article 7(3), LIFE could use more resources, up to and even above the reference amount which is indicated for LIFE II.
The Commission can therefore also accept 31 of the 47 amendments either in principle, in part or in full.
I am interested to see that the Committee on the Environment is in favour of increasing the LIFE budget even beyond the amount the Commission has included in the financial statement for the proposed regulation.
Amendments Nos 33, 46 and 47 are therefore unacceptable.
And the Commission is also unable to accept Amendment No 12 on a supplementary budget for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
Amendment No 42 would entail a radical change in the purpose of preparatory projects, which is to develop new measures in the area of the environment, so we do not accept this amendment.
The Commission is prepared to give Parliament all the information necessary for the effective supervision of the programme, but this should not entail a large increase in the number of reports which have to be submitted to Parliament.
So we do not agree with Amendments Nos 31, 19 and 32.
For technical reasons, we therefore do not accept Amendments Nos 13, 14, 36 and 45.
I am convinced that the Community has benefited from the LIFE projects already carried out, and with the new regulation this potential will be able to be realised in full in the years from 2000 to 2004.
Thank you, Mrs Bjerregaard.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, I must first congratulate the European Commission on its proposal for revision of the regulation governing the environmental audit, first approved in 1993.
The Treaty of Amsterdam requires that environmental policy should be incorporated into all areas and that sustainable development should genuinely be achieved in the European Union, and I believe that we need a lot of instruments to be able to implement this.
The improved version of EMAS is one of those instruments which puts companies in particular in a 'win situation', allowing them to protect the environment and reduce costs.
This Parliament has defined best available technology very precisely for industry and has also - rightly, in my opinion - excluded SMEs from this.
A transport company has best available technology for its logistics.
The statement in the fifth environmental action programme that industry is not just part of the environmental problem but must also be part of the solution to the problem, continues to be relevant today, and an alternative to environmental regulatory law is the environmental audit scheme that we are now discussing.
The voluntary implementation - I emphasise this particularly - of eco-management and audit schemes allows companies to meet the requirements of environmental protection in a flexible way.
As we have already heard several times today, the current regulation has proved itself, in particular in industrial firms, and we have also established - here I must contradict you slightly - that 75 % of companies participating in the environmental audit are from Germany.
When we say that the available technology should apply, in my view this is a concept which has no place whatsoever in legislation, Mrs Graenitz, as it changes every week and would have to be constantly redefined.
To begin with, there are Amendments Nos 24, 28 and 29.
I would also like to draw attention to Amendment No 23.
After initially grave reservations, the eco-audit has now become a real hit with industry in those areas where it is used, and I can say on behalf of Germany that the figures speak for themselves: in absolute terms, Germany has the highest number of participating companies, even if it is only 1 % of all companies.
In the light of my considerable experience in this sector, I feel that the initial assessment is the key to setting up a management system successfully.
Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I think you have failed to take into account how industry actually operates.
There have been many excellent speeches about it, so instead I will concentrate on the 65 amendments which have been tabled.
The Commission finds 20 of these amendments acceptable in full or in part.
Then there is the second part of Amendments No 18 and Amendment No 51, which also strengthen the credibility of EMAS and can therefore be supported.
The comparability and conformity of the scheme between Member States is also of great importance, and for that reason Amendments Nos 34 and 43, which demonstrate Parliament's support, can be accepted.
Other key principles in the proposal are intelligibility, clarity, transparency and subsidiarity.
The Commission can therefore support Amendments Nos 5, 8, 11, 20, 21, 24, 27, 42, 45, 48 and 61 in principle, because in the main we think that they reinforce these aspects.
We are unable to accept the other amendments.
For this reason, we cannot accept Amendments Nos 7, 12, 13, 14, 36, 41, 44, 53, 54, 59, 64 and 65 because they repeat elements which are already covered by the text, especially in Annex I A.
The proposal has been framed in such a way that it can be applied by businesses of any size.
The added value for the environment of the EMAS scheme compared with ISO 14001 is an important aspect of the proposal, as has also been mentioned in the debate.
The Commission therefore does not support Amendments Nos 16, 17, 52 and 63, because they weaken the transparency and control of information concerning environmental outcomes by reducing the validation frequency.
An important element of the proposal is that it extends the scope of the EMAS scheme to cover all business sectors.
Thank you, Mrs Bjerregaard.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 11.30 a.m.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by briefly outlining the background to this matter.
During its sitting of 11 March 1998, Parliament delivered its opinion at first reading on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Decision adopting a programme of Community action on pollution-related illnesses.
The President of Parliament announced that he had received this at the sitting of 18 June 1998 and, on the whole, the Council's common position seemed satisfactory.
Nevertheless, Parliament adopted 14 amendments to that text.
Therefore, the President of the Council, in agreement with the President of Parliament, convened a meeting of the Conciliation Committee to be held on 4 February 1999.
The conciliation procedure was relatively difficult because the Council did not show any particular interest in the programme.
As regards the three amendments on strengthening the follow-up of the programme, two were accepted, guaranteeing the programme's continual assessment, the drawing-up of a Commission report during the final year of the programme, along with actions being planned for the future.
The extension of the scope of the programme through a policy of prevention and increasing awareness of the risks was also accepted, as was the issue of complementarity with other health programmes, and an annual report on this subject must be provided by the Commission.
Moreover, the Council approved the principle of public information, admittedly by means of professionals, but it included some very important points, such as the risk of pollution on foodstuffs.
It became evident that, in view of the negotiations on Agenda 2000, several Council delegations had been instructed not to make any concessions on the budget.
Whilst regretting this situation, Parliament's delegation accepted the amount specified in the common position, subject to a joint declaration by the three institutions relating to the Commission proposal for the adoption of a new framework programme in the field of public health after the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The Commission and the Council of Ministers have in the past been too hesitant.
I believe that we must also take health aspects into account as part of the CO2 question, as illnesses that have to date existed only in the tropics will appear in Europe as a result of global warming, and there will also be other problems.
We must include the recommendations that are developed from this in our legislation in other areas too.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
It is a five-year Community programme, running from 1 January 1999 to 31 December 2003, and its main aim is to improve information on rare diseases which affect fewer than five in 10 000 people in the EU but are all the more dangerous for this very reason.
Parliament and the Council reached an agreement in the Conciliation Committee on 4 February, especially in respect of the establishment of a European database on rare diseases and access to it, encouragement and support for professionals with a view to improving the early diagnosis, identification and prevention of rare diseases, transnational cooperation among voluntary bodies, networking of groups of people directly or indirectly concerned and coordination at Community level, EU support for the monitoring of rare diseases in the Member States, training and refresher courses for professionals, and the promotion of networks of experts interested in a rapid response to the phenomenon of clusters.
The first is that the action programme has to do with information, in particular the establishment of a coherent and complementary European information network on rare diseases and access to it through existing databases.
Another element is the promotion of transnational cooperation and the networking of groups of people directly or indirectly affected by these rare diseases or groups of volunteers and health professionals, as well as coordination at Community level to ensure continuity and transnational cooperation.
Another significant point concerns Community support for the monitoring of rare diseases in the Member States and early warning systems relating to clusters, as well as networking and training for experts involved in handling these diseases and in responding rapidly.
Unfortunately, the funding of EUR 6.5 million approved for the five-year period 1999-2003 is quite insufficient.
One need only think that the National Organization for Rare Diseases, in the United States, has earmarked a substantial USD 3.2 million over the past three years, and that France alone has spent FRF 3 million on the primary operating system for the Orphanet database.
Mr President, I too think that to conclude the European Parliament's activities on health policy with two programmes - this one on rare diseases and the one on pollution-related diseases - demonstrates the importance we attach to health policy.
We must highlight the problem of rare diseases in particular, because it is a typical issue which can only be tackled on an international and transnational scale.
I thank them for their contributions and their continued support for the development of public health in the Union.
I welcome the joint texts adopted by the Conciliation Committee on 4 February 1999 on the rare diseases and pollution-related diseases programmes.
The points of difference between Parliament and the Council have now finally, as Professor Cabrol has indicated, been ironed out.
I hope that the role played by my services and the action that I myself took in assisting with these compromise texts was useful and that we have finally brought matters to a conclusion.
Nevertheless, on the basis of the proposed joint declaration of Parliament, the Council and the Commission, we are now in a position where it is possible to anticipate that these issues can be more fully addressed in the context of a new framework programme on public health.
Let me emphasise from the Commission's side that we attach very great importance to both these programmes even if, in their duration and scope, they essentially constitute really just a first step in the right direction.
I would also like to indicate that Article 152 of the Amsterdam Treaty puts an obligation on us to take account of other Community policies in the development of our health programmes.
It may be your last contribution to the development of our public health programmes, but you have made a significant contribution.
I would hope that in your retirement you will recognise that you have made a considerable contribution to the development of these programmes.
I would like to say a special word of thanks to Professor Cabrol for his continued dedication and commitment to these matters throughout my time here with the European Parliament.
The debate is closed.
