Mr President, Parliament originally gave me the job of preparing a report on the proposed Guidelines for Member States' Employment Policies 2000.
The wide-ranging debate and the many suggestions raised in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on employment policy in general encouraged me to divide my draft report in two, with conclusions and a legislative part concentrating on the proposals for guidelines for the year 2000, which the Council of Ministers must adopt in December 1999.
On the day after the vote was taken in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the Council also formally asked Parliament for an opinion.
So for procedural reasons it became necessary to present two reports today, one on the Guidelines for Member States' Employment Policies 2000 and on establishing an Employment Committee, and the other on the 1999 Joint Employment Report, which contains the conclusions adopted in committee.
However, youth and long-term unemployment are still at an unacceptably high level in most Member States, and, in any case, every single unemployed person is one too many.
We represent the public and are therefore the most important institution of the European Union.
The Employment Committee is intended to play a consultative role in assisting the Member States' coordination of employment and labour market policy.
Coordination of European employment policy, especially by means of the employment-policy guidelines, should lead to a longer-term strategy of tapping the potential in society for creativity, innovation, entrepreneurialism, willingness to invest and a "can-do" attitude.
But efficient, performance-oriented action is only possible if these guidelines reflect an assessment of results achieved.
I would like to make two observations in this context, not so much regarding the Menrad report but regarding the report issued by the Commission itself.
Consequently, my group would propose three new European objectives for the next couple of years.
I urge us not to miss this opportunity of reinforcing the European employment guidelines and at the same of setting up a process of securing quality jobs and good social protection.
And it must also be ensured that the dialogue between governments and the social partners in the labour market does not overshadow the democratic process in the national parliaments and the EU Parliament.
Once it has been said that European economic policy should have employment as its goal, once this is laid down in law and is proclaimed loud and clear, without ever checking the validity of the affirmation in a realistic and pragmatic way, then the subordination of the social to the economic is being written in the stone of the Treaties, finally reducing the social aspect to the task of managing each and every one of us in our competition for a place in a labour market which is getting tighter and tighter.
And even the mention of active support for local initiatives on employment is limited and any attempts to examine the quality and sustainability of jobs created are eliminated.
It is essential to bring about a reduction in the number of registered unemployed in a Europe where the number of men and women living below the poverty line is itself not getting any less.
We urge that you give your enthusiastic support to two amendments contributing towards this, numbers 30 and 31, on which I shall ask the presidency for voting by roll call.
Whether or not the Luxembourg process functions effectively will depend in fact upon cooperation between local, regional, national and European actors.
Mr President, the enactment of the Amsterdam Treaty on 1 May 1999 has certainly ensured that greater attention is given to the implementation of a common employment policy.
The central aspect to the implementation of new employment must be a need to guarantee a fair distribution of job opportunities throughout each Member State through the process of regionalisation and decentralisation.
This is only correct and proper in the light of the fact that 11 countries out of the 15 are participating within a common, single European currency regime.
However, those people without skills seeking to integrate into the workplace have little or no chance of taking up remunerative and rewarding employment unless they learn a new trade or a different work practice.
National Member State governments must also take into account the provisions of the new European Social Fund regulations.
These regulations in essence will ensure that Member States support programmes that take account of the changing nature of work practices, the need to promote entrepreneurship, as well as supporting local job creation programmes.
Local job creation initiatives must be supported by national and European Member States.
Local communities, from the private, public and voluntary sectors must be allowed to pool their collective talents in an effort to create employment within the small and medium-sized enterprise sector in their respective areas.
This is also part of the process of decentralising the implementation of EU and national job creation initiatives.
However, recommendation no 14 in the present guidelines recommends this very thing to the Member States.
I think that at least, given that employment policies at European level are already policies that make suggestions, recommendations and push for coordination between the Member States - so there is no actual concrete, decision-making power, which, all things considered, I believe to be positive for the subsidiarity principle, although it is a somewhat limited power - Parliament should be fully involved.
And, in fact, there is something very important missing in the guidelines on employment policies, and that is immigration.
A bold, active employment and immigration policy is what is needed to boost employment in the European Union.
As many of you will remember, during the sitting of Thursday 28 October in Strasbourg, proceedings were interrupted by an incident regarding the amendment made to a motion for a resolution without the agreement of any of the signatories.
Mr President, is the text which has been presented as the compromise text to the Members of this House the same as that signed by the political groups, yes or no?
The answer is no.
Employment (continued) Mr President, I too would like to voice my appreciation of the rapporteur' s excellent work carried out in difficult conditions on a difficult subject.
Two circumstances have shown us that this is a difficult matter: an almost unanimous joint agreement on the urgency and importance of adopting efficient policies to combat unemployment and for this to happen within a framework where the necessary support for a positive economic process will safeguard social cohesion and the European social model.
The answer is no.
It is true that employment policies are national policies, but it is also true that they must now be reproduced at European level, because only through conciliation and social dialogue will we succeed in consolidating the European Parliament' s power on employment policy, and this is the policy that will enable Europe, finally and decisively, to have a political, as well as an economic definition.
Mr President, Commissioner, paradox it may be, but the Menrad report has again brought unemployment to the fore within the European arena.
This is a bad time for employment in Europe, with seventeen million unemployed and sixty million people living in poverty.
The report includes many good points, but it does not, in my opinion, live up to our demands and expectations, despite taking a series of amendments debated in the Commission into account.
Page 13 of the Commission' s report on employment refers to the fact that the level of employment is highest in Denmark, and two other countries are also mentioned.
Since the Treaty of Amsterdam, Brussels has had official, full and legal access to a new area of interference in social and employment matters.
Surprisingly, one can even find common-sense proposals in them for a voluntarist family policy.
It is indeed time for a change in policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that it is intelligent and necessary to begin this brief contribution to the debate on employment guidelines by congratulating ourselves on the positive European statistics and I would like to show my appreciation for the work of all those who have worked so intelligently so that we may finally have a procedure for coordination in the field of employment, as provided for in article 128 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I believe that it is insufficient because we are still treating the problem as if it were a current problem when, in reality, Europe is suffering from a structural problem of an historic nature, born of a change in production methods, born of an increase in productivity in work which leads to increases in production and wealth which do not result in increases in employment and that this increase in wealth is distributed amongst companies and the workers who are in work, leaving those in a worse situation out of the picture: women, unqualified young people and the long-term unemployed.
Mr President, this is an interesting report and the proposals will no doubt be widely approved by the vote in Parliament, but going beyond the Commission proposals which simply, in my view, go over the Luxembourg process again, there is one question which arises and that is why attention is not focussed on the Monti Report even though it clearly demonstrates that it is the lack of social convergence or fiscal convergence which is costing jobs in all the countries of the Union.
Mr President, I would like, in turn, to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent contribution and also to thank the administrative staff of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs who, considering the conditions we had to work in, assisted us until late in the evening.
But what I would like to say is that I consider it to be essential that this strategy which is just beginning to bear fruit should not be obstructed by rigid measures which are not adapted to the interests of businesses or of workers.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank Mr Menrad.
We also need these specific criteria for employment policy.
Mr President, the Commission proposal on guidelines for employment policies in 2000 does not really add anything new as compared with previous documents.
Nevertheless, it does contain some really crucial points, in particular on information systems and the policies facilitating the transfer of these systems to labour.
It is also right to emphasise, as do Amendments 2 and 3 to Guidelines 1 and 2, that long-term unemployment cannot be fought effectively with State subsidies.
I would also like to emphasise three limits which we still have to resolve concerning employment policies that the Commission proposal does not adequately address.
To this end, Amendment No 15 to Guideline 12 is important, but still not sufficient.
The Commission' s report on the implementation of the employment policies stated that Member States had failed to go beyond token efforts at alleviating gender inequalities.
So I would ask Members to support Amendments Nos 37 and 38 which would achieve this.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see from the reports on employment policies in the Member States, there is a high level of non-compliance with the guidelines on employment, and unemployment is still very high - particularly long-term unemployment - and this affects young people and women most of all.
But the review process and target setting release neither the Member States nor the two sides of industry from their main responsibility for employment policy in their countries, because they are specific.
I would like to add a few thoughts here.
Fourthly, we must make it easier to start up new businesses, and we should support the small and medium-sized companies that provide and create 80% of the jobs in Europe with a harmonised and coordinated fiscal policy, and remove the constraints on starting up new businesses.
If we proceed in accordance with the guidelines and these principles, then we will not only increase the number of those in work, but also reduce existing unemployment, and that is our goal.
Guideline 13 rightly mentions the development of the services sector and of industry-related services.
As regards the guidelines, I would like to talk specifically about the part which concerns the transition from school to work.
This aim is not pursued only by the albeit commendable proposals contained in Guidelines 7 and 8.
Mr President, for years the European Parliament has been putting considerable pressure on the Member States.
Mr President, in its document on the guidelines on employment policies in the Member States for 2000, the Commission takes as its starting point a basic consideration: that after its launch at the extraordinary summit, the progress made in the development of the process towards employment has been considerable.
Mr Speaker, the reform of the Union' s employment policy that began in Luxembourg in 1997 is one of the biggest and most important projects the EU has launched during these past few years.
I also consider it slightly worrying that the proposals for guidelines for the year 2000 are coming under discussion before the tangible actions regarding the old guidelines have been concluded or even started.
The Member States have committed themselves to implement these guidelines in their own national programmes.
We are far from achieving the coordination of employment and economic policies which article 126 of the Treaty recommends.
Mr President, I have to speak about matters concerning work, social issues and employment.
There are 630 Members here.
In congratulating Mr Menrad on his report I want to concentrate on progress or the lack of it in achieving employment guideline 9, promoting a labour market open to all.
This European Parliament is right in our Amendment No 13 to support the holistic approach and for the development of comparable targets, which I will refer to in a moment and which I call on all in this Parliament to support.
If it has been possible to secure performance targets from Member States in relation to both youth and long-term unemployed people, why do we not seek a similar target to improve the employment of disabled unemployed people too.
The first is that it is clear that successful implementation of the European employment strategy requires a stable macroeconomic framework which is why there is close and continuous cooperation in the whole of the process of macroeconomic dialogue.
I believe that we can be even more ambitious and set common European targets in the area of the information society because we cannot talk of the convergence of Member States unless there is convergence in the particularly sensitive area of the information society.
The debate is closed.
Votes Madam President, I would like to inform the Members that Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure was, in fact, repealed by bureaucratic means.
We do not intend to collaborate with this discrimination, and therefore, neither on this occasion do we intend to take part in the votes until this matter... (The President cut the speaker off) Madam President, during yesterday' s roll-call vote some other Members and I gave our names because our voting machines were not working.
Some critical amendments in this report will require, of course, 314 votes.
Nevertheless, although it pains me to do this, after many discussions with Members from many groups and committees I am now calling for us to give a signal, even if it is unfortunately only a very weak one!
Relating to Amendment No 13 Madam President, with regard to Amendment No 13, I have nothing against the proposal to take a joint vote on this, but I wish to point out that the German version is incorrect.
This amendment was also proposed as an oral amendment in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
This means, consequently, that it is indeed possible to have independent voting without the group being considered to be lacking in political affinity in accordance with Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure.
If the same rule applies to the small groups in the same way as to the large ones, or to the large groups in the same way as to the small groups, then I think that the conclusion will not be that the PPE Group must be dissolved on the grounds that this or that national grouping has an autonomous vote in this Parliament.
A simple analogy would be an employment teamin which out of 22 players, 13 want to be referees and only 9 want to kick the ball, with only two or three players wanting to be strikers, who are, in the end, the key to success.
The Treaty of Amsterdam gives me this right, and I am taking advantage of it to say how important I think it is for the European Parliament to be formally consulted on this matter.
The report tells us that there has indeed been progress since 1998, as unemployment has dropped from 10.1% to 9.9% and there are 1.8 million more people in employment.
Half of the unemployed in the European Union are long-term unemployed.
Many jobs are still insecure and 60 million people are living below the poverty line.
It is therefore essential to give new impetus to employment strategy in Europe, and to set ambitious goals, such as reducing unemployment by half within five years.
In particular, this requires reform and modernisation of education and training which must be of benefit to everyone, without discrimination based on social environment or on the individual, and which must take technological and IT developments into account, and a ferocious fight against all forms of unemployment and job insecurity.
It is important that in this area, too, the European Parliament seeks the opportunity to intervene democratically in the choices of the European Union.
For the first time the advances of Amsterdam give us the opportunity to be involved in the discussion of the guidelines in the form of Mr Menrad' s report.
Hence the importance of the amendments resubmitted by my group, with the following requirements: 1) the combined forces of Member States and the European Union should converge towards a 65% rate of employment within the next five years; 2) preventative measures should have the objective of reducing unemployment by 50% within each Member State over the long term within the next five years; 3) positive measures should be undertaken to encourage the young unemployed to find a job and to facilitate their integration into employment; 4) the deadline of 2002 should be set for equipping schools with computers and enabling students to access the Internet.
To "have your whole life before you" , as the saying goes, at 25 without any chance to make plans for the future, no prospects other than unemployment and a minimum subsistence income - surely this is worse than a death sentence?
I cannot vote for the report on the guidelines for the employment policies of Member States in its entirety.
The fact is that the European Union has 20 million unemployed and 60 million people living in poverty and the guidelines do not envisage a single binding measure to prevent redundancies and lay-off plans.
