Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 12 February 1999.
Statement by the President Ladies and gentlemen, several Members and political groups have drawn my attention to the fact that over the last few weeks a number of avalanches have taken place in France, Italy, and more recently in Austria, and there have been a great many casualties.
Indeed, the latest avalanche in western Tyrol was the worst for the last 50 years.
I am quite certain that you all share in the sadness following these events within our Union, in France, Italy and Austria.
As you said, this was the worst avalanche disaster in Austria since the second world war, although of course other Alpine regions have also been hit, in Italy and France and in a non-Member State, Switzerland.
I think it would be fitting for the European Parliament also to observe one minute's silence in memory of the victims of the Galtür avalanche.
I would add the further request - addressed to the Commission representatives - for funds to be allocated from the 1999 budget, from budget line B4-330 for protection against environmental and other disasters, to help the regions concerned.
Thank you, Mrs Stenzel.
Approval of the Minutes The Minutes of the sitting of Friday, 12 February 1999 have been distributed.
Let me ask you to forward this report to us officially for our committee meeting on 15 and 16 March.
On page 1 of the minutes, my speech has been recorded rather too concisely in my opinion.
Mr President, pursuant to Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure, the Green Group requests referral back to committee of the Grossetête report.
The Commission is already working on a new proposal and has also spoken to a number of MEPs and made it quite clear that a completely revised version now exists.
Let me also point out that at its last meeting the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy actually asked for this item not to be included on the agenda because of the new Commission proposal.
Secondly, before the start of the debate.
Detention of Abdullah Öcalan and Kurdish question The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the arrest of Abdullah Öcalan and the need for a political solution to the Kurdish question.
Ever since this issue erupted into a crisis, people at all levels, in all the European states and in the European Union, have been discussing how they can help to resolve the conflicts in south-eastern Turkey.
In my view it is true that the PKK has discredited itself by its acts of terrorism and violence.
In that sense the PKK, its aims and its methods are in part the symptom of a more deep-seated problem.
And it is precisely for that reason that we cannot regard it as the legitimate expression of Kurdish interests or as a warring party that we should recognise.
Some statements from Turkey itself encourage us in that hope.
The Turkish Parliament has drafted a bill providing for a degree of regionalisation in Turkey.
These are encouraging signs, which we will gladly follow up in the hope of reaching a viable result both for the Turkish State and for the Kurdish minority.
In particular, these conditions relate to standards of democratisation and human rights.
I hope Turkey will grasp the opportunity inherent in the present situation and that by resolving the Kurdish problem on the basis of democracy, human rights and minority rights Turkey will itself move a step closer to Europe.
The Kurdish question is not intrinsically an economic one, of course, but economic factors have to be considered alongside political action to find a lasting solution to the Kurdish community's legitimate claims to respect for their cultural identity and their minority rights.
Mr President, until today whenever we have raised the Kurdish question, the response from Turkey was that, firstly, it is an internal matter and, secondly, it is a question of terrorism.
Anyone like me who has spent time listening and talking to those people cannot doubt their despair or their passionate desire for peace, and their genuine desire to exercise their culture, language and tradition as Kurds.
That young girl lives in my constituency in Wood Green.
People ask if we have a right to even ask that question.
I welcome the Council's statement in that context.
It could reform the political system to allow the Kurdish minority to express itself within the political system.
As we approach elections in Turkey it could put an end to the harassment of HADEP and give them the chance to participate on an equal footing with Turkey's other parties.
We in the European Union must realise that this trial is symptomatic of a deeper problem, a problem which is relevant to us all, since there are so many Turks and Turks of Kurdish descent living in the European Union.
Year after year, generation after generation, they have become used to democracy and the rule of law, and many of them would be willing to hold talks, would really like to enter into a dialogue.
This, as you know, is a people numbering 25 million souls, whose existence is not recognised.
The Union must continue to promote democratisation and the rights of Turkey, and we must send observers, yes, of course.
Turkey must move forward with the social and economic development of south-eastern Turkey.
Mr President, that the long-standing, agonising struggle for freedom of the Kurdish people will continue until its victorious outcome is a historical certainty.
You are doing what you are doing so as not to lose a fistful of dollars invested in Turkey, so as not to displease the great boss on the other side of the Atlantic who baptised Mr Öcalan - along with all the others who are fighting for their people - as a terrorist.
My last point concerns the violence which has occurred in Europe and the hostage-taking at various embassies by Kurds demonstrating against the arrest of their leader.
This should act as an incentive for us to strengthen links between our respective police services in terms of exchanging information so that we can crack down on international terrorism in our countries.
The question now is whether Europe can take any action which is politically relevant.
HADEP currently has great difficulties in this regard, and we need to make it clear that, in a normal and fair electoral process, all parties must be free to take part without impediment.
In my opinion, we should also take this opportunity to examine our own consciences, which we have not done either in this resolution or even in this discussion. Öcalan's friends who have tried to support the PKK leader's cause and who have actually, I believe, speeded his downfall should also examine their consciences with regard to the attitudes that we have been led to adopt in the European Union.
In my opinion, Italy should have accepted the rules of the terrorism convention and shouldered its responsibilities by judging Öcalan itself.
This has not happened and I believe that Europe must acknowledge that it was at fault in order to act as a lesson for the future.
Madam President, every people has a right to its own nation, and anyone accused of a crime has a right to a fair trial.
The European countries must tell Turkey once and for all that torture is a crime against humanity.
Secondly, we are also dealing here with the Öcalan case and not just with the Kurdish question in general, and Pauline Green very clearly described our position in regard to achieving a peaceful political solution.
We regard Öcalan neither as a great hero nor as a particularly nice man, but like many others he deserves fair treatment, treatment that respects his health, treatment that is fair, decent, public and transparent, treatment that allows him to be visited by lawyers, whom we hope he really can choose freely.
In other words, just as the name Arafat was and is connected with the Palestinian question, so the Öcalan case raises the unresolved problem of the Kurdish people.
A word or two on what Commissioner van den Broek said just now about aid to south-eastern Turkey.
I find that the opinion delivered by the Committee on External Economic Affairs, Security and Defence Policy of 17 February does not do so, for in my view there is no doubt that the European Parliament must condemn the PKK's terrorism most emphatically.
Some EU Member States have not covered themselves in glory in recent years when it came to Öcalan and the PKK.
Two: Turkey must also guarantee an independent judiciary.
Turkey is undoubtedly one such nation as although it is not part of the European Union, it is certainly an important member of the Council of Europe and of other European bodies.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that by far the majority of speakers have in principle supported the Council's basic views on this matter.
Five: drawing a distinction between separatism and cultural autonomy can be a key to progress in resolving this problem.
Madam President, I spoke earlier about the three Kurdish women who are in an embassy in Nairobi and I asked the Council to give assurances that, since they have foreign passports, they would be able to go in safety to the country which issued them with their passports.
Madam President, the Council has replied.
Thank you, Mr van den Broek.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Madam President, the European Union has been negotiating an agreement with South Africa since 1995.
The negotiations proved very difficult from the outset, especially because of the problems on both sides in regard to opening up their agricultural markets and because of the divergent positions on the use of designations of origin for port and sherry produced in South Africa.
A global compromise was negotiated between Commissioner Pinheiro and the South African trade minister Mr Erwin in Davos on 29 January, on the margins of the world economic forum.
The German Presidency of the Council tried to achieve political agreement on the conclusion of that agreement in the Council on 22 February, on the basis of this compromise package, which was to have been formally confirmed in the Council on 22 March.
But it emerged at that Council meeting that there was still no consensus within the European Union on the conclusion of an agreement based on the compromise package negotiated by the Commission.
Given this situation, the Council welcomed the progress made in the last round of negotiations and requested the Commission to submit proposals for resolving the pending questions as soon as possible, with the aim of reaching political consensus on the conclusion of the agreement at the next Council meeting on 22 March.
At the same time the presidency confirmed that the EU was resolved to reach consensus before the special European Council meeting in Berlin on 24/25 March.
The Commission has already gone to work and opened bilateral talks with those Member States that still have problems with this.
In the run-up to the Council of 22 January the South African leader of the negotiations, the trade minister Mr Erwin, sent a letter to Commissioner Pinheiro in which he actually categorically rejected any amendment of the compromise reached in Davos.
The German Presidency is fully aware how important this agreement is to political and economic relations with South Africa and of its importance as a clear sign of support for South African democracy and as a contribution to stabilising southern Africa.
We are firmly resolved to keep to the timetable laid down by the European Council in Vienna - conclusion of the agreement by the time of the special Council in Berlin.
Time and again, Parliament and its delegation for relations with South Africa have called for the finalisation of such an agreement.
The talks have taken four years.
We have often said how much we respect South Africa for the way it has tried to heal its wounds following the abolition of apartheid, and how much we admire and esteem President Mandela.
Consequently, I should like to ask the representative of the presidency if he can give his assurance that my concern is unfounded, that all the main elements of the agreement stand and that it will be approved in the near future, in other words by 22 March, without undergoing any substantial change.
Madam President, after more than three years of often difficult negotiations, the Commission and South Africa have achieved a draft agreement.
This is why my group is disagreeably surprised by the Council's rejection of this agreement.
He needs the support of this agreement for the forthcoming elections - for it is not just European elections that are about to be held, but South African elections too - and support not just from the Member States but from the presidency of the Council.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone thinks that the agreement with South Africa is necessary to maintain a burgeoning democracy in a country that could act as a role model for other African countries in the same geographical area.
It must be made clear that it is not the Commission which gives undertakings on behalf of the EU but the Council acting as the representative of the Member States.
Alex Erwin, the Trade Minister, speaking this morning in Cape Town, said that the decision on Monday was extremely disappointing.
Both the South African Parliament and the European Parliament are anxious now to sign off this agreement once and for all before both in South Africa and here we move on to elections.
March 22 is the EU's last chance to complete this agreement and to show real solidarity with our partners in South Africa.
South Africa needs help in consolidating a democracy which at present still seems very fragile; it needs to develop and progress; it needs people to teach the inhabitants how to work and how to become part of a world which is unknown to many of them.
South Africa should be helped and not humiliated, especially now that the second democratic elections are about to take place, in May.
All these talents should be passed on, so as to help promote a great nation which, until a few years ago, did not know the meaning of freedom, democracy and progress.
The Council should consider all these aspects and not dwell on four fruit juices.
Next Monday, our delegation will be in South Africa.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as long as I have been involved in politics I have fought against apartheid and I do not think there is anything I do not know about the subject.
Therefore, whilst I am all in favour of rapidly concluding an agreement that would meet the key requirements of our friends in South Africa and strengthen the anti-racist democratic system in that country, I am also appealing for a sensible approach which recognises the interests of our own producers.
Madam President, I am not particularly pleased about the reason for this debate, but I am pleased that in this case we have to settle two fundamental questions in a short space of time.
Madam President, I want to make two points.
The European Union must take a decision of principle between solidarity with developing countries that are going through a difficult phase of transformation and the national interests of individual Member States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The social aspects on which the report focussed naturally concern working time, safety and health, qualifications and training, mobility in general and not least employment.
For these reasons we believe we must look at the social provisions in the field of transport separately, for in areas where liberalisation has occurred without the necessary minimum social rules, competition has had an adverse effect on working conditions and the safety of workers and therefore also of the public.
The flexibility proposed in this report must relate to the various aspects of transport, including working time, but must never call in question the principles of the health and safety of the employees and therefore also of the public.
No country may fall short of the minimum controls and Parliament must not be made to wait another four years for the reports evaluating these controls.
Taking account of social aspects in the transport system also implies ensuring the mobility of the public in its various forms, which includes the needs of persons with reduced mobility.
This concerns the public service and, of course, calls for a very general discussion.
Every year our Member States spend more than EUR 180 billion on employment, which is why our committee believes that every proposed measure must always be examined as to its employment impact.
Finally, I would say that if we want to create a transport area in the European Community, in which working conditions are no longer detrimental to the health, safety and quality of life of its citizens, we must consent to a minimum of social harmonisation, for there are aspects we need to regulate that the market alone will never be able to regulate.
Madam President, Mr Grosch's report introduces wide-ranging issues covering all the social aspects of transport.
The Commission must be congratulated on assisting the social partners in the railway industry in achieving an agreement on 30 September last year.
I would mention in particular postal services.
I believe that the concept of universal service should be the norm and it should be applied in the postal services operating throughout the European Union.
In the meantime, the Social Affairs Council has adopted a common position on the proposal for a working-time directive.
I think it is outrageous to regulate all activities in the private and public sectors and yet to leave unregulated a sector such as road transport which employs over seven million people.
Finally, I realise that Commissioner Kinnock recently proposed to allow the working time of a professional driver to include all work, in other words all the time when he is at his employer's disposal.
Madam President, the liberalisation of transport markets, a process started in 1993 as part of the implementation of the internal market, has resulted in greater dynamism and diversification of supply and has in general led to lower prices for consumers.
The truth is that the climate of exaggerated competition in the transport sector - between companies, between the Member States themselves and between the European Union and the Central and Eastern European countries - has led to instability on the job market, lower wages, less consistent social security provisions and dumping in terms of prices, taxation and the vehicles used.
The extent of liberalisation in the various transport sectors - road, air, rail, shipping and postal services - still ranges from total liberalisation to a monopoly of the few.
This range is also reflected in the working conditions and social protection enjoyed by workers.
But there should be a guaranteed minimum level.
Finally, it is very important for safety, particularly in road transport.
I want to address recitals D and G, in which the rapporteur says that social harmonisation should eliminate competition which is damaging to health, quality of life and mobility and that working time is an important factor in protecting transport safety.
Madam President, harmonisation of social legislation in transport policy has been the focus of much attention from our committee and the Commission, and I am sure that everyone in this Chamber can see the problems.
The report shows the extent of the problem, or shows how many opinions there are on this matter.
On the other hand, we have very large national transport industries.
But national rules and traditions are so divergent that social provisions often determine the ability to compete, another point that has been raised here this evening.
In my view, however, the rapporteur oversteps the mark when he says that a reduction in working time without cuts in wages is one of the major objectives in the transport industry.
Naturally therefore, I reciprocate by thanking him and his colleagues on the work they have undertaken introducing this report on social harmonisation in transport.
On the major issue of working time, it is clear that there is hardly any divergence of view between Parliament and the Commission.
Whilst it is obvious that proper application of that principle could bring about reductions in working hours in some cases, management of the practical consequences of changes in the law must be left to negotiations between employers and employees, preferably through normal social dialogue.
The Commission has also been aware of the concerns relating to fines and penalties for some time and we are currently therefore preparing a report on the efficiency and effectiveness of enforcement measures.
That report will address all aspects of these questions.
The report before us suggests that there is a need to evaluate measures in the transport sector in terms of their effect on jobs, working conditions and mobility in general.
I hope that everyone in the House will accept that neither I nor my colleagues in the transport sector would neglect such issues when preparing proposals.
The House will be aware that all the proposals we present take account of such issues by providing for flexibility or for derogations or for transition periods.
Thank you, Mr Kinnock.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
However, the Council has repeatedly noted that the applicant states must first achieve institutional stability, as a guarantee of a democratic and constitutional system, of the protection of human rights and of respect for and the protection of minorities.
The Socrates and Youth for Europe programmes were developed in order to teach young people the values of tolerance, democracy and active citizenship.
A declared aim of the European Union in establishing these programmes is to enable young people to play their part in building Europe, for young people who are brought up in a spirit of openness and tolerance are the most promising architects of a peaceful and humane Europe.
Europe must be brought into the field of vision of young people in Turkey, for it is these young people who are open to change in their country and are forward-looking enough to bring it about.
Moreover, young people have a very basic and responsible role to play in the process of democratisation and rapprochement between peoples.
Of course we can only reach a fraction of these young people with our programmes.
Closer cooperation among young people and the offer of exchange grants are important factors for strengthening democracy and respect for human rights in Turkey.
I would therefore ask you to support me in calling for Turkey to participate in the Community's education and training and youth exchange programmes.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, exchanges between pupils and young people from Turkey and from the European Union offer an excellent opportunity to promote mutual understanding between our people and citizens.
The Committee on External Economic Relations therefore unanimously endorses Mrs Renate Heinisch's excellent report.
We want to see young people in Turkey participate more closely in the long-term construction of a pluralist society within a constitutional state, as the Turkish social partners have repeatedly demanded.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief.
The Youth for Europe programme pursues its own educational objective, which is to promote tolerance among young people towards other ways of thought and life in other countries, through projects of intercultural encounters and exercises in solidarity based on practical participation in local schemes, to name one example.
In view of this situation, the sensible course of action might have been to refer this report back to committee in order to allow time for reflection.
Some people may consider, as has just been said, that the young people of Turkey cannot be held responsible for the current problems in their country and that perhaps closer ties with the EU could in the long run steer Turkey towards greater democracy, greater respect for the resolutions of international organisations, improved justice and more freedom.
The ELDR Group wishes to give the young people of Turkey a chance, which is why we will not be voting against the report, although it would be wrong to think that Turkey's current attitude is not supported by its young people.
The programmes concerned will end in 1999 and the new Socrates and Youth for Europe programmes will start in 2000, when they should be open to Turkey in accordance with certain procedures to be established.
Madam President, I think that human rights can only be assured in a country if there are enough people there who stand up for them.
Madam President, happily we do not need to wait for Turkey's young people to learn about Europe.
In 1996, the Commission submitted its proposal to have Turkey included in the Socrates, Youth for Europe and Leonardo programmes.
In the meantime other countries have been admitted, but specifically because of its human rights record, Turkey remained excluded.
The European Parliament backed that exclusion in 1996.
After all, our debate a few hours ago on the Kurdish question and the Öcalan affair are proof enough that Parliament still regards the situation in Turkey as highly problematic.
We are making ourselves ridiculous here in Parliament because for years now, and in any case since the final talks on the Customs Union in 1995, we have been threatening Turkey that there had to be progress on Cyprus or on the Kurdish question, otherwise we would have to see, and Parliament would then block this or that dossier.
Madam President, this whole debate in fact shows up the dilemma of human rights discussions in the European Parliament.
We think Turkey must be included in the educational programmes because the level of education of a society always has a direct bearing on the progress of democracy.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian group Alleanza Nazionale very much welcomes the proposal for Turkey to be included in the European programmes for training and young people.
Madam President, this new report by Mrs Heinisch marks a new phase in the European Union's prevarication towards the situation in Turkey.
It aims to allow exchanges between Turkish and European young people through the Leonardo, Socrates and Youth for Europe programmes.
The European Union is also being inconsistent in its relations with Turkey.
Madam President, may I say first of all that I am pleased to see that a large majority of honourable Members are now in favour of admitting Turkey to these Socrates and Youth for Europe programmes.
Lastly, decisions on Turkey's participation in the context of the current proposals do not, as we know, mean that Turkey can take part in the programmes straight away.
Decisions to allow Turkish participation are, I think, one more positive signal from the European Union to civil society in Turkey that the EU is prepared to develop its cooperation with Turkey in certain sectors further.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Frontier regions where the inhabitants do not understand their neighbour's language cannot fully experience the single market at local level.
And we do need that in view of the extension of the programme to all the countries that want to join in.
It has extended the programme to seven years and given us EUR 1.55 billion.
Let me also point out that a wider knowledge of foreign languages and early awareness of the cultural situation in other countries are excellent means of promoting mobility on the European labour market, which forms part of an active employment policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank Mrs Pack very warmly for her strong support for the Socrates programme.
In terms of schools, that means we must first of all inform parents and teachers, so that they can recognise and promote the European dimension of education and training jointly with the young people involved.
Especially in the Central and Eastern European countries, in Cyprus and in the Baltic states, parents and others involved in education and training expect to be given the means to support the process of democratisation in schools and in society.
So I am glad this programme offers support in that area.
Mr President, Parliament is now discussing the second phase of the Socrates action programme and the Council's common position on it.
The Council has now reached a common position.
Mr President, I must firstly congratulate Mrs Pack, the rapporteur for the Socrates programme, on the work which she has accomplished not only in the House but also in the negotiations with the Council and the Commission to obtain EUR 2 000 million for the programme's operation.
The Culture Committee tabled a number of amendments to improve the Commission's initial proposal, and in particular we requested an increased budget in order to include lifelong training in Socrates.
The introduction of Minerva, which is intended to encourage the use of multimedia in education, is an excellent innovation in my opinion, as also are the joint projects to be conducted with other Community programmes such as Leonardo and Youth for Europe.
If we are going to build a greater Europe, not just confined to the current 15 Member States, it is right that we should be expanding the programmes to other countries.
The evidence is very clear from my knowledge of the programmes as a former lecturer in higher education, that the more we can get young people across Europe meeting and talking to each other, the more they will understand the importance of Europe and the importance of building Europe.
Then they might understand Europe a little better.
I hope that Commissioner Cresson will respond positively to the report and will take up the battle which Parliament wants to continue, to expand the programme and expand the budget so that we can have a truly successful Socrates programme.
Mr President, we are in the midst of a transition from an industrial society to a society based on knowledge, in which education is the new social issue.
One major building block on the way to creating a Europe of knowledge is the Socrates programme for general education, as Leonardo is for vocational training.
The fact that Socrates supports language teaching even in less familiar European languages is a plus in terms of solidarity.
I have learned from my visits to schools, at which Europe is put to the test nearly every Monday, how much support there is for Socrates, despite all the problems with applications for funding.
Socrates is an exemplary, sensible and verifiable investment in the future.
Mr President, I want to address two particular points in connection with this debate on the excellent and important report drafted by Mrs Pack.
Socrates phase one has been a very worthwhile experiment in transnational education.
Europe, in my view, must continue to invest in young people.
In short, this means that Socrates is a good programme covering added aspects, that seeks a higher quota of participants and is open to a larger number of eligible applicant states.
So I ask the European Parliament to endorse the committee's justified amendment, that was adopted unanimously, providing for EUR 2.5 billion for a period of seven years.
To include the student population of EU applicant countries and certain other countries close to us in the programme is a natural step towards an enlarging Europe.
I hope that the Council and the Commission will the give this issue the consideration it deserves and that the present Socrates programme will have a follow-up which is just as good as the current programme, supported by the funding proposed by Parliament.
Mr President, I should also like to join with my colleagues in congratulating the rapporteur on the tremendous proposal she has put before us.
It is an official language of the European Union and should be given greater prominence.
However, as many speakers have said, despite what the Council may say about the importance of education and despite the Commission's good faith regarding lifelong learning, there is a lack of commitment on financial resources.
Therefore, I urge all Members to support the amendments tabled by the rapporteur to ensure that this new seven-year Socrates programme is given proper funding of EUR 2 500m.
Everything that has happened since has vindicated the strong support which Parliament gave to this programme.
Not only do these programmes benefit the individual students who participate in them and the schools and colleges of which they are students, but we must also remember that they make a real contribution to awareness and a meaningful understanding of the work of the European Union itself for large numbers of students and their families.
It is less than 5 % of Bill Gates' personal wealth - which is an interesting reflection.
I would just like to mention one project: four primary schools, four countries, entitled 'Water in our Culture'.
The children have learnt that other countries, cultures and languages exist, that we share aspects of our culture and that we must protect the environment.
It is a very small price to pay for building empathy and understanding between our children and our young people.
Mr President, anyone who is seriously concerned about education and training, about mobility and therefore about giving the young people of Europe greater opportunities on the labour market must also be most concerned about Socrates II.
Socrates must also be evaluated in both qualitative and financial terms by 31 December 2002.
I support Doris Pack's proposals in every respect and hope they will be taken into account.
I hope these points will be accepted and that the Conciliation Committee reaches a satisfactory conclusion before the end of this legislative term.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must warmly thank the House for its unfailing commitment and support which will allow the second reading of the new phase of the Socrates programme to be concluded today, barely two months after the adoption of the common position by the Council.
I have previously emphasised the very positive attitude taken by the Austrian Presidency, which was strict but sensible in advancing the work within the Council so that the common position could be adopted in December.
As you know, the Council of Ministers for Education of 4 December adopted common positions on the first two programmes, although a consensus was not reached on the Youth for Europe programme for budgetary reasons.
We hope that Parliament will deliver its opinion at second reading on the Leonardo programme before the end of this Parliament so that the final decision can be made under the German Presidency.
As for the Youth for Europe programme, I hope that the situation will be resolved in the coming weeks so that a common position can be adopted at the Council meeting scheduled for 27 May.
These will be included in a revised proposal which will be submitted to the Council in the next few days.
I must thank you for having accepted the 'European educational area' concept in Amendment No 2, as defined in our proposals.
As the Council has decided to extend the programme's duration to seven years rather than the five proposed by the Commission, the clause introduced by Parliament will allow the programme to adapt flexibly to any new requirements.
Obviously I accept Amendment No 12 which aims, when awarding Erasmus grants, to give priority to students whose financial situation requires special assistance.
In this context, I would point out that, following Parliament's initiative last autumn, the Commission launched a study on the socio-economic situation of Erasmus students.
This is something that I myself have monitored very carefully, and I would like to thank those who have looked into this question.
I can also accept the principle behind Amendments Nos 10 and 16, which establishes the possibility of initiating pilot projects to allow young unemployed teachers to teach for a time at a school in another Member State.
All the Member States really need teachers from other countries of the European Union - we have all experienced language teaching in our own countries.
Several other amendments aim to clarify and reinforce certain aspects of the common position and as such their substance or principles can be accepted.
This is particularly the case with Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13 (second part) and 15 which cover the following aspects, among others: the importance of the European Credit Transfer System; more support for young people undergoing training in the form of language learning projects; clarification of the procedures for the participation of Cyprus; a reduction in the minimum percentages specified by the Council for Actions 2 and 3; the priority to be given to languages less widely used and taught, and, in frontier regions, the languages of neighbouring countries.
I cannot, however, accept Amendment No 6 on the financial article.
However, in order to achieve a common position at first reading, the Commission was forced to adopt the figure of EUR 1 550 m which was approved by a qualified majority.
Finally, I would stress that I believe we are on course to achieve a final decision under the German Presidency which would allow us to prepare for the implementation of the new programme under the best possible conditions.
I am convinced that this programme will help to build a Europe of knowledge which will send out a strong political message and respond to the needs of the public.
Thank you, Mrs Cresson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1998 the European Commission submitted a report on the structures and rates of excise duty as well as a proposal for the amendment of three different directives on the taxation of manufactured tobacco.
The current system was introduced in 1993, and today's proposal has its origins in lengthy discussions in connection with the single market which date back to 1995.
The system for calculating the minimum rates of excise duty is highly complex, and I do not propose to hold forth on that subject here, since only a handful of specialists understand it in any case.
The substance of the proposal made by the Commission is that rates of excise duty may fall short of the minimum levy, which is 57 % of the retail price, for an adjustment period of up to two years.
If we were to accept these amendments, the minimum excise duty on loose tobacco for those who hand-roll their own cigarettes would rise drastically, which would make sudden 30 % price increases inevitable.
But we have also asked the Commission to present an interim report by 30 June 2000 on the subject of public health and in particular on the problem of tax fraud, and I should like to underline that point.
There are, amongst others, three amendments tabled by the Liberal Group, Nos 6, 7 and 8, which my group supported and will support again.
The lower tax on shag constitutes a price incentive which steers smokers towards the very product which is most harmful.
But if you put a high rate of tax on tobacco products to dissuade people from consuming a product which harms their health, and all Member States do that, you cannot tax the most harmful tobacco products at a lower rate.
So the Commission proposal and the Langen report do not go far enough.
Mr President, when we talk about tobacco products, we cannot overemphasise how much damage they cause to people's health, not just active smokers but also those who are passively exposed to the carcinogenic effects of tobacco smoke against their will.
Consequently, Sweden does not currently comply with the minimum tax rate in the directive of 57 %.
The report will take into account the proper functioning of the single market, the real value of the rates of duty and the wider objectives of the Treaty.
With regard to the amendments proposed, in order to include the recitals on fraud, health and the links between these elements and the price of manufactured tobacco, allow me to say that I do not see the need for such an approach in the directives covered by Article 99 of the Treaty.
The directives are limited to establishing a minimum level of taxation for the products in question, while leaving the governments of the Member States to fix the rates at national level, as long as the minimum levels established in Directives 92/79/EEC and 92/80/EEC are respected.
As the assessment carried out in order to draw up the report on manufactured tobacco products did not reveal any justification for progressively aligning taxes on hand-rolling tobacco with the existing taxes on cigarettes, the amendments concerning an increase in rates for hand-rolling tobacco are unacceptable to the Commission.
In order to safeguard their livelihood and also to safeguard employment, the lower rate for hand-rolling tobacco was deemed necessary.
Once again, there is nothing to prevent Member States from fixing high national rates for this product if they consider this to be necessary for health reasons.
We therefore considered that it was necessary to safeguard employment and the existence of this industry through the lowest level of taxation for hand-rolling tobacco.
Once again, there is nothing to prevent Member States, if they decide otherwise, from establishing national rates which could vary according to their assessment of the effect on public health.
Thank you, Mrs Cresson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, in tabling this report on regionalisation which is an own-initiative report from the Committee on Fisheries, let me immediately pay tribute to our former colleague Allan Macartney whose strong sense of European identity pervades this entire document.
His commitment to the European ideal lives on in this report to Parliament.
There are many calls for and conflicting interpretations of regionalisation and its relevance to the common fisheries policy.
This state of affairs arises from the belief among many fishermen that there is a lack of cohesion in the regional application of the common fisheries policy and Community institutions.
In doing so it must be recognised that although renationalisation of fishing areas adjacent to EU countries is not an option, there is still an overriding obligation on Community institutions to safeguard the future of fisheries-dependent communities.
Long-term survival of such communities will depend not just on a legal recognition of their legitimate historical rights safeguarded by the principle of relative stability and the six- to twelve-mile limits but also on a commitment by Parliament to ensure that future European policy reflects the need to facilitate their participation as stakeholders.
The current common fisheries policy already includes large elements of regional variation and localised cooperation which could be explored more effectively in respect of stock conservation.
This is now part of my own country's legislation as a direct consequence of initatives by fishermen acting as responsible stakeholders.
I refer to the amendments tabled by my colleagues, many of which I can support, and I personally endorse the amendments to extend the limits to 24 miles.
Mr President, this report is the fruit of a good deal of work by the Committee on Fisheries and follows on from a number of its previous proposals to the House: the reform of the common fisheries policy, the regulations, the own-initiative report on international agreements and the discussion to be held within the next few months on the structural regulations, the FIFG and the Structural Funds.
In the Socialist Group's opinion, it makes sense to call for territorial waters to be extended to 24 miles; this request takes account of the ability to manage marine activities and resources in the coastal zone, and could maximise the involvement of associations.
The common fisheries policy must take account of the various players operating in the sector.
This is our blueprint for the future, and in this way we shall make a contribution to the future of fisheries.
Mr President, it is nice to see the Commissioner here with us tonight as this is a debate the European Parliament can be proud of.
The report we are discussing follows logically on from the Fraga report which we discussed in November.
The Gallagher report is therefore a great opportunity for this Parliament.
They must be given the opportunity to look after, to harvest and also to husband the local fish resources.
Anybody who really believes in conservation of fish stocks has to be involved in encouraging regionalisation and ensuring that the local fishermen are part of the common fisheries policy and operate it under Community rules.
Mr President, regionalisation can mean different things to different people.
The same level of management authority is not necessarily appropriate for all stocks in a region.
It simply states that there is a need for comprehensive regionalisation of the common fisheries policy.
I am passionate about this subject as my constituency has many fishing-dependent communities, including 90 inhabited islands, some of them going almost up to the Arctic Circle.
Some of these communities are very fragile and totally dependent on the fishing industry.
I have shared with them their despairs and their hopes, their tragedies and their disenchantment with this policy.
One thing I notice is that fishermen have great rapport with fishermen from other parts of the Community and, in fact, of the world.
Any reference to expiry of the common fisheries policy without the addendum is very dangerous.
The CFP was a derogation in itself from the Treaty of Rome.
Discard problems, for example, vary from country to country.
If, on the other hand, by 'regionalisation' we mean a transfer of decisions from national level to the administrative regions, we are opposed to it.
The principle of subsidiarity must be correctly applied.
Boats from home ports in different administrative regions may in fact fish in the same areas.
In this case, if different or even contradictory decisions were taken by different regional authorities, that could have damaging effects by causing the relocation of fishing boats or reducing the level of monitoring.
As a result, our group will vote in favour of the amendments which aim to encourage the development of a decentralised policy rather than an actual regionalisation of the CFP.
However, we believe that the elements of regionalisation in the current CFP, which I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, should be applied further, in order to respond in the best way, and in line with real needs, to the different characteristics, both in terms of fishery resources and in structural terms, of the various areas of production which constitute the fishing zones.
I would remind this House that early in the 1990s the Commission initiated a report on Northern Ireland fisheries.
The percentage of people outside the families who work in the industry is very small indeed.
We could talk instead about regional cooperation between several countries.
Mr Gallagher has the same qualifications as he comes from the same sort of region and has the same sort of experience of the fishing industry.
By no means do we want to tell fishermen that we are offering them anything like a renationalisation or that we are removing the common fisheries policy.
The original draft was based on the premise that the common fisheries policy is, and from its inception has been, partially regionalised.
Like Allan Macartney, I firmly believe that bringing the decision-making process closer to those who are most affected by the CFP and are responsible for its implementation would lead to more respect for the provisions of the CFP and for a more successful policy per se .
I would therefore like to call for greater involvement of fishermen and the fishing industry as a whole as an essential prerequisite to the success of the CFP.
Consequently, I should like to stress the importance of Article 12 of the resolution.
This step is necessary if we are genuinely to involve fishermen in the decisions which affect them and offers the only clear and practical means of recognising the unique variables that exist in the fisheries sector.
I am in no doubt that regionalisation would further the primary goal of conserving fish stocks through sustainable fishing so vital for the fisheries-dependent communities of Europe.
My group has now tabled amendments which complement the consistent regionalisation of the CFP and ultimately will help to secure a successful future for the policy.
Mr President, I welcome Mr Gallagher's report.
The concept of relative stability was enshrined in the 1983 agreement and strengthened by the extension of the coastal bans to 12 miles.
It is important that communities such as North-East Scotland, the Western Isles, Donegal, Cornwall, Galicia and Brittany are protected from the over-exploitation of fish stocks.
Regionalisation of the CFP will encourage the active involvement of fishermen in decision-making as well as the participation of producers' organisations at local level.
Similarly, the request to extend territorial waters to 24 miles is also supported only by a minority.
I think we should reach a consensus on what we understand by regionalisation of the common fisheries policy before discussing it.
From this point of view, I believe that the Commission has proved very attentive and very open to suggestions from various quarters - Parliament, the Advisory Committee and also the sector itself - in an attempt to improve the situation.
Not all the questionnaires have been returned, but judging by the overwhelming majority of those which have reached the Commission and are now being evaluated, only part of the sector in both the UK and Ireland favours this type of proposal.
I believe that this report is an important and useful contribution to the debate.
Thank you, Mrs Bonino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
That is the dilemma facing researchers, scientists and inventors in the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur who is one of the most imaginative Members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
Creativity is the engine of productivity in the European Union.
Engineering is important in my constituency so I particularly appreciate the importance of patents and inventions.
To cite just two examples: in my constituency Frank Whittle invented the jet engine and James Brindley invented the safety gears on bicycles.
This therefore amounts to setting up a system similar to that which already exists in the United States and in Japan, where the grace period is six months.
It should also be borne in mind that in October 1988, the Commission organised a public hearing attended by representatives of the sectors concerned.
We believe that it is expecting too much of the Commission to ask it to take a legislative initiative of this magnitude.
In my view, we should also be investigating the differences that exist between the Member States, since here the picture is not nearly as clear as the rapporteur is saying.
They must be able to discuss and publicise their innovations without jeopardising their right to apply for a potentially profitable patent.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question of introducing a grace period for innovations in national patent laws is a delicate and, in several respects, important aspect of the current debate on the reform of the patent system in Europe, as implied by the rapporteur himself.
Whether we like it or not, any comparison with other systems must in my opinion acknowledge the different starting-points and rules on implementation.
The Commission does not take decisions single-handedly: the hearing was attended by 150 people representing all the relevant circles, and perhaps I should list them for your information.
They included large, small and medium-sized enterprises, associations of inventors and researchers, national, European and international representative bodies, patent consultants, national and European patent offices, international institutions, Member States and international experts.
The grace period seems in fact to be regarded as an inadequate response to genuine problems, such as the complexity of the procedure for filing applications, the lack of relevant information and the need to disclose one's inventions before filing for a patent.
In any event, the hearing on 5 October brought to light certain solutions which the Commission has undertaken to explore; moreover, it made such an undertaking in the communication on the future of patents in Europe, which was adopted in February.
In particular, as regards the complexity of the procedure for filing patent applications, the Commission has undertaken to investigate the idea of filing an application provisionally, on the basis of simplified formalities and without payment of a fee.
In these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has to say concerning the motion for a resolution that it cannot accede to the request to propose a Parliament and Council directive based on Article 100a of the Treaty.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, everyone agrees that research and innovation are the driving force behind economic development, but no-one dares to add that this economic development needs to be balanced.
In its communication, the Commission has put together a few paths to take in order to reinforce both cohesion and competitiveness through research and innovation.
The drafting of this communication, interesting though it may be, cannot, however, disguise the discussion that is going on in the Commission on this issue, which is similar to the debate that we could have on regional planning: is it really possible not to reduce the European effort towards competitiveness while at the same time directing research funds to the less favoured regions of the Union?
There is in fact a certain discrepancy between national growth and regional cohesion, but even at state level the differences are extreme: in research and technological development expenditure, Germany and France, for example, spent 60 % of the total research expenditure in the Union in 1993, while Ireland, Greece and Portugal spent only 1.3 % between them.
Let us note, for example, that a group of regions which includes the whole of Greece, with the exception of Attica, three Portuguese regions and Calabria in Italy, were only able to participate in 2 % of the third framework programme.
It is true that since 1993 the Commission has endeavoured to encourage greater synergy between Community programmes and the objective of economic and social cohesion.
We could also - and the Commission has thought about this - use Structural Funds more in order to correct the trend that has been observed.
Nevertheless, the share of funding devoted under the various objectives of the Structural Funds to specific investment in favour of research and development has remained limited, even though it has increased from one programming period to the next.
Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to you to strongly press for a more balanced distribution of the key factors of competitiveness in the various regions of the Union through programmes to support research.
The only conclusion which the communication draws for the moment is that there is a need to promote vocational training courses in centres of excellence.
We cannot stress the importance of human resources and then stop at such a weak conclusion.
This can be done by strengthening the basic factors which shape competitiveness in the different regions of the European Union, and by increasing resources and support for attempts to make up for technological deficiencies, especially in the Objective 1 regions, where the problems of technological deficiencies are most pronounced.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if the creation of jobs in the European Union is one of our priorities, we must devote the utmost attention to research, technological development and innovation.
While the figures for GDP per inhabitant reveal a residual growing convergence amongst the Member States, a process of rising imbalances between regions in the same state is taking place.
Unfortunately, research and development are still a monopoly of the richest regions.
Secondly, we call for the application of a principle of positive discrimination in favour of the less-favoured regions under the new RDT framework programmes.
Finally, we have tabled an amendment introducing the principle of positive discrimination in R &amp; D for the poorer regions.
The latter should not however be prevented from obtaining investment to improve their technological level and their competitiveness.
I should like to conclude by congratulating the rapporteur again because I do feel that this report has identified the main issues relating to the achievement not only of economic and social cohesion but also of geographical cohesion amongst all the regions of the European Union.
And in the face of enormous challenges from the United States, this is in danger of becoming the weakest link in the European Union.
After all, although these framework programmes only represent 4 % of EU research expenditure, if spending under them were distributed more evenly, they could provide a powerful impetus for countries like Portugal, which up to now have been the poor relations of research and development in the European Union.
I believe it is important because, as we all understand, however many roads and railways we build, however many ports and airports we construct, however much we promote infrastructure, transport and the environment, research and technology represent an irreplaceable impetus for development.
In the light of this, it is a sad fact that imbalances between the different regions regarding research and technology are much greater than in other sectors.
For example, the difference in per capita expenditure on research and technological development between Berlin and Macedonia is, more or less, in the ratio of 1: 100.
These facts and figures may explain why, despite all the attempts to achieve cohesion which have been made over all these years, the differences in revenue among the regions continue to be huge and, in some cases, are becoming even larger.
In any event, emphasis must be given to promoting research and technology in the less-developed regions of the EU.
I should like to take this opportunity to say that such actions must be given greater weight in the regional and structural policies of the EU during the next period, because this is the best, quickest and most far-sighted way for these regions to achieve growth.
This is therefore an opportunity for us to use the new Community support framework to promote research and technology.
Already this evening we have spoken about educational cooperation in connection with the Socrates programme when we discussed the Pack report, and we expressed our gratification at the fact that European Union funds had paved the way for closer cooperation in the field of education in precisely those areas.
This means that there is no correlation with present levels of productive activity - the Lisbon area accounts for only 25 % of Portugal's industrial GDP and an insignificant percentage of the country's agricultural and forestry GDP.
We started in 1988 with 200 million, and we now have 8.5 billion allocated to the Structural Funds for research and technology.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
If there is indeed a new proposal that we are to discuss in the near future, I would like to know if it really covers the directive that we are discussing this evening.
Without an active contribution from the Commission, I was finally forced to make a different proposal.
The Commission was proposing two new symbols indicating the recyclability and reusability of packaging waste.
Consumers must actively participate in the sorting of this packaging waste on the basis of symbols, which are already well-known, indicating the nature of the packaging material.
The symbols were chosen through the work of the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN).
The Commission's proposal also envisages a conformity assessment procedure for evaluating whether packaging conforms to the main requirements of the 1994 directive on packaging.
I also had discussions with Mr Bowe, and we found common ground which is set out in Amendments Nos 19 and 20.
This is why I maintain my proposal and, while, of course, awaiting the debate, I hope to hear precise answers from the Commission, to which I addressed a question at the beginning of my speech.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I have had the pleasure of serving as draftsman for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, where I have looked at the consequences of this proposal for a directive.
But internal production control is based on the essential requirements of the packaging directive, Directive 94/62.
The Commission has itself admitted in our committee and in the Environment Committee that this proposal was put together in haste and is not as well thought through as might have been wished.
The labelling scheme proposed by the rapporteur gives consumers real information and involves them in a positive way in relation to the environment.
When consumers have to make a purchasing decision, they themselves can choose the type of packaging they prefer, and - most importantly of all - consumers are in a better position to sort the packaging waste.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur and congratulate her on this report.
Marking symbols used on packaging to indicate in which category the waste belongs must not only be clear and easily understood but must use the same marking symbols and same colours right across the EU.
Furthermore, bags and containers used for waste selection must also use the same colour codes and symbols in all the EU member countries.
But we know that the Commission proposal is already obsolete, and it is now absolutely vital to wait for the Commission to revise the basic directive, the packaging directive of 1994, and incorporate its ideas and proposals for the marking of packaging accordingly.
Mr President, the challenge is how to encourage the European consumer to sort packaging waste.
I would prefer, for example, the various Dutch symbols whose meaning is crystal-clear and which fit in with the Dutch system of collection.
We will therefore vote in favour of all the amendments that have been tabled, except for Amendments Nos 12, 13 and 15 from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
We reject Amendment No 13, because by specifying that packaging and packaging waste must be treated according to their marking, it favours one waste-management system over the others.
Amendments Nos 12 and 15 place all the responsibility for the conformity assessment procedure for packaging on the processor, and exonerate the packaging manufacturer from all responsibility: under the polluter pays principle, it is the packaging manufacturer who should be responsible for this procedure, not the packer.
Moreover, it is much easier to monitor the packaging manufacturers, as they are much fewer in number than the processors: if we take the wine sector as an example, in France there are only a few bottle manufacturers for more than 30 000 bottlers, and this example is typical.
Article 8 states: 'The Council shall...
The intention of the symbols is to indicate to consumers that the packaging can be reused or recycled.
Then there is a further problem, in that we already have a Commission decision on material identification, Decision No 97/129, which was adopted on 28 January 1997.
Under Article 3 of the Commission Decision, however, the system can be made compulsory.
I cannot therefore accept Amendment No 14 or Amendments Nos 19 and 20.
Mrs Grossetête began by asking me a direct question, namely whether the Commission was already working on a new proposal.
The debate is closed.
Commissioner Bangemann, so that we have no misunderstandings such as those which occurred at our last meeting at the same place and time, I should like to say from the outset that I am grateful for the timely presentation of this report.
Not only in the committee responsible for the report, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but also in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, these Commission proposals have been supported and enhanced.
We shall have to decide tomorrow whether we want comprehensive parliamentary involvement or whether we wish to leave some labelling to the Council.
The labelling provisions for all other products should be laid down in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 189b of the Treaty.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the best will in the world, it cannot be said of this report on the draft directive relating to the provisions on the labelling of alcoholic beverages that good things come to those who wait.
For roughly two years the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been tinkering with its report, despite the fact that the Committee on Agricultural and Rural Development and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy delivered their opinions back in November and December 1997 respectively.
We have known since 1979 that the Commission, the Council of Ministers and Parliament too are struggling to come up with a set of rules on the labelling of alcoholic beverages.
Because the rapporteur and the members of the Environment Committee who supported him simply refused to recognise that, under the Treaty, wine and spirits in their various forms are agricultural products, the production and marketing of which are subject to the common organisation of the market in wine.
A different legal basis applies to all other alcoholic beverages, including beer.
Most of the people in the committee believe that it is imperative and legitimate that Community provisions having the same objective should be subject to the same legislative procedure, namely that which is laid down in Article 189 of the EC Treaty.
We want that to apply both to the specific Community provisions referred to here and to all other alcoholic beverages.
We do not want to be involved in a North-versus-South debate or one between those who have a particular sector of the agricultural market in their care against those who have other such sectors.
I am thinking of people who have perhaps already consumed too much alcohol and should not therefore drink any more, but this is also about people with diabetes, for example, who need to know how much residual sugar a beverage contains.
I think it is important, as many of my colleagues have pointed out this evening, that we do not divide up the alcohol market in such a way that we have one thing in one corner and another somewhere else.
And the third point is that, in order to ensure uniform rules, it is necessary that the same decision-making procedure should be used, that the same rules should be applied, with the full involvement of the European Parliament.
On behalf of the Liberal Group, therefore, I support Amendment No 1 calling for the addition of Article 129a as the legislative procedure.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a directive amending Directive 79/112/EEC concerns the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs, in the alcoholic beverages sector.
The European Commission proposes that this information should enter into force within a period of three years from 1 July 1998.
First of all we must congratulate the European Commission on taking account of the need for consumer information on the ingredients of alcoholic beverages.
Some of these drinks contain more than 3 to 4 % of alcohol by volume; the alcohol is of non-specific origin and the taste is covered up by sugar.
This Article 6(3) fixes a period of three years from 1 July 1998 for the application of the labelling rules.
The period proposed by Amendment No 14 is therefore much more realistic.
Mr President, 'grasp all, lose all', as we say in my country.
Indeed, the Commission referred this proposal to Parliament on 10 February 1997.
From an agricultural perspective, it is to the credit of our farmers and the food processing industry that they are to the forefront in providing quality food products in a manner compatible with consumer requirements.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schnellhardt, I think that you are all wrong.
Mr Whitehead, I am a doctor.
Every day I fight the battle against this scourge.
I cannot accept you talking to us about alcopops.
Mr Whitehead and Mr Schnellhardt, I would like you to think a little about our European culture, which, Mr Whitehead, is represented by savouring a quality wine or whisky in moderation, as part of festivities.
We are following our approach towards the recent common organisation of the market in wine.
As regards the labelling of alcoholic beverages, my position is that consumers have a right to transparency and complete openness.
Also, labelling cannot solve all problems.
Despite all these problems, labelling has an important role and should apply to all food products including alcoholic beverages.
Therefore I will be supporting Amendment No 15 as well as Amendment No 9.
To conclude, consumer information must be complete and accurate.
Mr President, I have been involved in these debates for eleven years now, and I have experienced all the various efforts to rationalise the area we are discussing again this evening.
If that is our common aim, we cannot ignore the fact that there are already very detailed specific rules for certain alcoholic beverages, as well as very experienced institutions which exercise responsibility for ensuring compliance with these rules.
That always suits us, because we can then wait and see which position prevails.
The same applies to Amendment No 17.
But this cannot be taken so far that the principle is even applied in cases where it offers no practical benefit.
But that should then apply to all products.
The first part of Amendments Nos 9 and 15 is acceptable to us.
Amendments Nos 2, 10 and 18, which are evidently designed to make Article 6 of Directive 79/112 directly applicable to other beverages such as cider or new industrial products, are unacceptable to us, because we should have to insist on the listing of ingredients on the labels of these beverages as soon as the amending directive was adopted, whereas the same requirement would not yet apply to wine, beer and spirits.
As far as these beverages are concerned, by the way, the real problem has more to do with consumers being misled, which is due in many cases to strict application of Article 2 of Directive 79/112.
This could very easily be resolved through the watchdog bodies in the Member States.
Amendments Nos 23 and 24 relate to the problem of alcoholism.
The problem of alcoholism does not arise in connection with beverages that a consumer buys and drinks because he or she values its taste and quality.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
