The great majority of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is convinced that the use of BST should be banned this year. (Parliament approved the request for urgent procedure) Proposal for a Council regulation on Community financial contributions to the International Fund for Ireland (COM(99)0549 - C5-0285/99 - 1999/0221(CNS)) (Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism) President.
The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism shall give its opinion on this request for urgent procedure.
I just wanted to check whether there will be an opportunity to discuss this issue later in the week because one of the things that has not been discussed in this Parliament is the role the arms industries are playing in the peace process in Northern Ireland.
When the first car left, half an hour late, they asked me to pass on this protest because at least 15 Members were in the same hotel and will not be able to take part in the vote because of the transport delay.
We therefore oppose the urgency tabled by the Council. (Parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure) Madam President, I would like to ask you, today being a special day, to apologise to the President of the Republic of France for the absence of some Members since, in the case of those who come from countries a long way from the centre of the European Union, their absence is not due to a lack of will but rather the lack of the means to carry out their parliamentary duties properly.
I am sure that he will understand very well that there is no justification for the fact that from certain parts of my country, for example, it is more difficult, and takes longer, to get to Strasbourg than to Caracas.
Thank you, Mr Galeote Quecedo, I am already aware of the problems that a number of Members are having in getting to Strasbourg.
The next item is the joint debate on the meeting of the European Council held in Helsinki on 10 and 11 December, and the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council regarding the results of the six-month term of office of the Finnish Presidency, including the situation in Chechnya and the OSCE Summit.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to report to this House today that the Commission is highly satisfied with the overall results of the Helsinki European Council.
Your contribution was very well received and paved the way for a really constructive debate, especially on Parliament' s involvement in the Intergovernmental Conference.
First, enlargement.
I am very pleased that the European Council decided to open accession negotiations next year with the six candidate countries in the second wave.
I am also delighted that the Heads of State and Government took the historic step of recognising Turkey as an official candidate country.
A rapid intervention force of 50 to 60 000 troops will enable us to deal effectively with brushfires in our own back yard, especially on occasions when our NATO allies do not wish to become involved.
The need for security in Europe and for a wider European area of peace is amply illustrated by the situation in Chechnya, on which the European Council has adopted a detailed declaration.
We are all just beginning to realise what it will mean to have a Europe of more than 25 Member States, and it would certainly have been imprudent to close the agenda at this early stage.
This is indeed a feeble outcome after two whole years of intensive effort, and I want to stress how important it is that we reach a firm conclusion on the package soon.
Madam President, Members of the European Parliament, I would first like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to come and have discussions with the European Parliament on the most outstanding events of the Finnish Presidency so soon after the Helsinki European Council.
In accordance with the wishes of Parliament, I will also give an account of the Presidency' s views of the situation in Chechnya, and I will give an outline of the most important results of the OSCE Summit in Istanbul in November.
I would like to express my warm thanks, on behalf of both the Finnish government and the Council, to the whole of the European Parliament for its excellent and constructive cooperation.
The first decision of the European Council in Helsinki was to adopt the Millennium Declaration in the Friday morning session.
The first sitting of the European Council concentrated on Union enlargement.
These decisions are historic with regard to Europe, as the new phase of the enlargement process that began in Helsinki will in time lead to thirteen new Member States joining the Union.
As the Extraordinary European Council meeting in Tampere had been unanimous on the matter, hardly any further debate was needed.
This is the time-scale we need before the next Intergovernmental Conference has brought its work to a conclusion and the amendments to the Treaties have been ratified in all the Member States.
In its debate on enlargement, the European Council paid special attention to the importance of good levels of nuclear safety in Central and Eastern Europe.
The European Council expressed its satisfaction with the fact that talks on Cyprus were to begin in New York on 3 December and said that a political solution would facilitate Cyprus' accession to the Union.
The decision the European Council took to approve candidate status in respect of Turkey can, in my opinion, be considered a historic one.
With the decisions of Helsinki, Turkey is to be treated in the same way as the other applicant countries.
But it will not be possible to open accession negotiations with Turkey before she meets the Copenhagen political criteria.
In our political dialogue with Turkey, we are stressing the importance of making progress, especially in matters of human rights.
The decision to acknowledge Turkey' s status as a candidate State and closer dialogue between the Union and that country are important for regional stability and for a solution to the Cyprus question.
In inviting Turkey to make an even firmer bond of cooperation the Union is acting in accordance with its basic function of establishing peace and promoting human rights.
Madam President, the European Council responded with profound concern to events in Chechnya.
To persuade Russia of the benefits of a political solution, the European Council issued a separate declaration on the situation in Chechnya and its effects on relations between the European Union and Russia.
Russian efforts to find a solution have thus far been inadequate.
In these circumstances the European Union and the international community must continue to exert political pressure.
Russian territorial integrity is not being questioned, nor its entitlement to combat terrorism.
The action Russia has taken is, however, contrary to international humanitarian law and is in violation of the obligations that Russia, as a member of the OSCE and the Council of Europe, agreed to honour regarding human rights.
The European Council concluded that the situation would affect the implementation of the joint strategy for Russia, and that that strategy would have to be re-examined.
The declaration adopted on Saturday in Helsinki was made known to the Russian Government the same day by means of a letter from the President of the European Council and the High Representative.
After the Union' s internal decisions have been taken, the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement will move on in accordance with the regulations.
It was also decided at Helsinki that we should ask for a proportion of TACIS funds to be set aside for humanitarian aid.
But that should only affect Russia.
The European Council underlined this by saying it was vital to continue with projects to support human rights, the rule of law and civil society as well as nuclear safety.
We have to discover whether the Council of Europe can intensify efforts relating to Russia in the areas of human rights and civil society.
The aim is not to exclude Russia from the work of the Council of Europe.
Neither is Russian isolation in the interests of the European Union nor anyone else in Europe.
Madam President, the European Council approved the Presidency' s report on the Intergovernmental Conference.
The Intergovernmental Conference will start in February next year and would end in December 2000.
The agenda covers the issues left unresolved at Amsterdam; that is, the size and composition of the Commission, the weighting of votes in the Council, and the possible increase in qualified majority decisions in the Council as well as other issues relating to the Union institutions in connection with these matters.
The next country to hold the Presidency, Portugal, will give the European Council a report on progress in the IGC arrangements and the addition to the agenda of any other issues.
The General Affairs Council has the overall political responsibility for the IGC.
There will also be a representative from the Commission at the political and preparatory levels.
The development of facilities to cope with both civil and military crisis management was discussed, on the basis of reports produced by the Presidency.
In developing civil resources for crisis management it is especially urgent to improve police facilities and arrangements for prompt funding arrangements.
In the conclusions of the Presidency, it was stated that the first progress report on the document now adopted would be presented at the European Council in Lisbon.
The European Council said that the coordination of economic, employment and structural policy must be enhanced in accordance with the recommendations in the Council' s report.
The tax package is thus holding together, and it cannot be said that anyone got away scot-free in this matter.
In environmental policy the European Council stressed the need to intensify the work being done in this area in the next few years.
The European Council decided to attempt to make it possible for the Member States to ratify the Kyoto Protocol before the year 2002.
Similarly, we are asking the Commission to draft a proposal for the European Council convening in June 2001 for a long-term strategy, in which policies for economically, socially and ecologically sustainable development are dovetailed.
The main event of the Finnish Presidency in the context of the work of the OSCE was the Summit held in Istanbul on 18 and 19 November.
The Charter is founded on earlier commitments and reinforces the establishment of democracy, peace and human rights.
It is particularly important - given, also, Russia' s action in Chechnya - for the Charter to reinforce the notion that commitments also have to be complied with in internal conflicts of States.
At the meeting we also approved a declaration on topical political issues.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I should like first on behalf of the Group for the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats to extend my warmest thanks to the Finnish Presidency of the Council for its work and its good intentions.
Only historians will be able to say if Helsinki was a Summit of enlargement fever and mini reforms or if it really helped to strengthen the European Union and give Europe the power to act in the 21st century.
This has always been the policy of the PPE-DE Group.
On Turkey: The President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, rightly says that we need a debate on the geographical borders of the Union.
We hope, because we regard Turkey as a friend, that it will succeed in building up a real civil society, that it will succeed in giving the ethnic Kurds a real identity, as part of the Turkish federation and the Turkish nation, and we hope that the Turkish military, which is allied with the west - and that is the real tragedy, will moderate its action in relation to the Kurdish question and stop using military intervention rather than dialogue in order to overcome problems which arise with the Kurds.
In other words, we hope that Turkey will succeed in building up a real civil society.
My final point concerns foreign, security and defence policy.
It would be a sorry day for the European Union if we were to talk of European defence without giving the European Union the means to implement European defence and if we were to end up driving a wedge between us and our American partners in NATO.
It must be given a really democratic, human rights-orientated policy so that the European Union can be a stabilising factor, a factor for peace, development, human rights and democracy in the Europe of the 21st century.
This is the real task ahead of us and we hope that Helsinki has laid the foundations for it and that words will now be backed up by action. (Applause) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to offer my heartfelt congratulations to the Finnish Presidency on the success of their debut.
Our fundamental criticism of the Finnish Presidency and the Summit is that, clearly, and in the eyes of our citizens, their substance has been more impressive than appearances would suggest.
And now, at a time when this step has been taken - and we must remember that relations with Turkey did not start yesterday, but in 1963 -, we hope that Turkey will also respond in a positive manner, both with regard to its internal process of democratisation as well as its relations, not only with the Community, but essentially with the country which has taken the most important step and which I think should be congratulated: Greece and its government.
We want to have 'representatives' of this Parliament, because that is the role of our institution.
A final word, Madam President, regarding an issue which concerns my group very much.
But, above all, we have to carry out the task of explaining the process to our citizens, and I believe that that is our principal mission.
I believe that the major decisions that have been made in respect of enlargement, reform and defence show that there is a sustained vitality in our common European vocation.
I should like to say, in respect of enlargement, that my group, as the others too have expressed here today, is extremely pleased to see that negotiations will open soon with the six additional States of Central and Eastern Europe.
It is important that we inject a new political dynamic into the enlargement process.
But in welcoming the decision as we do, we insist that those modernising forces must make determined progress towards European norms of respect for human rights and of the relationship between civil and military society; towards the abolition of the death penalty; towards a clear respect for minorities, especially the Kurdish minority in Turkey.
The IGC has the opportunity to enhance efficiency and effectiveness and to deepen the democratic character of the European Union.
My group, through this House, will work with other parliamentarians and with the Commission to try to convince the incoming Portuguese Presidency to be more ambitious in the reform, all the while respecting the timetable.
I share the view of other colleagues that it is unfortunate to describe the role that this House can play as one merely of observer.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, my group would first like to acknowledge to those representing the Finnish Presidency that you, as compared with the European Parliament, have improved transparency and the flow of information.
I would like to tell you that this draft regulation has been leaked to the public, and that is worrying.
Now we have to ensure that we also achieve a balance in the progress we make in negotiations and that candidate countries give sufficient consideration to the issues of social security, equality between men and women, employment and environmental protection.
We were not inclined to agree with those in the European Parliament who have been keen to narrowly define the borders of Europe in the belief that Islam is somehow non-European.
The non-military prevention of conflicts is always more important, and for every euro invested in military crisis management at least as much must be spent on civil crisis management.
I am certain the European Parliament' s calls to put economic cooperation on ice have had an effect, and we believe that you will remain firm in your opinion that this is not a situation in which we can act as if nothing has happened.
Mr President, a quarter of a century ago, at the time of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, the spirit in Helsinki was one of peace and cooperation.
Since then, many, following the lead of the Commission, have started talking about a common defence.
The Finnish Presidency has ended wretchedly from the point of view of preserving the non-alignment of a non-aligned State.
In the fight against unemployment, we wish Portugal better success that Finland had.
Mr President, the Helsinki Summit of EU leaders has been quite accurately billed as the European Union's enlargement Summit, and there can be no doubt that this European Council meeting has lived up to this particular expectation.
The EU leaders reaffirmed the inclusive nature of the accession process which now comprises 13 candidate States within a single framework.
In essence what this means is that the countries, including Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania and Malta, will now open negotiations on membership of the European Union in March of next year.
These new countries join with the original six that are already engaged in extensive talks with the Union covering 38 different chapters of negotiations concerning the enlargement process.
The leaders of the 15 countries presently comprising membership of the EU believe that there will have to be substantial changes to the internal decision-making processes within the EU if the enlargement process is to take place in a structured and streamlined fashion.
We all know that the enlargement process cannot take place unless there is some reform in the decision-making procedures within the European Union itself.
I support working towards reaching an agreement by the end of next year, but equally we must not and should not hurry possible fundamental reforms to existing treaties without due consideration and evaluation.
Certainly it would be extremely difficult and impracticable to secure the support of the European public to introduce unanimity for tax harmonisation changes or for decisions concerning foreign and security matters at European Council level.
We must tread carefully on the matter of treaty reform for the simple reason that we have to guarantee that we can carry the support of the 340 million citizens in the EU for any such changes.
A negotiated settlement is still the only real long-term solution for the securing of a peace settlement in Chechnya.
Mr President, I fear that time will tell that the decision taken in Helsinki to accord Turkey candidate status for membership of the European Union is a political miscalculation that threatens to have dramatic repercussions for our Member States and for Turkey.
How can people undermine Europe in this way and strip it of its historical identity by continuing even to consider extending candidate status to a country that lies in a different part of the world.
Finally, I would just like to say something about the logic of common sense, for a number of Member States are already struggling with a massive, almost unmanageable immigration problem.
If Turkey accedes to the European Union then the problem will grow to gigantic proportions.
That is why my party, the Flemish Block, will continue to oppose any possibility of Turkey acceding to the European Union.
The EU already has more legislative power than other federations, and the essence of the next treaty will be more majority decision making.
We are on the way from a confederation to a federal State, but this is still only the last but one treaty before the drafting of a constitution for just such a federal State, for no-one is going to give up the right of veto in regard to the amendment of the Treaties, the levying of new taxes and the sending of soldiers off to war.
Improvements on Amsterdam in the institutional area not only concern fundamental matters, they also call for tremendous effort.
The current situation shows how vital progress is in this area.
The Union may well be seething inwardly, but in truth it stands paralysed and helpless in the face of events in Chechnya.
The extension of Union enlargement to all thirteen countries ended the artificial split between the applicant countries.
The northern dimension was overshadowed by the open crises in Kosovo and Chechnya.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, the Helsinki Summit will go down in history because of the decisions that were taken there.
The meeting showed the way for development in Europe far into the future.
The progress made from the start of talks with the six new candidates for membership, and the acceptance of Turkey as a candidate for membership has been an inevitable part of the European policy to reinforce stability and strengthen prosperity in our continent.
However, it was important to decide on a new IGC to resolve the questions which were unresolved at Amsterdam.
The European Parliament has continually called for greater transparency for all the EU institutions.
The Presidency has been active and willing to find compromises; the problems and guilty parties are unfortunately to be found in this Chamber.
President of the Commission, I think that despite all the talk about transparency and openness which our Nordic friends are congratulating themselves on, the Finnish Presidency has managed to obtain, in the conclusions, what the governments actually want: to keep the European Union' s decisions and actions completely free from any interference, not only by Parliament, but also the Commission.
Now, I am wondering, President Prodi, how you can be so happy when the Commission is practically being reduced to the role of report-provider on the most varied subjects, and clearly does not have a central role in the decisions or initiatives, in respect of both the Intergovernmental Conference and the CFSP.
I want to say at once that I have very little in common culturally with Jörg Haider in Austria or Mr Le Pen in France or, for that matter, with my own countryman, Mogens Camre in Denmark.
It is just as obvious though, that enlargement in the envisaged timeframe does not allow either for the immediate creation of a common foreign policy or the drawing-up of an economic policy programme, even though the latter is very urgent, especially in the light of the recovery of the dollar against the euro and the disappointing results of Seattle.
We are proposing a political level for the current Member States which choose to make a great leap forward in this sector, and a second, economic level for the fifteen current Member States and the new members.
Finally, I would like to extend an invitation to the Commission so that it avoids continuing to propose measures on asparagus and lupins and instead seeks to give us a political and economic plan before it becomes a laughing stock.
Mr President, firstly a premise which, I believe, is true for every one of us, but most especially for our President, Nicole Fontaine.
I feel the matter of the status that the two Members of Parliament will have at the Intergovernmental Conference is quite intolerable.
The current scenario envisages 27 Member States and yet more in the years to come, requiring much, much more far-reaching reforms.
We cannot, as some of my fellow Members have said, consider that we can discuss matters with the Portuguese Presidency when we already know there is a majority in the Council ready to oppose adding items to the agenda.
We must extend candidacy to these countries as a matter of urgency, just as, as a matter of urgency, we must recognise that Chechnya is not located somewhere on the moon, but in a region of Europe, in the Transcaucasus.
It is a matter of urgency that Europe should have a policy worthy of the name in this region, otherwise, just like the Balkans over the last ten years, we shall see it becoming a region of war and destruction, as is already the case in Chechnya today.
It is a state of affairs that indicates very clearly how strained mutual relations between Athens and Ankara still are.
Sadly enough, ten years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, ten years after the spectacular revolution in Central and Eastern Europe, fear of Moscow continues to cause the nations of this region to seek security and economic prosperity in the West.
Mr President, the Finnish Presidency has, without doubt, taken the development of the European Community forward.
But, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you also said that the Helsinki Summit did not deliver the goods.
My first example is the IGC.
This was a very disappointing development in my view and so I really hope that the Commission and Parliament are in a position to convince the Portuguese Council Presidency that we need to go a little further than is the case at present.
After the unanimous vote on the enlargement process, no further doubt can or will be cast on the seriousness of our intentions and of Turkey' s intention to meet the Copenhagen criteria as quickly as possible.
It is the will of the Helsinki Summit that the European Union should number 28 Member States in a few years' time.
That is why we intervened in Kosovo where an odious regime was in the process of driving out a whole people; and that is why we were delighted when Indonesia' s atrocities in East Timor were eventually brought to an end.
But now we are seeing, in Chechnya, ruthless state terror directed against an entire population.
In the EU, we have been too weak in our protests and with our sanctions and, in that way, have betrayed the liberal and democratic forces in Russia.
At the European Council in Helsinki it was the Council' s opinion that a decision on the Intergovernmental Conference should be arrived at quite quickly, and, if possible, by the end of next year, so that there will be time to ratify the agreements and enlargement can get under way.
But that too is a huge question of principle, and after we have drafted this agenda it will then be met with the differing opinions of Member States.
As a representative of a small country I can say that we have to be prepared.
For that reason, in Finland we are most satisfied that we were able, during the Finnish Presidency, to have a decision on this in such a ready state that we will have a policy on the matter from now on.
The European Council in Helsinki reconfirmed this.
In Finland, we are obviously satisfied with this, but once again I would like to stress that in Europe we have a southern, eastern and western dimension, just as much as a northern one.
They are all issues we have in common.
The northern dimension is very much about long-term effective cooperation with Russia, which is a great advantage for us both and absolutely irrespective of what is happening in Russia and Chechnya at the moment.
Finally, as a sort of legacy of the Finnish Presidency, I hope that all the institutions of the Union will take the issue of transparency and good governance seriously.
We must understand one another, but the direction must clearly be towards greater transparency.
On behalf of Finland, I would again like to thank everyone for all the support we have been given by all the institutions and all the Member States of the European Union.
There was also almost universal agreement about Chechnya and the need for us not to have double standards in our foreign policy, but to reassert the principles which are the cornerstone of the European Union.
This is minimal progress, but I assure you - and this is the important message I want to give you - that in this area, the Commission and the President of Parliament have taken the same line on increasing the presence of Parliament itself.
On the other hand, it is clear that it will take years and a thorough analysis, because we need to reassure the public in the countries that are joining the Union, by showing them the real situation here, and making an accurate and serious comparison of legal, economic, political and transparency issues.
Mr President, I rise to say that this has been an extremely short debate.
I cannot see the point in continuing this debate.
You have agreed to inaugurate our new building in Strasbourg, thereby becoming the first European Union Head of State to speak in this new Chamber.
Forty years after its inception, the European Parliament finally has its own home in this complex of buildings spread out harmoniously on either side of the confluence of two peaceful streams, like a symbol of Europe's determination to create dialogue and union against a background of peace.
With Brussels, with Luxembourg, the European Parliament spreads its activities between three places of work.
As regards Strasbourg, I would merely say that this place has a specific purpose, one imbued with the spirit and memory of Europe, which the Amsterdam Treaty has now set in stone.
Louise Weiss has remained the symbol of a visionary commitment to the cause of women and the cause of Europe, both of which are still highly topical.
This inauguration also comes at a time when Parliament can be said, without exaggeration, to have reached political maturity, not least as a result of the advances secured by means of the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties.
Your election last summer as President of the European Parliament came as the crowning honour of a great European career: fifteen years as an elected Member have earned you the respect of your colleagues and of all those who fight in the cause of Europe.
It was high time for the European Parliament, strengthened every day in its legitimacy and in its own role, to acquire a separate identity from the Council of Europe which has accommodated it for nearly half a century.
I should like to pay tribute to all those who have worked on this enormous project: the architects, the Strasbourg regional planning and construction agency (SERS), the building contractors, the technicians and the workers who have participated in this great adventure over the past four years so as to provide Europe' s representatives with a fitting forum for their debates.
I should like to thank the regional authorities, the Alsace Region, the Département of Bas-Rhin and the City of Strasbourg, who, in cooperation with the French State, have given their support to this achievement.
So often torn apart by history, in the crossfire of continental rivalries, Strasbourg today embodies the ideal of peace and democracy for our whole continent.
When your Assembly moved into these premises nearly six months ago, much was said and written about the new building and the problems it encountered in its first weeks.
Your institution, in which the voice of our peoples is expressed, is involved in all the debates which are going on in Europe, and this year which is now ending will undoubtedly be the year of the European Parliament.
This everyday work of legislation and supervision has become an essential part of the life of our Union, but one which does not encroach on the prerogatives of the Council or the Commission, for we all wish to respect the institutional balance provided for by the Treaties.
It is essential that you should make your point of view heard on this institutional reform.
I also welcome the fact, Madam President, that after the successful experiment we have seen in Helsinki, you will once again, at each European Council, be able to carry on a genuine dialogue with the Heads of State and Government rather than merely making a speech setting out Parliament' s views.
The aim must now be to win the hearts and minds of our fellow citizens by changing their very idea of Europe.
We must, of course, do more to coordinate our economic policies more effectively, consolidate our social model and create a single area of freedom, security and justice.
We marshalled all the resources required to do this in connection with the euro.
We are preparing actively for this genuine cultural revolution and the transition to the euro has been accepted so readily by our peoples because we gave ourselves the means to explain its implications and ensure that they were understood.
But if we are to secure the support of all our citizens, ladies and gentlemen, we must also be capable of making the dream of Europe a reality.
A house in which everyone lives together, in a spirit of solidarity, but in which each individual retains his or her identity.
Before it opens its doors, the European Union will have to reform its institutions.
The Europe which is both widening and deepening must gradually take on its full responsibilities on the world scene.
Ladies and gentlemen, these are the tasks facing us, the political leaders and elected representatives of the Union.
Rest assured that my country is determined that you should play a full part in the work and discussions which mark its Presidency.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Council has taken a significant step towards the militarisation of the European Union with its decision to develop the military crisis management corps.
The decision to extend candidate status to Turkey is, without a doubt, a political gesture towards the Turkish regime, despite the fact that it has made no move whatsoever towards fulfilling the conditions set by the European Union itself.
For example, in the field of enlargement, some will be pleased that Turkey has been granted applicant status and others will not be so pleased.
But it surely cannot be denied that the Presidency-in-Office of the Council has made significant advances in the field of common foreign and security policy by reorganising the duties of the Council, by clearly promoting non-military crisis management, by adopting a common strategy with regard to Ukraine and also by approving a statement on Chechnya, although we would have liked it to have been a little more forceful and I believe that in time we will be proved right.
Mr President, the Summit was indeed historic, especially regarding defence and enlargement, if not the IGC.
I should like to refer in particular to Turkey.
So it is astonishing that neither the OSCE Summit declaration nor the Helsinki conclusions make any reference to the Kurds.
Mr President, the European Summit was less of a success than has been suggested here this morning.
The decisions on enlargement, the intervention force and Turkey' s application for EU membership are positive, but the words used to describe the IGC conceal a great lack of political will.
The lack of political will to make this unequivocal choice will paralyse the decision-making process as soon as Europe undergoes enlargement.
Mr President, the Helsinki Summit took account of the proposal for a charter of rights.
We agree with that, but we insist that a democratic European Union must be built on the rule of law as an equal partner with a charter of rights.
It should, however, be remembered that there are not only nations in Eastern and Central Europe seeking entry, there are ancient nations in Western Europe too, represented here by the European Free Alliance, which seek fair recognition as members in Europe.
Mr President, in my view, the problems and issues to be addressed following the Helsinki Summit fall into two basic entities.
The first is the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference and it is particularly sad that, following the Helsinki Summit and following the extensive debates held here in the European Parliament, the Presidency conclusions concerning the Intergovernmental Conference are so brief.
Mr President, it is clear that, this time more than ever, the Intergovernmental Conference and the review of the founding Treaties of the European Union are directly related to another important European Union decision: enlargement.
And the European Parliament will, of course, continue to indicate the way forward given that, as I said before, the decisions of the Helsinki Summit on the Intergovernmental Conference are clearly, and unfortunately, far too limited in scope.
There was no mention of a number of new issues which are, if you like, the main goals and problems facing us in the 21st century.
The OSCE has to operate in the shadow of the EU and NATO, which have a much higher public profile.
The most important person to take the floor - in inverted commas - during the Istanbul Summit was President Yeltsin, who came to explain his policy towards Chechnya.
In some internal conflicts and where there are grave violations of human rights, the OSCE can and may take action before actual violence breaks out.
Chechnya is an example of a conflict that could spread to the whole Caucasus region.
The creation of an Employment Committee increases the potential for Member States to improve coordination between their policies in this area.
The other reason for unemployment in the European Union is the lack of professional qualifications.
Aside from their strictly economic significance, which is huge, these institutions are positive proof to the people that the creation of new Community institutions, entrusted with exercising integrated policies in place of the governments or the national bodies of the Member States, is not a betrayal but a more efficient way of jointly exercising national sovereignty.
All this gives us hope that a new chapter was opened in Helsinki and that this new chapter will be crowned with success.
Mr President, needless to say, I am extremely pleased that the Council has confirmed the viewpoint which was also posited by the Commission, namely that the enlargement of the European Union will be a process in which all Central European countries which have applied for membership will be involved without any discrimination and on the basis of their own merits.
I think it is important that the Central and Eastern European countries should know that they are joining a smoothly-running Union.
Mr President, Turkey needs a great deal more attention and I am willing to allow for that.
In our opinion, the European Union should also make it very clear to Turkey that the treatment it will receive will certainly not be more flexible than that of Slovakia, for example, where the change-over from one government to another was, in fact, a great deal more relaxed.
The European Union should not make the same mistake as the Council of Europe which accepted Turkey some time ago whilst Turkey blatantly contravened the criteria to become a member of the Council of Europe, such as the criteria relating to the protection of minorities and human rights.
Mr President, enlargement is the single most important factor for Europe' s stability and welfare.
Kosovo has taught us that, in extreme situations, we must be able to intervene, be able to intervene in time and be able to intervene with credibility.
The brutality of the Russian campaign in Chechnya shows that we have a long way to go before achieving a peaceful order in Europe.
We shall never have security in Europe without democracy and prosperity in Russia.
Mr President, I share the general dissatisfaction of many Members in this Parliament regarding the outcome of Helsinki.
With regard to the IGC, Helsinki has only really decided to deal with the three leftovers.
A second point I would like to raise is that this has, of course, already been outlined to some extent and lifted to European level, but the Community measures necessary in this respect have not been taken at all.
Finally, Mr President, the majority of the Dutch delegation did not attend the official inauguration of this building this morning.
We did this for a specific reason because we feel that the decision taken in Amsterdam to force us to come and meet here twelve times a year is wrong.
As far as we are concerned, the new Treaty should revise this section in that Treaty.
At the moment, EUR 120 million is wasted annually on travelling up and down, but, more than anything, a lot of time is wasted by the MEPs.
Turkey is a candidate.
A country can only belong to the Europe of the European Union if it accepts human rights.
But we at least made clear in our discussions with all the party chairmen and other politicians in Turkey that Turkey has to do the work.
But we cannot do the work for Turkey.
The fact is that Turkey has only acknowledged in discussions over recent weeks and months that there even is a Kurdish question.
The Helsinki Summit, at which Greece above all behaved in an exemplary manner and at which, in the end, Turkey too behaved in a reasonable manner, went very well on this question but the work is not yet finished.
The best decision to come out of Helsinki is that we are now able to start work.
I invite Mrs Maij-Weggen to support me in this.
I welcome this in particular in the case of Slovakia and the Baltic States.
We want Russia as a partner, but only as a partner which respects human rights.
It is precisely for this reason that the intergovernmental conference is so important because only if it demonstrates that it has the power to act and is transparent and democratic in the eyes of the people will it be possible to overcome both the danger of overstretching as the result of enlargement and the incapacity to act.
Parliament must ensure that this is put in order.
Mr President, I shall make three very straightforward points.
The first concerns the European Parliament' s relationship to this forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference and its role therein.
It is worth stating here though that we do not accept that the European Parliament should be given a lesser role in a discussion process as important as such a large-scale revision of the Treaty on European Union.
If only the leftovers from Amsterdam remain, the discussion will be about efficiency and not about the European Union project.
The discussion could be about political manoeuvring and could lead to rule by a board of management.
From this point of view, the Commission has a crucial role in ensuring that the agenda of the IGC is not dictated by the lowest common denominator of each State' s interests, but rather that it has a global vision of the European Union project.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to highlight two issues concerning the forthcoming Portuguese Presidency: the Summit on employment, which I consider to be very important and which should have been studied more carefully by this House, and the fact that priority should be given to the protection of public health and food safety.
Finally, I have a question for the Council, although I am not sure if it is represented here today, Mr President, to answer this question: what is the future of the Euro-African Summit scheduled for the next six-month term?
Mr President, the presidency has set out two propositions in the Helsinki conclusions, namely that an efficient and credible enlargement process must be sustained and that applicant countries are participating in the accession process on an equal footing.
When this is set against the fact that candidate status has been granted to Turkey and the simultaneous statement that there will be a conference in the spring of 2000, in which Turkey will not take part, then it is clear that this candidate status has been granted prematurely and is a blank cheque which will come bouncing back.
There is a danger that far too much is being expected of Europe as regards this part of the enlargement process and that too much is being expected of Turkey itself.
I am not sure that the political classes in Turkey have any idea of what is in store for them when they have to waive sovereign rights.
I have received 14 motions for resolutions, in accordance with Rule 37(2), to close this debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
I would also like to take this opportunity to explain to you in more detail the Council' s proposal for financing aid to Kosovo in 2000.
I believe, however, that our common goal is to give the people of Kosovo the aid they urgently require without any undue delay.
Our common goal at the same time is to preserve aid for other recipients, above all the poorest countries in the world.
The Council is also prepared to adopt the recitals and statements, which are an essential part of the conciliation package and which leave scope for negotiation, which we will be entering into next year regarding category 4 financing, such as that which affects the Western Balkans.
The main reason for that is that Kosovo, which has fewer than two million inhabitants, can accept and use only a limited amount of aid properly, which is a lot less than what was originally anticipated.
The Council also believes that the institutions of the European Union require a certain amount of stability and seriousness to maintain their credibility.
I would now like to explain to you in slightly more detail what the Council' s proposal regarding category 4 contains and why it meets the demands of the European Parliament in terms of financing.
The first benefit of the package the Council is proposing is that it offers ways and means to finance aid to Kosovo and East Timor in concrete terms, without it being at the expense of any other recipient of aid.
The European Parliament and the Council agree that EUR 360 million in aid should go to Kosovo in 2000.
The Commission has told us that we could transfer EUR 60 million out of the budget funds for 1999, for use in 2000.
This means that we have EUR 300 million in aid to Kosovo to charge to the 2000 budget.
We accept that EUR 40 million can in addition be used from transfers in 2000.
We also know that the European Parliament wishes to grant EUR 20 million in aid to East Timor. 180 and 20 make 200.
This is precisely the sum the Council proposed should be spent in connection with the flexibility instrument in addition to the ceiling allowed for category 4 in the financial perspectives.
In other words the Council is proposing to pay for all these new funds itself, funds that are needed in their entirety for vital aid to Kosovo and East Timor in 2000, as far as exceeding the current ceiling in the financial perspectives is concerned.
Although the current aim is just to draft the budget for 2000, the Commission has already said in a statement published in the Official Journal of the European Communities regarding next year that it intends to propose an aid programme by April 2000 for the Western Balkans for the period 2000 - 2006 in connection with a proposal for an amendment to the financial perspectives.
The Council has repeatedly said it considers cooperation with the European Parliament to be very important when the budget is being drafted.
We likewise approved the sums that Parliament added to such programmes as Socrates, Leonardo, equality between women and men, Altener, Synergy, Life and all the action programmes in the areas of health and research, and many others.
The Council furthermore approved the increase of EUR 50 million in appropriations for food safety that Parliament held to be important.
In addition to this - also thanks to close cooperation between Parliament and the Council - additional budgets 4 and 5 were promptly adopted in 1999, and the letter of amendment 2 for the 2000 budget is now about to be adopted.
Finally, the European Parliament and the Council seem to have reached agreement today on a new OLAF director, as a result of which OLAF will become fully capable of fulfilling its functions.
The Council is thus offering its cooperation as a means of financing aid to Kosovo and East Timor in 2000.
The Council is also prepared for a solution where payment appropriations may be cut by EUR 2 billion by combining compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure.
The Council therefore hopes that the European Parliament will make its decision on the budget on the basis of the Council' s proposal.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, we find ourselves in a truly strange, a truly curious situation.
The Commission produced its rectifying letter, the Council voted for the budget at its second reading and the Committee on Budgets last week adopted its own second reading.
Firstly, the second reading vote should be as close as possible to the first reading vote in Parliament.
The various scenarios in this regard are satisfactory.
In the initial phase of the procedure, we received a proposal for a reduction of approximately EUR 500 million from category 4 in relation to the preliminary draft budget.
In the compromise we voted on, we have a reduction of only EUR 150 million, not in relation to the PDB but in relation to our vote at first reading.
categories 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7, nothing has been changed.
Our second objective was to have Kosovo financed at a level above the ceiling of heading 4.
As it happens, after a difficult beginning, we consider that the proposal to use the flexibility clause, although not the most suitable instrument, intended to provide financial aid for Kosovo of EUR 200 million above the category is satisfactory in itself, and indeed enables us, if we are in agreement as to the remainder, to have a satisfactory approach to providing financial aid for Kosovo for the year concerned.
Our third objective was the review of the financial perspectives beyond the financial year 2000.
Our success in this respect has been much more limited and, in my opinion, extremely uncertain.
I am afraid that in fact, in the mind of the Council, review of the financial perspectives might be centred on the disappearance of Comrade Milosevic.
I find this point of view worrying for, when I see what has happened to Saddam Hussein, I think that dictators sometimes have a longer lifetime than might be desirable.
So, the question remains.
We have gone from EUR 500 million, a figure adopted chiefly for the number of zeros in it and its ease of pronunciation.
If we had had recourse to Article 272, then we should have had to make savings of 2.8 billion from the non-compulsory expenditure.
This is why, as far as I am concerned, whatever the decision of the Committee on Budgets, if we were to go once again to a compromise, then I should abstain on this budget.
What we voted on within the Committee on Budgets, and what we have proposed to you, is simple.
Secondly, we shall take category 4 up to the maximum limit.
Without financing Kosovo, except in the amount of EUR 115 million, by adding the accounts which are presented, i.e.
I refer to the situation which was caused by the fact that the Court of First Instance approved the TDI group as a parliamentary political group.
So that this issue would be debated according to Parliament' s agenda, the Committee on Budgets called for compliance with Article 183.
The biggest problem this year was category 4: external action.
As the budget for 1999 had already very nearly reached its ceiling, it was really quite difficult to suppose that such great degrees of flexibility might be found in other areas of expenditure.
The Council dropped its earlier estimate of EUR 500 million to 360 million.
Before aid is promised in the name of the European Union, it would perhaps be in order to check whether the promises can be kept.
During the last few days and weeks, the negotiations have been - at least in my view - talk about very minor matters, as nearly each one of the finance ministers of the Member States and even their state secretaries handle certainly much larger sums on their own.
We need a budget for next year, and it must be achieved.
Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the results of the Helsinki Summit were presented and debated this morning.
The decisions to come out of Helsinki have far-reaching consequences for the future of the Union, namely the resolutions on the enlargement strategy, on the intergovernmental conference and on the common foreign and security policy.
The Finnish Presidency dealt with a huge agenda; the Summit was a success, a good conclusion to 1999 and, with the Millennium Declaration, a good start for the future.
The new budget for 2000 will serve as a clear basis for sound policies.
Most importantly, it has been agreed - and this was particularly important to Parliament, quite rightly, in my view - that an important political statement is being made, namely that the tasks of the European Union in Kosovo and in the Balkans are tasks which extend over several years and that, in order to honour these tasks financially, we may need to increase expenditure on foreign policy in comparison with the expenditure forecast at the beginning of this year, when we based our assessment on a somewhat different political situation.
However, the World Bank and the Commission have produced a very accurate study of reconstruction in Kosovo, which shows that a total of 2.3 billion dollars or euros will be needed in external aid over the next few years to repair not only war damage but the cumulative damage which has arisen as a result of the fact that the political situation in Kosovo over recent years has led to a disaster in human terms.
There is an urgent need, and I hope that we are still able to find a solution which does not put these needs off until tomorrow but tackles them today.
Agreement has been reached on entering EUR 300 million under the budget for the year 2000, in addition to the EUR 60 million redeployed from this year, and on considering the EUR 140 million granted at the donor conference as part of the funds promised for the year 2001.
The deployment of these appropriations will be very closely observed by my services in the form of financial control.
The financial control system forms a separate chapter in the negotiations.
The peoples of the Member States must also be clear that enlargement is not a financial roller coaster.
The budget 2000 includes EUR 32 billion in commitments to support structural policy in the Member States.
The budget 2000 includes EUR 41 billion for agricultural policy.
I should like to draw attention to the appropriations deployed for the second pillar of agricultural policy, namely for programmes to promote rural development.
The European Parliament fought intensively for this second pillar of the agricultural policy.
The Commission has agreed on a timetable for reforming the system used hitherto.
The strength of the European institutions lies in finding compromises and in forging compromises.
The Committee on Budgetary Control held hearings with the candidates and produced a shortlist of three people, and I understand that tonight there will be a meeting to try to thrash out a decision between the representatives of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
The Commission's strategic issues paper adopted on 10 December concluded that core public service tasks should not be outsourced and that the Commission should have at its disposal a much more flexible set of arrangements for non-core public service tasks.
He has pursued his own ideas and those of the Committee on Budgets at the same time, in particular his wish for administrative expenditure to be clearly identified so that monitoring can be carried out.
The budget headings for the Committee on the Environment generally concern very small amounts but they have enabled us to start the preparatory research that will help us develop the issue of health competence under the Amsterdam Treaty.
Could I, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Transport and Tourism, acknowledge the progress that is being made by the Council and in particular by the Committee on Budgets in addressing our concerns.
Secondly, we would highlight their attempt to restore the cuts in the INTERREG programme by some EUR 33 million in the payments, restoring that heading to the budget.
You have our full support, Mr Bourlanges, and we hope that Parliament endorses the Committee on Budgets' proposals in the vote this week.
I have time to make only two points.
Secondly, are you aware that today, 14 December 1999, the European Youth Orchestra, the European Youth Parliament, the Yehudi Menuhin Foundation, to name just three, are yet to receive the subsidies that we voted for them for this year?
This is a comment that I think applies just a shade too often where Europe is concerned.
Mr President, Mr Bourlanges, the proposal you put forward is, shall we say, reasonable.
It makes it possible to release EUR 115 million to finance Kosovo, while waiting for a realistic evaluation of requirements, covered, if necessary, by the vote on a SAB next spring, and this is no bad thing.
I simply wish to express, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, my concern regarding this budget 2000 which, if the financial perspectives are not reviewed, places the burden of all the sacrifices on the poorest countries.
I actually said that at present the Council believes there is no need to amend the frameworks of the 2000 budget permanently, and we have proposed the use of the flexibility instrument with regard to category 4.
Thank you very much, Madam President-in-Office of the Council.
The Commission took three further decisions on the application of Regulation No 4064/89 concerning merger control and on Regulation No 17/62 in application of Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty, imposing fines ranging from EUR 100 000 to EUR 3 000 for each company that has supplied incorrect information in response to requests for information that have been made to them.
The Commission also adopted a communication which defines the objectives and the principles of the Community medium-term audiovisual policy and which establishes a strategy for the so-called "digital" age.
The communication contains several principles that in the Commission' s opinion should be applied to the regulation of the audiovisual sector and to its support mechanisms.
Closely linked to this communication, the Commission approved another one, together with a proposal for a decision by the European Parliament and the Council and a proposal for a decision by the Council relating to a programme of support for the European audiovisual industry, which is the MEDIA PLUS 2001-2005 programme.
The communication contains a renewed vision and principles for intervention relating to the MEDIA PLUS programme.
The first proposal concerns the formalisation of a training programme for professionals in the European audiovisual programme industry, the so-called "Media-Training" programme, which will be funded to the value of EUR 50 million for the period 2001 to 2005.
The objective of the second proposal is to establish a programme of support for the development, distribution and promotion of unequivocally European audiovisual works.
In the framework of the internal reform of the Commission and following its statement of commitment to review the policy of outsourcing services, the Commission also approved a communication containing guidelines and the timetable for the implementation of this outsourcing policy.
Finally, Mr President, the Commission approved a proposal for a decision by the Council that aims to create a European Fund for Refugees.
The fund will also contribute to the financing of emergency measures in the event of a massive influx of people who are in desperate need of international protection.
A sum of EUR 36 million has been earmarked for the first year of this fund' s operation: EUR 26 million for the structural policy and EUR 10 million for emergency situations.
On this last point, I would like to add that the tradition of sums being earmarked for supporting refugees was started by the European Parliament in 1997 and annual decisions have been taken on it.
The Tampere European Council asked the Commission to look into the creation of a financial fund aimed at resolving emergency situations.
This fund is therefore both a fund that has an emergency component but whose objective is, at the same time, to guarantee the financing of structural policy measures of support for the reception, integration and voluntary repatriation of refugees and asylum seekers.
Firstly, the structural objective for the next five years is to allow the development by the Member States of policies for the reception and integration of refugees and asylum seekers, policies which must concentrate above all on priority actions of a very tangible nature.
We see the Member States' need to provide themselves with equipment and infrastructure for support for the reception, integration and voluntary repatriation of refugees and asylum seekers as a priority in this area.
The objective of the Commission' s proposal is that the sum of EUR 26 million should be distributed amongst the Member States based on a criterion, on a distribution scale that, above all, takes into account the number of requests for asylum that each Member State has received in the last three years and the number of refugees that have been in each Member States over the last three years.
Thank you very much, Commissioner António Vitorino.
Thank you, Mr President.
My question relates to the Media Plus Programme 2001-2006.
This programme should make provision for a focus on information and, more importantly, for a focus on training for journalists on the subject of the European Union.
I think that there is an increasingly urgent need to maintain good contacts with the public.
Which is why I am interested in knowing if it would be possible to invite journalists here from Europe and the rest of the world in order to explain our work to them and show them the advantages of European Union.
Firstly, Mr Rübig, I would like to say that I share the concern you have just expressed about whether the European Institutions as a whole, are able to draft a policy on information and communication which will enable us to provide all European citizens with not just the contents of our debates but also with the added value that the decisions of Parliament, the Commission and the Council itself have for their daily life.
In reality, the central aim of these programmes is to support the training of professionals in the European audiovisual industry and to promote European artistic creation and research in the audiovisual sphere.
They are, therefore, not information programmes in the strict sense of the word, but are rather programmes of support for creative initiatives by audiovisual professionals, which are markedly European in nature.
What we did approve was the contribution of the Commission to the guidelines for the national employment plans for the year 2000 in the follow-up to the so-called Cardiff, Luxembourg and Cologne procedures.
From the Lisbon Summit I hope we will get a clearer idea as to how the Union budget can contribute to our common objective of creating new jobs in the continent.
It is up to Commissioner Vitorino to decide if he should reply or not.
Mr Soares, the Commission' s commitment was, in December, to present the first version of the scoreboard to the Council of Justice and Home Affairs.
Commissioner Vitorino, I appreciated the communication that you just made on behalf of the Commission on the Media II programme for support for the creation and production of European culture.
What we need to do is to prepare Europe, both in terms of infrastructure and of the content production industry, for the challenge of the information age which means of course that we are assuming that Europe has the ambition to participate in the new digital economy and in the new society of culture and information on a global scale.
It is a question of establishing a strategy with which, whilst accepting the rules of free competition, we can support European creation as well as distribution in order to be able to face this competition more successfully.
These new illiterates cannot even understand safety instructions at work.
This is a new type of illiteracy, a new kind of basic poverty which is currently becoming part of the social make-up of Europe.
Under this directive, children who are reunited with a relative who is a permanent legal immigrant in the countries of the Union will have the right to full education under the same terms as the children of the citizens of the Member States.
The debate is closed.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B5-0036/1999).
First Part Since the author is not present, Question No 33 lapses.
Question No 34 by (H-0689/99): Subject: EU Charter of Fundamental Rights In the Commission=s view, should the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights being drawn up on a mandate from the Tampere Summit have legal force?
The composition of the body was fixed in Tampere and its first meeting will take place next Friday, 17 December.
Although it is up to the Heads of State and Government to decide the definitive status of the Charter, in its proposal the body will have to consider how to combine two open questions: a legally binding text ready to be inserted into the Treaty, or a solemn political declaration.
On the legal security aspect, we must consider how the European Union Charter can contribute to improving the degree of protection of fundamental rights within the European Union and it is difficult to see how a non-binding text could contribute to clarifying and transcending the current system of protection.
It is not necessary to have 62 people working to draft a political statement.
What we must have at the end of this process is a legally binding set of rights for the citizens of Europe.
I am confident that in close cooperation the Commission, the Council, Parliament and the national parliaments will eventually come up with a good result if we bear in mind above all the interests of the citizens.
The procedure concerning Autostrade s.p.a.
In order to tackle this general issue in a more structural way, the Commission has, in fact, recently launched a horizontal inquiry into the current situation within all Member States, to identify common problems and problems which are only specific to a certain Member State.
Mr President, Commissioner Bolkestein, I am of course delighted that the Commission is looking into these problems and that these three infringement proceedings are now under way.
Naturally, we hope that, as far as possible, this policy will be in line with the transport policy of other Member States and that of the Commission itself.
In this case, it is road space which is scarce so one could say that this scarceness must be translated into higher prices.
I can assure the honourable MEP that, for example, in a Member State which I happen to know best, the topic of road pricing should receive a great deal of attention but is politically also very controversial.
In other words, the topic is definitely on the agenda but has not yet reached the stage where decisions can be taken and as far as I know - but the honourable MEP is aware that this is not within my remit, so I am speaking with some circumlocution and caution - such a directive is not in the pipeline at the European Commission as yet.
As the author is not present, Question No 36 lapses.
Question No 37 by (H-0760/99): Subject: Quality in education and the school curriculum In June 1998 in Prague the Conference of Education Ministers of the EU Member States and of other countries applying to join the EU issued a brief calling for a set of indicators to be identified which would enable the education systems of the various countries to be assessed.
It includes representatives from 26 European countries and it has prepared progress reports for the attention of Ministers - one in June and one in October of this year.
The Commission intends to propose that the committee continue its work.
The Commission welcomes the active participation of the European Parliament on the issue of quality of education, particularly in the forthcoming discussion on indicators and benchmarks of quality education.
I am grateful for the courtesy of your reply, Commissioner, but I have to say that it does not fully respond to the very specific questions which I have put to you.
I believe that the legal basis of Article 149 provides us with the opportunity to move forward a little more than the cautious Prague mandate.
The concept of quality in education is more than a quantitative measure of the resources of the different systems or an evaluation of performance in certain academic disciplines.
The debate on quality in education must help us to duly open up European consciousness to the younger generations.
I hear what the honourable Member says and I acknowledge that he has worthwhile motives, but he will be aware that the Treaty actually states that the Community shall contribute to the development of quality education.
The Commission wants to ensure that progress is stable and continual and I am sure he shares our view on that.
Since 1988, the Commission has adopted three action programmes with the aim of promoting positive actions and equal opportunities for women within its services.
In 1996 an evaluation of the impact of the two positive action programmes on achieving equal opportunities in the Commission revealed that there had been significant changes in the situation of female staff in Category A and in management posts, particularly as a result of the annual targets adopted by the Commission.
On 29 September, the new Commission expressed its commitment to taking further positive action to ensure that a higher number of women obtain posts in senior management positions.
I am grateful to Commissioner Kinnock for this reply and the positive attitude which underlies it and also - I am sure - the work which he is carrying out.
My question did not talk of exclusion, as you know very well; it talked of the fact that the number of women in high positions stands at barely 10%.
An institution such as the European Commission, which has for years claimed to be in favour of women also at the highest levels of administration, cannot be satisfied with that exclusion which the figures demonstrate.
I should like to say that in an institution like Parliament where just one director - I repeat, one director - out of ten is a woman then there is some reflection on the situation in this institution too.
Maybe the honourable Member would like to take it up with the various Member States, to encourage participation at the lower grades of "A" category in order to ensure that, as the years go by, there will be more women available to take up management posts.
As the author is not present, Question No 39 lapses.
It affects not just the bilateral economic relations between Serbia and neighbouring countries, but also other countries along the river, which have traditionally used it as a navigation route between the Rhine and the Black Sea.
These concerns were recognised by the General Affairs Council at its meeting on 15 November.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten, I think that the infrastructure in this area in particular represents a very important opportunity for the future.
But I should add this: however much one invests in the infrastructure - and we will be looking at specific pledges at the donors' conference early in the new year - however much one spends on infrastructure, what is crucial is to encourage greater and freer trade between the countries of the region, and even in one or two countries within the countries of the region.
So I totally endorse the honourable Member's reference to the importance of infrastructure investment; but I think encouraging more sensible trading relationships between those countries is also absolutely crucial.
I will try to make myself a little clearer to the honourable Member.
I also hope that, in due course, we can provide reconstruction assistance in Serbia and not just for bridges but for other projects as well.
Question No 41 by (H-0704/99): Subject: Action by the EU against illegal trafficking in nuclear, biological and chemical materials Despite serious evidence of illegal trafficking in nuclear chemical and biological (NCB) weapons-grade materials, no serious steps are being taken to combat the problem.
Member States and the Commission are currently discussing a joint action due for adoption before the end of this year to implement the security and non-proliferation aspects of the common strategy on Russia.
Preventative actions in the form of cooperation programmes have been carried out since 1992 with central and east European countries, including Russia.
As regards our cooperation with EU candidate countries, cooperation with customs, border control and police institutions is well established under the PHARE horizontal programme on justice and home affairs.
In this sense, and because it seems that these trafficking routes run through countries which have applied for membership of the European Union, the issue has now become a political one and one which merits particular attention.
In this sense, apart from protecting expert scientists with the relevant know-how who must not be led astray due to their specialist knowledge or financial weakness, it is a sine qua non that we adopt a rationale for setting political conditions for applicant countries as to what should or should not happen in their territories.
This is a pressing political issue which should be a multinational priority and not just the priority of a few policing mechanisms which may operate within a different culture and which do not understand the new dangers from which Europe must protect its citizens.
That is twinning partnerships between European Union Member States and respective national institutions.
Question No 42 by (H-0746/99): Subject: Use of armed force against peaceful demonstrators in Colombia Reports coming out of Colombia are giving increasing cause for concern.
Since 10 November, tens of thousands of rural workers and native Indians have been demonstrating peacefully in Cauca, in the south of the country, and have been calling on the Colombian Government to honour the commitments it entered into with them following an earlier demonstration.
The police sent in in response used armed force on 19 November, injuring several demonstrators.
President Pastrana is currently engaged in the struggle to find a negotiated settlement to a conflict which, as the honourable Member underlines, is extremely complex.
The Colombian Government is currently working on the details of Plan Colombia.
The specific areas where Colombia would like support, including financial support from the European Union and others, still need to be agreed more precisely.
The Commission covers the bulk of the costs of running the Office of the High Commissioner of Human Rights in Colombia and has just approved a multiannual programme to support human rights in the Andean region with funding of approximately EUR 11.5 million, the bulk of which will be dedicated to Colombia.
I also very much appreciate your statement on funding a plan to support Colombia, provided that the commitments that were made are met.
Unfortunately, according to Human Rights Watch, some high-level military representatives, who are recognisable, whose names are known and who are responsible for military training and have been involved in various massacres, have still not been removed from their posts, while the terrible collusion between the military and paramilitary groups continues.
As the honourable Member well knows, Colombia is a country in the middle of an exceptionally damaging civil war.
President Pastrana was in Europe a few weeks ago.
It is true that there is an office for the defence of human rights in Colombia.
For several years Parliament asked for it, and finally the Commission, together with the United Nations, finances this human rights office in Colombia.
As well as the Spaniard Egiluz and the Colombian priest Mazo, two journalists have been murdered in recent days. 150 journalists have been murdered in the last ten years.
Firstly, do you not think that, as well as talking and maintaining dialogue - which in my opinion should always be done -, we should put pressure on the Colombian Government so that, once and for all, it will try to get rid of the paramilitary groups responsible for these acts?
On the last point that the honourable Member mentioned, we have in fact taken a number of actions to try to help the Colombian Government deal with the very serious drugs problem, including trade preferences, and we will continue to do so.
On the first point that she mentioned, I do not think that the Colombian Government would disagree with the importance of dealing with the paramilitaries.
In purely financial terms, in addition to technical assistance under PHARE - EUR 22 million - and the financial protocol, an interest subsidy for EIB loans representing EUR 20 million, we have devoted EUR 143 million of exceptional assistance to help the country to cope with the consequences of the Kosovo crisis.
At the same time, the Commission will continue to accompany the political and economic reform process in this country under the existing cooperation agreement and through the PHARE programme or through the new financial instrument that will replace PHARE.
I very much hope that not long after we have begun these negotiations we will be able to move to negotiations with other countries, perhaps first of all, Albania.
Earlier on today we were debating the budget for next year and the difficulty of the European Union finding sufficient finance to fund the operation in Kosovo.
I therefore ask the Commission if it has done any analysis on what the cost would be if there was to be instability in Macedonia; and to what extent - to take him up on his last point - it is true that we need to ensure there is stability in Albania in order to maintain stability in FYROM.
If we want a very good indication of what would have been the benefits of conflict prevention, again we should look at the Balkans.
I have no doubt at all that instability in Macedonia, Albania and Montenegro would have consequences for the whole region.
I therefore want to see us in a position proactively to support capacity-building, to support economic and social development that, we hope, will prevent that instability.
The Commission considers that the position of the Court of Justice is clear as far as the special rights in the games of chance sector are concerned.
The Court recently confirmed that, even if a Member State authorises games of chance, it still has the power to impose limits on the availability of these games and this is in consideration of public interest objectives, such as controlling the desire to play games of chance, the prevention of fraud or crimes occurring and using the profits thus obtained in the public interest.
Each Member State has the power to determine the extent of protection in its territory as regards games of chance.
In fact, the situation of gaming houses is different in the various Member States.
Competition rules do not raise objections to the criteria that a Member State may use and therefore based on those rules, we cannot consider the decision a Member State makes on the distribution in their territory to be arbitrary, and consequently, a violation of these rules.
Question No 49 by (H-0684/99): Subject: Communication pursuant to Article 5 of Regulation 19/65/EEC of the Council of 2 March 1965 Has the Commission given due thought to the peculiar nature and diversity of the catering sector in Belgium, which is renowned for its wealth of congenial cafés with countless different types of beer, and the impact which introduction of the regulation would have, in particular the fact that managers of small establishments would suffer?
On the contrary, effective competition will guarantee consumers good service in terms of numbers of bars and the variety of beers they offer.
A brewery that reaches this market share can notify the Commission of its network of non-competition agreements.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for the thorough answer he was willing to give me and from which it transpires that, naturally, further elaboration was required regarding the policy currently adopted by the Commission.
Mr Beysen, I agree with you that information, in this area as in any other, is important.
For this reason, when drawing up the proposal for a regulation in question, the Commission followed a policy of being open with information.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 50 and 51 will be taken together.
I consider that a growing price transparency and the introduction of the euro are increasingly inducing customers from so-called high price markets to acquire their vehicles in other Member States.
The Commission has undertaken a number of initiatives to ensure this freedom for consumers.
In its report on the application of Regulation 1475/95 concerning car distribution, due before the end of the year 2000, the Commission will evaluate the impact of the exempted distribution system on car prices.
It will indeed provide an essential basis for the forthcoming discussion about the future legal framework for car distribution after the expiry of the current regulation on 30 September 2002.
The latest edition was published on 22 July 1999.
You are no doubt aware that we are in the process of preparing a report on the application of the current block exemption regulation which is our main area of reflection at present.
You will see, Commissioner, that this is a British question, but you have a right to reply if you think it appropriate.
Question No 52 by (H-0693/99): Subject: State aid for the German timber­processing industry What action has the Commission taken, or will it take, in view of the increasing amount of state aid Germany is granting to sawmills in what used to be East Germany?
Businesses which formally respect the criteria for the definition of small and medium-sized businesses - particularly because they have less than 250 employees - but are in fact controlled by a large business, or by a group of large businesses, should not benefit from special incentives intended for small and medium-sized businesses.
This is just to confirm to Mrs Riis-Jørgensen, whose continuing and deep interest in state aid matters is well-known to and appreciated by the Commission, that the investigation is going to continue; that the effective applicability of the provisions concerning SMEs is one of our concerns; and that in all state aid investigations the question of the effects on trade between Member States is at the forefront of the analysis.
Since the time allocated to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 53 to 107 will be replied to in writing.
You will be doing us all a favour if you keep more or less to the time allowed.
One of the hunger strikers, after 44 days of fasting, has today been transferred to the Hôtel de Dieu Hospital in Paris in extremely poor health after losing 24 kilos.
Eighteen years have passed since the courageous Westminster MP Bobbie Sands and 10 other Irish political prisoners staged a hunger strike to death.
Mr Gorostiaga, as far as the procedure for urgent debate in Rule 112 is concerned, strict rules apply and the deadline has already expired.
At the same time, we realised that Mr Prodi was already making preliminary plans up to the year 2006 - a decided lack of coordination, Mr President of the Commission.
For the rest, the question naturally arises in the wake of the decisions by the European Council as to what will happen in future with heading 7 of the budget?
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the Budget 2000 is the budget which will take us into the next millennium.
It represents a gesture in terms of political content; but it must also be a gesture of how we should actually have to deal with each other.
I refer of course to the Balkans and, more specifically, to Kosovo which will be targeted as a priority next year.
Firstly, I would like to focus on the agricultural budget itself.
As for the other amendments in category 1 B, my group will support these.
At a time of WTO negotiations, when everyone talks about a sound rural policy, it is positive that the European Union pursues an active policy in this field.
Then I would like to comment on category 4 of the budget, including Kosovo.
According to a report by the World Bank, it is possible to absorb this amount.
The EUR 500 million are necessary, they have been promised and they can be found within the current budget.
There is, for example, a generous margin in category 1 B, rural development.
This declaration has in the past couple of weeks been much deliberated and has even today created a lot of dust.
Firstly, until such time as figures are available regarding the needs in Kosovo, I will keep referring to the World Bank' s report and the EUR 500 million which have been pledged.
My group therefore supported his strategy to make the Council face up to its responsibilities: either we were to obtain the funding which would allow us to honour our political commitments or we would have recourse to Article 272 of the Treaty, which authorises us to determine non-compulsory expenditure ourselves, albeit within strict limits.
Having made one concession after another, we are now back at square one and, in the name of the cast iron logic of the budgetary stability pact, we now have the following situation: firstly, estimates and financial requirements for the reconstruction of Kosovo which have mysteriously dropped from EUR 500 million - the figure put forward by the Commission, the World Bank, the Member States and the media - to 420 and then to some 300 million; secondly, a reduction in the appropriations which we voted for East Timor and for the victims of the earthquakes in Turkey; thirdly, cuts in appropriations for cooperation, food aid and aid to Palestine and the countries of the southern Mediterranean, the TACIS programme for eastern Europe and support for human rights and, lastly, cuts totalling some EUR 2 billion in payment appropriations.
The result is, without doubt, an improvement on the Council' s initial position but, even so, what would our responsibility be if we were to accept such a compromise?
The first concerns Kosovo.
My disapproval is aimed precisely at this type of behaviour, because the responsibility cannot be off-loaded onto the House for expenditure which should have been budgeted for.
I would like to emphasise this, so that we will not be given this responsibility in the future, a political responsibility that should not be seen merely in economic terms.
In my opinion, we might manage to find funds to allocate in the future for the various budget lines if we manage to carry out a fair reform meant to support the various departments which provide praiseworthy support, both on a personal level and for research.
The reform must be carried out straight away, immediately following the adoption of this budget, in order to allow us to proceed to fair planning.
If this is what happens, we will have the chance to intervene, to influence our economies and reach one of our objectives as MEPs: relaunching and developing our countries.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, you should know that this Parliament, which was prepared to say that the intergovernmental conference should be revised and make a multitude of demands, will tomorrow probably welcome the fact that you decided at Helsinki to allow us two observers, rather than two representatives, and that you wish to confine yourselves to matters which Parliament considered were absolutely out of the question.
If you want to fund Kosovo, if you want to honour the somewhat hasty commitments which the President of the Commission entered into vis-à-vis this region, then give us the budget resources so that we can be responsible and consistent and give us the chance to revise the financial perspectives.
You agree to give us a few minor flexibility instruments and, needless to say, this Parliament will be prepared tomorrow morning to discredit itself, to abandon the route which it had mapped out and which was the right one, in order to engage in confrontation with the Council on matters of principle.
We denounced them at the first reading of this budget.
I make this point because we feel that this is a constant factor in Community policy.
Mr President, the budgetary discussion this year has been so strange that, even during the time which has passed between the speech by the general rapporteur, at the beginning of the debate, and my own intervention, the following have taken place, in chronological order: an informal meeting of the Committee on Budgets, a meeting of the budgetary Council and a meeting of the political groups.
But there was still Kosovo and a Council statement which contained a commitment to review the financial perspectives in category 4 for extraordinary reasons.
A war in Europe is always an extraordinary reason, the most extraordinary of all reasons to justify a partial review of the financial perspectives.
I am sure that the recourse to Article 272 was excessive, and would even have been counter-productive if it had been brought into effect.
Parliament is going to finance all its political priorities, including the fisheries agreement with Morocco, which is of prime economic interest to my country, Spain.
But make no mistake: the commitment which we have all made is very serious and a disagreement on the part of the Council would have disastrous consequences not only for interinstitutional confidence but also for the 2001 budgetary procedure.
Let us not lose sight of what is in this budget.
It is the ones behind you who have been giving you a lot of problems.
I turn to the Commission because within the text there are three declarations and the first is a declaration from the Commission.
I am asking the Commission to clarify that it is a figure of about EUR 5.5 billion we are talking about when we talk about the aid that is needed for Kosovo and the Balkans in the light of what President Prodi and Commissioner Patten said.
If you had not agreed the EUR 125 million for Morocco - even before we had an agreement - we probably would not be in the position we are in now.
But that is another matter.
I need clarification on three things for our committee meeting tomorrow.
When I was noting down what you were saying, in English you said that the ceiling for heading 4 should not be amended permanently.
But I must say that, in contrast to national politics, what is striking in Europe is that practical politics are not party political and the European Parliament is aware of its responsibility on material matters, a responsibility which was, of course, heightened or highlighted by the poor turnout at the European elections.
I think that we leave these budgetary negotiations a stronger Parliament, in my view a very important point.
We all know that enlargement to the east was also an issue.
We all know that the conclusions of Helsinki in relation to Turkey, and in relation to enlargement to the east in general, mean that we will be taking on even more sooner or later.
The compromise negotiated between the Council and Parliament which lies before us today takes no account whatsoever of this basic position of Parliament.
A budget which is designed on such lines and which, moreover, does not even provide sufficient appropriations for the so-called new priorities, takes all our political declarations and resolutions to the point of absurdity.
Parliament must therefore say no to this pseudo compromise.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, between the first and second readings of the draft budget for the year 2000 we have added EUR 3.5 billion, in other words another three and a half billion in taxes.
Especially as we are redirecting EUR 110 billion allocated to rural development in order to finance Kosovo.
It is as unhealthy as the fact that half our debates here this afternoon have been devoted to a province of the Serbian State which is not even a member of the European Union.
It is true that, as far as the European budget is concerned, the worst offences are committed when we pour money outside the continent of Europe: EUR 10 million for Central Asia, EUR 14.5 million for the displaced people of Latin America, EUR 4 million for human rights in South Africa and Timor etc., etc.
That would be all well and good if, at the same time, we were not planning to cut EUR 5 million from appropriations for our beekeepers who face competition from adulterated honey from abroad.
While we are spending money here, social austerity is being imposed in our 15 countries.
Doctors and nurses in French hospitals, who are among the most qualified in the world, are today on strike because budgetary austerity has just cut back hospital expenditure and health expenditure.
This situation is all the more disgusting in that, at the same time, we are paying EUR 45 million to ACP banana producers, some of which are American multinationals established in Cameroon and the Ivory Coast and which are being paid EUR 45 million under this European budget.
This is taken to such an extreme that the rapporteur even threatened to include only EUR 115 million into the budget instead of the EUR 500 million which is required.
An agreement is within reach, especially now the Council seems to agree to a smaller reduction in the payments for the structural funds.
The extent of the financial package for the external policy, as laid down in Agenda 2000, seems to suggest that the European Union, in this respect, only has a subordinate task.
I only have to think back to this afternoon and I must say in no uncertain terms that the situation is highly unsatisfactory and that we, the European Parliament, are now being more or less forced to circumvent our own Rules of Procedure in order to rescue and salvage what can be salvaged.
In addition, it is the first budget which we are required to implement in accordance with the decisions taken in Berlin on Agenda 2000 and we are already in a situation in which these decisions, yet again, cannot translate the Council' s wishes in financial terms.
I think this can be established by each government in its own Member State, and that we can then find a joint solution to the problems.
Rarely have there been so many supporters of a Colom report in the Council.
The Berlin European Council was obsessed with budgetary cuts, and not only gave rise to a reduction in the funds for structural policies compared to levels reached in 1999, but also forgot that there were other Community policies.
But although we were negotiating while Kosovo was being bombed, the Council refused to adapt category 4 to something so obvious as the fact that, within a few months, the Union would be involved in its reconstruction, would have to provide humanitarian aid and would certainly have to compensate Romania and other countries, as well, for the losses suffered in trade on the Danube.
Apparently, the Council cannot tell the difference between the financial perspectives, the multiannual framework for the budget and the budget itself.
I took part in the negotiations and the Council' s only coherent argument is that we should not prejudice the Union' s negotiating position in the Conference of Donors.
The Commissioner spoke of EUR 500 million for 2000, on the same day that the President-in-Office of the Council spoke of EUR 12 billion for a period of seven years.
I believe that there is a time for everything, but we could deal with this problem perfectly - and much better - by means of an amending budget I/2000.
I have no doubt that the latest proposal for a solution adopted by the board of the Committee on Budgets does not carry the negative burden from which the Council' s proposal suffers.
In fact, and in the way this proposal for a solution was adopted, it can already be deduced from it that it is dropping the idea of a revision of the financial perspectives relating to heading 4 as well as the principle of new objectives being matched with new means.
It is therefore and inevitably resulting in an extremely arbitrary cut under the same budgetary heading of a sum of EUR 150 million, which particularly affects food aid, cooperation, the Mediterranean and the TACIS programme.
Apart from this, the ECO programme itself will also lose EUR 35 million in comparison to the first reading.
I shall also add that this kind of solution will also reduce sums destined for some priorities that have already been stated, specifically for Timor, which has gone from EUR 30 million to EUR 20 million.
My personal wish has always been to reach a statutory budget, one which could be signed by the President.
Whether this is done via the plan proposed by Colom, to put it in these terms, so the budget as it was adopted by our Committee on Budgets, or via an agreement concluded at the last minute with the Council.
This is, to my mind, the strength of this Parliament.
The Council can fall in with us and make a compromise, but we can establish the budget ourselves without the help of the Council.
Mrs Buitenweg stated that yes, these EUR 500 million have been pledged.
The Commission keeps bringing up these 500 million.
Of course, one can refer to the investigations carried out by the World Bank but quite surprisingly, 500 million will remain the end sum, whoever commissions the investigation.
Top of the agenda always used to be the recovery of the economy and not just donating money without wondering about the consequences for the economy.
We are investing in the fight against unemployment and, especially, in local employment initiatives.
We ought of course to be able to reach a compromise because, in my view, Parliament has already moved a long way in order to achieve this.
Even though there is no excuse for Milosevic' s past and present policy with regard to the Albanians of Kosovo or with regard to his own people, the few crumbs which have been thrown to reconstruct Kosovo alone, crumbs which bear no relation to the money spent during the actual war, cannot hide the fact that, once again, western intervention in the Balkans has not only failed to solve the problems in this part of the world, but has made them worse.
The message given at the discussion phase for the 2000 budget must then be taken seriously.
The European Parliament wants the assumption of new responsibilities by the European Union to be matched by new financial resources.
If the problem is a result of the European Union system of revenues it appears that the solution must be to change the system of financing the European Union.
Some delays I am aware of result in the negation of the principle of economic and social cohesion.
Secondly, there is also the support for the reconstruction of East Timor, because we have to adopt resolutions which draw attention to the situation there.
Finally, I hope to see the commitments given to the outermost regions, identified at Amsterdam by Article 299(2) of the Treaty on European Union.
The question which must be asked time and time again in connection with the budget is: how can we ensure that the employment situation in Europe improves?
I think there is an urgent need to consider which budget lines can be used to create employment in Europe, which budget lines can be used to secure jobs and which budget lines destroy jobs.
The fight against fraud must be a priority for us.
I hope that, with OLAF, we can manage to ensure that honest and decent people on the market will again be given a better chance, as will those who dutifully pay their taxes and help to ensure that our social system functions properly.
I too should therefore like to thank the members in particular for increasing the budget line for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises by 15 million euros.
Small enterprises make a very special contribution here, which is why the START programmes and support programmes are particularly important, because they show that we sympathise with small enterprises.
We have also set aside 10 million for digital applications.
Firstly, he asked what I meant in my speech today when I referred to the category 4 financial framework.
You, the Parliament, have now called on the Commission to submit specific estimates for this region and this period in the form of a multiannual plan.
The Commission appreciates the efforts made by Parliament, and the rapporteur and the Committee on Budgets in particular, and the efforts made by the Finnish Presidency of the Council.
Thank you, Madam Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
Under Article 247 paragraph 3 of the Treaty founding the European Community and other similar provisions in the ECSC and EURATOM treaties, Parliament must give its opinion on the candidates before the Council unanimously appoints or reappoints the members of the Court of Auditors for a period of six years.
As a result, I am in a position to inform you that, having conducted a detailed examination, the Committee on Budgetary Control has come to the conclusion that the candidates meet the criteria for high office at the Court of Auditors and has returned a positive opinion on all eight candidates.
The work of the Court of Auditors and its members will therefore be even more important and difficult over the coming years than ever before.
In my view, the eight members who were interviewed long and hard in the Committee on Budgetary Control have the qualities needed to carry out this work to the satisfaction of all concerned.
A strong Europe also needs a strong Court of Auditors.
Mr President, under the Treaties, Parliament has the right to be consulted on the appointment of members of the Court of Auditors.
The Committee on Budgetary Control held hearings on 22 and 23 November and adopted by secret ballot a favourable opinion on each of the candidates.
But in terms of the Court it is important to get away altogether from the system of appointments by nationality.
Mr President, the Committee on Budgetary Control has passed all the candidates being discussed here.
There have been candidates in the past that have been rejected by this House because there was some doubt as to their qualifications or impartiality.
I should therefore like to argue for no further increase in the number of members of the Court of Auditors and, in this case at least, for the reverse, i.e.
In addition, and this is the second point which I should like to raise here, we must consider if the Court should not be allocated new tasks in connection with budgetary discipline.
The new Article 280 of the Treaty also gives the Court of Auditors new responsibilities by creating a legal body which will afford effective equivalent protection against fraud and any other illegal activity in the Member States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 10 a.m.
Mr President, the TACIS programme has dedicated its greatest efforts to supporting Mongolia, Russia and the other New Independent States in the carrying out of reforms and the political and administrative restructuring of their social and economic institutions in order to facilitate the construction of a democratic society which is based on a free market economy.
As we all know, this is an ambitious programme which will require a great economic effort on the part of the European Union, in the order of EUR 4,000 million in seven years.
This has been a complex report and it has taken us time to reach an acceptable degree of consensus.
Initially, it was the Committee on Budgets that requested greater control and rigour in the implementation of this aid programme.
There was also a problem with the commitology of this programme within the old REX Committee, but, after the Council decision of 28 June 1999, to standardise the different Committees, this obstacle was overcome.
On the other hand, the discussion of the legal basis of this report has also been polemical, although in the end the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market approved it, finally defining it under Article 235, a decision which did not please many of us.
I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Commission representative when we will have harmonised procedures, which will guarantee more transparency, and efficiency, as the second report of the Independent Experts recommended.
Neither do I wish to end my speech without drawing attention to the unfortunate events in Chechnya and I therefore propose an oral amendment regarding the suspension of aid to Russia while this conflict continues.
The text of the amendment which we are proposing would be as follows: "In accordance with the European Parliament resolution of 18 November 1999, the conclusions of new contracts covering measures for the benefit of Russia to be funded in the context of the budget for the 2000 financial year shall be suspended, with the exception of the TACIS line for democracy, until a satisfactory solution has been found in Chechnya, in accordance with the European Union' s recommendations and on the basis of the procedure established in Article 13 of the present Regulation" .
Finally, I would like to ask the representative of the European Commission, with regard to this last point as well as to the report in general, if he is really going to take account of the recommendations made within the framework of this consultation, once they have been approved by this Parliament.
TACIS is an important political instrument of the European Community, not only in Russia but in all the republics of the former Soviet Union, with the exception of the Baltic States and Mongolia.
In past years I and many of my colleagues who are active in Eastern Europe have noted that EU budget appropriations for TACIS are not always used as efficiently as they might be.
This has been due in part to limitations in the regulation itself and to problems in the management area.
The most significant shortcomings in this area have, in my view, been reduced in the new proposed regulation; more importantly, concentrating on two rather than 12 priorities per partner country as in the past will show a greater degree of professionalism and improve visibility.
We did this in the case of Belarus and we should do the same in Russia.
We are all wondering today what to expect of Russia after this crisis.
The TACIS programme is good in the sense that it is practical and gets close to the ordinary citizen.
Fourthly, we should establish a massive, long-range project within the framework of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement to create smaller projects to cover a timeframe of 20 years.
What I experienced, as I tried to interest everything from local transport authorities in Kishinev through to energy ministries in Uzbekistan was the following: just as in so many other EU policy areas, in TACIS projects we perhaps try to do too much across too many geographical boundaries in too many sectors.
First, we agree fully with Amendment No 51, tabled by Mr Krehl on behalf of the Liberals which, in view of the war which the Russians are waging on Chechnya, seeks to grant aid only for democracy and social development.
Consequently, we have tabled Amendment No 48, the wording of which, as set out here, has been accepted by the Liberals.
Thirdly, we wish to support integrated projects with environmental implications which are on a more modest scale than national projects and which retain a local or regional dimension, so that the appropriations granted can be better controlled.
The new financial programme for the development of the New Independent States and Mongolia that is replacing TACIS is bringing in mechanisms that are more precise than the previous ones.
It will be necessary, as anticipated, to carefully consider interventions in the civil, economic and social areas of the various New Independent States and Mongolia using two parameters: the solution of the issue of humanitarian intervention and social and economic marginalisation, without privileges and ranking, and the assessment of strategic civil, economic and social value with the aim of bringing the peoples of the new Independent States and Mongolia closer to the European Union.
Therefore, we need to proceed with the interventions in order to create a security framework between, on the one side, the new Independent States, and on the other, the European Union, so that we can establish ever greater peace and stability.
An essential demand that the European Union must make is that the new Independent States respect human rights, so that democratic principles and cultural, religious, political and ethnic pluralism will increasingly take root, in order to improve people' s quality of life.
The possibility of suspending the intervention in the unhappy event of a crisis occurring is certainly a strong deterrent which will lead the new States and Mongolia to seek a negotiated solution to disputes, thereby turning them into everyday political dialectics.
The European Parliament should debate and approve the new instrument that is replacing the TACIS programme, even if currently Russia, the largest of the new States, is the focus of a just European Parliament initiative that has suspended the technological cooperation agreement following the war begun against Chechnya.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should first of all like to say to Mr Paasilinna that he perhaps ought always to speak without a script.
When I last addressed this House on 17 November, just before the Istanbul Summit of the OSCE, I said that European Union relations with Russia were under very considerable strain.
That strain has grown steadily in subsequent weeks, to the point where the Helsinki European Council decided that it had to take action.
The Commission is now setting about putting into practice the European Council's operational conclusions with the presidency and with the Member States.
The European Council has invited the budgetary authority to consider using some of the 2000 TACIS budget for Russia for additional humanitarian assistance.
In a general sense this could mean redirecting funds from traditional technical assistance to the immediate needs of the population of Chechnya, including an element of reconstruction.
The European Council has decided that new commitments should be strictly limited to areas that have a direct interest for the European Union and do not directly support the Russian Government, including human rights, the rule of law, civil society and nuclear safety.
In all, this could reduce TACIS support for the Russia programme by two-thirds, down from about EUR 120 million to about EUR 40 million.
Indeed, as I said when I last addressed Parliament, they will also have negative consequences for the European Union - a point which two speakers suggested late in this debate.
I hope that the conditions will soon be in place for our relations with Russia to return to a more normal footing.
The onslaught on the civilian population of Grozny must cease.
The regulation before Parliament will benefit 13 countries with a combined population of about 300 million.
That is why I hope that Parliament will deliver a positive opinion on this new regulation.
Let me respond to some of the points which have been made, some of which have emerged in this debate and some of which emerged in the earlier discussions.
These include views from Members of this Parliament.
A particularly important aspect is greater emphasis on dialogue with the national authorities in beneficiary countries to ensure that national programmes more accurately reflect our mutual interest.
Discussions in the Council have been progressing well.
The Commission can agree to this, I have to say somewhat reluctantly, as the only practical way to have the regulation adopted in good time.
We fully recognise the role of the budgetary authority.
However, the proposed ceilings are intended to provide flexibility to develop actions in these areas while retaining the primary focus of TACIS on structured cooperation and technical assistance to the countries involved.
It is therefore unrealistic to imagine their taking on much greater responsibilities at this stage.
NGOs in TACIS countries will, of course, continue to be eligible to submit appropriate projects for funding under the European initiative for democracy and human rights.
However, the precondition for a bigger role for European Union delegations is ensuring that they have the necessary staff and the other resources to take on these new responsibilities.
I would like to express my gratitude to Parliament for this debate.
Reasons of pure form prevent me from accepting the specific wording advanced in many cases, but the Commission can fully agree with Amendments Nos 4, 5, 8, 22 and 32 as well as parts of Amendments Nos 1, 14 and 19.
Listening to the speeches this evening, realise that most Members of Parliament, like me, believe it is a historic responsibility for us at the end of this century and the beginning of the next to try to avoid the mistakes which have disfigured Europe's relationship with Russia during this century, to try to develop a strategic relationship and partnership with Russia that will draw Russia into the European family.
I very much hope that the decisions taken at the Council and the speeches made in this Parliament today will help to convince Russia that what it has been doing in the northern Caucasus is not sensible, is in breach of the undertakings it has given both to us and to the international community about its behaviour, and is well below what one would expect of a great and civilised nation.
My experience after 20 years' membership of this House has taught me that, in the long run, the popularity of a speaker at the end of an all-night sitting increases in inverse proportion to the length of his contribution to the debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Mr President, this recommendation invites Parliament to express an opinion in keeping with the Council proposal on technical harmonisation in the automobile sector, by considering it to be an important factor in the development of the global market.
The European Community has thus become part of an amended agreement which now includes Japan.
The rules laid down by the Parallel Agreement coincide with those in the UNECE agreement, but a specific decision-making procedure is anticipated when a draft regulation is not considered within the framework of the 1958 agreement.
I will conclude by pointing out that an opinion in keeping with this recommendation would put the European Community in a position to fully support the Parallel Agreement, and confirm its position as a leader in the harmonisation and policies of expanding the markets.
Europe has to negotiate from a position of strength in this global regime.
In the United States the market is moving in the opposite direction from the rest of the world.
The European model of lighter, economical cars is becoming more and more significant in the rest of the world apart from the United States.
I would like to take the opportunity to raise another issue about the global competitive environment in the car industry apart from regulation.
In discussions on accession to the 1958 agreement, we had intense discussions in the Kittelmann report on the extent to which Parliament' s joint political rights, to be specific, its right of codecision, was called into question.
Commissioner, your predecessor, Mr Bangemann, assured us at the time that we would be regularly informed about discussions in relation to the 1958 agreement and included in decisions.
I invite you to state clearly how Parliament can be involved in the decision-making process, what can be done to ensure that we are involved in time, what can be done to ensure that there is continuity in reporting, for example by having standing rapporteurs or by having small specialist groups, and how the Commission and Parliament can jointly set themselves the objective of monitoring the 1958 agreement.
This will contribute decisively to an enhanced competitiveness of our automotive industry on a global stage while ensuring higher safety and environmental requirements for the benefit of consumers.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m. (The sitting was closed at 11.35 p.m.)
