Madam President, on page 58 of the Minutes there is an account of an exchange between the President and certain Members concerning who is currently a member of the British Conservative Group.
I have therefore voted against the report.
These two factors have increased European pig production to 17.2 million tonnes this year, an increase of about one million tonnes of pigmeat or 6 % more than in 1997.
But when prices began to slump again in late July, the Commission increased these refunds by 50 % and introduced the same refund rates for meat off the bone.
But then, as I said, Russian exports fell drastically and were eventually blocked in mid-August, and European market prices fell by nearly ECU 10 per kilogramme in the space of three weeks.
Let me stress that the traders can incorporate storage in their export activities in the appropriate way, which will also make them more competitive on third-country markets.
Our group recognises that the Commission has taken action, partly at the request of the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture, in setting up this aid scheme for private storage as from 28 September and increasing export refunds.
The situation is serious even though, as you have rightly said, Commissioner, producers in the sector have been making good incomes in recent years and the swine fever crisis which led to the adoption of rationalisation measures has been pretty well overcome.
Now some very important producer regions - in France, Germany, Denmark, Holland and the United Kingdom - have seen prices collapse to an all-time low and that is why we should be very concerned.
But I do not think we should follow the route of throwing everything over and abandoning all the Agenda 2000 plans to reform the CAP, because this crisis on the world markets has thrown everyone off-balance.
Finally, this crisis must not be used as an opportunity to water down environmental measures and abandon supply policies which are more indispensable than ever, in my view.
Commissioner, you have just reported to us on the steps the Commission has taken to resolve this desperate pigmeat crisis.
But clearly that growth has not been the same in all countries, so the solutions cannot be the same for a country where over-production stands at 104 % and for others where the level of supply exceeds 470 %.
An effort has been made on export refunds - we are pleased that boneless meat has been included - and also on the issue of private storage, but 70 000 tonnes is a very small amount especially considering that we have further reserves of over 600 000 tonnes from last year as well as the reserves from this year.
Madam President, Commissioner, we have witnessed a breathtaking drop in the price of pigmeat since the end of the summer both in the European Union and worldwide.
Supply in Europe therefore increased from 16 million to 17.2 million tonnes between 1996 and 1998, which is an increase of 9 %.
At the same time, we have seen pig numbers in the United States increase by about 8 % in two years, which has allowed the Americans, who set unbeatable prices, to conquer the external markets to the detriment of the European Union: we are in the middle of an economic war.
The situation is also explained by the Asian and Russian crises, which also deprive the European Union of a potential market.
Madam President, the origin of the current crisis in the pigmeat market lies in the supply and demand imbalance produced by the growth of industrial farming.
The Commission ought to be proposing measures to correct this situation, using specific aid for small and medium-sized farms and disincentives against industrial farming.
The social fabric of Europe's farming community cannot afford the destruction of its base - the small and medium-sized farms - or additional job losses.
So it is the Commission's duty to correct the social impact of the structural crisis in pigmeat by providing aid for small farms and disincentives against industrial farming.
Any COM worth its salt must have market regulation mechanisms for dealing with cyclical variations in production or short-term crises in all sectors.
Of course, the same applies to the Netherlands as to other Member States.
That means that we must make it clearly understood by the Member States, at European level, that agro-industrial production is not entitled to privileges and may not be established in rural areas like other types of farm production, but must be treated as an industry; that means it may only be established in industrial areas and is subject to the appropriate emission rules, like those which other commercial and industrial undertakings also have to observe.
So I think this is a homemade crisis.
Madam President, firstly, I welcome the Commission's statement here this morning on the crisis in the pig sector throughout Europe.
The fact that we received this statement means that the Commission recognises that there is a serious problem within the pig industry in the European Union.
Despite politicians' best efforts, no resolution could be found to this problem, either within Northern Ireland, in the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food in London, or in Brussels.
While I appreciate that people are entitled to their holidays, in future there should be at all times an official of sufficient standing in every cabinet in Brussels who can make a political decision if a real crisis occurs in some part of the European Union.
It does not enhance the image of the European Union when we have a situation like this.
In the midst of the crisis the pig industry was robbed in one night of 40 % of its slaughter capacity and curing capacity.
A new Malton factory costing £10 million was burned to the ground.
An industry already in crisis losing 40 % of its capacity is in danger of total collapse.
We spend 17 billion annually on arable crops.
We managed to find 2 billion extra when the beef industry got into trouble even though the pig meat sector is twice as big - there is twice as much pigmeat consumed in the European Union as there is beef.
We merely spent 300 million on pigmeat, a sector which is twice as big as beef.
To my colleague, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, who thinks about these things seriously, I have to say that there are big factory farms involved, but the ones that will be there when this crisis is over are the big factory farms.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the crisis in the production of pigmeat is unacceptable for small and medium-sized producers.
The present situation in Europe and in the world must, in fact, result in a policy aimed at controlling production through a genuine common organisation of the market.
Madam President, like many Members here I have been in touch with pig farmers in my constituency during the last week.
Finally, rules on labelling should be tightened so that pigmeat can develop its own brand loyalty over time.
Madam President, last Friday I too met with farmers in my constituencies.
British farmers, normally a very phlegmatic, law-abiding group of people, are far less prone to demonstrate than their opposite numbers in some other countries.
Through you I urge the Commission and the Council to reach decisions and take urgent action following the meeting on 14 October.
They cannot wait another two or three months for action.
The Russian market, for example, has exacerbated a crisis engendered by over-production and the misguided policy some Member States have been pursuing.
Production in the first six months of 1998 compared with the same period in 1997 was as follows.
In the Netherlands, production rose by 17.9 % - as I said, that was mainly due to the swine fever the year before; in Spain by 7.8 %, so that Spain is now the second pig producer in the European Union; and in Portugal it is also over 7 %.
But in some countries production actually fell, for instance in Italy, Luxembourg and Finland.
In Germany it rose by 4 %.
In our proposals in relation to Agenda 2000 we considered the probable future trend of competition between pigmeat and beef.
Thank you, Mr Fischler.
The ARE Group has not signed this so-called 'joint' resolution, tabled by the PSE, PPE, UPE and GUE/NGL Groups.
This resolution has surprised us by its lack of bite.
The sudden drop in pigmeat prices coupled with the loss of export markets, particularly following the Russian crisis, are only symptoms of the structural weakness of the sector, which has been created by the absence of political will and a certain amount of vote-catching.
The ARE Group had proposed taking clear measures with a view to controlling production effectively and on a long-term basis.
With this in mind, the group is in favour of the Commission maintaining the ban on subsidies designed to increase production capacity in areas with a structural surplus.
We will, however, be voting in favour of this resolution as a sign of our concern for the scale of this crisis and our solidarity with the farmers affected.
We favour a reform involving the alignment of prices to world market prices and a reduction in export refunds.
The pigmeat market is characterised by over-supply.
In fact, EU exports to the Asian and Russian markets account for almost 40 % of the total volume of exports to third countries.
However, through the near eradication of this disease, production in both these Member States has returned to the level of previous years.
For many years, the Commission has implemented a policy that favours this increase in regions close to the provision of feedingstuffs.
By favouring the imports of proteins of crop origin, such as soya cakes, manioc, etcetera (the European Union only provides 15 % of the proteins of crop origin it requires), and the imports of cereal substitutes (corn gluten feed) without any import duties, the European Union has a direct responsibility for the concentration of farms around supply ports along its western coasts.
The competitive advantage of these coastal production regions has been such that production in Europe has been completely relocated and concentrated in limited areas - the Netherlands, Belgium, Brittany, Denmark -, leading to the consequences we are now aware of in terms of the environment and risks of epizootic disease.
Our colleague Jim Nicholson, a Member from Northern Ireland, has told us about the dramatic situation experienced by his region this summer, as a result of the Commission's incompetence.
In Northern Ireland, one of the two slaughterhouses for pigs was burnt down during the summer and was no longer able to slaughter of pigs.
This tragic situation shows us once more the negative effects of a technocratic type of decision-making system, which is very far from the real world.
Finally, I should like to point out here the significance of a proposal put forward by our colleague Edouard des Places.
In the opinion he delivered last year on the Agenda 2000 communication, he pointed out that it was necessary to introduce the principle of income insurance.
This system has the advantage of being authorised under the GATT-WTO agreements.
Yet, as the Commission regulations on Agenda 2000 are gradually being put forward, we note that this proposal is still not present.
However, if pig farmers had previously been able to take out this type of insurance - cofinanced by the European Union - when prices were higher, it would have been easier for them to deal with the market situation we are experiencing now.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the euro in the European Union brings many changes, adaptations and adjustments with it, which also affect agriculture and the existing agrimonetary system.
With the single currency, this compensation mechanism will no longer be needed in the euro zone in future.
Let me say a few words on the new agrimonetary mechanism for the pre-ins.
The Commission makes a distinction between prices and other subsidies on the one hand, and direct aid.
On innovations in the financing system, here too there is a difference between prices and other subsidies on the one hand, and direct aid.
In future too the Union will grant 50 % of direct aid contributions, even if the Member State does not pay its contribution.
Let me just emphasise that in the first year the Union will pay 100 % compensation for direct aid where a currency has appreciated by at least 0.5 %.
The introduction of the single currency is an important and significant step towards further development and integration in Europe.
Personally, I do not regard the European Union as just an economic community but also as a community of solidarity.
Mr President, the single currency - the euro - will, of course, save a great deal of money: most European Union countries will not require agri-compensation payments after 1 January.
This document starts from the assumption that 1 % compensation represents DEM 600 million, and we are working with a fluctuation band of 2.6 %.
So in any country where this 2.6 % fluctuation band is breached, say in Germany, agricultural prices could face losses of 1.5 billion - according to the German Bundesrat.
According to the Commission's proposal, the Community will be making, in the form of direct aid, a 100 % compensation payment for lost income in the first year to all Member States outside the euro area.
Thank you very much, Mrs Anttila.
I am very concerned that by appearing to slam the door forever, the opposition party in our country is talking down jobs in my constituency.
We need foreign investors in places such as Telford, north Shropshire, Hereford, Ross-on-Wye and Wyre Forest.
I want to know why a Member State that deliberately does not join the euro can be eligible for 50 % of any compensatory amounts out of Community funds and why that Member State can even be exempt from contributing its national share of subsidies.
I believe we should see whether we cannot find a solution in the EU financing framework, because these countries cannot have it both ways.
The introduction of the euro on 1 January 1999 as the single currency for Europe will add greatly to the integration of the Union.
It will give the in-countries a huge boost and for countries like Ireland, which exports a high percentage of its total agricultural production, the euro will reduce costs as there will no longer be a need for conversion when the euro becomes a means of payment in its own right and not just a unit of account like the ecu.
Thirdly, we want a system that adjusts to any given market situation and, not least, we want to prevent any farm income losses.
The 2.6 % margin of fluctuation is nothing new; it already exists within the present system and is already being applied.
This threshold is, in a sense, the counterpart to the flat-rate calculation of income losses resulting from falls in prices or in the non-direct subsidies in the respective national currencies.
But that in turn has nothing to do with the 0.5 % payment threshold, which also already exists under the present system.
On Amendment No 8 to Article 4, I still maintain that it should be up to the Commission and the agrimonetary committee to change the criteria for adjusting to the market situation when calculating cuts in agrimonetary subsidies.
Thank you, Mrs Schierhuber.
The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote. (Parliament adopted the two legislative resolutions) The I-EDN Group voted for this report because the six amendments that it had proposed in committee were adopted.
What is even more surprising is that these proposals state that no compensatory aid will be granted when this amount is less than 0.5 % of a revaluation, nor in respect of amounts to which a rate lower than the new rate was applied in the 24 months before the entry into force of this regulation.
The repercussions of this crisis are already significant as far as the parity of currencies is concerned, that is, those participating in the euro and the dollar.
The European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is trying in this report to give the discussion a certain orientation.
The Commission put forward proposals on organic vegetable production in the early 1990s and there will soon, we hope, be proposals on organic animal production.
But how we can actually change market trends is another matter, since organic products currently account for only 2 % of the European agricultural market.
The second Commission proposal is to place greater emphasis on regional products.
This means that 90 % of all Europe's agricultural products reach the market at various stages of production.
We are calling for a European quality mark for the top end of the remaining 90 % of the market.
Of course, we talk about these things and then, in Agenda 2000, not enough attention is given to quality, taken in the environmental sense.
The Regulation 2078 increments are too small and, above all, this idea of leaving it entirely to the Member States' discretion to link income support levels to environmental factors is unconvincing.
I would just like to underline some very important aspects of the report.
The first concerns the need to establish a comprehensive strategy for quality policy, through a specific set of rules operating throughout the chain and covering every aspect of quality.
The third important point, in my opinion, is the need to develop a new breed of professionals to protect and enhance quality, and to spend a much greater amount on promoting typical products and quality products.
Thank you, Mr Rosado Fernandes, and I want you to know that the Chair had no intention of cutting your eloquence by 30 seconds.
I hoped you would speak for the full two minutes because it is always a great pleasure to listen to you.
Mr President, Commissioner, I bring greetings from the northern regions of the European Union.
I have nothing against putting quality goods on the world market when it is a matter of competition.
Mr Fischler, of course we also depend on the rest of the market in regard to our quality products.
The report by Mr Mulder, whom I congratulate on this reliable work, puts forward two interesting lines of thought for extending this policy.
To complement this concept, my group proposes introducing the concepts of nutritional value and optimum health in Amendment No 8.
To conclude, I should like to say that between the two extremes of organic farming and factory farming, there is in fact room for an intermediate, but heterogeneous approach, which must be regulated in the interest of the consumer and of the producers who practise integrated agriculture.
Mr President, everybody is talking about the concept of quality, but in actual fact it covers very diverse dimensions.
Some people talk about the health quality of a product, and in this respect the BSE crisis shows us that the consumer is increasingly sensitive to this issue.
Our rapporteur, whom I should like to thank very sincerely for his report, has successfully analysed the first two dimensions, to which the consumers in the northern Member States of the Union are particularly sensitive.
The Group of Independents for a Europe of Nations has, for its part, tabled three amendments to our colleague's report, which aim to strengthen the third dimension of the concept of quality.
In fact, due to the globalisation of trade, the market in agricultural raw materials is becoming increasingly dominated by the concept of price.
I think, Mr President, that the 'tradition' concept of quality represents a considerable opportunity for the rural areas of Europe.
The market in agricultural products is therefore no longer linked exclusively to price, but to the region.
As mentioned in the report, it is time that we had a real policy on the quality of agricultural products and foodstuffs in the European Union.
This policy must cover all aspects of the concept of quality.
Employment, Mr President, will only develop in rural areas if agriculture shows that it is capable of adapting its production to the demands of consumers and the various operators involved in the sector, and capable of protecting, as far as possible, the added value close to the place of production.
Products of designated origin must be based on very precise qualitative criteria, whether they relate to the product's origin or the way in which it is produced.
For two years, since the conference in Cork, we have been stressing the need to protect jobs in rural areas and looking for consistent ways to achieve this.
The safety and the quality of foodstuffs must not suffer due to laxity.
By establishing a European quality mark we now want to help consumers in the single market to recognise other Member States' national and regional quality marks too, since they say something about the special quality of this food.
At present we have two European quality categories for agricultural produce: organic farming and the Community protection of traditional specialities.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, congratulations to Mr Mulder on his report.
Although we cannot yet have a uniform European quality mark, our aim should be, as stated in paragraph 8 of our resolution, to pursue this road steadily.
I am sure the Commission should also look at all the points made in your motion for a resolution with great interest and attention, but I would prefer to concentrate here on the two main headings of your report.
Let me now turn briefly to the second main proposal, for a new European quality category based on environmental criteria.
As you know, in the case of integrated production we already have a number of Community measures, studies and research programmes, special support under the common organisation of the market, such as that for fruit and vegetables, and the financing of agricultural environmental measures under Regulation 2078.
All these aspects are in fact to be given further support under Agenda 2000.
The debate is closed.
By adopting paragraph 5, we have now voted that animal products should be included in Regulation 2092/91 on organic production methods and that this should now go ahead.
But I can also tell you that the presidency has already said that it intends to consider this question during its current term of office.
I have, as a producer, participated for many years in the development of such a national quality market.
Manufacturers and retailers are using quality markets to reassure their customers - not alone to give them information on production methods and origins, but also as a very important sales and promotion tool.
The concept of an overall EU quality mark would require a tightly controlled monitoring system to ensure that very high standards are maintained across the EU.
Various Member States have developed quality marks for integrated farming products.
I do wonder whether there is much point in debating this communication, which was presented by the Commission nearly a year ago - on 14 November 1997, to be precise.
It contains an analysis of the period 1997-1999, but the document reached us when almost a third of the relevant period had already elapsed.
We are also debating this document at a time when the Committee on Regional Policy has already drafted its five reports on Agenda 2000 which are to be discussed in committee next week.
But I think it is positive that we are taking advantage of this debate to talk about regional policy, as that does not often happen in Parliament, and we should not forget that the European Union devotes 34 % of its budget to regional policy.
I am not going to use this report on the years 1997-1999 as an opportunity to talk about what could and should be the regional policy of the European Union in the future, in other words, to analyse Agenda 2000.
Objective 2 relates to the conversion of industrial areas, and the word 'conversion' is maintained in Agenda 2000.
Conversion is a fundamental instrument for the promotion and improvement of economic and social cohesion in the European Union.
It is a fundamental goal in a Europe where - we should never forget - there are 18 million people who cannot find a job.
The 1997-1999 programmes obviously maintain continuity with those of 1994-1996.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has drafted a joint opinion on the Vallvé report and the Howitt report, which was discussed last week and refers to the adjustment of the Structural Fund programmes up to the end of 1999 and the new Objective 2 regional programmes for 1997-1999.
We share Mr Vallvé's concern because jobs are actually the main priority in this proposal.
We believe it is necessary to harness the potential of the four sectors he mentioned: SMEs (over 80 % of jobs in the European Union are in small and medium-sized firms); the environment (sitting on the Committee on the Environment, I am very well aware of the new sources of employment in very important sectors drawing on the potential of the environment, and it is very important to take that into account); research and development; and, of course, equal opportunities - once and for all, women must have the same opportunities as men.
We saw how difficult it was for the environmental authorities and the social partners to participate in each of the previous programming periods, and there has been no real evaluation of the role the new sources of employment have played in spending the Structural Funds to create jobs, especially in regions in industrial decline like my region - I am Asturian.
So we think it is very important that we should take account, in the ongoing reforms which we will continue to debate next week, of the need for across-the-board implementation of the principles of transparency, participation, equal opportunities and sustainable development - only 5.2 % is devoted to sustainable development - and for a balance between policies to preserve and create jobs and economic policies which do not destroy jobs, because sometimes economic policies do harm employment.
In congratulating Mr Vallvé on his report, I note there are many areas of agreement with my own parallel report on guidelines for Objective 1 and 5b areas over the same period.
Five per cent for the environment: that means that 95 % of the money could be harming our natural resources, and that is not good enough.
We agree on the need to support the guidelines process to ensure common themes underlie the programmes in each of our countries, and the need for a full consultation on those guidelines by the European Commission.
I hope the Commissioner will take the opportunity this morning to guarantee to us that the new sets of guidelines will be ready by 31 December.
We agree that the delayed agreement of the programmes in the first period - 12 % of the money being carried over - causes unacceptable damage in the regions and localities which wait too long and then are forced to spend too quickly.
With some 14 % of all public investment in metropolitan France represented in this programme, it demonstrates, beyond doubt, the value of the safety net, which we argued for in the next programming period, to avoid a sudden disappearance of this very significant level of support.
In particular, we support the conclusions of our colleagues from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that more money must be allocated to new sources of employment, including the cooperative sector, environmental projects and local development initiatives.
Secondly, we cannot support proposals for the split in funding or criteria in relation to the new Structural Fund regulation.
Finally, in our resolution of 14 February 1996 we stated our demands for this programme to the Commissioner.
The principle of additionality and its evaluation still cause problems because the necessary documents are not always forwarded.
Mr President, the European Union has almost 20 million unemployed, and this is an extremely worrying situation.
Mr Escolá Hernando is speaking for the first time in this House.
Mr President, as you said, this is my first speech before Parliament, and on behalf of the Group of the European Radical Alliance I would like to express our support for this report.
The point is concerned about the very significant increase in Member States' discretionary power which might be introduced if the proposal goes ahead to have a combination of Community and national criteria for selecting regions theoretically eligible to receive aid under the new Objective 2.
It might even suggest a certain renationalisation of the structural policies, and that could not only distort the results the Commission is looking for with the creation of the new Objective 2, but could even undermine its fundamental aim, which is to support declining regions with structural difficulties.
As industrial areas in decline are involved, extreme care must be taken to ensure that the industries concerned have prospects and, more specifically, to ensure that each individual company is viable.
As Objective 2 now also covers urban renewal, this needs to be kept very much in mind, although it is not something which can be attained unless there are clear and balanced national promotion policies.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, structural policy always implies labour market policy too.
People do not live in places where there is no work and, conversely, there is no work in places where no people live.
This is the situation that structural policy must address; we must look at all the surrounding factors and not just at jobs in isolation.
For every million ECU of EU cofinancing, the Member States contribute another two million and 20 % of total resources come from the private sector.
Mr President, Commissioner, while there is almost a year before the period of the programme we are referring to lapses, in essence we cannot do anything other than to draw conclusions and lessons for the new programme period.
It is therefore important - and this is my first comment - that according to the Commission's estimates, for the period we are talking about 880 000 jobs are being created in the Objective 2 areas.
And we also favour the Commission's proposal for a safety net, in other words a maximum reduction of the order of 33 % for regions covered at present by Objectives 2 and 5B.
I welcome the broad agreement between the Commission and Parliament both on the guidelines and on the assistance priorities for the Objective 2 programming period 1997-1999.
Our primary aim must indeed be to help regions undergoing structural change to create long-term employment.
The positive attitude to the Objective 2 guidelines to support the Member States' development plans reinforces the Commission's argument in favour of reforming the Structural Funds.
We have already supplied the Member States with a methodological framework for forecasting the impact on employment for the period 1997-1999.
Once again, we are concerned with the same question in all the areas - industrial areas, rural areas, fisheries areas, urban areas in difficulties - namely aid to cope with structural change and create jobs in sectors other than those in crisis, where we are faced with job losses.
The up to 50 % coverage by national criteria and the greater flexibility in the selection of regions contained in the draft regulation give the Member States the necessary room for manoeuvre to take account of special national and regional features and to use supplementary criteria, as many Members called for during the debate.
Thank you, Mrs Wulf-Mathies.
The debate is closed.
Mr Kellett-Bowman, the request for a roll-call vote was properly made.
Thank you very much, Mr Berthu.
Its first section attempts to evaluate Objective 2 in the 60 eligible regions for the 1989-1993 period.
The reality is that no-one is in a position to assess the real impact of these Structural Funds, which are very significant in terms of employment.
A purely regional logic, introducing significant differences in the system from one coastal sector to another, could be extremely disruptive.
With this end in view, the distribution put forward in terms of geographical coverage of 10 %, 5 %, 2 % and 1 % respectively could not be interpreted strictly.
Our group has tabled several amendments in this direction.
This flexibility is particularly important in the areas dependent on fisheries, where it is essential to be able to continue to compensate for the various constraints imposed on fishermen through a carefully targeted intervention of structural aid.
For all these reasons, our group has not been able to give its support to this report.
Mr President, I am pleased to have the opportunity today to talk about the Ariane and Kaleidoscope cultural programmes in 1999.
The budget for 1999 was adapted in record time with the help of all the members of Parliament's Committees on Culture and Budgets, and a proposal to create a legal basis was considered.
In the year 2000 we hope to start a new combination of the programmes, perhaps with a new structure: the first framework programme for culture 2000-2004.
I would therefore urge the Council and all the Member States to adopt this decision before the first budget reading in Parliament, so that the actual amounts, currently listed as 'pm' entries, can be included.
I thank Mr Pex very much for insisting that at least after the millennium we must at last have cultural programmes that preserve the great diversity of European culture.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that with its proposals to extend Kaleidoscope and Ariane the Commission is seeking to ensure the continuity of Community cultural activities for the year 1999.
The aim is to bridge the gap in time until the first European Community cultural framework programme for 2000 to 2004 is adopted.
I would also like to thank them for making possible this improvement - which will benefit the Community's cultural activities in 1999 - in such a short time.
Thank you very much, Mr Medina.
Obviously it is a recognition of his literary powers, but it is also a recognition of the Portuguese language, part of the cultural heritage of our institution.
It is an important language not only because of its history and its current contribution in this House, but also because it is a linguistic hand of solidarity and cooperation stretched out towards South America.
I think we were all united in giving him a warm reception and, indeed, in laying great emphasis on the value of his pro-European remarks.
What is more, he was at the forefront of the defence of our democratic constitution when there was an attempted coup d'état on 23 February one year.
I wanted to say that, ladies and gentlemen, because the contribution to cultural and political heritage which these two figures have made is at one with the modest day-to-day work that we do here and personally, at least for me, that renews my faith in the future of the European Union.
