I would like to ask you, Madam President, to convey the congratulations of this Parliament to the President of Algeria.
Thank you, Mr Sakellariou.
Indeed I hope you received these letters.
You received an initial letter from Mr Rieffel, our director, but I felt it necessary to answer you personally myself, and so all the Members who wrote to me received a reply.
I do not know if any of us saw anything of this in the media, but we looked at everything, recorded everything, and made note of both what had been done and what was still outstanding.
However, I must get a clear picture on this matter, because, as you can well imagine, I shall have to refer it back to Otis, as this is an extremely serious area which goes far beyond the standard improvement of our working conditions.
We have worked hard in this area although we still have some improvements to make.
I am convinced that our team of Quaestors will be particularly creative in this area.
As regards the car-park, I have had difficulty once or twice in finding my car but I found it in the end.
I did miss a vote during the week because of the lifts, but I recognise that in due course these matters will be resolved.
I want to pay tribute to them and all the workers who put together this wonderful building.
I would, however, like to mention something I have come across and which I feel should be resolved.
I would also like to thank you, Madam President, for taking the initiative in helping to cope with these teething troubles.
If you speak very close to your microphone most people cannot hear what you are saying.
Thank you, Mrs Lambert.
You have already done a lot and I note that this Presidency is sensitive to the needs of the press and has always been very helpful.
When the sitting opened, you announced that some initiatives have already been adopted and specific responses have been given to the Parliamentary press but, I repeat, I think that much more needs to be done to facilitate journalists' work so that they can inform the entire European Union about the important work carried out in the Parliament.
Madam President, first of all I would like to say to the Members who are thanking the French government or the city of Strasbourg for this building, that they are addressing their comments to the wrong people.
Firstly, Madam President, if you ever had to send a fax in my office or that of my fellow Members, I could tell you it is practically impossible!
Fourthly, this week I have got into a lift five times and not been able to get out at my own floor.
As the person responsible for a delegation - I chair the South-Eastern Europe Delegation, this has nothing to do with the Louise Weiss building, but with the Salvador de Madariaga building across the way - I would now like to make one more request.
And we are far too sensitive because we have to come here via a transport system which is also inconvenient and our inconvenience in the face of this transport system is added to the inconvenience that we find here.
Lastly - and perhaps I am talking with my budgetary hat on - I would like to point out that, although we will eventually find out how much it is going to cost - because we will see every last invoice - what we will never know about are the additional costs there may have been because, at the moment, we still do not know exactly how much it is supposed to cost us.
Thank you, Mr Fabra Vallés.
In fact, I do not think the problem you mentioned is actually related to the building.
I can tell you, Mr Fabra Vallés, that the Mayor was really very interested in my comments.
This means that I will no longer be able to fulfil my evening commitments as I have a speaking engagement this evening.
Madam President, I know you have certainly endeavoured to pick up on all the defects there are here.
If we do not put the principle into practice here ourselves, then we will also have lost some of our credibility.
I therefore call upon you, as a matter of urgency, to correct the most unforgivable mistakes which have been made both here and in Brussels, and to immediately convene a working party to obtain quotes for setting things right.
I would also like to receive an answer from you as to why this was not taken into account in the planning and how we can sort this out in future.
Mrs Breyer, thank you for mentioning all these very important problems.
If we are navel-gazing and examining our working conditions and those of our staff this morning, it is not a question of comfort and convenience, but because we want to be efficient as elected representatives and in spending taxpayers' money.
I take my job seriously and I am sure all my colleagues have also come here to work, not to treat this place as a club, but to actually do their jobs as elected representatives.
I want to be able to go back to my constituents and tell them that I am an efficient representative.
Let me assure you and all colleagues that notes are being taken of this discussion this morning.
We should be grateful for the building, grateful for the working conditions which we now have in Strasbourg after 20 years and more of provisional arrangements.
But I have decided to take the floor because we run the risk of exaggerating the complaints, and anecdotes go down in history as if they were the opinion of the Parliament.
I believe that these initiatives to resolve the small problems are excellent but, in my judgement - and it is that of many of our colleagues - we should not forget that they are small problems which will be resolved and we have something for which we should congratulate the institutions, the French State, the architects and the workers.
But still I would just like to seize this opportunity to remind the Presidency as well how difficult it is to explain to our voters why we are always having to move from one place to another, and also that this is something that severely tarnishes the Parliament' s "dignité" , to use a lovely French expression.
Secondly, I would like to know how much is paid in rent for this building.
I would also like to see exit signs in case of emergency.
There will be a notice going to all Members regarding smoking and what they can or cannot do within the building.
This is a shame, not just because it means that there is less choice available to us as regards restaurants, but more importantly, there is a library in that building which we find very useful.
I make this point not just because it is a shame for our own staff that they never get to see this chamber from the inside, but because it means that we are completely unable to communicate with our own assistants.
Some Members think we should have far more colours.
In the first place, it has been funded by Community money, be it French or European.
Thank you Mr van Dam.
I would also like to ask if it is possible to have a shuttle for our assistants and for the staff when there are meetings which last until 9 in the evening so that they do not have to take a taxi.
Compared with the reception area in Brussels or that in the former building, there is a vast difference, and there should be some thought on providing a far better reception.
Mr President, I have been fortunate enough to enter two new parliament buildings in the course of my political career.
I hope not but time will tell.
And last but not least, we like to talk about transparency here.
I believe it is important to talk about transparency, but I would also like there to be transparency as regards the cost price of the building, and I would also like to know what possibilities there are for recouping some of the costs arising from the building' s defects that have been noted here.
My main plea is that since a treaty change was required to bring us here in the first place, surely we can all lobby in our political parties, our Governments, to get a treaty change to take us away and spend the money on something useful that the people would appreciate.
I would like to respond to the first floor speaker today who asked if any Members had previously had better offices; we had such fine offices here, had we ever had better ones?
These things are just unacceptable.
I have problems with no air in some of the meeting rooms.
Then, you could have said so far earlier.
Mr President, I also came here specially this morning to participate in the discussion.
I would therefore like to thank you, even so, for letting the Members of Parliament continue to express their views beyond 10.30.
I thank all colleagues who have stayed this morning.
Anyone who is keen on the use of new buildings, as I am, realises that it takes some time to break them in; in six months time, we will have forgotten these details.
I would also like to thank the President, for having shown such great interest in particular problems, and I would especially like to thank and encourage all the staff for their genuine and determined efforts, the effects of which have been very evident this month.
I would like to state that, although like many members I too regret the travelling circus between the various homes of the European Parliament, I am perfectly satisfied with my office design in Strasbourg, particularly if a lockable filing cabinet is installed as promised.
Flights to Strasbourg from Scotland Flights via Brussels - overbooking.
