I would ask you, Madam President, to ask the mayor of Strasbourg whether she might be able to arrange for us to receive a Dutch station here in Parliament, so that we can follow the news in the Netherlands.
Decision on urgency Madam President, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has given a favourable opinion on this first request for urgency on Regulation No 805/68, and the report will be ready for tomorrow.
Madam President, I think this regulation requires us to balance our accounts.
We cannot vote for the one without the others, unless we wish to appear irresponsible again, and I am afraid the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has already given that impression here.
van Velzen, on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment .
In other words, we are putting together in a single report the six or seven other reports compiled by the various committees in question.
It therefore contains some 120 paragraphs, which inevitably gives the impression that it is neither forceful nor radical enough.
This is unfortunate, and we shall have to change our procedures in this respect.
Having said that, I should now like to go over the important points in the report.
It impacts on all aspects of life in society, especially our modern society.
It is more important than ever to take stock of the issue, confronted as we are by alliances between multinationals and by the fact that individual states have been completely overtaken in this area.
The report I am presenting on copyright and related rights, drafted over a long period on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, may look limited but actually it is not.
Secondly, citizens must be guaranteed parity of access - that is in the text of our resolution - to works and services deemed to be of public interest.
Fourthly, the moral right of authors is, in our view, a fundamental masterstroke of the European model for protecting works and messages, because it establishes a relationship between author and work which is renewed every time the work is used and qualifies the work not as a thing or an object, but as a continual creation.
It is also indispensable to implement electronic identification systems for works, because otherwise we do not think protection will be possible.
We want an international convention, an international agreement, against illegal trade in pirated copies, which is more indispensable than ever today.
This proposal for a directive is another decisive chapter in establishing clear rules during the actual shaping of the information society.
Madam President, in contrast to the previous reports, where we are in the process of forming the law, I would say that with the report which I am presenting today, we are on relatively solid ground, because Community legislation already exists in this field.
I refer here to Directive 92/100 on related rights and Directive 93/83 on intellectual property rights in the field of cable and satellite broadcasting.
I was appointed Parliament's rapporteur for the report on the directive on rights in the field of cable and satellite broadcasting, and in the debates in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights we had the opportunity of an exchange of views with the Commission on the appropriate procedure for the approval of this convention.
The proposal for a Council decision provides firstly for the signing of the convention on behalf of the European Community, subject to approval, with the opinion of the European Parliament then being required before ratification.
It will strengthen Community law, and in fact the Council of Europe took account of the acquis communautaire in this field when drawing up the convention.
From the legal point of view, I regard the strengthening of the Community's rules by the Council of Europe's European Convention as a positive move.
Indeed, I believe that the appropriate way to deal with the issue of relocation is not intellectual property law, but fiscal harmonization measures which prevent a company from taking refuge in the legislation of a given country, for example, while we continue our efforts to harmonize the law on intellectual property.
But I have to point out, Mr Herman, that if you had been a little firmer in directing the procedure and not allowed it to drag on for so long, we could have dealt with the whole issue in Parliament months ago, instead of waiting until after the Commission had published its Green Paper on social impact.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the differences in the ground covered by the individual committees and in their contributions to this report already indicate the difficulties of coming to an agreement within Europe on the structuring of the information society.
Small and medium-sized firms too must be able to compete in the new developments, because this is where new jobs lie.
The Liberal Group believes that our main task should be to give our citizens the best possible preparation for this, through education and training, through continuing education from primary school onwards, and by setting an example ourselves.
National legislation has no place in the transfrontier digital age.
Madam President, the information society gives enormous opportunities.
Certainly in my constituency, which has large rural areas close to the Welsh border at Kington, in the Golden Valley and at Newcastle on Clun, I have seen at first hand the way in which new technology is being harnessed to create new opportunities and new jobs for ordinary people.
There are some very real fears that what we could actually be seeing is the concentration of power and privilege in the hands of the urban areas.
It will therefore be necessary for awareness and resources and programmes to be aimed specifically at women and girls, taking into account their interests.
Secondly, the impact of the information society on the nature of work will create new employment and working practices which will have a particular impact on women: for example, an increase in tele- and home-working.
The Committee on Women's Rights expects that the Commission and the social partners will address the issues of home- and teleworking and prepare proposals which recognize the effect of these new working practices.
In this Parliament and in the Commission we have the opportunity to plan so as to ensure that the citizens of Europe - men and women - benefit from the developments of the information society and from information technology.
Madam President, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy expresses its satisfaction with the Commission's Green Paper on copyright and related rights in the information society.
The last point to which I should like to draw your attention concerns private copying.
This last point is as fundamental as respect for moral rights, if we want to protect creative richness and ensure correct remuneration for authors.
And that is what this House should now be preoccupying itself with, not with a retrospective over the last two or three years.
The fact is that in Corfu in June 1994 we set down the programme for the information society.
We worked out the concept but the problem now is that we have moved on two years and we need carefully to audit how far this process has been developed and what needs to happen in the future to set a new agenda for the European Union.
As with so many issues in the European Union we start very well.
There is common cause amongst the Member States, the Commission, Council and Parliament and then, on any issue, a year or two years down the road we find that the Member States start to back off.
I say to the two Commissioners present today and to Members of the House that we only need to look at what the Council is proposing on the budget for Info 2000 and on the information society to see that the Council's support for information technology does not even stretch to maintaining the budget lines that are necessary for the coming year to really develop information technology for the European Union.
The information technology Council meets on 8 October.
We need the budget lines for the Commission to implement its programmes and we need a proper coherent strategy in Europe if this programme on information technology is going to benefit our people - our young people in particular.
Today, we are not considering Parliament's legislative role, but its function as a sounding-board for the social realities which surround us.
And we must seek this Ariadne's thread, in order to be able to find our way out of the labyrinth of social demands: firstly, as regards the relationships between private individuals, by seeking to strike a balance between copyright and the rights of other persons with legitimate interests which require legal protection, as well as addressing the issues of the protection of privacy and public freedoms, especially the right to information.
And we must consider the question of international public order in terms of the law that is to be applicable.
Madam President, I shall be speaking about copyright as it is applied to the field of multi-media because it can be considered, as a result of its complexity, as a laboratory where various questions are raised and call for new responses.
The Barzenti report, for its part, puts forward some important ideas which are still necessarily general and which need to be emphasised and supported.
It speaks of preserving the richness of the European concept of moral rights as opposed to the American concept of 'copyright' , aimed at harmonising the laws on copyright and related rights in the 15 Member States of the European Union, making progress on a study of technical systems for identifying works which can be rapidly used, already providing for sanctions against anyone who tries technically to eradicate the protection systems that have been created, at promoting cooperation between the Member States and linking their work with the competent international organisations, the WTO, the WIPO and the TRIS, without forgetting the important discussions taking place at the Council of Europe and UNESCO, and including agreements with third countries' copyright protection clauses, in an attempt to make all of the rules on this subject universally applicable.
Nana Mouskouri, the rapporteur for the Committee on Culture for this report, emphasizes the role of libraries and cultural and educational establishments, the importance of informing and raising the awareness of small independent producers on questions of copyright, refers to the desirable interdepartmental cooperation at the Commission so that all discussions can be carefully linked on aspects of content and technology, and insists on the urgent need to rationalize all of this work through the collective question of rights.
I shall conclude by saying that we can see that there are, however, more questions than answers but Europe must know that it cannot lose the multi-media battle, it knows that it is lagging behind and it knows that copyright lies at the very heart of the matter.
The Committee on Regional Policy, for example, fears centralization, while the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, for its part, believes in decentralization.
The Committee on Women's Rights sounds a warning.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy approves of teleworking, but we are not told anything about the risk of weak negotiating positions or the lack of creative contact with work colleagues.
As the Committee on Women's Rights has previously said in these debates, we have no reason to allow the development of a two-speed information society.
We must have the guarantee of a universal public service reaching into even the remotest places, for example to the 90 inhabited islands in my constituency.
We do not want a two-speed Europe with an information society benefiting only the industrialized regions.
On the cultural side, I welcome the special role for public service broadcasting in minority languages because the cultural diversity of our Union must be one of the things we treasure the most.
The information society can be a great asset, as we all know, but it is only available to a small number of people, whereas the benefits should be distributed fairly.
The new services offer our citizens not only undreamt-of scope for information, training, entertainment and use of a wide range of facilities, but are a challenge for our Member States and for the regions in terms of education in schools.
As rapporteur for the report on trans-European telecommunications networks, I am in fact sorry that we spend a great deal of time talking, but hesitate when it comes to implementing these telecommunications networks and then express a large number of reservations.
By comparison with our international trading partners, the providers of new services in Europe suffer a number of competitive disadvantages, such as high telecommunications costs, partially inadequate bandwidths for networks and a lack of risk capital, as well as Europe's fragmentation into national markets, which prevents European firms from developing sufficient benefits of scale.
The Commission has recently presented a communication and a proposal for a directive on the establishment of a procedure for the exchange of data on legislative cooperation regarding services in the information society.
The Commission's communication on Europe and the information society which followed Commissioner Bangemann's report was, we should remember, warmly welcomed by the Council at the Corfu summit in 1994, when it was hoped that the various measures envisaged in the action plan would be carried out on schedule.
Here, to refresh our memories, are just a few examples: the approval of a liberal regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector; the adoption and implementation of research and development programmes under the fourth FPRD; in the fields of information technology and telecommunications, programmes have been adopted with the aim of encouraging the development of networks and the implementation of pilot projects under the auspices of the G7; and, finally, there have been many initiatives connected with information superhighways in the Member States, particularly France.
Madam President, I wish to begin by congratulating Commissioner Bangemann on being a champion of the information society that is so critically important for the future of Europe and our competitiveness.
Firstly, the information society provides us with an opportunity to equalize the differences that are a consequence of distance in the Union, particularly for rural areas, one of which I represent.
Madam President, both the Green Paper from the Commission and the report by Mr Barzanti adopt a stance of critical openness towards the challenge of new information technology.
This is something different from the line of 'we must join in' , as has been pointed out here this morning.
Rather, it should facilitate information and freedom of information.
You, Mr Bangemann, were the main player at European level in the creation of this information society.
What the state should do - and you and we will bear considerable responsibility here - is to ensure this protection on the one hand, without restricting the freedom of speech of the individual and the business world on the other.
It must create a basis on which all citizens - and all regions, as has been pointed out - can have access to this new network and to these new opportunities which are developing at present.
Computers, hardware, software, the Internet, the Worldwide Web - they are all just means of providing access to information.
The new infrastructure, whether it is through digital techniques in satellite or through fibre-optic techniques, actually increases the number of channels that can be delivered throughout the Union and this will add to and proliferate the amount of information circulating within the Union.
It is for this reason that we wish the protection of copyright and related rights to be given priority over any other imperative in the use of these new technologies.
This is a debate which is familiar to the House from numerous reports, and in which my group will continue to maintain this stance.
We thus considered it important to table an amendment providing for a report to be drawn up on public service in the Community, in which account is taken of the effects of the rapid development of the information society, on the basis that protection of the artist is one of the key principles for ensuring freedom of access to the new media.
Mr President, you can imagine that this debate is a very important one for my colleague Mr Monti and myself, since we should of course like to have the support of Parliament for what we are doing.
Mr Herman has described our problem very accurately.
The fact that such a long time has elapsed since the first report was presented means of course that this debate contains many aspects which have already been dealt with or gives too little attention to new developments.
In this forum, for example, we have a number of journalists from public service broadcasting and television who are drawing up their own proposals and helping us in our work.
The level of telephone charges, for example, is in fact now for many people the only or at least one of the most significant obstacles to taking part in these opportunities.
These are two countries which have not exactly been overrun by capitalism, but in fact have a very long tradition of social democracy.
We have taken this contradiction upon ourselves because we have said that we need legal rules for privacy, for security of information, for copyright, all things on which my colleague Mr Monti will have something further to say.
Of course you can say that, but then add another sentence and say that technology is an important means of actually achieving it.
The European Parliament is very active in the debate on the legislative framework for the information society.
In the information society the protection of intellectual property is the key to development, contributing to employment and the growth of small and medium-sized companies in particular, as Commissioner Bangemann has emphasized.
The aim of the Commission's Green Paper was to bring about a wide debate on the problems which the development of the new technology poses for the legislative framework for intellectual property.
The conference, or rather the whole consultation, has demonstrated one requirement in particular: action must be taken at Community level on a number of priority aspects.
But in this future action - and I can tell you this already - the Commission intends to preserve and protect both the necessary balance between all the rights and interests in play, and the high level of protection which Community harmonization has allowed us to achieve.
As Mr Barzanti knows very well, the issue is highly complex technically and highly sensitive politically.
Parliament is also invited today to give its opinion on the proposals for Council decisions relating to the signing and approval of the European Convention on copyright and related rights applying to cross-border broadcasting by satellite.
Finally, Mr President, I reiterate the importance of the Herman report which rightly stresses, amongst other things, the need for a proper legislative framework for the development of the information society.
In this context, the Commission has recently launched a series of measures, based on the principles of the internal market, precisely to respond to the new and multiple challenges mentioned in the Herman report.
I would mention, for example, over and above intellectual property and the protection of personal data or information in data banks, the Green Paper on commercial communications and on protection of encrypted services.
Effective protection of crucial public interest objectives can only be achieved - I am sure of this - through coordinated measures, not through isolated and probably contradictory national laws.
Thanks once again to the rapporteurs and all those who contributed to this important debate.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Television's power lies in its value as a common reference point for millions of people.
Dominant global players do not always use their economic power to support the European audio-visual industry, an industry which could employ two million more people by the year 2000.
But its considerable potential in Europe's economic portfolio will be lost unless it is properly sustained and nurtured by broadcasters, governments and the European Union.
We should be able to depend on our public service broadcasters to fulfil this role.
The digital era should, as you have said, Commissioners, herald greater choice, full access to programmes for all audiences, for all citizens.
This is a basic civil and cultural right which must define the digital age.
Consequently, as my report says, this is what we must do.
There is no European model of public service, but there are common problems.
So this is the point: while the public service is part of the market and as such cannot expect monopolistic privileges or some kind of special position, dominating advertising income and so on, because it is a public service geared to society, it has a right to such funding and such support as can further strengthen independence, autonomy and the presence of new services, in the new productive capacities which are necessary today because the public service must be equal to the challenges which it too must take up.
I know that public service broadcasting - in Germany, at least, but in other countries too - was built on the traditions of the early years, and that this founding period was also an important one for the Federal Republic, especially as regards the emergence of a basic democratic order.
The PPE Group has tried to remove the negative tone from this report, and has partially succeeded.
Public service broadcasting is not only being discussed in this report.
It is not a good thing that the public service broadcasting lobby is intervening on such a scale, for example with regard to Article 1, that everything which is emerging there in terms of new services also has to be classed as broadcasting in order to be involved on the basis of national legislation.
Our concern should be to develop the pan-European dimension, so as to create a sound position for public service broadcasting in the future and ensure that it has the capacity to survive.
Mr President, an own-initiative report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, as approved by the Bureau of Parliament, is today giving us an opportunity to express our views on the role of public service television in an increasingly media-oriented society.
I would take this opportunity to say yes to public service television, provided that its terms of reference are well defined and that it meets criteria of quality and morality which justify its public financing and guarantee viewers, whoever and wherever they may be, access to information, culture, education, sport and fiction.
The constant spiralling of television rights for sport in general, and football in particular, should make us stop and think.
On the one hand, the cost of these rights plays a part in increasing the price of players and, on the other, it forces the channels into an increasingly frenetic search for ever more profitable advertising, in order to pay for these rights.
It should also be present in all broadcasting systems, be they digital or analogue, by cable or satellite.
It is a duty for Member States to create the conditions which allow this to be so.
Public service in television is a fundamental concept in a democratic society.
To conclude, Mr President, I call on the Commission to take a more far-reaching approach to the concept of public service in the Green Paper on new services, and I call for this as an urgent matter because time flies in the world of telecommunications.
On regulatory measures, we are very concerned that the directive on defending pluralism promised us for many years - and the existence of a strong public service is essential here - should have been further adjourned by the College of Commissioners.
And when I say regulatory measures I also mean regulatory measures which allow the public service to be autonomous from the market.
To extend the principle of universal service to telecommunications, to confuse that with public service broadcasting, would in fact be a very grave error.
In a sense this report completes the debate on the Television without Frontiers directive and also the debate in this Chamber on the transmission of major sporting events.
The new technology raises enormous problems, but precisely for these reasons there is a need to guarantee a proper future for public service television.
Mr President, maintaining public service television in the Member States is an extremely important issue.
For this reason, we have to thank and congratulate Carole Tongue for taking on this difficult report.
However, I believe that public service television will only achieve its objectives if it meets three requirements.
The first is respect for viewers, regardless of age, origins or situation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed having a debate here.
For this reason, public service broadcasting must also be in a position to offer something across the range of sport and entertainment.
This means that public service broadcasting - I agree with you - must engage in competition, but it must be able to do so on equal terms.
So the Commission, for example, should not prevent the rights to sporting events from being purchased jointly and on a pooled basis, through the European Broadcasting Union.
Mr President, the debate and vote on this issue in committee made it clear that, in general terms, public service television plays - and, I believe, must continue to play - an important role in almost all the Member States of the European Union.
On the contrary, the existence of minimum audience levels, the variety of programming, and the guarantee that this varied programming will reach all homes can be regarded as fundamental principles of public service broadcasting.
It must exist, because its voice contributes to maintaining pluralism along with television generally, but it must exist within a system where the public service mission is clearly defined.
We do not think a report on public television can ignore funding methods which guarantee the existence of public television and the quality and balance of the vast televisual panorama constituted by private and public television as a whole, because only as a whole can it accomplish a real mission of public service.
Firstly, the Liberals also support a dual system which has a strong public service broadcasting sector providing information, documentation and individual cultural identity, but which also has room for commercial broadcasting.
Secondly, the same European rules should apply to public service broadcasting and to commercial stations offering capacity for public services.
The new commercial broadcasters, on the other hand, who are totally reliant on the market for their income, are finding themselves subject to rules which have nothing to do with a free market, such as quotas and investment commitments.
Finally, let me make it clear that the Liberal Group can only support this report if a number of amendments are adopted and a considerable number of paragraphs are dropped from the resolution.
Mr President, Carole Tongue's report, for which we are grateful, gives us some idea of what public service television could be like in each of the Member States.
More specifically, in France for example, the Commission seems to be actively encouraging the government to restructure French companies through privatization.
The public service is not yet public enemy number one, but if we are honest with ourselves, it may well be so in the future!
Only today it has announced that it cannot compete in the sports field, because enormous financial resources are now being deployed to take away those staples of the mass audience which the BBC needs in order to preserve its own diversity and, indeed, its own audience.
Channel 4, which has been the best possible way of serving new interests with a public service remit in a public trust without private shareholders, is now being told by elements within our government that it must privatize.
There is no single argument for this in terms of programme quality; no single argument for it in terms of the diversity of services.
I abstained when this report came to the committee because I believe it does not achieve the fair and correct balance that is necessary.
Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking my party colleague, Carole Tongue, for her excellent work, not only on the report itself but also in making it possible for us to debate this very important subject in Parliament today.
Television must take on its responsibility.
Mr President, there is one point made in this report which I should like to underline: the public funding of public service broadcasting is legitimate.
The reason for this is simple: public service broadcasting provides a service to society in many areas which cannot be totally funded by the market.
And in the multimedia society which is now being created, our citizens must be offered such a service.
I shall give you a good example: the Basque language is spoken by some 800 000 people, in an area in close proximity to 50 million French speakers and 35 million Spanish speakers.
It is important for the European Parliament to send the clear message to the Commission that, on this issue, the rules on competition alone are not enough to build a united and pluralistic Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that we are at a turning-point in the development of broadcasting.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our colleague Carole Tongue from the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media has today put before us an important and much-needed own-initiative report, and I would like to join in praising the quality of its contents.
The European Union must therefore ensure at all costs that public service television is maintained and allow Member States to control its financing, in return for which the public channels would undertake to abide by a clear specification that reflects the reasons why they were established.
A network of European public television channels of this kind can and must become the prime vehicle for broadcasting European productions, and must be a driving force behind private television channels in this area.
One cannot allow standards of quality to fall, for example, simply because public service broadcasting is involved.
Certainly, financing through fees or other forms of public funding is an advantage in competitive terms, but on the other hand, the almost total exclusion of public service broadcasting from private revenue represents a disadvantage for it.
We have held a policy debate on the basis of a first draft by my colleague Mr Monti, in which there were not many supporters for the approach.
First of all, this has nothing to do with the new services.
The Commission is not demonizing either public or private broadcasting.
Like Mr Hoppenstedt, we are relatively relaxed.
Madam President, my point of order concerns respect for the agenda.
I should like to know who has authorized these committee meetings outside their allocated time, and I would ask for them to be cancelled and rearranged in their usual slot between 5.30 and 7 p.m.
Its main purpose is to extend risk weighting at 50 % of mortgage-backed loans in respect of offices or multipurpose commercial premises until 1 January 2001, this provision having expired on 1 January 1996.
The possibility of risk weighting at 50 % has previously applied to only four Member States, and is now being extended to all the Member States of the European Union on an optional basis.
In this context, the Council has adopted a stance which is, to say the least, a cause for concern, and the European Parliament must react vigorously against it.
De Esteban Martín report Madam President, speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to thank Commissioner van den Broek for his reply to the debate on this report on human rights in the European Union.
Equally, I would like to congratulate the Commission on the fact that 1997 will be the year against racism and to thank the Commission for its support for the EU observatory to monitor racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism, to be set up in line with the recommendations of the Consultative Commission and endorsed at the Florence summit.
Finally, human rights within the Community should allow citizens to join and to leave religious organizations freely, without allowing these organizations special tax status which is denied to other cultural and social organizations.
Madam President, the Dutch members of our group voted against the Esteban Martín report for various reasons.
Statements such as that in paragraph 93 show Parliament in just the same extreme and totalitarian light.
The fact that the parties of the far right pursue ideas and practices in this field which we reject does not automatically mean that they should be excluded from politics or government, in our opinion.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, voting on a report devoted to human rights issues should make the House pause and reflect on a dreadful paradox.
With the adoption of this report today, we have taken a major step forward, since the European Parliament now once again has a basis for its work which entitles it to talk about human rights violations outside the European Union as well, since those who fail to acknowledge what is going on at home do not have the right to criticize what is happening outside.
We are therefore being invited to cast a single vote on 125 proposals that are very different in content and very unequal in value, some of them being extremely questionable, such as the one that I complained about in the debate preceding this vote.
After all, the Court's decisions can shed totally new and unexpected light on certain provisions of the Treaty, as we saw recently in the case of the Bosman judgment.
The absence of any right of appeal in such cases seems to us to be a serious violation of a fundamental human right - the right to a fair and full legal hearing.
And the fact that this kind of shortcoming quite often has an impact not on a particular individual, but on an entire nation, is of course an aggravating circumstance.
Certainly, the left in Parliament rightly supports a broader concept of fundamental human rights.
We vote in favour of this report, because we think its content is good.
We have voted for the report and most of the individual paragraphs, since we consider that the protection of human rights is in principle a general concern of humanity that transcends national frontiers.
We therefore do not think that the EU should become a legal person with authority to sign the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights, which is in any case quite unnecessary as all EU Member States are obliged to have ratified the Convention as a condition of membership.
An equivalent form of civilian service must be offered as an alternative to military service.
Finally, I wish to stress the importance of having international provisions on human rights but do not think that the EU should concern itself with these questions, because the EU is not the whole world and the Member States must act for themselves in large international organizations.
The Danish social democrats in the European Parliament first and foremost welcome the fact that Parliament is keeping a watchful eye on the human rights situation in the EU.
I have voted in favour of the report because one of our most important tasks as elected representatives in Parliament is to safeguard human rights and freedoms.
I voted against or abstained from voting on certain parts of the report, for example the right to an abode, which I do not think falls within the field of human rights.
Since we have a very broad conception of human rights the time we set aside for it always seems too short for us and there are very few chances to speak and to set out our declarations of vote.
Since we are concerned with the safety of our citizens, let us not limit it to the respect for human rights of some human beings whereas many others do not even have the security of survival.
If there were no will and determination to fight for a society in which human rights prevail it would be even more worrying to think to what extent the social situation in the European Union has deteriorated and how many other victims have been added to the victims of violations of human rights.
This is why this report is so necessary and timely and we hope there will be a resolution and some action taken, without ambiguous frontiers and without any hesitations or compromises which try to absolve people from any blame.
You are quite right, Mr Ford, but we have checked.
Mr President, the Commission has proposed to draft a Council Directive amending Directive 86/378/EEC on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in occupational social security schemes.
First of all, I should like to emphasize that we are not going to deal here with the general social security schemes but analyse exclusively supplementary schemes which certain companies offer to their employees and which in many cases are of enormous importance.
The situation is the following: as we all know, Article 119 of the Treaty on European Union stipulates equality of remuneration for men and women.
But since the case-law of the Court of Justice considers that this article is not applied to compulsory social security schemes, where they are directly regulated by law, the same is not true of occupational social security schemes.
As far as the Court of Justice is concerned these cases of occupational social security schemes are considered as part and parcel of remuneration and, consequently, may not be the subject of any derogations or distinctions.
Furthermore, it is worrying that what is happening to the case-law of the Court, as a consequence of the principle of equality, is that this is being used not to guarantee women the same income as men - as many reports have shown this difference is now reaching the order of 20 % less for women than for men - but that certain advantages are being withdrawn from women even those benefits that everyone used to acknowledge they were entitled to: for example, access to retirement at an earlier age.
It is the hard and fast rule that women carry out their occupational duties with a great feeling of responsibility and their value is acknowledged.
The main solution for this subject, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is for us to take advantage of the Intergovernmental Conference so that, when revising the Maastricht Treaty, we should consider equality between men and women as a fundamental right of all European citizens and that this must include any positive measures needed to turn that aim from a Utopian one into everyday reality.
Another amendment is aimed at making it possible for women taking part in social security schemes to have access to their pension rights.
Firstly, women must not be held hostage to the financial interests of the insurance companies.
For the obvious reasons set out by the rapporteur, whose work I would commend, we now have to amend the 1986 directive implementing the principle of equal treatment for men and women in occupational social security schemes.
I therefore hope that Parliament will adopt the amendment in question which I have tabled on behalf of my group, and I would also thank the rapporteur for her positive comments on this just now.
In conclusion, I should also like to take the opportunity of urging the Council to approve, at long last, the proposal from 1987 to amend the 1979 directive on equal treatment for men and women in statutory social security schemes.
Mr President, the aim of our work today is to guarantee greater protection for women in paid employment, in line with the treatment of men.
It is six years since the European Court of Justice laid down that all forms of pensions must provide parity of payment between men and women.
In calculating pensions, account must be taken of periods of inactivity in the life of a working woman, due to pregnancy and looking after small children.
In conclusion, this directive is a chapter, perhaps one of the most important, in the achievement of total equality in working conditions between men and women.
I also wonder whether women working outside the home still have a longer life expectancy than men.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of this directive could represent a further step towards the achievement of equal treatment and the difficult implementation of Article 119 of the Treaty.
The amendments tabled by Mrs Torres Marques, whom I would congratulate, principally concern the inclusion of workers with atypical or part-time contracts in occupational social security schemes.
The Court has always said that higher employers' pension contributions for women are not covered by this directive and are therefore permitted.
For many it is a first step into the labour market, for minimal wages and with little or no social protection.
All the Member States of the European Union put fine words on paper.
Mr President, equality between the sexes in my opinion is, above all, equality of opportunities and equality of responsibility.
However, nothing justifies the discriminations in legal texts such as those existing in Directive 79/007 and 86/378 which call for derogations to the principle of equal treatment.
Article 119 of the Treaty demands that treatment between men and women be equal.
The excellent report drafted by Helena Torres Marques refers to revision of the 1986 Directive.
The IGC must amend the Treaty so that it includes the fundamental right of equality between the sexes, but yet more is needed.
Mr President, I really have very little time in which to speak so I will not be able to talk about the technical and legal aspects of this question but I would like to make a compliment and three tiny remarks.
When we mention applying the principle of equality of treatment as one of the main objectives of the European Union's social policy - if such a policy existed - we ought to remember that Article 117 of the Treaty of Rome asserts the principle of equalization in progress which, for example, would prevent the retirement age for women coming up closer to that for men when it would be more favourable to bring the retirement age for men down to that of women, on the basis of arguments of egalitarianism, since in that way we will not achieve social equality and make any progress.
Finland was the second country in the world - and the first in Europe - where women were granted the right to vote.
The point of departure of the proposals for a directive of 1987 is the individualization of social security.
This would improve women's opportunities to lead more independent and many-sided lives because many women have to stop work completely or reduce their working hours for a longer or shorter period of time in order to bear and care for children.
Mr President, the social security systems of the various Member States still discriminate between the sexes.
The Commission very largely shares the concerns you have expressed in your report and in the motion for a resolution before us this afternoon.
The principle of equal treatment between women and men is a fundamental principle of Community law.
It is important to ensure its effectiveness and transparency in order to avoid any possible confusion on the part of national authorities at all levels called upon to apply that Community law.
It is also essential to ensure that European citizens are fully informed of all of their rights in this particular area.
This proposal for a directive aims to ensure that an act of secondary Community law, namely Directive 86/378, on equal treatment for men and women in occupational social security schemes, is consistent with the provision of primary Community law, namely Article 119 of the Treaty, as interpreted by the Court of Justice.
In its Barber judgment of 17 May 1990 and in subsequent interpreting judgments the Court of Justice of the European Communities recognizes that all forms of occupational pensions and, in turn, all forms of benefit deriving from employees' occupational social security schemes, constitute an element of pay within the meaning of Article 119 of the EC Treaty which provides for equal pay for men and women.
Article 119 of the Treaty is directly applicable and may be relied upon by individuals before the national courts against both public and private employers.
Consequently, certain provisions of Directive 86/378 providing for derogations from the principle of equal treatment, particularly with regard to retirement age and to survivors' benefits - that is Article 9 of Directive 86/378 - became invalid as far as salaried workers are concerned, since such persons can invoke Article 119 of the Treaty before national authorities.
I should clarify, however, that Article 119 of the Treaty does not apply to self-employed workers, in respect of whom Directive 86/378 remains wholly valid.
In the interests of legal certainty and of clarity, and in order to ensure consistency with Article 119 of the Treaty, the Commission presented this proposal for a directive amending Directive 86/378.
It goes without saying that it would be impossible to introduce any new provisions inconsistent with the case law since this could be achieved only by a Treaty amendment.
It is important to note that the Commission has on several occasions consulted government experts, Europeanlevel pension funds and actuary representatives, the Advisory Committee on Equal Opportunities and the social partners on the proposed amendments of Directive 86/378 in the light of the Barber judgment and subsequent judgments.
There has been a broad consensus for adjusting the text of Directive 86/378 to make it consistent with the Court's case law on Article 119 of the Treaty.
According to this case law, in order to apply equality of treatment between women and men, the rules of occupational pension schemes could , and I emphasize could , increase women's pensionable age or, in certain cases, provide that in order to ensure equal benefits, contributions paid by the employer in certain schemes - and I am talking here about funded schemes - could be different for women as against men.
But just allow me for a moment to remind you that we are here in an area of social protection where the autonomy of the social partners is relevant and matters such as pensionable age and the organization and financing of occupational schemes are subject to negotiations between the interested parties and, in particular, between employers and employees.
Furthermore, the Commission could not propose any measures which did not fall within the scope of Article 119 of the Treaty.
To go against the case law on this point would be to introduce new law and would, in any event, go beyond the scope of Directive 86/378.
Similarly, Amendments Nos 11, 12, 13 and 14 are also unnecessary because they take on board points that are already in the case law and consequently it is unnecessary to deal with them here.
Our task is to ensure the full application and effectiveness of a fundamental principle of Community law, and this proposal on which your opinion is requested seeks in every sense to fulfil that objective.
We did, if you remember, put forward a proposal in 1987, the purpose of which was to complete the implementation of the principle of equal treatment in both statutory and occupational social security matters.
It is my intention, as a consequence of what I have heard here regarding these matters, to do so.
Can the Commissioner enlighten us on this, because I can understand his concern, but not the fact that he is not prepared to do anything about it?
For example, Amendment No 1 talks about the exclusion of part-time workers but this is unnecessary because the point is already covered.
Similarly, all the amendments have been analysed in the light of what is possible under the existing Article 119 and whether the case law already deals with it.
Mrs van Dijk makes certain allegations and, as she says, it is here in Parliament that we should exchange views on these matters.
I have looked at all of these amendments in a rather positive way to take on board whatever I could, if I was permitted to do so under the terms of Article 119.
I have looked in particular at this question of atypical work and the nature of atypical work because it is reflected in several of the amendments.
The objective of Amendment No 5, for example, is to include atypical work.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, five years after the first Commission proposal was submitted, the European Parliament is at last able to deal with the common position at second reading.
The purpose of the directive is to ensure that the principles of the internal market on the one hand - freedom to provide services, in this case - and of economic and social cohesion on the other are not mutually exclusive.
Firstly, the principle of subsidiarity is taken into account, in that the Member States may, after consulting employers and employees, opt not to apply the provisions on minimum rates of pay for the first four weeks of a posting.
The Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, for which I am rapporteur, thinks it important in this context to specify that posted workers engaged in port dredging and in assisting shipping in port fall within the scope of the directive.
Mr President, as rapporteur I advised the committee to refrain from adopting any amendments to the common position, and the committee concurred.
This proposal on the posting of workers is a very significant proposal indeed, in its own way as important as the earlier directive on works councils.
In fact the common position as it now stands builds upon Parliament's first reading position in some ways.
In relation to the threshold, for example, or the inclusion of third-country nationals, it actually goes further than Parliament's first reading position.
It therefore relates to freedom of movement and freedom to provide services in the single market, which can be very important and positive things in the operation of the single market.
Not all these problems will be solved by the posting of workers directive but it will give us a framework within which people can be protected and can exercise these freedoms: the freedom of movement and the freedom to provide services.
The PPE Group supports the Council's decision, because now is the time to decide on this matter.
The PPE Group feels that this directive is so important that it is prepared to adopt the Council's common position without amendment.
The first reason concerns the principle of fair competition between Community shipowners, as reaffirmed by our rapporteur.
The annual wage costs of a passenger vessel vary considerably, depending on whether it is a French or British vessel.
The costs for a French vessel are FF 37 million; for an identical British vessel, they are FF 29 million.
However, if you replace half the British crew with Asian sailors, the wage costs fall to FF 19 million.
Where is the fair competition here, if this sum is compared to the FF 37 million?
Mr President, as several speakers have already pointed out, this proposal is a case of take it or leave it.
Mr President, consideration of the proposal for a Directive on posting of workers has taken an agonizingly long time.
This state of affairs has caused suffering in many countries, as the pay of workers posted to them temporarily has considerably undercut national wage levels.
The procedure in any case merely transfers unemployment from one country to another and increases pressure for cuts in pay and social security in Member States where levels of wages and social security are high.
The Council's joint position does not in all respects accord with the objectives of the European trade union movement.
The rest takes place by legislation.
And we would also emphasize that the role envisaged for the State in this scenario is an encroachment on the right of free negotiation between the two parties in Denmark.
This Council directive seeks to combat wage dumping and reduce distortion of competition in respect of the freedom to provide services, in order to create a level playing-field for all serviceproviders.
A Member State must indeed be free to decide whether to introduce such a measure without any transitional period, as soon as the service-provider begins work, or whether to wait for a month at most.
It is up to the Commission to keep a sharp eye on the Member States during the implementation process, and I hope that the report to be submitted to this House by the Commission a few years from now will state that wage dumping no longer represents a problem, particularly in sensitive sectors of the labour market.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the posting of workers carried out in the framework of the provision of services is one that is urgently needed.
They earn between DM 5 and DM 8 per hour, and live in shacks or porta cabins in very cramped conditions.
In my view, workers within and outside the EU must at last be placed on an equal footing.
Mr President, the proposal seeks to coordinate the legislations of the Member States with the aim of creating imperative rules which must be respected by companies which transfer their workers to another Member State of the Union.
We underline the fact that the directive is not intended to harmonize the material rules of the Member States, relating to the right to work and the conditions in which it is expressed, but it is intended to coordinate the regulations appropriate to determine a list of priorities.
We attribute, finally, great importance to the planned duty of information and cooperation between the states, an obligation which should also be extended to the Member States which did not approve this common position in the Council.
Mr President, this Directive, by giving the European Union a legal base so that wage dumping in all Member States can be fought, is aimed at ending discrimination and exploitation to which thousands of workers are subjected, Portuguese workers in particular, when they are posted in other Community countries; more important still is to restore the respect and dignity to which workers are entitled and not allowing international company competition to exist at the cost of workers.
The existence of derogations for voluntary application by Member States might create inequalities of treatment between different industrial sectors, between different companies and between different workers.
Finally, defining collective bargaining or arbitration decisions in the way in which they are formulated might not ensure equal treatment between national companies and foreign ones offering the same service.
For our part, we approve of measures which help to combat social dumping and the exploitation of workers but we could not accept that, through these measures, we might practise discrimination against Portuguese companies operating in the common market and far less could we accept that identical measures should not be applied to companies based in third countries.
We also must complain about the very long time which has lapsed since the presentation of the first Directive proposal and this present proposal, which has led to a six year delay in the adoption of vital measures to fight social dumping in the Community's Single Market.
While pointing out this aspect, I should like to make yet another appeal to the Commission, the Council and the Member States to pay due attention to the social dimension of European construction.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a directive - which has, incidentally, been rejected in the Council by the UK and Portugal - is based on the twin assumptions that the construction industry in the so-called high-wage countries is in need of protection, and that the posting there of workers from so-called low-wage countries constitutes wage and social dumping, which results in unfair competition.
The main cause of the wage and social dumping which is evident in some of the so-called high-wage countries is in fact the alarming rise in illegal terms of employment.
The adoption of contractual or national minimum rates of pay not only serves to eliminate the wage-cost benefits of posting workers from low-wage countries in high-wage countries; more significantly, it also becomes impossible, or at least much more difficult, for posted workers to find employment in host countries which have higher wage levels.
However, Article 48 of the EC Treaty, in conjunction with Article 7a, second paragraph, of the Treaty, secures the freedom of workers to obtain employment on their own terms in any Member State.
This right of free movement is a cornerstone of the completion of the internal market, and it applies even to posted workers working in another country under the terms of employment of their home country.
There is very strong support here in the House for the common position adopted by the Council on 3 June on the proposal for a directive on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services.
As the Commission pointed out in its recent communication to Parliament, the common position now contains a number of important features which reflect the amendments that were proposed by Parliament in February 1993.
In this very complex field of rules governing conflicts of laws applicable to employment contracts, we have managed to arrive at a text which is both realistic and maintains an essential balance between economic freedoms and the rights of workers.
In the light of all that, the Commission cannot accept the amendments before us today whose content is likely to jeopardize what we think is a very hard won balance.
Finally, I would like to thank all of those who have been very generous in their praise of the Commissioner and of the Council in finally putting to bed this very important piece of legislation.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, five minutes is scarcely enough time to consider ways of solving the problem of unemployment!
The motion for a resolution before the House today for the debate and tomorrow for the vote has only one purpose: to ask the Commission to study in depth, using all the modern econometric and computer-based methods, the feasibility and effectiveness of a new policy of social taxation designed to promote a marked reduction in working time so as to reduce unemployment substantially.
This report is the product of 18 months of work and debate in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment.
The only financial reservation concerns the fact that the EU Member States spend roughly 4.5 % of GDP, or a total for the Union of ECU 350 billion, on unemployment benefits.
The money saved could be made available to firms to allow them to compensate - to the tune of 85 % or 95 %, as determined by negotiation - for any loss of earnings.
The new idea to be studied would be to alter social security contributions, and perhaps on occasion - for instance in the United Kingdom and Denmark - company taxation: these charges could be drastically cut by almost a half for a working week of less than 32 hours, and more than doubled for one of over 32 hours.
Calculations have revealed that we could expect several million jobs to be created swiftly in the Union.
It is our hope that a large majority in the House will endorse what is not European legislation, but a request for an idea to be studied.
That is why we have agreed, at the request of the PPE and Liberal Groups, to change the title of the text from 'Resolution on a reduction in working hours' to 'Resolution on a reduction and adaptation of working hours' .
Ladies and gentlemen, the House would bring much credit upon itself by submitting not only to the Commission, but also to public opinion at large, a sound and innovative idea which just might be effective at long last in combatting unemployment.
Although, following the Essen Summit, governments have been instituting concerted policies on growth, training, labour market flexibility and social security reform, we have not given enough attention to the issue of working time and what contribution it can make to tackling our unemployment problem.
This is a theme which follows on from the White Paper presented by President Delors.
In Europe 18 million people are out of work while others work excessively long hours and it is incumbent on the Commission and Member States to examine closely and carefully what contribution the reduction in working time can make to solving the unemployment crisis.
It is not a substitute for regenerating areas hard-hit by long-term unemployment and bringing the long-term unemployed back into the economic mainstream.
Our studies would suggest an extra 1 % employed - not trivial but certainly not an overall solution to the problem.
Those of us who are in the process of transposing the working time directive which came in for health and safety reasons know what difficulties we have experienced from both sides: from workers who are earning a lot of overtime and do not want to see that cut and from employers who are paying very low wages and expect to see their costs rise if they cannot subsidize wages by offering generous overtime hours to their workers.
As I have said, those of us who are in the throes of doing that in order to meet the deadline of 23 November for the working time directive are already experiencing the flak.
First, the transposition of the working time directive, although primarily conceived as a health and safety measure, will have an impact on reducing working hours and reducing excessive overtime.
Secondly, the opening of negotiations by the social partners under the social protocol on part-time work is opening up possibilities in that area.
In examining the potential for social security savings to fund reductions in working time without loss of pay to those currently in work, we need to acknowledge the deadweight problem.
In my own country about 3 % of the workforce leave employment or take up jobs every month so massive movements are already taking place with people moving in and out of work and with people already adjusting their working hours.
If we have to pay for what is already happening there are additional costs over and above the marginal cost of paying for the extras - the extra movement in working time that we may liberate as a result of implementing some of these proposals.
Knocking off three or four hours a week in a company employing two, three or four people is not necessarily going to create an extra job.
In the fight against unemployment no solution, whatever the problems - and I have sketched out some of the potential difficulties - can simply be brushed aside.
We do not see them as solving our unemployment problem but we see them as making a contribution that none of us can afford to overlook.
I do not think it will be simply a matter of straightforward implementation of the proposals.
But if we have courage and imagination the Council, Commission and Parliament can together explore what contribution reductions in working time can make to solving Europe's largest problem and a problem we have made central to the Irish presidency - the problem of unemployment.
It is entirely unacceptable that in a society where work is held up as such an ideal, at least 18 million people - but more likely more than 30 million - are out of work against their will.
People often worry about productivity with higher wage costs, but research in my country, where as you know, reduced working hours and part-time work are fairly common, shows that the effects of shorter working hours on productivity are much more positive than is frequently thought.
In the collective bargaining where decisions are taken on reducing working hours in my country, the workers agree to 'pay' for shorter working hours with moderate wage claims and greater flexibility over a number of years.
It is unfortunate that some groups in the European Parliament are trying to equate shorter working hours with flexibility and/or the reorganization of working time.
We must find new ways of tackling this major political and social challenge, but we have to ensure that our ideas are practicable.
The Volkswagen model of a four-day week is not universally valid, neither in the automobile industry nor in other sectors.
The attitude of the Group of the European People's Party is unequivocal: we are in favour of a sensible, flexible adaptation of working time.
All of this must be included in the Commission study.
The reality is that unless we are competitive, that unless we allow our businesses and enterprises to prosper, to grow and to compete on the world market we are ultimately doomed to fail; not only in the sense of protecting existing jobs but also in ensuring that we try to find new forms of work for the long-term unemployed.
In the report that has been presented there is no impact assessment, not even in respect of what the Commission describes as the engine for economic and employment generation in the Union: the SMEs.
Furthermore, it mistakenly assumes that international studies have said that a reduction in working hours will help to increase employment.
However, I firmly believe that we have a political responsibility to combat unemployment in Europe by every means possible.
It also works much better in larger companies where it is easier to organize, whereas its advantages for smaller firms are much less obvious.
Mr President, the 6 + 6 model has been experimented with in Finnish industry, and it has yielded many benefits.
It is difficult to attain in public services all the benefits to which I have referred, which were achieved in the private sector.
I therefore myself consider it essential to earmark economic resources particularly for experiments in reducing working time and altering the allocation of work in the public sector, to enable any pay cuts to be compensated - ideally, 100 %.
The model proposed in the report whereby social security contributions would be graduated according to the length of the working day is a good one.
Mr President, the Greens greatly welcome this initiative and the report's view of working hours reductions as an important contribution to bringing down unemployment.
What we have before us is, so to speak, the best that could have come out of this situation.
Obviously because we must share jobs and bring down unemployment, but also because they lead to greater equality of opportunity, greater fairness, and an increased quality of life.
I am thinking here, for example, of the 'green' taxation option and investment in new energy and transport systems.
These measures have not been given so much coverage, but they would also really create many, many hundreds of thousands of jobs.
Mr President, the Council and the Commission have really taken a terribly long time over this issue of a reduction in working hours.
There was the Maastricht 3 % rule, which meant an automatic block on social issues.
There were continual complaints from employers about the excessively high social contributions, and the reduction in our competitive capacity.
Let us be clear about one thing: a reduction in working hours is not a miracle solution to unemployment.
There are a number of amendments to this report which talk about a reduction in working hours without loss of earnings.
In our view, the rapporteur is right to adopt a different approach in proposing that some of the ECU 350 billion currently paid out in unemployment benefits should be used to compensate for loss of earnings.
Basically, this is a debate on the kind of quality of life and new social developments that we, as politicians, would like to see.
Instead, the ranks of the unemployed swelled from one to three million in France during François Mitterrand's two seven-year periods in office.
The amount of work available in the European Union, and particularly in France, has not been frozen at its present level once and for all.
You say that average working hours are a variable linked to the level of employment.
Why is it then that unemployment is falling in the United States and is so low in Japan when, statistically, workers in those countries work longer hours than in Europe?
A reduction in weekly, monthly or annual working time will not, therefore, automatically bring down unemployment.
The quality and quantity of human work cannot be confined to your statistical notion of working time.
White-collar staff, for whom there is no such thing as overtime, will work as much as before, even if they are supposed to work 32 hours.
After all, according to the Delors White Paper, reductions in working hours in the northern Member States led to the creation of 8 % more jobs, even accounting in the Netherlands for half of the 30 % rise in employment.
In Germany too, between 1983 and 1992 a third of newly-created jobs were attributable to reduced working time.
We must nevertheless be realistic about one thing: growth alone will have only a minimal impact on employment.
The Prognos Institute in Basle has predicted, for example, that Germany will have no more jobs in the year 2010 than in 1992, primarily as a result of gains in productivity.
Even Mr Vandemeulebroucke should realize that.
Mr President, today's report on the reduction of working time shows Parliament's ability to make a significant contribution to solving the problems of the day.
First of all, Europe with all its diversity has an equal need for a reduction and a flexible reorganization of working time, in order to cater for sectoral needs and business circumstances, taking particular account of the specific features of SMEs.
In this context, the amendments tabled by the PPE Group and ourselves would make the proposed solutions far more realistic and acceptable to all the countries and political movements represented in this House.
In this respect, the amendments tabled by the PPE Group making European action in this area contingent on the outcome of the studies commissioned seem to me to be very wise.
In ten years, Mr President, our debate today will stand out as hopelessly unrealistic.
Even more impracticable is the hypothesis of subordinating a reduction in working hours to a reduction in wages.
In Europe and many countries there is now a real wage problem, frequently forcing workers to increase rather than reduce working hours, by working overtime.
If the European Community can set binding targets for reducing deficits and debt for Europe, as it does, then it should also be able to set binding targets for reducing working hours in quantity and over time, so that government action and the work of social forces are concentrated on that objective.
Mr President, reductions in working time are part of our economic history.
This is of course a controversial subject, and opponents of shorter working hours have no difficulty in stating that in the United States and the United Kingdom, unemployment is falling steadily and there has never been so much work.
Nor do I believe that a reduction in working time is the only way of combatting unemployment.
Rather than being a means of managing a scarce supply of work, a reduction in working hours must result from a change in our relationship with work, which is now losing the pride of place that it enjoyed some years ago.
Companies, on the other hand, are already starting to produce some interesting results: there are a number of examples, notably at Volkswagen, Philips and elsewhere.
Michel Rocard mentioned the sum of ECU 350 billion paid out in unemployment benefits.
Mr President, Michel Rocard thought he had invented a machine to reduce unemployment, but he has discovered a time machine, turning the clock back not only to Léon Blum and his famous 40-hour week, but to the debates of Socrates and the sophists 2500 years ago.
Unemployment exists for many reasons, without a doubt, but one of them is glaringly self-evident: unemployment exists because there are not enough jobs, and there are not enough jobs because, when enough did exist, they were destroyed.
You say the great law of history is reducing working hours: 3200 hours at the end of the nineteenth century; 1700 hours today, after the laws of 1900, 1902, 1904 and 1906 - and, your friends even add, without affecting GDP.
The reduction in working time has therefore created 11 million jobs.
This is in fact the title of Guy Asnar's book.
You are like Michel Foucault: you believe that history is static, you believe in structuralism, with your model of the underdog living in poverty.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time to the Commission (B4-0838/96) Question No 30 by Ben Fayot (H-0577/96) Subject: The European Parliament's right of initiative Article 138b of the EC Treaty empowers the European Parliament, acting by a majority of its Members, to request the Commission to submit any appropriate proposal on matters on which it considers that a Community act is required for the purpose of implementing that Treaty.
In its resolution on the 1996 legislative programme, the European Parliament had called on the Commission to submit legislative proposals on the above two initiatives.
The same request was also contained in the European Parliament's draft for a joint declaration on the legislative programme.
Mr President, to deal firstly with the resolution contained in the Rothley report, Document A4-0201/95, it is quite clear to us that major difficulties arise when accident victims have to seek compensation for their injuries from insurance companies in other Member States.
I should like to know how - in principle - the Commission intends to address the right of initiative conferred on the European Parliament by Article 138b of the Maastricht Treaty.
I should like to know whether the Commission has a positive or a restrictive attitude towards initiatives from the European Parliament.
Question No 31 by Angela Billingham (H-0619/96) Subject: Camping and caravan site standards Tourism is an important industry in Europe, with camping and caravanning being one of the primary and fastest growing ways of taking one's holidays.
In many European countries there appears to be no control over allotted camping space, the provision of firefighting equipment, sanitary provisions and many other items which are controlled by the Caravan Sites Act, 1968 in the United Kingdom.
Health and safety on camping and caravan sites, like health and safety in holiday complexes, hotels, discos, amusement parks and so on, represents a general set of issues connected with safety in the provision of services.
These issues are becoming increasingly important in the context of our consumer protection policy.
However, we are considering submitting a new proposal to deal with this matter.
Millions and millions of people across Europe now depend on caravanning for their holiday.
But those three areas have to be linked, and the only way they can be linked is in an identifiable procedure.
Does the Commissioner not agree that the problem raised by Mrs Billingham clearly illustrates that tourism ought to have a competence within the European Union - as many of us have argued - in the revision of the IGC, so that in the case of the free movement of people, as is exemplified by this problem, we can have common rules which actually ensure the safety of tourists?
I am thinking, for example, of our regulation on liability in the case of defective products.
That is not to say that I am against including tourism in the list of Union competences, but it is not necessary to do so in order to deal with the cases in question.
As the authors are not present, Questions Nos 32 and 33 lapse.
As provided for in the OECD agreement, such decisions can be raised in the Parties Group if there is any doubt as to whether they are compatible with the agreement.
Unfortunately, I did not get a reply to the last point in my question, where I ask the Commission to confirm that, once the OECD agreement is ratified, it will no longer be possible to grant state aid to the shipbuilding industry in the Union.
Secondly, I should like to hear what the Commission plans to do to ensure that the United States signs the agreement.
The Commission will consider each case and publish its conclusions in the Official Journal.
What would be recorded in the Official Journal would be if a country - Denmark for example - granted subsidies to its shipyards.
Let me give you an example: a ship is ordered from a shipyard, and the country concerned pays that yard 20 % in subsidies in order to reduce the price of the ship to the client by that amount.
This has nothing to do with shipbuilding, in fact it may well be an environmental protection measure.
The Commission investigates the aid and decides whether it is in breach of Article 92 or any other provision of the Treaty, and it is then either prohibited or - if it complies with the provisions of the Treaty - permitted.
The decision is then published in the Official Journal.
If you have a question for the Council, then put it to the Council, and the Council will give you information about the protocols.
The Commission has even less reason to keep such protocols secret, because what we record in protocols is our opinion.
You are now asking me what our opinion is, and I am telling you, here before the House.
Such authorization will only be given if the drug contained in the substance that has already been evaluated also fulfils the criteria of safety, quality and efficacity laid down in Directives 81/851 and 81/852, and if no other provisions of Community legislation stand in the way.
In the case of Azamethipos, a maximum residue limit was fixed on 25 June this year.
As regards somato salm , the position is different because the Committee on Veterinary Medicinal Products has not delivered a positive opinion, and this substance must therefore be the subject of a Council regulation.
The Commission therefore asked the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products to supply additional information concerning the risk of illegal use of somato salm .
The second product, Azamethipos, deals with sea lice, which are causing considerable problems in the salmon industry, not just in Scotland but throughout the Union, stunting growth and causing problems with stocks.
I believe that is important.
I declined simply to authorize it, although a number of documents and attestations were submitted indicating that somato salm was completely harmless.
We are in no doubt about the importance of this industry.
Since the last enlargement of the Union - with the accession of Finland and Sweden in particular, but also that of Austria - forest cover in the Union has doubled to more than 120 million hectares.
But of course there is extensive internal and external trade in most forestry products.
Mr President, there are many different aspects to this forestry policy.
Naturally, we are in contact with the relevant groups in the industry, but we have also involved other interest groups in the debate.
We also hope that we shall be able to play an active part in the preparations for the intergovernmental panel on forests, particularly as regards the problems of trade and the environment, and I hope we shall achieve a sensible solution in that context.
Question No 38 by Felipe Camisón Asensio (H-0678/96) Subject: Computerized numbering of telecommunications What are the Commission's proposals for adopting an opinion on computerized numbering, and its possible effect on the routing of telephone calls, in the telecommunications industry?
So far, we have not introduced pan-European numbers, and have only been able to agree, in two directives, on a common emergency number - 112 - and a common international access code, 00.
The Commission intends to publish a green paper on numbering before the end of this year.
We have to look at how numbering is being implemented in the European telecommunications sector, above all with a view to deregulation in 1998.
The green paper on numbering will tackle this question, as well as the harmonization of national numbering plans, the allocation of free numbers for telephone services, the question of choice of carrier, and the establishment of a long-term numbering plan for Europe.
We have to create the conditions for users to be able to retain their old numbers when they switch operators.
That is our intention.
We must guarantee them freedom of choice in terms of quality, service and prices, and we intend to do so by this means.
Thank you for the information you have just given us, Commissioner, and I was pleased to hear the answer that I was hoping for when I tabled this question - when, that is, the Commission intends to present the green paper on this issue, which you have announced for the end of this year.
It must be dealt with, moreover, in a manner which is compatible throughout the Member States.
Question No 39 by David Bowe (H-0682/96) Subject: Extraction solvents The annex to Directive 88/344/EEC on extraction solvents used in the production of foodstuffs and food ingredients, (revised 92/115/EEC and 94/52/EEC ) does not list the food extraction solvent 1.1.1.2-tetrafluoroethane.
If, as in this case, you insist on the codecision procedure, it will take longer.
Question No 40 by Marjatta Stenius-Kaukonen (H-0714/96) Subject: Endotoxin content of breast-milk substitutes According to information published in the last few days, breast-milk substitutes have been found to contain large quantities of endotoxins.
An international research group has stated that there are a number of brands of breast-milk substitutes - including Nestlé's products - on the European market with toxin contents of up to 700 nanograms per millilitre.
We are aware of this matter of endotoxins, and of press reports of the study referred to in the question.
According to the information available to the Commission, the study did not appear in scientific journals, nor was it submitted to other scientists for checking.
We should be glad to check whether there is already such a provision in the Member States, or in our own regulations and directives.
Question No 41 by Maj Theorin (H-0628/96) Subject: EMU The Trade Union Confederation in Sweden has raised the question whether the democratic basis of monetary policy decisions will be eliminated in future.
As regards the content of the Treaty, Article 109a stipulates that the President, the Vice-President and the other members of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank are to be appointed by common accord of the governments of the Member States at the level of Heads of State or Government, after consultation of the European Parliament.
This appointment procedure therefore ensures complete transparency and democracy.
The monetary focus will be the future European Central Bank, whose role is to conduct monetary policy in complete independence.
It will lay down exchange-rate policy - under Article 109 of the Treaty - and will be competent in the areas of employment and economic cooperation.
The American economist, Martin Feldstein, writes in the Economist that the economic arguments in favour of EMU are so dubious and the risks so palpable that the project would never have been pursued if there had not been strong subsidiary reasons of a political nature.
The two arguments he cites are neo-liberalism and federalism.
In my view, democracy will not increase by taking away from national parliaments and governments the right to take decisions on financial and monetary policy.
Indeed, it is a good thing to reduce deficits, above all in terms of employment.
Introducing the single currency, in other words eliminating monetary fluctuations, is also a good thing in terms of growth and employment.
I do not know what happens in the rest of the European Union but the principle that the British Parliament operates on is that no Parliament can bind its successors.
Under the European system, one can enter at any time, but one can never leave, and in this respect the Maastricht Treaty is no different from the Treaty of Rome or the other European treaties.
Having said that, I believe that the advantages are sufficiently great and sufficiently positive for the population to appreciate the benefits of this Union.
I would add this, which seems a very important point to me: now that capital movements have been completely liberalized, monetary sovereignty will not be diminished by economic and monetary union.
It is not honest to put forward a proposal for a monetary union which deals with exchange-rate and monetary issues without there also being parallel powers in relation to financial policy, incomes policy and the other forms of economic policy.
One may be in favour of a centrally determined economic policy, but then all the policy instruments must be in place.
One cannot be in favour of a separation of policy instruments such as that contained in the Maastricht Treaty.
I believe that in order to make monetary union work, it is important for budgetary policies to be well coordinated and for us all to be pursuing the same objectives.
That would then result in monetary upheavals and increases in interest rates and, eventually, in slower growth and increased unemployment.
Question No 42 by Hans Lindqvist (H-0637/96) Subject: Targets and methods for reducing unemployment The Florence Summit this June gave the go-ahead for Economic and Monetary Union.
What plans does the Commissioner have for specific constitutional measures to reduce unemployment and increase employment in the Member States of the EU?
In order to make substantial inroads into unemployment, the Commission is proposing an overall strategy, which I have already had an opportunity of presenting to the House.
The Commission is therefore shouldering in full its responsibilities in the field of employment, which, I would remind you, is the main priority of our economic policy, so much so that in its submission to the IGC the Commission asked that, in the Treaty, employment should be regarded by the Member States of the Union as a matter of common interest, on the same footing as economic policy and exchange-rate policy.
I note that since 1975, public deficits and the number of persons out of work have risen alongside one another in Europe.
If public deficits created jobs, then given their level in Europe, we would have surplus employment.
The Commission has on several occasions presented to this House, the Council of Ministers and the European Council its global strategies on employment.
I would add that in almost all cases, national measures are what is required.
We have seen during the last week the response by labour, by workers, by trade unions in Germany to the proposed cuts in public services and cuts in public benefits as a consequence of the German Government's determination to meet the Maastricht criteria for EMU.
There is no other solution: if the Member States did not create jobs, the markets would punish them and, ultimately, interest rates in those countries would rise.
Consequently, growth would fall and it would become even more difficult to create jobs.
And I am confident that a significant number of Member States will meet the conditions laid down in the Treaty by the end of next year.
However, in line with the statement by the Heads of State and Government in Madrid last December, the decision to proceed with economic and monetary union will be taken as early as possible in 1998 by the European Council, on the basis of reports from the European Monetary Institute and the Commission, and after consultation of Parliament.
The evaluation process will therefore take place in late 1997 or early 1998, on the basis of the results for 1997.
Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Commissioner, for the answer.
The reason why I ask the question is that there is great hesitancy with regard to EMU all across Europe, and that worries me.
If only a few countries are involved when EMU is launched, I think that hesitancy will be prolonged in Europe.
As regards the relationship between employment and EMU, it is clear that an excessively harsh budgetary policy in a short-range perspective may have a negative effect on employment.
In the longer term, however, I see no conflict between the fight against inflation and the fight against unemployment.
The European Council meeting in Dublin will have to give its verdict - and Parliament will shortly be receiving proposals on these matters from the Commission - on the legal status of the euro, the stability pact designed to ensure sound budgetary management, and the new European monetary system, which will avoid Europe being split in two with, on one side, the countries joining the monetary union at the outset - the 'ins' - and, on the other, those which do not join at the outset and are keen to join - the 'pre-ins' .
Furthermore, I would maintain that the economic forecasts which we presented to your Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy last spring still hold good today, 17 September; I have every reason to think so.
As the author is not present, Question No 48 lapses.
Question No 49 by Jonas Sjöstedt (H-0624/96) Subject: Environmental rules in the new Member States During their membership negotiations, Sweden, Finland and Austria secured the right to maintain certain more stringent environmental standards for a period of four years.
As regards the Commission document of 10 April 1996 which is referred to in the question, this document does not correspond to the Commission's official stance.
As for my own views on this matter, I would refer to my speech to Parliament on 3 July 1996, in which I made it clear that my position has always been and continues to be that in my sector, in other words the environment, none of the new Member States should be obliged to reduce their health and environmental standards after the expiry of the transitional period.
The document refers to another document from the Legal Service of 13 December 1995, which states that there are problems in applying the so-called environmental guarantee to the new Member States.
I wonder whether this document is or can be made public, and what kind of problems are there in relation to Article 100a(4), the so-called environmental guarantee?
The document also concludes that it would be difficult to get a majority in the Council if the standards which are the highest in Europe were put forward.
I would assume that the Member States are fully aware of how the internal procedures operate.
Question No 50 by Birgitta Ahlqvist (H-0625/96) Subject: Environmental clean-up operations on the Kola Peninsula The environmental situation on the Kola Peninsula may be described as disastrous, with radiation levels, for instance, 500 times higher than normal European levels.
The Commission has no information to support the claim that radiation levels on the Kola Peninsula in the north-west of Russia are 500 times higher than normal European levels.
A sum of ECU 5 million was earmarked for this work.
According to a document from the Commission, they are 500 times higher than normal in Europe.
No other country in the world has so many nuclear power reactors in such a small area, and a couple of these are among the ten most dangerous in the world.
According to the Bellona Foundation, 16 nuclear reactors have been dumped in the Kara Sea.
It is not just the future of the Kola Peninsula that is at stake, but the future of Europe as a whole.
I share the questioner's concern at these problems, and that is why the Commission is actively tackling the matter.
This entails expenditure of ECU 3 million.
In addition, there are plans for an assessment of the management and storage of spent fuel in the region, including transport facilities, the development of a radioactive waste management policy for the region, and work of a more general kind to train staff in the management of radioactive waste.
The Commission is currently changing the arrangements for eco-labelling.
As the author is not present, Question No 52 lapses.
The Commission fully supports greater openness and transparency in the legislative process, and therefore welcomed the code of conduct adopted by the Council in October 1995.
In the specific case of the directive on PCBs and PCTs, it emerged from the discussions in connection with the final adoption of the directive by the Council that a declaration which had been drawn up at the start of the negotiations - in January 1995, before the Council adopted the code of conduct later that year and thus during the previous Commission - was unsatisfactory from the point of view of legal certainty.
The Commission will continue to respect all its commitments to the European Parliament and keep it fully informed, as laid down in the Treaty and in the code of conduct between the Commission of which I am a member and Parliament.
The Commission is not in possession of the documents concerning the consequences of the use of depleted uranium in the Gulf War which are quoted in the 'Sunday Times' article referred to in the question.
Commissioner, will you endeavour to get a copy of this report and assess its implications?
The risk attached to exposure to these particles is therefore determined more by the low radiological toxicity of depleted uranium than by its chemical toxicity.
We are in favour of a longer process of reflection, study and analysis.
If the public authorities were to promote the mechanism described in the report, this would lead to trade union and social demands for its introduction across all sectors and businesses.
And finally, measures to adjust or reduce working hours or make them more flexible cannot be imposed: they must be discussed and, where appropriate, decided on - and the rapporteur also recognizes this - by the two sides of industry and in the workplace.
Madam President, the proposal to use generalized reductions in working hours to try to combat the high levels of unemployment in European Union countries seems to arise from an attitude of surrender.
The only positive and credible response to unemployment is to create new job opportunities through new entrepreneurial initiatives.
From this viewpoint there is a need to develop greater flexibility in the labour market.
To combat unemployment it is necessary to reorganize working time by using various formulae such as the relationship between full-time and part-time, temporary work, part-time forms of entry designed for young people with little experience and part-time separation for older workers.
Madam President, I cannot address myself to all the aspects of the report in one minute.
This new configuration of working time, via flexibility and precarious working, is aimed at making better use of equipment, increasing productivity and competitiveness without making any guarantee to create new jobs, on the contrary, and seeing lower wages for unemployed workers as a foregone conclusion, possibly to be compensated through complicated machinery.
By applying this principle and defining practical limits this might have been brought about in each Member State in accordance with the respective situations and industrial relations prevailing there.
The Rocard report starts out from the false premise that Europe exists in isolation and that the jobs available should be shared out amongst all working people.
My own country, Austria, for example, fell back five places in one year from 1994 to 1995, and is now no longer in eleventh but in sixteenth position.
Surely the only thought behind the Rocard report can be: how do we create more jobs?
Nor does it attempt to conceal the reality or the need for this debate in our societies.
There is a great potential for job-creation in these proposals for a reduction in working hours.
Now, with the traditional formulas exhausted, and in the knowledge that even growth is unable to absorb the available labour, a rational, serious and rigorous debate on a reduction in working hours may enable us to see how jobs can be created in the near future.
This diffidence is in fact understandable, because the simplicity of the question conceals a series of very complex issues.
On the other hand, in countries like Portugal the average working hours are still a long way off the limits referred to in this report.
Placing on the agenda the question of the distribution of work, at a time when unemployment is the most serious problem facing us, is to my mind a welcome initiative.
Over the last ten years, productivity in Spain has risen by 25 %, but wages have risen by only 7 %.
Madam President, the rapporteur has presented a report whose starting-point is a very optimistic one.
The problem, Mr Rocard, is that no public or local authority in the European Union can create lasting jobs; only businesses can do that.
And as for the claim that a reduction in working hours creates more jobs, small and medium-sized enterprises, when rationalizing their operations, have proved unable to do so, and large firms are shifting some of their production to third countries.
As long as we have huge discrepancies in Europe - from Iceland, with 31.2 % of net pay to Austria with 102.4 %, and an EU average of 78 % - the question of job creation in some European regions will always remain problematic.
I would therefore stress the importance of educational leave in the distribution of working time.
I have also observed that young families want flexible working hours while their children are young.
In addition, there are sectors where it is very convenient to adopt the 6 + 6 hour model.
In recent years, the 'breathing factory' model has emerged, for example at Opel in Rüsselsheim, with its central band of working time allowing for longer or shorter working hours, depending on the flow of work.
We should not raise workers' expectations too high, for example with rigid - but mistaken - mathematical formulae such as: 10 % less working time equals 10 % more jobs.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, employment represents one of the principal current and future problems of many of the countries in the European Union.
Madam President, in this week's European Voice , German Chancellor Helmut Kohl is quoted as 'urging Germans to work harder, finish their education earlier and retire later' .
A system which arbitrarily reduces contributions on the first 32 hours of work and then increases them for later hours does not seem to me to be in accordance with that new principle of transparency which we are trying to secure.
A reduction in working hours on those lines would raise production costs and lower competitiveness and employment.
But the proposal suffers from the weakness that it gives politicians in all countries a further excuse to delay real measures to combat unemployment.
Many in the European Parliament rightly speak of the hostages of unemployment.
It is important to approach the issue from the angle that you have chosen, and you have put the accent on people.
I firmly believe that the aim of economic policy should be to raise the quality of life of all of our people.
I believe I share this aim with the majority of Members of this House and particularly with you, Mr Rocard.
Another important feature of your approach is the accent which you put on cooperation and dialogue.
Mr Rocard, the Commission is currently preparing a Green Paper on work organization, including working time, and it is fair to say that this Green Paper is being prepared as a response to your initiative.
Since the White Paper on growth, competitiveness and employment was adopted we have put a lot of effort into working time and arrangements for a considerable number of studies to be undertaken - you particularly asked for this, Mr Rocard.
The most important condition is that reductions in working hours must take place in the context of greater flexibility.
With regard to wages, the most successful reductions in working time in recent years have occurred when working time reductions have been incorporated into long-term bargaining packages.
Such long-term packages have the advantage of making it possible to use productivity increases to reduce working time over a period of several years while, at the same time, reducing the wage increases needed to offset the reduction in working time.
The main solution put forward in your report was the question of using savings in unemployment benefit to compensate for reductions in pay resulting from reductions in working time.
The relationship between reductions in working time, productivity and wages is, however, a complex one which varies from sector to sector and, indeed, from country to country, as was already stated, as of course do the social security systems themselves.
Firstly, we are going to prepare the Green Paper I referred to on work organization, including working time.
Thirdly, we have taken an initiative which has led to negotiations between the social partners at European level on the whole question of flexibility and security of employment.
It is very much in line with point 6 of your resolution.
Mr Rocard, you have started something!
The debate is closed.
Furthermore, the data that Member States have to provide on the basis of the 1982 legislation is not always comparable across the European Union.
The proposal is to set up reciprocal data exchange covering 34 pollutants currently measured in the Member States.
The problem with this fairly minimalist approach is that one of the aims of the directive is to extend the scope and improve the quality of data transmitted to the Commission.
If we do not take this tiny step towards thinking about improving the system, how can we expect Member States to implement the Framework Directive on ambient air quality?
As I said, this directive is actually a tool to move some way to achieving the goals laid down in that very important Framework Directive on which we have only recently had the second reading in this House.
I do not intend to take up a lot of time from the House this evening; in fact, not all of my allotted speaking time because we have had our first reading and made our points then.
I simply want to say that the five amendments to the common position from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection are clear, reasonable, quite modest and self-explanatory.
They seek first of all to simplify the title because we are not in favour of the European Union extending its gobbledegook throughout the Union.
In order for that public access to the data to be actually useful to the public we also want it to be published in a clear and understandable form.
As we said in Amendment No 5, we want to tighten up that review process so that when the review actually takes place, if we find that things are not as good as we would like them to be, we can consider the possibility of being able to move to a stricter basis in the future.
If information is comparable between countries, the public will also be able to put pressure on the politicians and authorities responsible in their own country to improve air quality.
It causes 62 % of carbon monoxide emissions and 50 % of nitrogen dioxide emissions.
In my opinion, we as Europeans have the right to demand better air quality in all respects.
Of course the Member States are doing that - there is a directive which obliges everyone to make this information available to the public.
We therefore believe that five years is preferable.
And, secondly, whereas the text of the common position states that it will be determined at that time whether or not the decision should be amended, you are proposing to oblige all the Member States to measure the 13 pollutants in question, and many others in certain areas.
A common fund of data on air quality in the Union will provide a strong argument for firm action against acidification and eutrophication through air pollution.
Madam President, the proposed measurements are necessary in order to improve the lives of our citizens in the future, because they will provide an objective basis for taking effective steps against air pollution.
I have no hesitation in supporting the amendments to simplify the title and improve access to the information which is obtained.
I would repeat the point that this proposal and the directive on air quality which was dealt with here in May this year complement one another.
Five of these ten amendments were incorporated wholly or partially into the common position.
Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 4 are an appropriate supplement to the proposed requirements, and can be accepted with some changes of wording.
The proposal to reduce the period in which the Commission is to submit this report cannot be accepted, and several of the speakers referred to this point.
The requirement to measure new substances will be included in the directives on air quality.
Finally, I should like to stress the results which have been achieved so far in terms of this proposal.
The common position established in the Council includes a number of important amendments from first reading.
The debate is closed.
The definition of hazardous waste according to the Commission proposal is contained in Annex III to the Regulation, the 'amber' list, and in Annex IV, the 'red' list.
In the Environment Committee we considered this insufficient, and found strong support for that in Parliament.
We therefore put forward proposals supplementing the Commission proposal which, amongst other things, contained the EU's own list of hazardous waste under Council Decision 94/904 of 1994.
In this connection, I want to thank the Commission for its constructive cooperation in enabling us to reach this compromise.
There is no doubt that our original proposal was not particularly precise, but the reason for that is that Parliament does not have the research resources needed to present a precise proposal.
The compromise means that our proposal can now be incorporated into a more operative proposal.
Parliament accepted the compromise on 16 January this year.
In a note regarding the inclusion of waste covered by Council Decision 94/904, however, the Council confirms the need to take up this matter in the continued discussion.
I must say that I interpret this statement to mean that the Council will accept our position, provided we achieve a large majority for it in Parliament.
In practical terms, this position makes for better environmental protection than the Commission's original proposal.
Technical development must be geared to this objective.
Madam President, problematic waste and its transport are a growing problem worldwide.
In general, it is necessary to be cautious about transporting waste, and the principle should be adopted that waste ought to be processed and exploited as close as possible to its place of origin.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the proposal to amend Regulation 259/93 on the supervision and control of shipments of waste within the Union has been presented by the Commission and provides for a ban on the import and export of hazardous waste, either for elimination or recycling.
This position, set out in Amendments Nos 1 and 2, will be supported by my political group.
Madam President, this problem has been going on for more than ten years now.
Parliament's proposal is better than the Council's, because it meets the international requirements of the Basle Convention.
It is to amend the 1993 regulation on shipments of waste, which is a very important means of protecting third countries from undesirable imports of hazardous waste from the industrialized nations.
As you know, this proposal will enable Community legislation to incorporate a decision on this matter taken under the Basle Convention, and followed by the adoption of an amendment to the Convention on the same lines.
The most important change concerned the extension of the scope of the proposal to include not only waste listed in Annexes III and IV of the regulation on shipments of waste, but also waste which is not covered by either of these annexes but appears on the Community's hazardous waste list.
I can tell the House that the Commission's services have begun the necessary preparatory work to enable a proposal to be forwarded to the technical adaptation committee as soon as the amendment to the regulation on shipments of hazardous waste has been adopted, including the provision for a new Annex IIa.
Although the Council did not include any of the amendments contained in the Commission's amended proposal in its common position, the Commission noted during the discussions that there was a positive attitude in the Council towards considering these amendments after the second reading in Parliament, as the rapporteur and a number of other speakers have pointed out.
Finally, I should once again like to thank the Committee on the Environment for its active and constructive approach to this matter.
The debate is closed.
But even plants and animals have the right to equal treatment, or at the very least to careful protection.
The absence of European legislation under the single market led the CITES countries - when the parties to the Washington Convention met in the United States last year - to accuse the European Community of dragging its feet.
First of all, the legal basis has been changed to Article 130s, which Parliament has already approved, and this makes it entirely clear that the legislation is intended for the protection of flora and fauna.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Washington Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species was concluded in 1973 and will soon be 25 years old.
I also hope that the Declaration on the Protection of Animals, which is already mentioned in the Final Act of the EU Treaty, will be extended at the present Intergovernmental Conference, in line with Parliament's wishes, so that the protection of animals is properly included in the Treaty.
I believe that documents should accompany the movement not only of plants and animals listed in Annex A, but also of those in Annex B.
It should also be remembered that the prime objective of this proposal for a regulation is to protect wild flora and fauna from the negative effects of trade in them, and to ensure that the trade policy instruments set out by CITES are applied in a uniform way.
The current upsurge in the international smuggling of live specimens means in fact that the 1982 Council regulation on the implementation of the Convention is in urgent need of strengthening and improvement.
From this point of view, we can but deplore the repeated delays, ever since 1991, caused in particular by problems concerning the appropriate legal basis for this regulation.
I congratulate the rapporteur on her work to this end, and I fully support her response to the text of the common position.
That is why it seems to me perfectly reasonable and without danger for the conservation of wild-bred birds of prey used in falconry to allow them to be transported without prior authorization in the Community, provided the birds are taken straight back to their authorized locations.
The common position we are now discussing demonstrates Europe's wish to step up its protection of endangered species by controlling trade in them.
As is well known, research in this area has led to considerable advances in the protection and health not only of human beings, but also of animals themselves.
That is why our group intends to vote against Amendment No 29.
Madam President, in Brussels next week, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will be discussing the review of the fifth action programme on the environment and sustainable development.
A number of the amendments which have been tabled condemn the disappearance of a large number of species - in some cases up to 30 %.
We therefore supported her recommendation in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and we shall also do so here in Parliament.
Between 10 % and 70 % of all the animals transported do not reach their destination alive.
We thus intend to vote for most of the amendments contained in the report.
The title, for example, should be changed in line with the former Amendment No 16, in order to clarify the content.
As the European Parliament, we also have a duty to see that the ancient tradition of falconry, which has been handed down and maintained locally, can also continue in future, legally and with due regard for the species concerned, as proposed in Amendments Nos 42 to 47.
That is why the text should be changed in line with Amendments Nos 60 and 61.
Madam President, the measures provided for by CITES and the Washington Convention, aimed at establishing international control of trade in species of wild flora and fauna threatened by extinction and on related products, have been applied in the Community under regulation 3626/82.
In February 1994 the Commission presented an amended version to update the 1991 legislation, also incorporating the change in the legal base from Article 100a of the Treaty to Article 100s, and thus from codecision between the European institutions to a procedure which only provides for consultation of the European Parliament.
Many political groups clearly support the amendments presented by our group and not adopted in the Committee on the Environment, so they are tabled again in this Chamber, in particular Amendments Nos 33 and 35 which we naturally support as the promoters.
Actually the problem is no longer to save species threatened with extinction but to preserve the balanced environments which exist in nature, threatened not only by the disappearance of certain species whose numbers are greatly reduced, but also by the reduction of species present in large numbers in certain areas, a reduction which can gravely alter the equilibrium.
Madam President, just a very few words to refer to some aspects of interest in this debate.
Special and very correct attention must be paid to forests and other natural eco-systems of great interest for the European heritage, and also for the whole world, still existing in so many of our areas, some of which are larger than others, for example, in many of the islands which are a part of Community territory.
It has been demonstrated and highlighted for many years now that many of the vegetable and animal species which compose those ecosystems, apart from any other interest, are also genuine relics, the final representatives of a European continental flora and fauna which disappeared many centuries ago.
First of all, we must raise the awareness of Member States and their regions to the importance of the problem and make them take rapid and efficient measures; then we must promote, motivate and support the creation of any mechanisms and organisations which can effectively put into practice the principles and measures which we recommend.
As several speakers have pointed out during the debate, we are dealing here with a proposal dating from 1991.
My impression is that all the speakers are agreed on that.
Firstly, the existing regulation is limited to species covered by the CITES Convention.
Secondly, the annexes to the existing regulation can only be amended by the Council.
The list could naturally be much longer.
Finally, I think that Amendment No 7, which the Commission can accept, is a good alternative to No 5.
Amendment No 7 is an appropriate way of linking the problem of the mortality rate of birds during transport with the commercial and conservation aspects.
The question of the mortality rate during transport can therefore be dealt with through the application of that directive.
I can also accept Amendments Nos 1, 14, 15, 17 and 24, and, with some rewording, Amendments Nos 10, 13, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22 and 30.
Consequently, I cannot accept Amendments Nos 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 16, 23, 25, 26 to 29, 31, 32, 33 and 34.
The debate is closed.
The Commission is proposing that the relevant provisions should be based on Article 43, which is known as the agriculture article.
Under Article 43, the European Parliament's only right is to be consulted.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has therefore submitted a report which gives a higher priority to environmental and health protection.
We know that there are more than 800 different pesticides, and many of these substances have carcinogenic or mutagenic effects and weaken the immune system.
This can be done if the directive is based on Article 100a, as proposed by the Committee on the Environment.
The Committee on the Environment therefore proposes setting a standard maximum concentration of 0.01 mg of active substance per kilogram of food.
We take the view that if we afford a high level of protection to drinking water, we should do the same for solid foods, particularly in view of the fact that more than 80 % of our water intake comes from solid foods, rather than liquids.
Our concern is to reduce the volume of pesticides in order to protect the environment.
Pesticide reduction programmes in Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands have demonstrated that there is another way.
The report proposes the use of integrated plant protection, to which the EU has already committed itself in the Rio summit's Agenda 21.
It is easy to say that pesticide pollution has been reduced by 50 % in Sweden and 30 % in Denmark, but the fact is that we have a totally different climate, as well as different crops and agricultural requirements, in other countries of the European Union.
When we are all at the same level, therefore, it will be possible to say that we must all reduce the amount of plant health products used in our agriculture.
The Commission is attempting to resolve the genuine problems that have been identified in the application of the directives it is proposing to amend, with a view to harmonizing national legislation on maximum residue limits - problems which give rise to serious barriers to the functioning of the internal market in plant products.
It is also seeking to update the earlier directives, improving and making progress with the harmonization of important aspects such as the monitoring of compliance with the maximum residue limits - which hitherto have been left to the discretion of the individual Member States - and making more flexible the procedure for setting Community maximum residue limits.
With the adoption of this proposal, we shall achieve a great deal of harmony between Directives 86/362, 86/363 and 90/642.
Similarly, there are active substances which occur naturally in plants - for example gibberellic acid - which give readings higher than those set out in the report.
However, common sense tells me that Article 100a, which deals with the internal market, is much more suitable as the legal basis for these measures than the other legal bases that have been mentioned.
What we are talking about today concerns consumers in the internal market.
The use of plant protection products is certainly an environmental issue, because there is exceptional danger to the environment from an excess of all these products.
I should like to say, in conclusion, that my group supports the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
Madam President, we have a proposal for a directive before us here which supplements and strengthens the efforts of years of harmonization in the field of pesticides.
This new proposal will ensure greater protection of consumer health without undermining agricultural production, and it is important to say and reaffirm that.
It will guarantee far more systematic information and make the provisions of the 1991 directive on the marketing of pesticide products a reality by setting corresponding maximum residue levels for the various agricultural products.
Over the last few years, Spain has suffered frequently - perhaps too frequently - from such problems in the export of its fruit and vegetables, as well as other more sensitive products such as dietary products for children.
This draft directive should have received the general support of the Committee on the Environment.
Nor can we allow the message to be sent out to the public that Community rules are decided by unsupervised bureaucrats, when - as you know very well, Mrs Breyer - the procedure is quite the opposite: it is a very complex one, with the participation of independent scientific experts, the committees which represent the national governments, the Commission and, indirectly, this Parliament - since we follow closely all the decisions that are taken at Community level.
Finally, Madam President, I believe that we should not forget that there are really only two types of agriculture: that which is able to use pesticides and fertilizers, and that which, unfortunately, does not have these means at its disposal and is therefore unable to become self-sufficient.
Since it seems to us unreasonable to propose rules which are impossible to apply, we therefore feel that it would be inappropriate to adopt Amendments Nos 10 and 11, 14 and 15, and 20 to 24.
EU cooperation should after all serve as a means of securing drastic cuts in the use of chemicals but, to achieve this, the European Parliament needs to have greater influence over decisions.
We shall get it if we follow up the proposal from the Environment Committee and amend the legal basis to Article 100a.
The coordination of several directives on limits for pesticide residues would make for clearer legislation.
It is of course also unreasonable in the long run to allow higher levels of pesticide residues in food than in drinking water; food must not be more toxic than water.
But I hope the Commission will soon come back to Parliament with a proposal on lower maximum levels.
Madam President, opinions in my group differ on the Breyer report.
My own country, the Netherlands, launched an ambitious programme a few years ago to reduce the use of pesticides, but the results have been disappointing.
In the Commission's view, the balance between the need for safe and restrictive use of plant protection products and the benefits of these products in terms of effective farming is not adequately expressed in the recitals that are proposed in Amendments Nos 6 to 10.
However, the Commission can in principle accept Amendment No 43, and is therefore prepared to add a general recital stressing the need for safe and restrictive use of plant protection products in agriculture, at the same time highlighting the positive role played by a number of methods, for example integrated production and ecological farming.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 42, since the proposed recital refers to the principles governing the use of plant protection products in ecological farming, which should, if necessary, be dealt with in the context of Council Regulation No 2092/91 on ecological production methods for agricultural products and their indication on agricultural products and foodstuffs.
As regards the legal basis, the Commission takes the view that if a legislative act serves one or more of the objectives of the common agricultural policy as set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, then Article 43 forms the correct and adequate legal basis, as determined by the case-law of the Court of Justice.
We are therefore unable to accept Amendment No 1.
Amendments Nos 14 and 22 and the subsequent technical Amendments Nos 11, 15, 20, 23, 24 and 31 seek to introduce a quite arbitrary maximum level of 0.01 mg/kg for all pesticides and crops, regardless of the permitted uses and toxicological features of individual agents.
The Commission cannot accept these amendments and the approach behind them for the following reasons: it would disregard the procedure which is being followed internationally, not least in the Codex Alimentarius, and which is aimed at establishing maximum levels on a scientific basis.
The Commission can also accept in principle Amendments Nos 12, 13 and 18, to the extent that they bring the relevant provisions of Directive 76/895 into line with those of the directive subsequently adopted.
Amendment No 21 can be accepted.
We can thus accept in principle Amendments Nos 25, 26, 28, 29, 32, 39 and 49.
The Commission can also accept in principle Amendments Nos 27, 30, 38 and 48, which define in detail how the results of the control measures should be applied.
The Commission can accept in principle Amendments Nos 35, 37, 41, 45, 47 and 51.
Moreover, the same procedure has already been established for similar technical measures, for example the provisional maximum levels under Article 4(1)(f).
The Commission therefore regrets that it is unable to accept Amendment No 19.
The Commission can thus accept in principle Amendments Nos 34, 36, 40, 44, 46 and 50.
Together with Directive 91/414, which governs the marketing and use of plant protection products, it will further help to see that maximum levels are determined in an effective way, in keeping with the scientific methods used internationally and taking account of the high degree of protection for human and animal health which EC legislation on pesticides is generally seeking to achieve.
I have in front of me the German regulation on maximum residue levels, which was adopted on 1 September 1994.
The debate is closed.
