The Executive Board of the Centre, hereinafter referred to as "the Executive Board", may, within the limits of these Regulations, adopt proposals for, or amendments to, internal rules submitted by the Director of the Centre, hereinafter referred to as "the Director", for the purpose of setting out in greater detail the principles embodied in these Regulations; this option shall apply in particular to aspects expressly provided for therein. 3.
Not later than three months from the date of notification, the Committee shall either approve the internal rules notified or make amendments thereto. 4.
The Cotonou Agreement, the Headquarters Agreement between the Netherlands and the Centre, the Statutes and Rules of Procedure of the Centre, these Regulations and the Annexes thereto, which form an integral part thereof, the Financial Regulation of the Centre, the internal rules approved in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article after the entry into force of these Regulations, the internal implementing rules established by the Director and any individual conditions laid down in writing at the time of recruitment or subsequently, in both cases with the Executive Board's approval, together make up the legal framework applicable to the Director, and the staff of the Centre within the meaning of Article 2.
These Regulations lay down the conditions applicable to: - the Director of the Centre, - the staff of the Centre, - the local staff of the Centre. 2.
For the purpose of these Regulations, a member of local staff is any person employed under a contract for a specified period by the Centre to perform manual or service duties in a post not specified in Article 7, and in accordance with local custom. 4.
Any reference in these Regulations to a person of the male sex shall be deemed also to constitute a reference to a person of the female sex, and vice-versa, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
The recruitment of local staff and the renewal, extension or termination of their contracts shall be decided by the Director following the normal procedures in accordance with internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director. 2.
There shall be set up: - a Staff Committee, - a Recruitment/Promotion Committee, which shall perform the functions assigned to them by these Regulations.
Article 5 The Centre may draw upon the services of seconded experts or experts funded by third parties.
These experts shall be governed by internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
TITLE II STAFF CHAPTER I Appointment – Grading of posts – Establishment plan Article 6 1.
The sole object of any appointment of a member of staff shall be to fill, in accordance with the conditions laid down in these Regulations, a vacancy for a post contained in the list of posts annexed to the budget in accordance with Article 10. 2.
The Executive Board, on a proposal from the Director, shall define the number of posts at level 2.A. 4.
The grading of a member of staff at the time of appointment, specifying category, level and step, shall be established by the Director in accordance with the budget and with the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director. 2.
Article 10 A table attached to the annual budget of the Centre shall fix the number of posts in each category and level and specify any vacancies.
CHAPTER II Rights and obligations Article 11 1.
Staff shall carry out their duties and conduct themselves solely with the interests of the Centre in mind; they shall neither seek nor take instructions from any government, authority, organisation or person outside the Centre. 2.
Article 13 If the legal spouse of a staff member or the person with whom the staff member lives in a marital status is in gainful employment, the staff member shall inform the Director.
Article 14 A staff member who, in the performance of his duties, is called upon to decide on a matter in the handling or outcome of which he has a personal interest such as to impair his independence shall inform the Director thereof.
Article 15 A staff member shall, after leaving the service, continue to be bound by the obligation to behave with integrity and discretion as regards the acceptance of certain appointments or benefits linked directly or indirectly with the Centre.
They shall continue to be bound by this obligation after leaving the service for a period of 10 years. 2.
Article 17 All rights, including copyright and other intellectual property rights, in any writings or other work carried out by staff in the performance of their duties shall be the property of the Centre.
Article 18 Staff shall reside either in the place where they are employed or at no greater distance therefrom than is compatible with the proper performance of their duties.
A staff member shall be required to make good, in whole or in part, any damage suffered by the Centre as a result of serious misconduct on his part in the course of, or in connection with, the performance of his duties. 2.
Article 23 A staff member shall be entitled to exercise the right of association; he may in particular be a member of trade unions or staff associations.
After leaving the service, he shall retain this right for a maximum period of two years.
Any document contained in the staff member's personal file concerning a disciplinary measure for the first degree of seriousness in accordance with Article 55(2) shall be cancelled after a period of three years if no further disciplinary measure has been imposed on the staff member during that period.
CHAPTER III Recruitment – Periodic assessment – Professional advancement – Termination of service/contract – Removal from post Section 1 Recruitment Article 26 1.
Staff members shall be selected on the basis of a competition in accordance with internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director. 3.
The recruitment procedure established by the rules referred to in paragraph 2 shall be open and transparent, offering the same participation and employment opportunities to all nationals of States signatory to the Cotonou Agreement.
In order to fill vacant posts, the Director, after considering the possibilities of assigning members of staff from the Centre to those posts by transfer or promotion in level or category pursuant to the terms of Articles 32 and 33, shall initiate an external recruitment procedure on the basis of a competition in accordance with the rules referred to in Articles 4(1) and 26(2) and Annex V. 2.
Without prejudice to paragraph 3, the total length of the trial period shall, in no circumstances, exceed 12 months. 5.
Section 2 Periodic assessment – Professional advancement Article 30 1.
A member of staff, after excellent performance and continuous service of not less than two years at the same level and step and whose contract will continue for at least one month after that period, may advance to the next step of his level. 2.
Any promotion in level of a staff member shall occur only in order to fill vacancies by means of appointment by the Director to the level immediately above, in accordance with internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director. 2.
A staff member may be appointed to the category immediately above only after a competitive assessment among staff members applying, who have the requisite training and experience and have completed a minimum length of service at their level.
A staff member shall be classified at the step for which the salary is closest to that which he was receiving at his previous level. 2.
In no case shall a staff member be penalised in monetary terms in the case where, had he not been promoted, he would have received a merit step at his former level.
In such a case, the staff member shall receive a supplementary step on the date on which the merit step would have been due at his former level.
The period of notice shall not commence to run, however, during maternity leave or sick leave, provided such sick leave does not exceed three months.
Such calculation shall be based on the staff member's last gross basic monthly salary; 6.
in the event of redundancy of a post, the staff member concerned shall receive notice as provided for in paragraph 2 and shall receive compensation as defined in paragraph 5.
Article 35 The contract of a staff member may be terminated without notice on the initiative of the Director: (a) during or at the end of the trial period, under the conditions set out in Article 29(2); (b) if the staff member ceases to fulfil the conditions set out in Article 27(1); (c) in the case provided for in Article 36; (d) in the case provided for in Article 37.
Prior to the termination of his contract, the staff member may be suspended under the conditions set out in Article 57. 3.
In the event of termination of duties pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article, the Director may propose that the Executive Board should decide to withhold from the person concerned all or part of his entitlement to the compensation and reimbursement of costs provided for in the rules referred to in Articles 46 and 52.
In this case, the termination of the contract shall be declared by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director, after the person concerned has been heard and after completion of the disciplinary procedure laid down in Chapter VI of this Title. 3.
Prior to the termination of his contract, the staff member may be suspended under the conditions set out in Article 57.
CHAPTER IV Working conditions Section 1 Duration of work Article 38 1.
However, the normal working week shall not exceed thirty-seven and a half hours, the hours of the normal working day being determined in accordance with the internal implementing rules laid down by the Director. 2.
The Director may, on duly justified grounds, authorise a staff member to work part-time, if he considers that this would be in line with the interests of the Centre.
The arrangements for granting this authorisation shall be set out in the internal implementing rules laid down by the Director.
The total amount of overtime required of a staff member may not exceed 150 hours worked in a six-month period. 3.
Section 2 Leave Article 40 1.
Staff shall be entitled to a minimum of 24 working days and a maximum of 30 working days of annual leave per calendar year, in accordance with the internal implementing rules laid down by the Director.
These rules shall specify the conditions for carrying over leave from one calendar year to the next. 2.
The arrangements for granting such leave shall be laid down in internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
Article 42 A staff member who provides evidence of incapacity to perform his duties because of sickness or accident shall automatically be entitled to sick leave, in accordance with the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
Article 43 The annual leave of a staff member authorised to work part-time shall, for the duration of such work, be reduced accordingly.
Fractions of deductible days shall be calculated on a pro rata basis, in accordance with the internal implementing rules laid down by the Director.
The duration of such leave shall not exceed one year per period of 15 years.
During this period, the staff member shall not benefit from any increase in step, nor shall his period of absence on unpaid leave be taken into account in the minimum period stipulated under Article 31(1) and (2).
Section 3 Public holidays Article 45 The list of public holidays shall be drawn up by the Director.
CHAPTER V Remuneration and expenses Article 46 1.
Under the conditions set out in the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director, and save as otherwise provided, a staff member shall be entitled to the remuneration relating to his category, level and step by the sole fact of his employment.
Article 47 The remuneration shall be expressed and paid in euro.
Article 48 On a proposal from the Director, the Executive Board shall approve the adjustment of remuneration on a yearly basis based on the methodology agreed by the Council of the European Union for Community staff.
Article 49 The basic monthly salaries shall be fixed for each category, level and step in accordance with the table in Annex II.
Article 51 If a staff member dies during his term of employment, the surviving legal spouse or the dependent children shall receive the overall remuneration of the deceased until the end of the sixth month following that of the death.
Article 52 Under the conditions set out in the internal rules referred to in Article 46, a staff member shall be entitled to reimbursement of the expenses which he incurred on taking up his duties, on being transferred, on periodic home leave or at the end of his contract, as well as the expenses he incurred in the pursuit, or in connection with the pursuit, of his duties, without prejudice to Article 36(3).
Article 54 Any sum overpaid shall be recovered if the recipient had knowledge of the irregularity of the payment or if such irregularity was so obvious that he could not fail to have knowledge of it.
The arrangements for recovery shall be laid down by the Director.
CHAPTER VI Disciplinary measures Article 55 1.
Any failure by a staff member to comply with his obligations under these Regulations, whether intentionally or through negligence on his part, shall make him liable to disciplinary action. 2.
The other measures shall be imposed by the Executive Board after completion of the disciplinary procedure laid down in Article 58.
The decision that a staff member be suspended shall be taken as a precautionary step within four working days of the day following discovery of the acts with which he is charged. 2.
Where no decision has been taken on the staff member by the end of two months, from the date on which the decision that the staff member be suspended came into force, the continuation of that suspension must be confirmed by the Executive Board. 4.
Where no decision has been taken on the staff member by the end of four months, from the date on which the decision that the staff member be suspended came into force, the staff member shall again receive his full remuneration. 5.
Where, at the end of the disciplinary procedure, no disciplinary action has been taken in respect of a staff member, or no measure other than a written warning or reprimand, the staff member concerned shall be entitled to reimbursement of the amount of remuneration withheld. 6.
The composition and procedures of the ad hoc committee of enquiry shall be laid down in the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
TITLE III THE DIRECTOR Article 59 1.
Where, in the context of these Regulations, it is provided that the Director shall take decisions with respect to the staff and local staff, the Executive Board shall take such decisions with respect to the Director.
TITLE IV PROVISIONS CONCERNING SOCIAL SECURITY, TAXATION AND APPEALS CHAPTER I Social provisions Section 1 Social security Article 60 1.
The degree of cover shall be defined in the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director. 3.
The contributions necessary to provide such cover against illness shall be borne by the staff members and the Centre in accordance with the internal rules referred to in paragraph 2.
They shall contribute to the cost of insuring against these risks. 2.
On the birth of a child to a staff member or the Director, a single, flat-rate grant shall be paid to the person who has actual care of the child, in accordance with the internal rules referred to in Article 60. 2.
Section 2 Provident fund Article 63 1.
The Centre shall set up a provident fund for staff members and the Director in accordance with the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
The contributions necessary to set up the provident fund shall be borne by the staff members and the Centre in accordance with the internal rules referred to in paragraph 1.
Section 3 Final and voluntary severance bonus Article 64 1.
A staff member whose contract is terminated as the result of an agreement between the staff member and the Centre, and who has served in the Centre for at least five years, may receive, by a decision of the Executive Board and on the basis of a report drawn up by the Director, a final and voluntary severance bonus in accordance with the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director. 2.
Payment shall be made under the conditions laid down by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director and in accordance with the internal rules referred to in paragraph 1. 3.
No severance bonus shall be paid where the contract is terminated, as laid down in Articles 36 and 37. 4.
The Director shall not receive this severance bonus. 5.
The severance bonus shall be incompatible with the compensation referred to in Article 34(5).
CHAPTER II Tax provisions Article 65 1.
The Director and the staff of the Centre shall be liable to a tax for the benefit of the Centre on remuneration paid by the Centre.
The Committee shall be empowered to amend that Annex if necessary. 2.
CHAPTER III Appeals provisions Article 66 1.
The competent authority shall notify the person concerned of his reasoned decision within two months from the date on which the request was made.
Staff members and the Director may submit to the competent authority a complaint against an act adversely affecting them, either where the competent authority has taken a decision, or where it has failed to adopt a measure prescribed by these Regulations.
The period shall begin: - on the date of notification of the decision to the person concerned, but in no case later than the date on which the latter received such notification, if the measure affects a specified person; if, however, an act affecting a specified person also involves another person; the period shall start to run in respect of that other person on the date on which he receives notification thereof, - on the date of expiry of the deadline prescribed for a reply, where the complaint concerns an implied decision rejecting a request as provided for in paragraph 1.
The procedure whereby the competent authority shall reach its reasoned decision shall be laid down in the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
The competent authority within the meaning of this Article shall be: - the Director for staff members, - the Executive Board for the Director and for cases of appeal against a disciplinary measure taken by the Director, - the Committee for cases of appeal against a disciplinary measure taken by the Executive Board regarding the Director.
Disputes between staff members and the Centre, as well as disputes between the Director and the Centre may be resolved by conciliation in accordance with the procedures set out in Annex IV.
An appeal to the Administrative Tribunal shall only be admissible if: - the competent authority has previously had a complaint submitted to it pursuant to Article 66(2) within the period prescribed therein, - the complaint has been rejected by express decision or by implied decision, - conciliation has failed. 4.
Appeals under paragraph 2 shall be filed within three months.
TITLE V LOCAL STAFF Article 68 1.
Article 69 The conditions of employment of local staff and in particular: (a) the manner of their engagement and termination of their contracts; (b) leave; and (c) grading and remuneration shall be determined by the Director in accordance with current rules and practices in the place where they are to perform their duties.
Article 70 The Centre shall cover the employer's share of the social security contributions required under current regulations in the place where a local staff member is to perform his duties.
Article 71 Any member of the local staff may submit to the Director a request that he takes a decision relating to him.
The Director shall notify the person concerned of his decision, giving the grounds therefor, within one month of the date on which the request was made.
In the event of disagreement, the local staff member may lodge an appeal in accordance with Article 72.
Article 72 Disputes between the Centre and local staff shall be referred to the competent court in accordance with the legislation in force at the place where the local staff member performs his duties.
TITLE VI STAFF SERVING ABROAD Article 73 Provisions applicable to staff serving abroad shall be covered in the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
TITLE VII RULES APPLICABLE TO STAFF TEMPORARILY TRANSFERRED TO THE CENTRE Article 74 Provisions applicable to persons from organisations or companies, who are temporarily transferred to the Centre under special cooperation or exchange agreements, shall be covered in the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
TITLE VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 75 These Regulations shall enter into force at the same time as the Decision of the ACP-EC Committee of Ambassadors approving them.
Article 76 This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
Done at Brussels, on 27 September 2006.
For the Committee of Ambassadors The President R.
Makongo [1] OJ L 317, 15.12.2000, p. 3.
DURATION The contract shall enter into force on … and shall be for an indefinite period within the framework of Annex III to the Cotonou Agreement. 2.
WORKING WEEK The working week consists of thirty-seven and a half hours. 6.
TERMINATION OF SERVICE FOLLOWING A PERIOD OF NOTICE In accordance with Article 34 of the current Staff Regulations of the Centre, either party may terminate this contract by registered letter. 7.
STAFF REGULATIONS The two parties hereto acknowledge that they are bound by the following: (a) the Statutes and Rules of Procedure of the Centre, the Staff Regulations of the Centre and the Headquarters Agreement; (b) the various internal rules issued by the Centre in accordance with the aforementioned Staff Regulations, of which you state you have cognisance; no amendments to those rules may be invoked against you unless they have been notified to you; (c) any individual conditions which the Centre may lay down for you, in accordance with Article 1(5) of the aforementioned Staff Regulations.
DISPUTES Any disputes between you and the Centre shall be resolved by conciliation or shall be brought before the Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour Organisation in accordance with Article 67 of the Staff Regulations.
The following shall be liable to the tax for the benefit of the Centre referred to in Article 65 of the Staff Regulations: the Director and the staff of the Centre, excluding local staff.
An abatement of 10 % for occupational and personal expenses shall be made from the amount obtained by applying paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Annex.
All amounts paid by the person under the social security scheme to which he is subject shall be deducted from the basic taxable amount, as defined in Articles 60 to 63 and the corresponding internal rules. 4.
The tax shall be calculated on the taxable amount obtained by applying paragraph 3 disregarding any amount not exceeding EUR 104 and by applying the following rate: — | 0 % to amounts of less than | EUR 104 | | | — | 8 % to amounts between | EUR 105 | and | 1605 | — | 10 % to amounts between | EUR 1606 | and | 2212 | — | 12,5 % to amounts between | EUR 2213 | and | 2536 | — | 15 % to amounts between | EUR 2537 | and | 2880 | — | 17,5 % to amounts between | EUR 2881 | and | 3478 | — | 20 % to amounts between | EUR 3479 | and | 3515 | — | 22,5 % to amounts between | EUR 3516 | and | 3840 | — | 25 % to amounts between | EUR 3841 | and | 4152 | — | 27,5 % to amounts between | EUR 4153 | and | 4475 | — | 30 % to amounts between | EUR 4476 | and | 4789 | — | 32,5 % to amounts between | EUR 4790 | and | 5113 | — | 35 % to amounts between | EUR 5114 | and | 5424 | — | 40 % to amounts between | EUR 5425 | and | 5748 | — | 45 % to amounts above | EUR 5749 | | | The amount of tax shall be rounded down to the nearest unit.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 3 and 4, the sums paid as compensation for overtime shall be assessed for purposes of tax at the rate which, in the month preceding that of payment, was applied to the highest taxable amount of the remuneration of the staff member.
Payments made on account of termination of service shall be taxed, after applying the abatements laid down in the first three subparagraphs of paragraph 3, at a rate equal to two-thirds of the ratio existing at the time of last salary payment, between: - the amount of tax payable, and - the basic taxable amount as defined in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. 6.
Corrective payments not related to the month during which they are paid shall be subject to the tax to which they would have been subject had they been made at the proper time. 7.
Where necessary, he shall refer by analogy to the relevant regulations applicable to officials of the European Communities, in particular Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom, ECSC) No 260/68 of 29 February 1968 laying down the conditions and procedure for applying the tax for the benefit of the European Communities [1]. [1] OJ L 56, 4.3.1968, p. 8.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1750/2002 (OJ L 264, 2.10.2002, p. 15). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX IV CONCILIATION Article 1 Scope Disputes between the staff of the Centre, the Director on the one hand, and the Centre, on the other, may be settled by conciliation in accordance with these procedural rules.
Article 2 Definitions In these rules, unless the context requires otherwise, the following words and expressions shall have the meaning here assigned to them: - ACP State: a State belonging to the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States which are signatories to the Cotonou Agreement - Member State: a Member State of the European Union - The Tribunal: the Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour Organisation - The Agreement: the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement of Cotonou - The Council of Ministers: the ACP-EC Council of Ministers referred to in the Cotonou Agreement - The Committee: the ACP-EC Committee of Ambassadors - The Executive Board: the Executive Board of the Technical Centre for Agricultural and Rural Cooperation - The Centre: the Technical Centre for Agricultural and Rural Cooperation - The Staff Regulations: the Staff Regulations of the Technical Centre for Agricultural and Rural Cooperation under the Cotonou Agreement - Claimant: the party which commences conciliation by giving notice to the other party requesting the proceedings and submitting claims - Respondent: the party to the conciliation against whom claims are made - Party: when used in connection with conciliation, the claimant or respondent in the conciliation.
Article 3 Notice and calculation of time 1.
If the dispute is between the Director and the Centre, the claimant shall send the Committee a request for the appointment of a conciliator.
The appointment shall be made by the Committee within 60 days at most following receipt of the request. 3.
The appointment shall be made within 45 days at most. 4.
Within 30 days of receiving notice of the appointment of the conciliator, the party making a request for conciliation shall notify the other party and the conciliator of the request.
Copies of the record of settlement so signed shall be given to the parties. 11.
In the event that conciliation has failed, the case may be submitted within three months to the Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour Organisation. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX V COMPOSITION AND PROCEDURES OF THE BODIES PROVIDED FOR IN ARTICLE 4 OF THE STAFF REGULATIONS SECTION 1 Staff Committee The Staff Committee shall comprise the members thereof whose term of office shall be three years.
Membership of the Staff Committee shall be such as to ensure the representation of all categories provided for in Article 7 and will as far as possible reflect the joint ACP-EU nature of the Centre.
SECTION 2 Recruitment/Promotion Committee For each vacant post or promotion provided for in the budget, a Recruitment/Promotion Committee shall be appointed by the Director.
The composition and functioning of the Recruitment/Promotion Committee shall be determined in the internal rules. --------------------------------------------------
