Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4 and 5 of this Protocol. 3.
Under Article 6 of the Agreement, vessels flying the flag of a Member State of the European Community may fish in Mauritanian fishing zones only if they are in possession of a fishing licence issued under this Protocol in accordance with the Annexes hereto.
Article 2 Financial contribution — Methods of payment 1.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 13 of this Protocol. 3.
The Community shall pay the financial contribution no later than 31 December 2006 in the first year and no later than 1 August in the following years. 4.
Subject to Article 6 of this Protocol, the allocation of this contribution and of the support for the PNBA shall be decided within the framework of the Mauritanian finance act and the Mauritanian State shall have full discretion regarding the use to which it is put.
Article 3 Scientific cooperation 1.
Based on the conclusions of the work of the Joint Scientific Committee and the best available scientific advice, the two Parties shall consult each other within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement and, where necessary and by mutual agreement, adopt measures to ensure the sustainable management of fisheries resources. 4.
Article 4 Review of fishing opportunities 1.
In this case the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) of this Protocol shall be increased proportionately and pro rata temporis.
Conversely, if the Parties agree to adopt measures as referred to in Article 3(3) of this Protocol resulting in a reduction in the fishing opportunities provided for in Article 1 of this Protocol, the financial contribution shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis.
Without prejudice to Article 6 of this Protocol, this financial contribution could be suspended by the Community if it is not possible to use the fishing opportunities provided for in this Protocol. 3.
The adjustments of fishing opportunities provided for in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall be decided by mutual agreement between the two Parties in the Joint Committee provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement.
Article 5 Exploratory fishing 1.
Where the Parties conclude that the exploratory fishing trips have produced positive results, while preserving ecosystems and conserving living marine resources, new fishing opportunities may be awarded to Community vessels following the consultation procedure provided for in Article 4 of this Protocol and until the expiry of the Protocol and in accordance with the allowable effort.
The financial contribution shall be increased in accordance with Article 4. 4.
Article 6 Contribution of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement to the implementation of Mauritania's sectoral fisheries policy 1.
The financial support referred to in Article 7(1)(b) of the Agreement amounts to EUR 11 million per year in accordance with Article 2(1) of this Protocol.
This financial support shall contribute to the development and implementation of the Stratégie Nationale de Développement durable du secteur des Pêches et de l'Economie Maritime de Mauritanie (national strategy for the sustainable development of Mauritania's fisheries sector and marine economy) with a view to introducing responsible fishing in its waters, and in particular to the areas of activity listed in paragraph 3 below and detailed in Annex IV and to the PNBA. 2.
Mauritania shall be responsible for managing the amount corresponding to the financial support referred to in paragraph 1 above, in the light of objectives identified by mutual agreement between the two Parties and of the programming to attain them. 3.
Article 7 Methods of implementing the support for Mauritania's sectoral fisheries policy 1.
Without prejudice to Article 6(3) of this Protocol, the European Community and the Ministry shall agree, within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement, in accordance with the guidelines laid down in Annex IV and from the entry into force of the Protocol, on: (a) the annual and multiannual guidelines steering the implementation of the priorities of Mauritanian fisheries policy aiming to introduce responsible fishing, and in particular those referred to in Article 6(3) of this Protocol; (b) the annual and multiannual objectives to be achieved and the criteria and indicators to be used to permit an evaluation of the results obtained, on an annual basis. 2.
For each of the following years, the Ministry shall notify the European Community of this allocation no later than 30 September of the previous year. 4.
The Commission reserves the right to request additional information on these results from the Mauritanian authorities so as to launch consultations with the Mauritanian authorities within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement, in order to adopt corrective measures which allow the given objectives to be achieved.
Article 8 Economic integration of Community operators in the Mauritanian fisheries sector 1.
Article 9 Disputes — suspension of application of the Protocol 1.
Any dispute between the Parties over the interpretation of this Protocol and its Annexes or its application shall be the subject of consultations between the Parties within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 10 of the Agreement, in a special meeting if necessary. 2.
Application of the Protocol may be suspended at the initiative of one of the Parties if the dispute between the two Parties is deemed to be serious and if the consultations held within the Joint Committee under paragraph 1 have not resulted in an amicable settlement. 3.
Article 11 National law Notwithstanding the provisions of the Agreement, the activities of vessels operating under this Protocol and its Annexes, in particular landing, transhipment, the use of port services and the purchase of supplies, or any other activity shall be governed by the national laws and regulations in force in Mauritania.
Article 13 Termination 1.
Article 14 Entry into force This Protocol with its Annexes shall enter into force on the date of the entry into force of the Agreement. [1] Plus the sum of the contributions to be paid by shipowners as provided for in Chapter III of Annex I, paid directly to Mauritania into the account provided for in Chapter IV of Annex I, which is estimated at EUR 22 million per year. --------------------------------------------------
