APPLICATION OF SAFEGUARDS Article 2 The Agency shall have the right and the obligation to ensure that safeguards will be applied, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, on all source or special fissionable material in all peaceful nuclear activities within the territories of the States, under their jurisdiction or carried out under their control anywhere, for the exclusive purpose of verifying that such material is not diverted to nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices.
COOPERATION BETWEEN THE AGENCY, THE COMMUNITY AND THE STATES Article 4 The Agency, the Community and the States shall cooperate, in so far as each Party is concerned, to facilitate the implementation of the safeguards provided for in this Agreement and shall avoid unnecessary duplication of safeguards activities.
IMPLEMENTATION OF SAFEGUARDS Article 5 The safeguards provided for in this Agreement shall be implemented in a manner designed: (a) to avoid hampering the economic and technological development in the Community or international cooperation in the field of peaceful nuclear activities, including international exchange of nuclear material; (b) to avoid undue interference in the peaceful nuclear activities in the Community, and in particular in the operation of facilities ; and (c) to be consistent with prudent management practices required for the economic and safe conduct of nuclear activities.
PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES Article 10 Each State shall apply to the Agency, including its property, funds and assets, and to its inspectors and other officials, performing functions under this Agreement, the relevant provisions of the Agreement on the privileges and immunities of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
CONSUMPTION OR DILUTION OF NUCLEAR MATERIAL Article 11 Safeguards under this Agreement shall terminate on nuclear material upon determination by the Community and the Agency that the material has been consumed, or has been diluted in such a way that it is no longer usable for any nuclear activity relevant from the point of view of safeguards, or has become practically irrecoverable.
TRANSFER OF NUCLEAR MATERIAL OUT OF THE STATES Article 12 The Community shall give the Agency notification of transfers of nuclear material subject to safeguards under this Agreement out of the States, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
PROVISIONS RELATING TO NUCLEAR MATERIAL TO BE USED IN NON-NUCLEAR ACTIVITIES Article 13 Where nuclear material subject to safeguards under this Agreement is to be used in non-nuclear activities, such as the production of alloys or ceramics, the Community shall agree with the Agency, before the material is so used, on the circumstances under which the safeguards under this Agreement on such material may be terminated.
FINANCE Article 15 The Agency, the Community and the States will bear the expenses incurred by each of them in implementing their respective responsibilities under this Agreement.
THIRD PARTY LIABILITY FOR NUCLEAR DAMAGE Article 16 The Community and the States shall ensure that any protection against third party liability in respect of nuclear damage, including any insurance or other financial security which may be available under their laws or regulations shall apply to the Agency and its officials for the purpose of the implementation of this Agreement, in the same way as that protection applies to nationals of the States.
INTERNATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Article 17 Any claim by the Community or a State against the Agency or by the Agency against the Community or a State in respect of any damage resulting from the implementation of safeguards under this Agreement, other than damage arising out of a nuclear incident, shall be settled in accordance with international law.
MEASURES IN RELATION TO VERIFICATION OF NON-DIVERSION Article 18 If the Board, upon report of the Director-General, decides that an action by the Community or a State, in so far as either Party is individually concerned, is essential and urgent in order to ensure verification that nuclear material subject to safeguards under this Agreement is not diverted to nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices, the Board may call upon the Community or that State to take the required action without delay, irrespective of whether procedures have been invoked pursuant to Article 22 for the settlement of a dispute.
Article 19 If the Board, upon examination of relevant information reported to it by Director-General, finds that the Agency is not able to verify that there has been no diversion of nuclear material required to be safeguarded under this Agreement, to nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices, it may make the reports provided for in Article XII (C) of the Statute and may also take, where applicable, the other measures provided for in that paragraph.
INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF THE AGREEMENT AND SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES Article 20 At the request of the Agency, the Community or a State, there shall be consultations about any question arising out of the interpretation or application of this Agreement.
Article 21 The Community and the States shall have the right to request that any question arising out of the interpretation or application of this Agreement be considered by the Board.
Article 22 Any dispute arising out of the interpretation or application of this Agreement except a dispute with regard to a finding by the Board under Article 19 or an action taken by the Board pursuant to such a finding, which is not settled by negotiation or another procedure agreed to by the Agency, the Community and the States shall, at the request of any one of them, be submitted to an arbitral tribunal composed of five arbitrators.
ENTRY INTO FORCE AND DURATION Article 25 (a) This Agreement shall enter into force on the date upon which the Agency receives from the Community and the States written notification that their own requirements for entry into force have been met.
PROTOCOL Article 26 The Protocol attached to this Agreement shall be an integral part thereof.
PART II INTRODUCTION Article 27 The purpose of this part of the Agreement is to specify, as required, the procedures to be applied in the implementation of the safeguards provisions of Part I.
OBJECTIVE OF SAFEGUARDS Article 28 The objective of the safeguards procedures set forth in this Agreement is the timely detection of diversion of significant quantities of nuclear material from peaceful nuclear activities to the manufacture of nuclear weapons or of other nuclear explosive devices or for purposes unknown, and deterrence of such diversion by the risk of early detection.
Article 30 The technical conclusion of the Agency's verification activities shall be a statement, in respect of each material balance area, of the amount of material unaccounted for over a specific period, and giving the limits of accuracy of the amounts stated.
Article 32 The Community's system of accounting for and control of nuclear material under this Agreement shall be based on a structure of material balance areas.
Article 33 Safeguards under this Agreement shall not apply to material in mining or ore processing activities.
TERMINATION OF SAFEGUARDS Article 35 (a) Safeguards under this Agreement shall terminate on nuclear material, under the conditions set forth in Article 11.
EXEMPTIONS FROM SAFEGUARDS Article 36 At the request of the Community, the Agency shall exempt nuclear material from safeguards under this Agreement, as follows: (a) special fissionable material, when it is used in gram quantities or less as a sensing component in instruments; (b) nuclear material, when it is used in non-nuclear activities in accordance with Article 13, if such nuclear material is recoverable ; and (c) plutonium with an isotopic concentration of plutonium-238 exceeding 80 %.
Article 38 If exempted nuclear material is to be processed or stored together with nuclear material subject to safeguards under this Agreement, provision shall be made for the re-application of such safeguards thereto.
SUBSIDIARY ARRANGEMENTS Article 39 The Community shall make subsidiary arrangements with the Agency which shall specify in detail, to the extent necessary to permit the Agency to fulfil its responsibilities under this Agreement in an effective and efficient manner, how the procedures laid down in this Agreement are to be applied.
Article 40 The subsidiary arrangement shall enter into force at the same time as, or as soon as possible after, the entry into force of this Agreement.
Article 43 The design information to be provided to the Agency shall include, in respect of each facility, when applicable: (a) the identification of the facility, stating its general character, purpose, nominal capacity and geographic location, and the name and address to be used for routine business purposes; (b) a description of the general arrangement of the facility with reference, to the extent feasible, to the form, location and flow of nuclear material and to the general layout of important items of equipment which use, produce or process nuclear material; (c) a description of features of the facility relating to material accountancy, containment and surveillance ; and (d) a description of the existing and proposed procedures at the facility for nuclear material accountancy and control, with special reference to material balance areas established by the operator, measurements of flow and procedures for physical inventory-taking.
Article 44 Other information relevant to the application of safeguards under this Agreement shall also be provided to the Agency in respect of each facility, if so specified in the subsidiary arrangements.
Article 46 Purpose of examination of design information The design information provided to the Agency shall be used for the following purposes: (a) to identify the features of facilities and nuclear material relevant to the application of safeguards to nuclear material in sufficient detail to facilitate verification; (b) to determine material balance areas to be used for accounting purposes under this Agreement and to select those strategic points which are key measurement points and which will be used to determine flow and inventory of nuclear material ; in determining such material balance areas the following criteria shall inter alia be used: (i) the size of the material balance area shall be related to the accuracy with which the material balance can be established; (ii) in determining the material balance area advantage shall be taken of any opportunity to use containment and surveillance to help ensure the completeness of flow measurements and thereby to simplify the application of safeguards and to concentrate measurement efforts at key measurement points; (iii) a special material balance area may be established at the request of the Community or of the State concerned around a process step involving commercially sensitive information; (c) to establish the nominal timing and procedures for taking of physical inventory of nuclear material for accounting purposes under this Agreement; (d) to establish the records and reports requirements and records evaluation procedures; (e) to establish requirements and procedures for verification of the quantity and location of nuclear material ; and (f) to select appropriate combinations of containment and surveillance methods and techniques and the strategic points at which they are to be applied.
Article 48 Verification of design information The Agency, in cooperation with the Community and the State concerned, may send inspectors to facilities to verify the design information provided to the Agency pursuant to Articles 42 to 45 for the purposes stated in Article 46.
INFORMATION IN RESPECT OF NUCLEAR MATERIAL OUTSIDE FACILITIES Article 49 The Agency shall be provided by the Community with the following information when nuclear material is to be customarily used outside facilities, as applicable: (a) a general description of the use of the nuclear material, its geographic location, and the user's name and address for routine business purposes ; and (b) a general description of the existing and proposed procedures for nuclear material accountancy and control, as specified in the subsidiary arrangements.
Article 50 The information provided to the Agency pursuant to Article 49 may be used, to the extent relevant, for the purposes set out in Article 46 (b) to (f).
RECORDS SYSTEM General provisions Article 51 The Community shall arrange that records are kept in respect of each material balance area.
Article 52 The Community shall make arrangements to facilitate the examination of records by Agency inspectors, particularly if the records are not kept in English, French, Russian or Spanish.
Article 53 Records shall be retained for at least five years.
Article 54 Records shall consist, as appropriate, of: (a) accounting records of all nuclear material subject to safeguards under this Agreement ; and (b) operating records for facilities containing such nuclear material.
Article 55 The system of measurements on which the records used for the preparation of reports are based shall either conform to the latest international standards or be equivalent in quality to such standards.
Accounting records Article 56 The accounting records shall set forth the following in respect of each material balance area: (a) all inventory changes, so as to permit a determination of the book inventory at any time; (b) all measurement results that are used for determination of the physical inventory ; and (c) all adjustments and corrections that have been made in respect of inventory changes, book inventories and physical inventories.
Article 57 For all inventory changes and physical inventories the records shall show, in respect of each batch of nuclear material : material identification, batch data and source data.
REPORTS SYSTEMS General provisions Article 59 The Community shall provide the Agency with reports as detailed in Articles 60 to 65 and 67 to 69 in respect of nuclear material subject to safeguards under this Agreement.
Article 60 Reports shall be made in English, French, Russian or Spanish, except as otherwise specified in the subsidiary arrangements.
Article 61 Reports shall be based on the records kept in accordance with Articles 51 to 58 and shall consist, as appropriate, of accounting reports and special reports.
Accounting reports Article 62 The Agency shall be provided by the Community with an initial report on all nuclear material subject to safeguards under this Agreement.
Article 63 The Community shall provide the Agency with the following accounting reports for each material balance area: (a) inventory change reports showing all changes in the inventory of nuclear material.
The reports shall be dispatched as soon as possible and in any event within the time limits specified in the subsidiary arrangements ; and (b) material balance reports showing the material balance based on a physical inventory of nuclear material actually present in the material balance area.
The reports shall be dispatched as soon as possible and in any event within the time limits specified in the subsidiary arrangements.
Article 64 Inventory change reports shall specify identification and batch data for each batch of nuclear material, the date of the inventory change and, as appropriate, the originating material balance area and the receiving material balance area or the recipient.
These reports shall be accompanied by concise notes: (a) explaining the inventory changes, on the basis of the operating data contained in the operating records provided for under Article 58 (a) ; and (b) describing, as specified in the subsidiary arrangements, the anticipated operational programme, particularly the taking of a physical inventory.
Article 65 The Community shall report each inventory change, adjustment and correction, either periodically in a consolidated list or individually.
Article 66 The Agency shall provide the Community, for the use of the interested parties, with semi-annual statements of book inventory of nuclear material subject to safeguards under this Agreement, for each material balance area, as based on the inventory change reports for the period covered by each such statement.
Article 67 Material balance reports shall include the following entries, unless otherwise agreed by the Agency and the Community: (a) beginning physical inventory; (b) inventory changes (first increases, then decreases); (c) ending book inventory; (d) shipper/receiver differences; (e) adjusted ending book inventory; (f) ending physical inventory ; and (g) material unaccounted for.
Article 68 Special reports The Community shall make special reports without delay: (a) if any unusual incident or circumstance leads the Community to believe that there is or may have been loss of nuclear material that exceeds the limits specified for this purpose in the subsidiary arrangements ; or (b) if the containment has unexpectedly changed from that specified in the subsidiary arrangements to the extent that unauthorized removal of nuclear material has become possible.
Article 69 Amplification and clarification of reports If the Agency so requests, the Community shall provide it with amplifications or clarifications of any report, in so far as relevant for the purpose of safeguards under this Agreement.
INSPECTIONS Article 70 General provisions The Agency shall have the right to make inspections as provided for in this Agreement.
Article 72 The Agency may make routine inspections in order to: (a) verify that reports are consistent with records; (b) verify the location, identity, quantity and composition of all nuclear material subject to safeguards under this Agreement ; and (c) verify information on the possible causes of material unaccounted for, shipper/receiver differences and uncertainties in the book inventory.
An inspection shall be deemed to be special when it is either additional to the routine inspection effort provided for in this Agreement or involves access to information or locations in addition to the access specified in Article 76 for ad hoc and routine inspections, or both.
As a result of such consultations the Agency may: (a) make inspections in addition to the routine inspection effort provided for in this Agreement ; and (b) obtain access, in agreement with the Community, to information or locations in addition to those specified in Article 76.
Frequency and intensity of routine inspections Article 78 The number, intensity and duration of routine inspections, applying optimum timing, shall be kept to the minimum consistent with the effective implementation of the safeguards procedures set forth in this Agreement, and optimum and most economical use of available inspection resources under the Agreement shall be made.
Article 79 The Agency may carry out one routine inspection per year in respect of facilities and material balance areas outside facilities with a content or annual throughput, whichever is greater, of nuclear material not exceeding five effective kilograms.
Notice of inspections Article 83 The Agency shall give advance notice to the Community and to the States concerned before arrival of Agency inspectors at facilities or material balance areas outside facilities, as follows: (a) for ad hoc inspections pursuant to Article 71 (b), at least 24 hours ; for those pursuant to Article 71 (a), as well as the activities provided for in Article 48, at least one week; (b) for special inspections pursuant to Article 73, as promptly as possible after the Agency and the Community have consulted as provided for in Article 77, it being understood that notification of arrival normally will constitute part of the consultations ; and (c) for routine inspections pursuant to Article 72, at least 24 hours in respect of the facilities referred to in Article 80 (b) and sealed storage installations containing plutonium or uranium enriched to more than 5 %, and one week in all other cases.
In performing any unannounced inspections, the Agency shall fully take into account any operational programme provided to it pursuant to Article 64 (b).
However, in respect of Agency inspectors needed for the activities provided for in Article 48 and to carry out ad hoc inspections pursuant to Article 71 (a), the designation procedures shall be completed if possible within 30 days after the entry into force of this Agreement.
Article 88 When Agency inspectors require services available in a State, including the use of equipment in connection with the performance of inspections, the State concerned and the Community shall facilitate the procurement of such services and the use of such equipment by Agency inspectors.
Article 89 The Community and the States concerned shall have the right to have Agency inspectors accompanied during their inspections by its inspectors and their representatives respectively, provided that Agency inspectors shall not thereby be delayed or otherwise impeded in the exercise of their functions.
STATEMENT ON THE AGENCY'S VERIFICATION ACTIVITIES Article 90 The Agency shall inform the Community for the use of the interested Parties of: (a) the results of its inspections, at intervals to be specified in the subsidiary arrangements ; and (b) the conclusions it has drawn from its verification activities.
Article 93 The notification referred to in Article 92 shall be such as to enable the Agency to make, if necessary, an ad hoc inspection to identify, and if possible verify, the quantity and composition of the nuclear material before it is transferred out of the States, except for transfers within the Community and, if the Agency so wishes or the Community so requests, to affix seals to the nuclear material when it has been prepared for shipping.
Article 94 If nuclear material will not be subject to Agency safeguards in the recipient State the Community shall make arrangements for the Agency to receive within three months of the time when the recipient State accepts responsibility for the nuclear material, confirmation by the recipient State of the transfer.
Article 96 The notification referred to in Article 95 shall be such as to enable the Agency to make, if necessary, an ad hoc inspection to identify, and if possible verify, the quantity and composition of, the nuclear material transferred into the States, except for transfers within the Community, at the time the consignment is unpacked.
Article 97 Special reports The Community shall make a special report as envisaged in Article 68 if any unusual incident or circumstance leads the Community to believe that there is or may have been loss of nuclear material, including the occurrence of significant delay, during a transfer into or out of the States.
DEFINITIONS Article 98 For the purposes of this Agreement: 1.
Annual throughput means, for the purposes of Articles 79 and 80, the amount of nuclear material transferred annually out of a facility working at nominal capacity.
The nuclear material may be in bulk form or contained in a number of separate items.
Batch data means the total weight of each element of nuclear material and, in the case of plutonium and uranium, the isotopic composition when appropriate.
Book inventory of a material balance area means the algebraic sum of the most recent physical inventory of that material balance area and of all inventory changes that have occurred since that physical inventory was taken.
Inventory change means an increase or decrease, in terms of batches, of nuclear material in a material balance area ; such a change shall involve one of the following: (a) Increases: (i) import; (ii) domestic receipt : receipts from within the States ; from other material balance areas ; from a non-safeguarded (non-peaceful) activity ; at the starting point of safeguards; (iii) nuclear production : production of special fissionable material in a reactor ; and (iv) de-exemption : reapplication of safeguards on nuclear material previously exempted therefrom on account of its use or quantity. (b) Decreases: (i) export; (ii) domestic shipment : shipments within the States to other material balance areas or for a non-safeguarded (non-peaceful) activity; (iii) nuclear loss : loss of nuclear material due to its transformation into other element(s) or isotope(s) as a result of nuclear reactions; (iv) measured discard : nuclear material which has been measured, or estimated on the basis of measurements, and disposed of in such a way that it is not suitable for further nuclear use; (v) retained waste : nuclear material generated from processing or from an operational accident, which is deemed to be unrecoverable for the time being but which is stored; (vi) exemption : exemption of nuclear material from safeguards on account of its use or quantity ; and (vii) other loss : for example, accidental loss (that is, irretrievable and inadvertent loss of nuclear material as the result of an operational accident) or theft.
Key measurement point means a location where nuclear material appears in such a form that it may be measured to determine material flow or inventory.
Material balance area means an area in or outside of a facility such that: (a) the quantity of nuclear material in each transfer into or out of each material balance area can be determined ; and (b) the physical inventory of nuclear material in each material balance area can be determined when necessary in accordance with specified procedures, in order that the material balance for Agency safeguards purposes can be established.
Shipper/receiver difference means the difference between the quantity of nuclear material in a batch as stated by the shipping material balance area and as measured at the receiving material balance area.
PROTOCOL Article 1 This Protocol amplifies certain provisions of the Agreement and, in particular, specifies the conditions and means according to which cooperation in the application of the safeguards provided for under the Agreement shall be implemented in such a way as to avoid unnecessary duplication of the Community's safeguards activities.
Article 2 The Community shall collect the information on facilities and on nuclear material outside facilities to be provided to the Agency under the Agreement on the basis of the agreed indicative questionnaire annexed to the subsidiary arrangements.
Article 3 The Agency and the Community shall carry out jointly the examination of design information provided for in Article 46 (a) to (f) of the Agreement and shall include the agreed results thereof in the subsidiary arrangements.
The verification of design information provided for in Article 48 of the Agreement shall be carried out by the Agency in cooperation with the Community.
Article 4 When providing the Agency with the information referred to in Article 2 of this Protocol, the Community shall also transmit information on the inspection methods which it proposes to use and the complete proposals, including estimates of inspection efforts for the routine inspection activities, for attachments to the subsidiary arrangements for facilities and material balance areas outside facilities.
Article 5 The preparation of the attachments to the subsidiary arrangements shall be performed together by the Community and the Agency.
Article 6 The Community shall collect the reports from the operators, keep centralized accounts on the basis of these reports and proceed with the technical and accounting control and analysis of the information received.
Article 7 Upon completion of the tasks referred to in Article 6 of this Protocol the Community shall, on a monthly basis, produce and provide the Agency with the inventory change reports within the time limits specified in the subsidiary arrangements.
Article 8 Further, the Community shall transmit to the Agency the material balance reports and physical inventory listings with frequency depending on the frequency of physical inventory taking as specified in the subsidiary arrangements.
Article 9 The form and format of reports referred to in Articles 7 and 8 of this Protocol, as agreed between the Agency and the Community, shall be specified in the subsidiary arrangements.
Article 10 The routine inspection activities of the Community and of the Agency, including the inspections referred to in Article 84 of the Agreement, for the purposes of the Agreement, shall be coordinated pursuant to the provisions of Articles 11 to 23 of this Protocol.
Article 11 Subject to Articles 79 and 80 of the Agreement, in determining the actual number, intensity, duration, timing and mode of the Agency inspections in respect of each facility, account shall be taken of the inspection effort carried out by the Community in the framework of its multinational system of safeguards pursuant to the provisions of this Protocol.
Article 12 Inspection efforts under the Agreement for each facility shall be determined by the use of the criteria of Article 81 of the Agreement.
These rules and methods shall be reviewed from time to time, pursuant to Article 7 of the Agreement, to take into account new technological developments in the field of safeguards and experience gained.
Article 13 Such inspection efforts, expressed as agreed estimates of the actual inspection efforts to be applied, shall be set out in the subsidiary arrangements together with relevant descriptions of verification approaches and scopes of inspections to be carried out by the Community and by the Agency.
Article 14 (a) Subject to the conditions of Article 13 of this Protocol, the Agency inspections shall be carried out simultaneously with the inspection activities of the Community.
Article 15 The general scheduling and planning of the Community inspections under the Agreement shall be established by the Community in cooperation with the Agency.
Article 16 Arrangements for the presence of Agency inspectors during the performance of certain of the Community inspections shall be agreed in advance by the Agency and the Community for each type of facility, and to the extent necessary, for individual facilities.
Article 17 In order to enable the Agency to decide, based on requirements for statistical sampling, as to its presence at a particular Community inspection, the Community shall provide the Agency with an advance statement of the numbers, types and contents of items to be inspected according to the information available to the Community from the operator of the facility.
Article 18 Technical procedures in general for each type of facility and, to the extent necessary, for individual facilities, shall be agreed in advance by the Agency and the Community, in particular, with respect to: (a) the determination of techniques for random selection of statistical samples ; and (b) the checking and identification of standards.
Article 19 The coordination arrangements for each type of facility set out in the subsidiary arrangements shall serve as a basis for the coordination arrangements to be specified in each facility attachment.
Article 20 The specific coordination actions on matters specified in the facility attachments pursuant to Article 19 of this Protocol shall be taken between Community and Agency officials designated for that purpose.
Article 21 The Community shall transmit to the Agency its working papers for these inspections at which Agency inspectors were present and inspection reports for all other Community inspections performed under the Agreement.
Article 22 The samples of nuclear material for the Agency shall be drawn from the same randomly selected batches of items as for the Community and shall be taken together with Community samples, except when the maintenance of or reduction to the lowest practical level of the Agency inspection effort requires independent sampling by the Agency, as agreed in advance and specified in the subsidiary arrangements.
Article 23 The frequencies of physical inventories to be taken by facility operators and to be verified for safeguards purposes will be in accordance with those laid down as guidelines in the subsidiary arrangements.
If additional activities under the Agreement in relation to physical inventories are considered to be essential, they will be discussed in the Liaison Committee provided for in Article 25 of this Protocol and agreed implementation.
Article 24 Whenever the Agency can achieve the purposes of its ad hoc inspections set out in the Agreement through observation of the inspection activities of Community inspectors, it shall do so.
