PACKING AND DISPATCH Whole human blood shall be dispatched in containers in which a temperature of 4 to 6 C is maintained throughout the period of transport.
FREEDOM FROM TOXICITY OF PLASTIC BLOOD TRANSFUSION EQUIPMENT Equipment shall comply with the provisions set out in Annex 11 to this Protocol.
WHOLE HUMAN BLOOD Whole human blood is blood which has been mixed with a suitable anticoagulant, after collection from a human subject in normal health.
No antiseptic or bacteriostatic substance shall be added.
The volume of the anticoagulant solution must not exceed 220 ml per litre of the whole human blood and the haemoglobin concentration must not less than 97 grams per litre.
The volume of red cells should constitute between 65 and 75 % of the total volume of the product, but if a greater red cell concentration is applied the approximate percentage of erythrocyte volume (haematocrit) shall be indicated on the label.
DRIED HUMAN PLASMA Dried human plasma is prepared by drying the supernatant fluids which are separated by centrifuging or by sedimentation from quantities of whole human blood.
The dried product shall be readily soluble in a quantity of water equal to the volume of the liquid from which the substance was prepared.
The protein concentration of the solution thus obtained must not be less than 45 grams per litre, and must not show visible evidence of the products of haemolysis.
The haemaglutinin titre shall not be greater than 1 : 32.
Unless the plasma is pooled and frozen within 48 hours of collecting the blood, the sterility of each unit shall be tested by culturing not less than 10 ml.
To avoid untoward effects due to the products of bacterial growth in the plasma no individual donation shall be used if there is any evidance of bacterial contamination, and the sterility of each pool shall be tested by culturing not less than 10 ml.
To minimize the risk of transmitting serum hepatitis, plasma should be prepared from pools which should contain not more than 12 donations, or by any other method that has been shown to diminish the risk in comparable manner.
Solubility in water Add a quantity of water equal to the volume of the liquid from which the sample was prepared ; the substance dissolves completely within 10 minutes at 15 to 20 C.
Identification Dissolve a known quantity of the product in a volume of water equal to the volume of the liquid from which it was prepared ; the solution passes the following tests: (i) by precipitation tests with specific antisera, it must be shown to contain only human plasma proteins; (ii) to 1 ml add a suitable amount of thrombin or calcium chloride ; coagulation occurs, which can be accelerated by incubation at 37 C.
Loss of mass on drying When dried over phosphorus pentoxide at a pressure not exceeding 0,02 mm of mercury for 24 hours, dried human plasma must not lose more than 0,5 % of its weight.
HUMAN ALBUMIN AND HUMAN PLASMA PROTEIN FRACTION Human albumin and human plasma protein fraction are preparations of that protein component which forms about 60 % of the total protein mass in the plasma of whole human blood.
The method of preparation used shall be one which produces a material meeting the requirements herein described.
Regardless of whether the final product is liquid or dried, the preparation, after the addition of a suitable stabilizing agent or agents, must have been heated in the liquid state in the final container at 60 C ± 0,5 C for 10 hours, in order to inactivate the agent causing serum hepatitis.
In preparations of human albumin, not less than 95 % of the mass of the proteins present shall be albumin.
In preparations of human plasma protein fraction, not less than 85 % of the protein mass shall be albumin.
In both preparations, more than 10 milligrams of immunoglobulin G per gram of product shall be present.
When the final product is freeze-dried, it must contain not less than 950 milligrams of protein per gram of product.
When human plasma protein fraction is prepared as a solution it shall have a total protein concentration of between 45 and 50 grams per litre.
When human albumin is prepared as a solution it shall have a total protein concentration of not less than 45 grams per litre.
The solution shall be substantially free from visible particles after heating at 57 C and after agitation in a mechanical shaker for six hours at this temperature.
Identification i) By precipitation tests with specific antisera, both preparations must be shown to contain only human plasma proteins.
ii) By electrophoresis, using the moving boundary technique under acceptable and appropriate conditions, it must be shown that the protein fraction having the mobility of the albumin component of normal human plasma, is not less than 95 % of the protein mass in preparations of human albumin, or not less than 85 % of the protein mass in preparations of human plasma protein fraction.
Sodium content and sodium concentration The sodium content of salt-poor human albumin must not exceed 0,61 millimoles per gram of albumin.
In other preparations of human albumin and in human plasma protein fraction, the sodium concentration must not exceed 0,15 moles per litre of solution or reconstituted dried product.
Potassium concentration The potassium concentration of human plasma protein fraction must not exceed 2 millimoles per litre of solution or reconstituted dried product.
Acidity The pH of either preparation shall be 6,8 ± 0,2 when measured at a temperature of 15 to 25 C in a solution diluted to a protein concentration of 10 grams per litre by means of a solution containing 0,15 moles sodium chloride per litre.
Loss of mass on drying Dried preparations, when dried over phosphorus pentoxide at a pressure not exceeding 0,02 mm of mercury for 24 hours, must not lose more than 0,5 % of their weight.
Sterility The final product shall be sterile when examined by a suitable bacteriological method.
Solutions of human albumin and human plasma protein fraction must be kept in sterile containers, sealed so as to exclude micro-organisms, protected from light and stored at a temperature of 4 to 6 C.
For solutions, the date of preparation is the date of heat treatment in the final container. 4.
HUMAN NORMAL IMMUNOGLOBULIN Human normal immunoglobulin is a preparation of the plasma proteins prepared from whole human blood, containing the antibodies of normal adults.
It is obtained from pooled liquid human plasma from not less than 1 000 donors.
The method of preparation used should be one which produces a material meeting the requirements herein prescribed and which prevents the transmission of serum hepatitis by the final product.
In addition the method of preparation shall be such that the antibodies contained in the starting material shall be concentrated in an adequate amount in the final product.
The procedure shall be shown, for each final preparation, to be satisfactory in this respect by titrating in the starting material and in the final product antibodies to at least one virus and one bacterial toxin.
The final product is issued as a solution in which the immunoglobulin concentration shall be between 100 and 170 grams per litre.
Stability Both before and after heating the final solution at 37 C for seven days there should be no visible evidence of precipitation or turbidity.
Acidity The pH of the final solution shall be 6,8 ± 0,4 when measured at a temperature of 15 to 25 C in a solution diluted to a protein concentration of 10 grams per litre by means of a solution containing 0,15 moles sodium chloride per litre.
Stability The final product shall be sterile when examined by a suitable bacteriological method.
The date of preparation is the date of filling the final container. 5.
The following human specific immunoglobulins are included in these requirements: - Human immunoglobulin anti-tetanus - Human immunoglobulin anti-vaccinia.
Human immunoglobulin anti-vaccinia shall contain not less than 500 IU per ml of vaccinia antibody as determined by a neutralization test on chorio-allantoic membranes or in tissue culture.
Human immunoglobulin anti-tetanus shall contain not less than 50 IU per ml of tetanus antitoxin as determined by a neutralization test in animals.
DRIED HUMAN FIBRINOGEN Dried human fibrinogen is a dried preparation which contains the soluble constitutent of liquid human plasma which, on the addition of thrombin, is transformed to fibrin.
The final product shall be freeze-dried.
No precipitation shall occur within 60 minutes of reconstitution.
Not less than 50 % of the total protein shall be clottable by thrombin.
Loss of mass on drying Preparations, when dried over phosphorus pentoxide at a pressure not exceeding 0,02 mm of mercury for 24 hours, must not lose more than 0,3 % of their weight.
The date of preparation is the date of placing into final solution before freeze-drying. 7.
DRIED OR FROZEN HUMAN COAGULATION FACTOR VIII I.
Solubility The addition of the indicated quantity of appropriate solvent must result in the complete solution of the dry product in less than 30 minutes at 37 C.
Stability The preparation conserved at 20 C, must not show any sign of precipitation within three hours after it has been dissolved.
Potency The reconstituted preparation should contain the indicated minimum quantity of factor VIII, one unit corresponding to the potency of 1 ml of average normal fresh plasma, the potency being determined by a method approved by the competent national authority.
Abense of irregular antibodies and, if the preparation is intended for patients of any AB0 group, a titre of anti-A and anti-B antibodies not exceeding 32.
Loss of mass on drying Freeze-dried preparations, when dried over phosphorus pentoxide at a pressure not exceeding 0,02 mm of mercury for 24 hours must not lose more than 1,5 % of their weight.
Storage Human factor VIII shall be stored in the deepfrozen state at a temperature under - 30 C, and in the freeze-dried state below 5 C, and protected from light.
The dried preparation shall be kept in an atmosphere of nitrogen or in vacuo, in a sterile vial, stoppered so as to exclude all micro-organisms and, as far as possible, all humidity.
Labelling The label on the preparation shall give all the information shown on the model label (Annex 7). 8.
DRIED HUMAN COAGULATION FACTOR IX I.
Solubility The addition of the indicated quantity of the solvent must result in complete solution in 10 minutes at 37 C.
Thromboplastin activity and absence of free thrombin The recalcification time of a normal plasma measured at 37 C in the presence of an equal volume of various dilutions of the reconstituted product, must not be less than 40 seconds.
The reconstituted product, with an equal volume of fibrinogen (3 g/l) added to it, must not coagulate within six hours at 37 C.
Potency The reconstituted preparation must contain the indicated minimum quantity of factor IX, one unit corresponding to the potency of 1 ml of average normal fresh plasma, the potency being determined by a method approved by the competent national authority.
Yield and stability in vivo The method of preparation must be such that the injection of a dose of 50 units per kg body weight, rapidly administered intravenously, using several batches of material given to several patients, shall cause, in 15 minutes, in the absence of a specific inhibitor and in basal conditions, an average rise of not less than 300 units per litre of plasma, and of the persistence, after 24 hours ; of an average rise of not less than 60 units per litre of plasma.
Loss of mass on drying When dried over phosphorus pentoxide at a pressure not exceeding 0,02 mm of mercury for 24 hours, the product must not lose more than 1,5 % of its weight.
Labelling The label on the preparation shall give all the information shown on the model label (Annex 8).
The tests on containers shall be carried out before the containers are filled with anticoagulant solution.
Preparation of extract and blank (a) A total test as decribed below requires 1 250 cm2 plastic (total surface area, both sides, of a plastic sample in sheet form with surface area of 625 cm2).
The sample - without any printing or label on it - should be cut into pieces of not more than 10 cm2.
For tubing the length (L) in cm is calculated as follows: Where: D1 = inner diameter in cm, D2 = outer diameter in cm.
The tubing should be cut lengthwise into sections measuring approximately 10 cm.
This should be repeated once.
Oxidizable matter To 20 ml of the extract in an Erlenmeyer flask of borosilicate glass add 20 ml of 2 millimole potassium permanganate solution per litre and 1,0 ml of 1 mole sulphuric acid per litre and boil the mixture for three minutes.
Titrate with a solution containing 10 millimole sodium thiosulphate per litre.
The difference in the volume of thiosulphate used in the two titrations does not exceed 2,00 ml of a solution containing 10 millimole sodium thiosulphate per litre. 2.
Chloride The extract complies with a suitable limit test for chloride equivalent to not more than 11,2 ¶mole chloride per litre. 3.
Ammonia The extract complies with a suitable limit test for ammonia equivalent to not more than 120 ¶mole NH3 per litre. 4.
Transfer 10 ml of the solution to a 25 ml titration flask, add 8 ml ammonium molybdate-sulphuric acid solution and 2 ml of freshly prepared solution of ascorbic acid, having a concentration of 100 g/l.
Heat on a water bath at 50 C for 30 minutes, cool and dilute the mixture to 25 ml.
The green or blue colour of the solution is not more intense than that obtained by treating 25 ml of the blank solution in the same manner. 5.
Acidity or alkalinity 10 ml of the extract is not coloured red on the addition of two drops of phenolphthalein solution and requires not more than 0,4 ml solution containing 10 millimole sodium hydroxide per litre to produce a red colour.
After removal of the colour by the addition of 0,08 ml solution containing 10 millimole hydrochloric acid per litre, the addition of five drops of methyl red solution produces a red or orange-red colour. 6.
Residue on evaporation Evaporate 100 ml of the extract to dryness on a water bath and dry at 105 C to constant weight.
The residue weighs not more than 5,0 mg. 7.
Clarity and colour The extract when viewed through a thickness of 5 cm is clear and colourless when compared with the blank. 8.
Residue on ignition 1,0 g of the plastic material when ignited to constant weight leaves not more than 1 mg of residue. 11.
Heavy metals Dissolve the residue on ignition in the minimum quantity of a solution of 2 mole hydrochloric acid per litre, heating if necessary.
The plastic material complies with a limit not exceeding 5 micrograms per gram as calculated as Pb.
BIOLOGICAL TESTS 1.
A test for undue toxicity shall be carried out in the initial evaluation of plastic formulations intended for the fabrication of containers and taking- and giving-sets, using extract A, and on each new batch of materials of the approved formulations, using extract B, by the procedure specified in the national pharmacopoeia or some other method approved by the national control authority. (Extracts A and B are defined in the note below.) 2.
A test for freedom from pyrogens shall be carried out in the initial evaluation of plastic formulations intended for the fabrication of containers and taking- and giving-sets, using extract A, and on each new batch of materials of the approved formulation, using extract C, and in the routine control of containers and taking- and giving-sets, using extract C, by the procedure specified in the national pharmacopoeia or some other method approved by the national control authority.
The incidence of pyrogen testing, using extract C, shall be decided by the national control authority. (Extracts A and C are defined in the note below.) 3.
A test for the in vivo survival of red cells shall be carried out in the initial evaluation of plastic formulations intended for the fabrication of containers for blood.
Fill a transfusion set as completely as possible with sterile pyrogen-free solution containing 9 grams sodium chloride per litre, clamp the ends securely and immerse the filled set completely for one hour in water maintained at 85 C.
If the container is filled with anti-coagulant solution it should be emptied and rinsed twice with 250-ml portions of sterile pyrogen-free distilled water at a temperature of 20 C.
Fill the container with 100 ml sterile pyrogen-free solution containing 9 grams sodium chloride per litre, close it securely and immerse it for one hour in a horizontal position in water maintained at 85 C.
Plastic container with anticoagulant (See paragraph III).
Test for undue toxicity (See Item II, 1 of Annex above) : limit as specified in national pharmacopoeia.
Test for freedom from pyrogens (See Item II, 2 of Annex above) : limit as specified in national pharmacopoeia.
Test for the in vivo survival of red cells (See Item II, 4 of Annex above): (a) Limit: Of the erythrocytes on whole human blood with ACD anticoagulant, which has been stored for 21 days at 4 to 6 C, at least 70 % shall have a post-transfusion survival time of 24 hours.
Method of ISO/TC/76/WGD/3, App.
Med. 29 : 267-82.1919.
and Scheitlin, W.
Franz ARASEK Secretary-General Certified a true copy of the sole original document in English and in French, deposited in the Archives of the Council of Europe.
Erik HARREMOES Director of Legal Affairs of the Council of Europe
