Article 2 Framework 1.
Article 3 Status of personnel and forces 1.
The status of personnel seconded to an EU civilian crisis-management operation and/or of the forces contributed to an EU military crisis-management operation by the Republic of Iceland shall be governed by the agreement on the status of forces/mission, if available, concluded between the European Union and the State(s) in which the operation is conducted. 2.
Article 4 Classified information 1.
SECTION II PROVISIONS ON PARTICIPATION IN CIVILIAN CRISIS-MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS Article 5 Personnel seconded to an EU civilian crisis-management operation 1.
The Republic of Iceland shall ensure that its personnel seconded to the EU civilian crisis-management operation undertake their mission in conformity with: - the Joint Action and subsequent amendments as referred to in Article 2(1) of this Agreement, - the operation plan, - implementing measures. 2.
Article 7 Financial aspects 1.
Article 8 Contribution to operational budget 1.
SECTION III PROVISIONS ON PARTICIPATION IN MILITARY CRISIS-MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS Article 9 Participation in the EU military crisis-management operation 1.
The Republic of Iceland shall ensure that its forces and personnel participating in the EU military crisis-management operation undertake their mission in conformity with: - the Joint Action and subsequent amendments as referred to in Article 2(1) of this Agreement, - the operation plan, - implementing measures. 2.
Article 11 Financial aspects 1.
Article 12 Contribution to the common costs 1.
Article 14 Non-compliance Should one of the Parties fail to comply with its obligations laid down in the previous Articles, the other Party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by serving a notice of one month.
Article 15 Dispute settlement Disputes concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement shall be settled by diplomatic means between the Parties.
Article 16 Entry into force 1.
Done at Brussels, 21 February 2005, in the English language in four copies.
