This Agreement does not apply to the following contracts: (a) procurement of products and services with a view to commercial resale or use in the production of goods for commercial sale; (b) for the EC: - procurement contracts entered into by TOs that are subject to complete and effective competition in the market place, pursuant to the requirements under Article 8 of the EC's utilities Directive, - the award of contracts for the procurement of products and incidental services entered into before 1 January 1998 by TOs established in Portugal and Greece; (c) for Korea: - single tendering procurement involving set-asides for small and medium-sized businesses stipulated under Korea's Government Invested Enterprise Management Law and the Accounting Regulations on Government-Invested Enterprises, and - procurement of satellites pursuant to Korea's Aviation and Space Industry Development Promotion Law for a five-year period commencing on the date on which Korea's accession to the GPA becomes effective.
Article 2 National treatment and non-discrimination 1.
Article 3 Procurement procedures The Parties shall ensure that the procurement procedures and practices followed by their TOs comply with the principles of non-discrimination, transparency and fairness.
These notices, or a summary of the important elements thereof, shall be published at least in one of the 1996 GPA official languages on a national level or, as regards the EC, on a Community level.
Tender documentation shall be forwarded to suppliers or service providers upon request; (d) selection criteria shall be objective.
Article 4 Challenge procedures 1.
Challenge procedures compatible with those set out in Article XX of the GPA shall apply. 2.
Article 5 Information exchange To the extent necessary to ensure effective implementation of this Agreement, the Parties shall, upon the request of either Party, exchange information on legislation, other measures or imminent changes affecting or likely to affect TOs' procurement policies or practices.
Article 6 Consultation and dispute settlement 1.
Article 7 Access to procurement information 1.
Paying due attention to issues of interoperability and interconnectivity, and after having agreed that the type of procurement information referred to in paragraph 1 is comparable, the Parties shall make their best efforts to secure reciprocal access for suppliers and service providers of the other Party to relevant procurement information, such as tender notices, held on their respective databases.
Article 8 Final provisions 1.
ANNEX I European Community - Belgacom (Belgium) - Tele Danmark A/S and subsidiaries (Denmark) - Deutsche Telekom (Germany) - OTE/Hellenic Telecom Organization (Greece) - Telefónica de España SA (Spain) - France Telecom (France) - Telecom Eireann (Ireland) - Telecom Italia (Italy) - Administration des postes et télécommunications (Luxembourg) - Koninklijke PTT Nederland NV and subsidiaries (1) (Netherlands) - Portugal Telecom and Companhia Portuguesa Rádio Marconi (Portugal) - British Telecommunications (BT) (United Kingdom) - City of Kingston upon Hull (United Kingdom) - Österreichische Post und Telekommunikation (PTT) (Austria) - Telecom Finland (Finland) - Telia (Sweden) Korea (2) - Korea Telecom (1) Except PTT Post BV. (2) This list will include in the future government-invested corporations, as defined by the relevant Korean laws and regulations, with respect to their purchase of telecommunications equipment, where (1) such corporations are licensed to provide basic telecommunications services pursuant to the substance and content of Article 5 of the Telecommunications Business Act; (2) one of the main purposes of the corporations is to provide telecommunications services; and (3) the procurement by the corporations is subject to the laws and regulations of the Republic of Korea.
Within 15 days of such notice, the other Party shall appoint a second arbitrator. 2.
The non-complying Party may propose compensation or other remedial action to the other Party.
As regards the EC, the procurement and qualification procedures set out in Council Directive 93/38/EEC of 14 June 1993 coordinating the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and telecommunications sectors (OJ L 199, 9. 8. 1993, p. 84) fulfil this requirement.
Also, as regards the EC, the challenge procedures set out in Council Directive 92/13/EEC of 25 February 1992 coordinating the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the application of Community rules on the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and telecommunications sectors (OJ L 76, 23. 3. 1992, p. 14) are compatible with Article 4 of the Agreement.
The Republic of Korea %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% The European Community %gt%REFERENCE TO A FILM%gt% (1) The transitional arrangements for Portugal and Greece apply, as referred to in Article 1 (5) of the Agreement.
