Article 2 Designation and limitation of authorisations 1.
The provisions in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article shall supersede the corresponding provisions in the Articles listed in Annex II(a) and (b) respectively, in relation to the designation of an air carrier by the Member State concerned, its authorisations and permissions granted by Uruguay, and the refusal, revocation, suspension or limitation of the authorisations or permissions of the air carrier, respectively.
The provisions in paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Article shall supersede the corresponding provisions in the Articles listed in Annex II(a) and (b) respectively, in relation to the designation of an air carrier by Uruguay, its authorisations and permissions granted by the Member State, and the refusal, revocation, suspension or limitation of the authorisations or permissions of the air carrier, respectively. 2.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the Articles listed in Annex II(c). 2.
Article 4 Taxation of aviation fuel 1.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the corresponding provisions in the Articles listed in Annex II(d). 2.
The provisions in paragraph 2 of this Article shall complement the Articles listed in Annex II(e). 2.
Article 6 Compatibility with competition rules 1.
Article 7 Annexes to the Agreement The Annexes to this Agreement form an integral part thereof.
Article 8 Revision or amendment The Parties may, at any time, revise or amend this Agreement by mutual consent.
Article 9 Entry into force and provisional application 1.
Article 10 Termination 1.
Por la Comunidad Europea Za Evropské společenství For Det Europæiske Fællesskab Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft Euroopa Ühenduse nimel Για την Ευρωπαϊκή Κοινότητα For the European Community Pour la Communauté européenne Per la Comunità europea Eiropas Kopienas vārdā Europos bendrijos vardu Az Európai Közösség részéről Ghall-Komunitá Ewropea Voor de Europese Gemeenschap W imieniu Wspólnoty Europejskiej Pela Comunidade Europeia Za Európske spoločenstvo Za Evropsko skupnost Euroopan yhteisön puolesta För Europeiska gemenskapen +++++ TIFF +++++ +++++ TIFF +++++ Por la República Oriental del Uruguay Za Uruguayskou východní republiku For Den Østlige Republik Uruguay Für die Republik Östlich des Uruguay Uruguay Idavabariigi nimel Για την Ανταολική Δημοκρατία της Ουρουγουάης For the Oriental Republic of Uruguay Pour la République Orientale de l'Uruguay Per la Repubblica orientale dell'Uruguay Urugvajas Austrumu Republikas vārdā Urugvajaus Rytų Respublikos vardu Az Uruguayi Keleti Köztársaság részéről Ghar-Repubblika Orjentali ta' l-Uruguay Voor de Republiek ten oosten van de Uruguay W imieniu Wschodniej Republiki Urugwaju Pela República Oriental doUruguai Za Uruguajskú východnú republiku Za Vzhodno republiko Urugvaj Uruguayn itäisen tasavallan puolesta För Östliga Republiken Uruguay +++++ TIFF +++++ -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX I LIST OF AGREEMENTS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 1 OF THIS AGREEMENT (a) Air service agreements between Uruguay and Member States of the European Community which, at the date of signature of this Agreement, have been concluded, signed and/or are being applied provisionally: - Agreement between the Oriental Republic of Uruguay and the Federal Republic of Germany on air transport, signed at Montevideo on 31 August 1957, hereinafter referred to as "Uruguay-Germany Agreement" in Annex II.
