The objectives of this Agreement are: - to provide an appropriate framework for a comprehensive dialogue, allowing the development of close relations between the Parties, - to establish the conditions for the progressive liberalization of trade, - to foster the development of balanced economic and social relations between the Parties through dialogue and cooperation, - to contribute to the social and economic development of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, - to encourage regional cooperation with a view to the consolidation of peaceful coexistence and economic and political stability, - to promote cooperation in other areas which are of reciprocal interest.
Article 2 Relations between the Parties, as well as all the provisions of the Agreement itself, shall be based on respect of democratic principles and fundamental human rights as set out in the universal declaration on human rights, which guides their internal and international policy and constitutes an essential element of this Agreement.
TITLE I FREE MOVEMENT OF GOODS BASIC PRINCIPLES Article 3 The Community and the Palestinian Authority shall establish progressively a free trade area over a transitional period, not extending beyond 31 December 2001, according to the modalities set out in this Title and in conformity with the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of 1994 and of the other multilateral agreements on trade in goods annexed to the agreement establishing the World Trade Organization (WTO), hereinafter referred to as the GATT.
CHAPTER 1 INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS Article 4 The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to products originating in the Community and in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip other than those listed in Annex II to the Treaty establishing the European Community.
Article 5 No new customs duty on imports, or any other charge having equivalent effect, shall be introduced on trade between the Community and the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Article 6 Imports into the Community of products originating in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip shall be allowed free of customs duties and of any other charge having equivalent effect and free of quantitative restrictions and of any other measure having equivalent effect.
The provisions of this Chapter do not preclude the retention by the Community of an agricultural component in respect of goods originating in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip and listed in Annex 1.
The provisions of Chapter 2 applicable to agricultural products shall apply mutatis mutandis to the agricultural component. 2.
For the products listed in Annex 2 originating in the Community, the Palestinian Authority may retain for the duration of the Agreement customs duties on import and charges having equivalent effect not higher than those in force on 1 July 1996. 3.
The Joint Committee established under Article 63 may decide on further concessions which the parties grant each other on a mutual basis.
In the event of serious difficulties for a given product, the schedule referred to in paragraph 2 may be reviewed by the Joint Committee by common accord, on the understanding that it may not be suspended beyond the maximum transitional period of five years.
If the Joint Committee has not taken a decision within 30 days of its application to review the schedule, the Palestinian Authority may suspend the schedule provisionally for a period which may not exceed one year. 4.
If the charge is reduced erga omnes, the reduced charge shall replace the basic charge described in paragraph 2 from the date on which the reduction is applied. 5.
Article 9 The provisions concerning the abolition of customs duties on imports shall also apply to customs duties of a fiscal nature.
Customs duties on imports into the West Bank and the Gaza Strip of products originating in the Community that are introduced by such exceptional measures may not exceed 25 % by value, and must retain a preferential margin for products originating in the Community.
The total value of imports of the products subjected to such measures may not exceed 15 % of total imports of industrial products originating in the Community during the last year for which statistics are available. 4.
The Joint Committee may decide on a different schedule.
CHAPTER 2 AGRICULTURAL AND FISHERY PRODUCTS Article 11 The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to products originating in the Community and the West Bank and the Gaza Strip and listed in Annex II to the Treaty establishing the European Community.
Agricultural products originating in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip listed in Protocol 1 on importation into the Community shall be subject to the arrangements set out in that Protocol. 2.
Agricultural products originating in the Community listed in Protocol 2 on importation into the West Bank and the Gaza Strip shall be subject to the arrangements set out in that Protocol.
CHAPTER 3 COMMON PROVISIONS Article 15 1.
No new quantitative restriction on imports or measures having equivalent effect shall be introduced in trade between the Community and the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 2.
Quantitative restrictions on imports and measures having equivalent effect in trade between the Community and the West Bank and Gaza Strip shall be abolished from the entry into force of this Agreement. 3.
The Community and the Palestinian Authority shall not apply to exports between themselves either customs duties or charges having equivalent effect, or quantitative restrictions or measures having equivalent effect.
If the Community or the Palestinian Authority, in applying paragraph 1, modifies the arrangements made by this Agreement for agricultural products, they shall accord imports originating in the other Party an advantage comparable to that provided for in this Agreement. 4.
The application of this Article may be the subject of consultations in the Joint Committee.
Article 20 If one of the Parties finds that dumping is taking place in trade with the other Party within the meaning of Article VI of GATT, it may take appropriate measures against this practice in accordance with the Agreement on implementation of Article VI of the GATT and with its relevant internal legislation, under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 23 of this Agreement.
Article 21 Where any product is being imported in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause: - serious injury to domestic producers of like or directly competitive products in the territory of one of the Parties, or - serious disturbances in any sector of the economy, or - difficulties which could bring about serious deterioration in the economic situation of a region, the Party concerned may take appropriate measures under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 23.
Article 22 Where compliance with the provisions of Article 15 (3) leads to: (i) re-export towards a third country against which the exporting Party maintains, for the product concerned, quantitative export restrictions, export duties, or measures having equivalent effect, or (ii) a serious shortage, or threat thereof, of a product essential to the exporting Party; and where the situations referred to above give rise, or are likely to give rise to major difficulties for the exporting Party, that Party may take appropriate measures under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 23.
In the event of the Community or the Palestinian Authority subjecting imports of products liable to give rise to the difficulties referred to in Article 21 to an administrative procedure, the purpose of which is to provide rapid information on the trend of trade flows, it shall inform the other Party. 2.
In the cases specified in Articles 20, 21 and 22, before taking the measures provided for therein, or, as soon as possible in cases to which paragraph 3 (d) of this Article applies, the Party in question shall supply the Joint Committee with all relevant information required for a thorough examination of the situation with a view to seeking a solution acceptable to the Parties.
For the implementation of paragraph 2, the following provisions shall apply: (a) As regards Article 20, the exporting Party shall be informed of the dumping case as soon as the authorities of the importing Party have initiated an investigation.
When no end has been put to the dumping within the meaning of Article VI of GATT or no other satisfactory solution has been reached within 30 days of the notification being made, the importing Party may adopt the appropriate measures. (b) As regards Article 21, the difficulties arising from the situation referred to in that Article shall be referred for examination to the Joint Committee, which may take any decision needed to put an end to such difficulties.
If it has not taken such a decision within 30 days of the matter being referred to it, the exporting Party may apply appropriate measures on the exportation of the product concerned. (d) Where exceptional circumstances requiring immediate action make prior information or examination, as the case may be, impossible, the Party concerned may, in the situations specified in Articles 20, 21 and 22 apply forthwith such precautionary measures as are strictly necessary to remedy the situation, and shall inform the other Party immediately.
Article 24 Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude prohibitions or restrictions on imports, exports or goods in transit justified on grounds of public morality, public policy or public security, of the protection of health and life of humans, animals or plants, of the protection of national treasures possessing artistic, historic or archaeological value, of the protection of intellectual, industrial and commercial property or of regulations concerning gold and silver.
Article 25 The concept of 'originating products` for the application of the provisions of the present Title and the methods of administrative cooperation relating to them are set out in Protocol 3.
Article 29 Where one or more Member States of the Community, or the Palestinian Authority, is in serious balance of payments difficulties, or under threat thereof, the Community or the Palestinian Authority, as the case may be, may, in accordance with the conditions established under the GATT and Articles VIII and XIV of the Articles of Agreement of the International Monetary Fund, adopt restrictions on current transactions which shall be of limited duration and may not go beyond what is necessary to remedy the balance of payments situation.
CHAPTER 2 COMPETITION, INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND PUBLIC PROCUREMENT Article 30 1.
The Joint Committee shall, before 31 December 2001, adopt by decision the necessary rules for the implementation of paragraphs 1 and 2.
With regard to products referred to in Title I, Chapter 2: - paragraph 1 (iii) does not apply, - any practices contrary to paragraph 1 (i) shall be assessed according to the criteria established by the Community on the basis of Articles 42 and 43 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and in particular those established in Council Regulation No 26/62. 7.
If the Community or the Palestinian Authority considers that a particular practice is incompatible with the terms of paragraph 1 of this Article, and: - is not adequately dealt with under the implementing rules referred to in paragraph 3, or - in the absence of such rules, and if such practice causes or threatens to cause serious prejudice to the interest of the other Party or material injury to its domestic industry, including its services industry, it may take appropriate measures after consultation within the Joint Committee or after 30 working days following referral for such consultation.
With reference to practices incompatible with paragraph 1 (iii) of this Article, such appropriate measures, when the GATT is applicable to them, may only be adopted in accordance with the procedures and under the conditions laid down by GATT or by any other relevant instrument negotiated under its auspices and applicable between the Parties. 8.
Article 31 The Member States and the Palestinian Authority shall progressively adjust, without prejudice to their commitments to the GATT where appropriate, any State monopolies of a commercial character, so as to ensure that, by 31 December 2001, no discrimination regarding the conditions under which goods are procured and marketed exists between nationals of the Member States and the Palestinian people of the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
The Joint Committee shall take the necessary measures to implement paragraph 1.
TITLE III ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT Article 35 Objectives 1.
The Parties undertake to intensify economic cooperation in their mutual interest and in accordance with the overall objectives of this Agreement. 2.
The aim of cooperation shall be to support the Palestinian Authority's own efforts to achieve sustainable economic and social development.
Article 36 Scope 1.
Article 37 Methods and modalities Economic cooperation shall be implemented in particular by: (a) a regular economic dialogue between the Parties, which covers all areas of macro-economic policy and in particular budgetary policy, the balance of payments and monetary policy; (b) regular exchange of information and ideas in every sector of cooperation including meetings of officials and experts; (c) transfer of advice, expertise and training; (d) implementation of joint actions such as seminars and workshops; (e) technical, administrative and regulatory assistance; (f) encouragement of joint ventures; (g) dissemination of information on cooperation.
Article 38 Industrial cooperation The main aim will be to: - support the Palestinian Authority, in its efforts to modernize and diversify industry and, in particular, to create an environment favourable to private sector and industrial development, - foster cooperation between the two Parties' economic operators, - foster cooperation regarding industrial policy, competitiveness in an open economy and the modernization and development of industry, - support policies to diversify production and exports and external outlets, - promote research and development, innovation and technology transfer as far as they benefit industry, - develop and enhance the human resources required by industry, - facilitate access to venture and risk financing facilities for the benefit of Palestinian industry.
This will entail the development of: - harmonized and simplified administrative procedures, - co-investment machinery, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) of both Parties, - information channels and means of identifying investment opportunities, - an environment conducive to investment in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
Article 41 Approximation of laws The objective of cooperation will be to approximate Palestinian Council legislation to that of the Community, in the areas covered by the Agreement.
Article 42 Small and medium-sized enterprises The objective of cooperation will be the creation of an environment propitious to the development of SMEs on local and export markets through, inter alia: - promotion of contacts between enterprises, in particular through recourse to the Community's networks and instruments for the promotion of industrial cooperation and partnership, - easier access to investment finance, - information and support services, - enhancement of human resources with the aim of stimulating innovation and the setting-up of projects and business ventures.
Article 43 Financial services The objective of cooperation will be the improvement and development of financial services.
Article 44 Agriculture and fisheries The objective of cooperation under this heading will mainly be the modernization and restructuring, where necessary, of agriculture and fisheries.
Article 45 Social development The Parties acknowledge the importance of social development which should go hand-in-hand with any economic development.
The Parties will give priority to measures aimed at: - the promotion of the equality of women and a balanced participation in the decision-making process in the economic and social sphere, notably through education and the media, - the development of family planning and the protection of mothers and children, - improving the social protection system, - improving the response to health requirements, - improving the living conditions in densely populated areas in less-favoured regions, - promoting respect for human rights and democracy, inter alia through socio-professional dialogue.
Article 46 Transport The objectives of cooperation will be: - aid for restructuring and modernizing roads, ports and airports, - improved passenger and freight services both at bilateral and regional level, and - the establishment and enforcement of operating standards comparable to those prevailing in the Community.
Article 47 Information infrastructure and telecommunications Cooperation shall aim at stimulating economic and social development as well as developing an information society.
The priority areas of cooperation will be: - to facilitate collaboration in the field of telecommunications policy, network development and infrastructures for an information society, - to develop a dialogue on issues related to the information society and to promote the exchange of information and the organization of seminars and conferences in this area, - to promote and implement joint projects aimed at the introduction of new telecommunications services and applications related to the information society, - to allow for information exchange on standardization, conformance testing, and certification in information and communications technologies, - interconnection and interoperability of networks and telematics services.
Article 48 Energy The objective of cooperation on energy will be to help the West Bank and Gaza Strip acquire the technologies and infrastructures essential to its development, particularly with a view to facilitating links between its economy and that of the Community.
Article 49 Scientific and technological cooperation The Parties will endeavour to promote cooperation on scientific and technological development.
Article 51 Tourism Priorities for cooperation shall be: - promoting investments in tourism, - improving the knowledge of the tourist industry and ensuring greater consistency of policies affecting tourism, - promoting a good seasonal spread of tourism, - promoting cooperation between regions and cities of neighbouring countries, - highlighting the importance of the cultural heritage for tourism, - making tourism more competitive through support for increased professionalism ensuring the balanced and sustainable development of tourism.
Article 53 Cooperation on statistics The main objective of cooperation in this domain should aim to ensure the comparability and usefulness of statistics on foreign trade, finance and balance of payments, population, migration, transport and communications, and generally all the fields which are covered by this Agreement and lend themselves to the establishment of statistics.
Article 54 Cooperation on economic policy Cooperation is aimed at: - the exchange of information on the macro-economic situation and prospects and development strategies, - joint analysis of economic issues of mutual interest, and - the encouragement of cooperation between economists and policy makers in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip and in the Community.
Article 55 Regional cooperation As part of the implementation of economic cooperation in the various spheres, the Parties will encourage operations designed to develop cooperation between the Palestinian Authority and other Mediterranean partners, through technical support.
Priority will be given to operations aimed at: - promoting intra-regional trade, - developing regional cooperation on the environment, - encouraging the development of the communications infrastructure required for the economic development of the region, - strengthening the development of youth cooperation with neighbouring countries.
TITLE IV COOPERATION ON AUDIO-VISUAL AND CULTURAL MATTERS, INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION Article 56 The Parties shall promote cooperation in the audio-visual sector to their mutual benefit.
Article 57 The Parties shall promote cultural cooperation.
Article 59 The Parties shall promote activities of mutual interest in the field of information and communication.
Article 60 Cooperation shall be implemented in particular through: (a) a regular dialogue between the Parties; (b) regular exchange of information and ideas in every sector of cooperation including meetings of officials and experts; (c) transfer of advice and experience and training of young Palestinian graduates; (d) implementation of joint actions such as seminars and workshops; (e) technical, administrative and regulatory assistance; (f) the dissemination of information on cooperation activities.
TITLE V FINANCIAL COOPERATION Article 61 In order to achieve the objectives of this Agreement, a financial cooperation package shall be made available to the Palestinian Authority in accordance with the appropriate procedures and the financial resources required.
Financial cooperation shall focus on: - responding to the economic repercussions for the West Bank and the Gaza Strip of the gradual introduction of a free trade area, notably by upgrading and restructuring industry, - trade institutions which promote trading links with foreign markets, - accompanying measures for policies implemented in the social sector, - upgrading economic and social infrastructure, - promoting private investment and job-creating activities in the productive sectors, - promoting reforms designed to modernize the economy, - services, - urban and rural development, - the environment, - the setting-up and improvement of institutions necessary for the proper working of the Palestinian public administration and the advancement of democracy and human rights.
Article 62 In order to ensure that a coordinated approach is adopted to any exceptional macro-economic and financial problems that might arise as a result of the implementation of this Agreement, the Parties shall use the regular economic dialogue provided for in Title III to give particular attention to monitoring trade and financial flows in relations between them.
TITLE VI INSTITUTIONAL, GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 63 1.
The decisions taken shall be binding on the Parties, which shall take such measures as are required to implement them. 2.
The Joint Committee may also formulate any resolutions, recommendations or opinions which it considers desirable for the attainment of the common objectives and the smooth functioning of the Agreement. 3.
The Joint Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure.
The Joint Committee may decide to set up any other committee that can assist it in carrying out its duties. 2.
Either Party may refer to the Joint Committee any dispute relating to the application or interpretation of this Agreement. 2.
The Joint Committee may settle the dispute by means of a decision. 3.
Each Party shall be bound to take measures involved in carrying out the decision referred to in paragraph 2. 4.
Article 68 Nothing in the Agreement shall prevent a Party from taking any measures: (a) which it considers necessary to prevent the disclosure of information contrary to its essential security interests; (b) which relate to the production of, or trade in, arms, munitions or war materials or to research, development or production indispensable for defence purposes, provided that such measures do not impair the conditions of competition in respect of products not intended for specifically military purposes; (c) which it considers essential to its own security in the event of serious internal disturbances affecting the maintenance of law and order, in time of war or serious international tension constituting threat of war, or in order to carry out obligations it has accepted for the purpose of maintaining peace and international security.
Article 69 In the fields covered by this Agreement and without prejudice to any special provisions contained therein: - the arrangements applied by the Palestinian Authority in respect of the Community shall not give rise to any discrimination between the Member States, their nationals or their companies or firms, - the arrangements applied by the Community in respect of the Palestinian Authority shall not give rise to discrimination between members of the Palestinian population, companies or firms of the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Article 72 For the purpose of this Agreement the term 'Parties` shall mean the PLO for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority and the Community, which shall each act in accordance with their respective powers.
Article 73 This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
Article 74 This Agreement, drawn up in duplicate in the Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Swedish, and Arabic languages, each of these texts being equally authentic, shall be deposited with the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union.
No later than 4 May 1999 negotiations shall commence with a view to concluding a Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement.
Som skedde i Bryssel den tjugofjärde februari nittonhundranittiosju. %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Por la Comunidad Europea For Det Europæiske Fællesskab Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft Ãéá ôçí ÅõñùðáúêÞ Êïéíüôçôá For the European Community Pour la Communauté européenne Per la Comunità europea Voor de Europese Gemeenschap Pela Comunidade Europeia Euroopan yhteisön puolesta På Europeiska gemenskapens vägnar %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% ANNEX 1 %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX 2 %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX 3 %gt%TABLE%gt% PROTOCOL 1 on the arrangements applying to imports into the Community of agricultural products originating in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip Article 1 1.
Where the Common Customs Tariff provides for the application of ad valorem customs duties and a specific customs duty in respect of certain products, the rates of reduction shown in column A and in column C, as referred to in paragraph 3, shall apply only to the ad valorem customs duty. 3.
The Common Customs Tariff duties in respect of the quantities imported in excess of the quotas shall be reduced by the percentage indicated in column C. 4.
In such a case, for quantities imported in excess of the quota, the common customs tariff duty shall, according to the product concerned, be applied in full or reduced, as indicated in column C. 5.
The products listed in the Annex originating in the Community shall be admitted for importation into the West Bank and the Gaza strip according to the conditions contained herein and in the Annex. 2.
Import duties on imports shall be either eliminated or reduced to the level indicated in column 'A`, within the limit of the tariff quota listed in column 'B`, and subject to the specific provisions indicated in column 'C`. 3.
ANNEX TO PROTOCOL 2 %gt%TABLE%gt% PROTOCOL 3 concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products` and methods of administrative cooperation TABLE OF CONTENTS TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1 Definitions TITLE II DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF 'ORIGINATING PRODUCTS` Article 2 General requirements Article 3 Bilateral cumulation of origin Article 4 Wholly obtained products Article 5 Sufficiently worked or processed products Article 6 Insufficient working or processing operations Article 7 Unit of qualification Article 8 Accessories, spare parts and tools Article 9 Sets Article 10 Neutral elements TITLE III TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS Article 11 Principle of territoriality Article 12 Direct transport Article 13 Exhibitions TITLE IV DRAWBACK OR EXEMPTION Article 14 Prohibition of drawback of, or exemption from, customs duties TITLE V PROOF OF ORIGIN Article 15 General requirements Article 16 Procedure for the issue of a movement certificate EUR.1 Article 17 Movement certificates EUR.1 issued retrospectively Article 18 Issue of a duplicate movement certificate EUR.1 Article 19 Issue of movement certificates EUR.1 on the basis of a proof of origin issued or made out previously Article 20 Conditions for making out an invoice declaration Article 21 Approved exporter Article 22 Validity of proof of origin Article 23 Submission of proof of origin Article 24 Importation by instalments Article 25 Exemptions from proof of origin Article 26 Supporting documents Article 27 Preservation of proof of origin and supporting documents Article 28 Discrepancies and formal errors Article 29 Amounts expressed in ecu TITLE VI ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION Article 30 Mutual assistance Article 31 Verification of proofs of origin Article 32 Dispute settlement Article 33 Penalties Article 34 Free zones TITLE VII CEUTA AND MELILLA Article 35 Application of the Protocol Article 36 Special conditions TITLE VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 37 Amendments to the Protocol Article 38 Implementation of the Protocol Article 39 Goods in transit or in storage ANNEXES Annex I Introductory notes to the list in Annex II Annex II List of working or processing required to be carried out on non-originating materials in order that the product manufactured can obtain originating status Annex III Movement certificate EUR.1 and application for a movement certificate EUR.1 Annex IV Invoice declaration TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1 Definitions For the purposes of this Protocol: (a) 'manufacture` means any kind of working or processing including assembly or specific operations; (b) 'material` means any ingredient, raw material, component or part, etc., used in the manufacture of the product; (c) 'product` means the product being manufactured, even if it is intended for later use in another manufacturing operation; (d) 'goods` means both materials and products; (e) 'customs value` means the value as determined in accordance with the 1994 Agreement on implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (WTO Agreement on customs valuation); (f) 'ex-works price` means the price paid for the product ex works to the manufacturer in the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip in whose undertaking the last working or processing is carried out, provided the price includes the value of all the materials used, minus any internal taxes which are, or may be, repaid when the product obtained is exported; (g) 'value of materials` means the customs value at the time of importation of the non-originating materials used, or, if this is not known and cannot be ascertained, the first ascertainable price paid for the materials in the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip; (h) 'value of originating materials` means the value of such materials as defined in subparagraph (g) applied mutatis mutandis; (i) 'added value` shall be taken to be the ex-works price minus the customs value of each of the products incorporated which did not originate in the country in which those products were obtained; (j) 'chapters` and 'headings` mean the chapters and the headings (four-digit codes) used in the nomenclature which makes up the Harmonized Community Description and Coding System, referred to in this Protocol as 'the Harmonized System` or 'HS`; (k) 'classified` refers to the classification of a product or material under a particular heading; (l) 'consignment` means products which are either sent simultaneously from one exporter to one consignee or covered by a single transport document covering their shipment from the exporter to the consignee or, in the absence of such a document, by a single invoice; (m) 'territories` includes territorial waters.
TITLE II DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF 'ORIGINATING PRODUCTS` Article 2 General requirements 1.
For the purpose of implementing this Agreement, the following products shall be considered as originating in the Community: (a) products wholly obtained in the Community within the meaning of Article 4 of this Protocol; (b) products obtained in the Community incorporating materials which have not been wholly obtained there, provided that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing in the Community within the meaning of Article 5 of this Protocol. 2.
For the purpose of implementing this Agreement, the following products shall be considered as originating in the West Bank and Gaza Strip: (a) products wholly obtained in the West Bank and Gaza Strip within the meaning of Article 4 of this Protocol; (b) products obtained in the West Bank and Gaza Strip incorporating materials which have not been wholly obtained there, provided that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing in the West Bank and Gaza Strip within the meaning of Article 5 of this Protocol.
It shall not be necessary that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing, provided they have undergone working or processing going beyond that referred to in Article 6 (1) of this Protocol. 2.
It shall not be necessary that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing, provided they have undergone working or processing going beyond that referred to in Article 6 (1) of this Protocol.
Article 4 Wholly obtained products 1.
Article 5 Sufficiently worked or processed products 1.
For the purposes of Article 2, products which are not wholly obtained are considered to be sufficiently worked or processed when the conditions set out in the list in Annex II are fulfilled.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, non-originating materials which, according to the conditions set out in the list, should not be used in the manufacture of a product may nevertheless be used, provided that: (a) their total value does not exceed 10 % of the ex-works price of the product; (b) any of the percentages given in the list for the maximum value of non-originating materials are not exceeded through the application of this paragraph.
This paragraph shall not apply to products falling within Chapters 50 to 63 of the Harmonized System. 3.
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply except as provided in Article 6.
Article 6 Insufficient working or processing operations 1.
Article 8 Accessories, spare parts and tools Accessories, spare parts and tools dispatched with a piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle, which are part of the normal equipment and included in the price thereof or which are not separately invoiced, shall be regarded as one with the piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle in question.
Nevertheless, when a set is composed of originating and non-originating products, the set as a whole shall be regarded as originating, provided that the value of the non-originating products does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the set.
Article 10 Neutral elements In order to determine whether a product originates, it shall not be necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be used in its manufacture: (a) energy and fuel; (b) plant and equipment; (c) machines and tools; (d) goods which do not enter and which are not intended to enter into the final composition of the product.
TITLE III TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS Article 11 Principle of territoriality 1.
The conditions set out in Title II relative to the acquisition of originating status must be fulfilled without interruption in the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 2.
Article 12 Direct transport 1.
Evidence that the conditions set out in paragraph 1 have been fulfilled shall be supplied to the customs authorities of the importing country by the production of: (a) a single transport document covering the passage from the exporting country through the country of transit; or (b) a certificate issued by the customs authorities of the country of transit: (i) giving an exact description of the products; (ii) stating the dates of unloading and reloading of the products and, where applicable, the names of the ships, or the other means of transport used; and (iii) certifying the conditions under which the products remained in the transit country; or (c) failing these, any substantiating documents.
Article 13 Exhibitions 1.
Originating products, sent for exhibition in another country and sold after the exhibition for importation in the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip shall benefit on importation from the provisions of the Agreement provided it is shown to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that: (a) an exporter has consigned these products from the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip to the country in which the exhibition is held and has exhibited them there; (b) the products have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that exporter to a person in the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip; (c) the products have been consigned during the exhibition or immediately thereafter in the state in which they were sent for exhibition; and (d) the products have not, since they were consigned for exhibition, been used for any purpose other than demonstration at the exhibition. 2.
TITLE IV DRAWBACK OR EXEMPTION Article 14 Prohibition of drawback of, or exemption from, customs duties 1.
The provisions of this Article shall apply from 1 January 2000 and may be reviewed by common accord.
TITLE V PROOF OF ORIGIN Article 15 General requirements 1.
Products originating in the Community shall, on importation into the West Bank and Gaza Strip and products originating in the West Bank and Gaza Strip shall, on importation into the Community benefit from this Agreement upon submission of either: (a) a movement certificate EUR.1, a specimen of which appears in Annex III; or (b) in the cases specified in Article 20 (1), a declaration, the text of which appears in Annex IV, given by the exporter on an invoice, a delivery note or any other commercial document which describes the products concerned in sufficient detail to enable them to be identified (hereinafter referred to as the 'invoice declaration`). 2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, originating products within the meaning of this Protocol shall, in the cases specified in Article 25, benefit from this Agreement without it being necessary to submit any of the documents referred to above.
Article 16 Procedure for the issue of a movement certificate EUR.1 1.
The exporter applying for the issue of a movement certificate EUR.1 shall be prepared to submit at any time, at the request of the customs authorities of the exporting country where the movement certificate EUR.1 is issued, all appropriate documents proving the originating status of the products concerned as well as the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol. 4.
A movement certificate EUR.1 shall be issued by the customs authorities of an EC Member State or the West Bank and Gaza Strip if the products concerned can be considered as products originating in the Community, the West Bank and Gaza Strip or in one of the other countries referred to in Article 4 and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 5.
The date of issue of the movement certificate EUR.1 shall be indicated in Box 11 of the certificate. 7.
Article 17 Movement certificates EUR.1 issued retrospectively 1.
Notwithstanding Article 16 (7), a movement certificate EUR.1 may exceptionally be issued after exportation of the products to which it relates if: (a) it was not issued at the time of exportation because of errors or involuntary omissions or special circumstances; or (b) it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that a movement certificate EUR.1 was issued but was not accepted at importation for technical reasons. 2.
The customs authorities may issue a movement certificate EUR.1 retrospectively only after verifying that the information supplied in the exporter's application agrees with that in the corresponding file. 4.
The endorsement referred to in paragraph 4 shall be inserted in the 'Remarks` box of the movement certificate EUR.1.
Article 18 Issue of a duplicate movement certificate EUR.1 1.
The endorsement referred to in paragraph 2 shall be inserted in the 'Remarks` box of the duplicate movement certificate EUR.1. 4.
Article 19 Issue of movement certificates EUR.1 on the basis of a proof of origin issued or made out previously When originating products are placed under the control of a customs office in the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip, it shall be possible to replace the original proof of origin by one or more movement certificates EUR.1 for the purpose of sending all or some of these products elsewhere within the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Article 20 Conditions for making out an invoice declaration 1.
An invoice declaration as referred to in Article 15 (1) (b) may be made out: (a) by an approved exporter within the meaning of Article 21, or (b) by any exporter for any consignment consisting of one or more packages containing originating products whose total value does not exceed ECU 6 000. 2.
An invoice declaration may be made out if the products concerned can be considered as products originating in the Community, the West Bank and Gaza Strip or in one of the other countries referred to in Article 4 and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 3.
The exporter making out an invoice declaration shall be prepared to submit at any time, at the request of the customs authorities of the exporting country, all appropriate documents proving the originating status of the products concerned as well as the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol. 4.
An invoice declaration shall be made out by the exporter by typing, stamping or printing on the invoice, the delivery note or another commercial document, the declaration, the text of which appears in Annex IV, using one of the linguistic versions set out in that Annex and in accordance with the provisions of the domestic law of the exporting country.
Article 21 Approved exporter 1.
The customs authorities may grant the status of approved exporter subject to any conditions which they consider appropriate. 3.
The customs authorities shall monitor the use of the authorization by the approved exporter. 5.
The customs authorities may withdraw the authorization at any time.
They shall do so where the approved exporter no longer offers the guarantees referred to in paragraph 1, does not fulfil the conditions referred to in paragraph 2 or otherwise makes an incorrect use of the authorization.
Article 22 Validity of proof of origin 1.
Proofs of origin which are submitted to the customs authorities of the importing country after the final date for presentation specified in paragraph 1 may be accepted for the purpose of applying preferential treatment, where the failure to submit these documents by the final date set is due to exceptional circumstances. 3.
Article 23 Submission of proof of origin Proofs of origin shall be submitted to the customs authorities of the importing country in accordance with the procedures applicable in that country.
Article 24 Importation by instalments Where, at the request of the importer and on the conditions laid down by the customs authorities of the importing country, dismantled or non-assembled products within the meaning of General Rule 2 (a) of the Harmonized System falling within Sections XVI and XVII or heading Nos 7308 and 9406 of the Harmonized System are imported by instalments, a single proof of origin for such products shall be submitted to the customs authorities upon importation of the first instalment.
Article 25 Exemptions from proof of origin 1.
Furthermore, the total value of these products shall not exceed ECU 500 in the case of small packages or ECU 1 200 in the case of products forming part of travellers' personal luggage.
Article 26 Supporting documents The documents referred to in Articles 16 (3) and 20 (3), used for the purpose of proving that products covered by a movement certificate EUR.1 or an invoice declaration can be considered as products originating in the Community, or in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol, may consist inter alia of the following: (a) direct evidence of the processes carried out by the exporter or supplier to obtain the goods concerned, contained for example in his accounts or internal bookkeeping; (b) documents proving the originating status of materials used, issued or made out in the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip where these documents are used in accordance with domestic law; (c) documents proving the working or processing of materials in the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip, issued or made out in the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip, where these documents are used in accordance with domestic law; (d) movement certificates EUR.1 or invoice declarations proving the originating status of materials used, issued or made out in the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip in accordance with this Protocol.
Article 27 Preservation of proof of origin and supporting documents 1.
The exporter applying for the issue of a movement certificate EUR.1 shall keep for at least three years the documents referred to in Article 16 (3). 2.
The exporter making out an invoice declaration shall keep for at least three years a copy of this invoice declaration as well as the documents referred to in Article 20 (3). 3.
The customs authorities of the exporting country issuing a movement certificate EUR.1 shall keep for at least three years the application form referred to in Article 16 (2). 4.
The customs authorities of the importing country shall keep for at least three years the movement certificates EUR.1 and the invoice declarations submitted to them.
Article 28 Discrepancies and formal errors 1.
Article 29 Amounts expressed in ecu 1.
Amounts in the national currency of the exporting country equivalent to the amounts expressed in ecu shall be fixed by the exporting country and communicated to the importing countries through the European Commission. 2.
TITLE VI ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION Article 30 Mutual assistance 1.
Article 31 Verification of proofs of origin 1.
These results must indicate clearly whether the documents are authentic and whether the products concerned can be considered as products originating in the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip, and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 6.
Article 32 Dispute settlement Where disputes arise in relation to the verification procedures of Article 31 which cannot be settled between the customs authorities requesting a verification and the customs authorities responsible for carrying out this verification or where they raise a question as to the interpretation of this Protocol, they shall be submitted to the Joint Committee.
Article 33 Penalties Penalties shall be imposed on any person who draws up, or causes to be drawn up, a document which contains incorrect information for the purpose of obtaining a preferential treatment for products.
Article 34 Free zones 1.
By means of an exemption to the provisions contained in paragraph 1, when products originating in the Community or the West Bank and Gaza Strip are imported into a free zone under cover of a proof of origin and undergo treatment or processing, the authorities concerned shall issue a new EUR.1 certificate at the exporter's request, if the treatment or processing undergone is in conformity with the provisions of this Protocol.
TITLE VII CEUTA AND MELILLA Article 35 Application of the Protocol 1.
The term 'Community` used in Article 2 does not cover Ceuta and Melilla. 2.
Products originating in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, when imported into Ceuta or Melilla, shall enjoy in all respects the same customs regime as that which is applied to products originating in the customs territory of the Community under Protocol 2 of the Act of Accession of the Kingdom of Spain and the Portuguese Republic to the European Communities.
For the purpose of the application of paragraph 2 concerning products originating in Ceuta and Melilla, this Protocol shall apply mutatis mutandis subject to the special conditions set out in Article 36.
Article 36 Special conditions 1.
Providing they have been transported directly in accordance with the provisions of Article 12, the following shall be considered as: (1) products originating in Ceuta and Melilla: (a) products wholly obtained in Ceuta and Melilla; (b) products obtained in Ceuta and Melilla in the manufacture of which products other than those referred to in (a) are used, provided that: (i) the said products have undergone sufficient working or processing within the meaning of Article 5 of this Protocol; or that (ii) those products are originating in the West Bank and Gaza Strip or the Community within the meaning of this Protocol, provided that they have been submitted to working or processing which goes beyond the insufficient working or processing referred to in Article 6 (1). (2) products originating in the West Bank and Gaza Strip: (a) products wholly obtained in the West Bank and Gaza Strip; (b) products obtained in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, in the manufacture of which products other than those referred to in (a) are used, provided that: (i) the said products have undergone sufficient working or processing within the meaning of Article 5 of this Protocol; or that (ii) those products are originating in Ceuta and Melilla or the Community within the meaning of this Protocol, provided that they have been submitted to working or processing which goes beyond the insufficient working or processing referred to in Article 6 (1). 2.
Ceuta and Melilla shall be considered as a single territory. 3.
The exporter or his authorized representative shall enter 'The West Bank and Gaza Strip` and 'Ceuta and Melilla` in Box 2 of movement certificates EUR.1 or on invoice declarations.
In addition, in the case of products originating in Ceuta and Melilla, this shall be indicated in Box 4 of movement certificates EUR.1 or on invoice declarations. 4.
The Spanish customs authorities shall be responsible for the application of this Protocol in Ceuta and Melilla.
TITLE VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 37 Amendments to the Protocol The Joint Committee may decide to amend the provisions of this Protocol.
Article 39 Goods in transit or storage The provisions of the Agreement may be applied to goods which comply with the provisions of this Protocol and which on the date of entry into force of the Agreement are either in transit or are in the Community or in the West Bank and Gaza Strip or, in temporary storage in bonded warehouses or in free zones, subject to the submission to the customs authorities of the importing State, within four months of that date, of a certificate EUR.1 endorsed retrospectively by the competent authorities of the exporting State together with the documents showing that the goods have been transported directly.
ANNEX I INTRODUCTORY NOTES TO THE LIST IN ANNEX II Note 1: The list sets out the conditions required for all products to be considered as sufficiently worked or processed within the meaning of Article 5 of the Protocol.
Where, in some cases, the entry in the first column is preceded by an 'ex`, this signifies that the rules in columns 3 or 4 apply only to the part of that heading as described in column 2. 2.2.
Where several heading numbers are grouped together in column 1 or a chapter number is given and the description of products in column 2 is therefore given in general terms, the adjacent rules in columns 3 or 4 apply to all products which, under the Harmonized System, are classified in headings of the chapter or in any of the headings grouped together in column 1. 2.3.
Where there are different rules in the list applying to different products within a heading, each indent contains the description of that part of the heading covered by the adjacent rules in columns 3 or 4. 2.4.
The provisions of Article 5 of the Protocol concerning products having acquired originating status which are used in the manufacture of other products apply regardless of whether this status has been acquired inside the factory where these products are used or in another factory in the Community or in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Example: An engine of heading No 8407, for which the rule states that the value of the non-originating materials which may be incorporated may not exceed 40 per cent of the ex-works price, is made from 'other alloy steel roughly shaped by forging` of heading No ex 7224.
However, the expression 'manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading No . . .` means that only materials classified in the same heading as the product of a different description than that of the product as given in column 2 of the list may be used. 3.4.
Where a rule in the list specifies that a product must be manufactured from a particular material, the condition obviously does not prevent the use of other materials which, because of their inherent nature, cannot satisfy the rule. (See also Note 6.2 below in relation to textiles).
The term 'natural fibres` includes horsehair of heading No 0503, silk of heading Nos 5002 and 5003 as well as the wool fibres, fine or coarse animal hair of heading Nos 5101 to 5105, the cotton fibres of heading Nos 5201 to 5203 and the other vegetable fibres of heading Nos 5301 to 5305. 4.3.
The term 'man-made staple fibres` is used in the list to refer to synthetic or artificial filament tow, staple fibres or waste, of heading Nos 5501 to 5507.
However, the tolerance mentioned in Note 5.1 may only be applied to mixed products which have been made from two or more basic textile materials.
The following are the basic textile materials: - silk, - wool, - coarse animal hair, - fine animal hair, - horsehair, - cotton, - paper-making materials and paper, - flax, - true hemp, - jute and other textile bast fibres, - sisal and other textile fibres of the genus Agave, - coconut, abaca, ramie and other vegetable textile fibres, - synthetic man-made filaments, - artificial man-made filaments, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polypropylene, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyester, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyamide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyacrylonitrile, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyimide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polytetrafluoroethylene, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyphenylene sulphide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyvinyl chloride, - other synthetic man-made staple fibres, - artificial man-made staple fibres of viscose, - other artificial man-made staple fibres, - yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether whether or not gimped, - yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyester whether or not gimped, - products of heading No 5605 (metallized yarn) incorporating strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of a transparent or coloured adhesive between two layers of plastic film, - other products of heading No 5605.
Example: A yarn of heading No 5205 made from cotton fibres of heading No 5203 and synthetic staple fibres of heading No 5506 is a mixed yarn.
Therefore, non-originating synthetic staple fibres that do not satisfy the origin rules (which require manufacture from chemical materials or textile pulp) may be used up to a weight of 10 per cent of the yarn.
Example: A woollen fabric of heading No 5112 made from woollen yarn of heading No 5107 and synthetic yarn of staple fibres of heading No 5509 is a mixed fabric.
Example: Tufted textile fabric of heading No 5802 made from cotton yarn of heading No 5205 and cotton fabric of heading No 5210 is only a mixed product if the cotton fabric is itself a mixed fabric being made from yarns classified in two separate headings or if the cotton yarns used are themselves mixtures.
Example: If the tufted textile fabric concerned had been made from cotton yarn of heading No 5205 and synthetic fabric of heading No 5407, then, obviously, the yarns used are two separate basic textile materials and the tufted textile fabric is accordingly a mixed product.
Thus, any non-originating materials that are at a later stage of manufacture than the rule allows may be used, provided their total weight does not exceed 10 per cent of the weight of the textile materials of the carpet.
In the case of products incorporating 'yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether whether or not gimped` this tolerance is 20 per cent in respect of this yarn. 5.4.
In the case of products incorporating 'strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of an adhesive between two layers of plastic film`, this tolerance is 30 per cent in respect of this strip.
In the case of those textile products which are marked in the list by a footnote referring to this note, textile materials, with the exception of linings and interlinings, which do not satisfy the rule set out in the list in column 3 for the made-up product concerned may be used provided that they are classified in a heading other than that of the product and that their value does not exceed 8 per cent of the ex-works price of the product. 6.2.
Without prejudice to Note 6.3, materials which are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63 may be used freely in the manufacture of textile products, whether or not they contain textiles.
Example: If a rule in the list provides that for a particular textile item, such as trousers, yarn must be used, this does not prevent the use of metal items, such as buttons, because buttons are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63.
Where a percentage rules applies, the value of materials which are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63 must be taken into account when calculating the value of the non-originating materials incorporated.
For the purposes of heading Nos ex 2707, 2713 to 2715, ex 2901, ex 2902 and ex 3403, the 'specific processes` are the following: (a) vacuum distillation; (b) redistillation by a very thorough fractionation process (1); (c) cracking; (d) reforming; (e) extraction by means of selective solvents; (f) the process comprising all the following operations: processing with concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralization with alkaline agents; decolorization and purification with naturally active earth, activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite; (g) polymerization; (h) alkylation; (i) isomerization. 7.2.
For the purposes of heading Nos 2710, 2711 and 2712, the 'specific processes` are the following: (a) vacuum distillation; (b) redistillation by a very thorough fractionation process (2); (c) cracking; (d) reforming; (e) extraction by means of selective solvents; (f) the process comprising all the following operations: processing with concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralization with alkaline agents; decolorization and purification with naturally active earth, activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite; (g) polymerization; (h) alkylation; (ij) isomerization; (k) in respect of heavy oils falling within heading No ex 2710 only, desulphurization with hydrogen resulting in a reduction of at least 85 per cent of the sulphur content of the products processed (ASTM D 1266-59 T method); (l) in respect of products falling within heading No 2710 only, deparaffining by a process other than filtering; (m) in respect of heavy oils falling within heading No ex 2710 only, treatment with hydrogen at a pressure of more than 20 bar and a temperature of more than 250 °C with the use of a catalyst, other than to effect desulphurization, when the hydrogen constitutes an active element in a chemical reaction.
For the purposes of heading Nos ex 2707, 2713 to 2715, ex 2901, ex 2902 and ex 3403, simple operations such as cleaning, decanting, desalting, water separation, filtering, colouring, marking, obtaining a sulphur content as a result of mixing products with different sulphur contents, any combination of these operations or like operations do not confer origin. (1) See Additional Explanatory Note 4 (b) to Chapter 27 of the Combined Nomenclature. (2) See Additional Explanatory Note 4 (b) to Chapter 27 of the Combined Nomenclature.
The paper used must be white, sized for writing, not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 25 g/m².
Danish version Eksportøren af varer, der er omfattet af nærværende dokument, (toldmyndighedernes tilladelse nr. . . . (1)), erklærer, at varerne, medmindre andet tydeligt er angivet, har præferenceoprindelse i . . . (2).
Greek version Ï åîáãùãÝáò ôùí ðñïúüíôùí ðïõ êáëýðôïíôáé áðü ôï ðáñüí Ýããñáöï (Üäåéá ôåëùíåßïõ õð' áñéè. . . . (1)) dhl´vnei óti, ektów eán dhl´vnetai saf´vw állvw, ta proïónta aztá eínai protimhsiak´hw katagvg´hw . . . (2).
Italian version L'esportatore delle merci contemplate nel presente documento (autorizzazione doganale n. . . . (1)) dichiara che, salvo indicazione contraria, le merci sono di origine preferenziale . . . (2).
alkuperätuotteita (2).
Joint Declaration concerning the Principality of Andorra; 2.
Som skedde i Bryssel den tjugofjärde februari nittonhundranittiosju. %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Por la Comunidad Europea For Det Europæiske Fællesskab Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft Ãéá ôçí ÅõñùðáúêÞ Êïéíüôçôá For the European Community Pour la Communauté européenne Per la Comunità europea Voor de Europese Gemeenschap Pela Comunidade Europeia Euroopan yhteisön puolesta På Europeiska gemenskapens vägnar %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% JOINT DECLARATIONS Joint Declaration on intellectual, industrial and commercial property (Article 33 of the Agreement) For the purpose of the Agreement, intellectual, industrial and commercial property includes in particular copyright, including the copyright in computer programmes, and neighbouring rights, patents, industrial designs, geographical indications, including appellations of origin, trademarks and service marks, topographies of integrated circuits, as well as protection against unfair competition as referred to in Article 10a of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property (Stockholm Act, 1967) and protection of undisclosed information on 'know-how`.
Joint Declaration on Article 55 of the Agreement The Parties reaffirm their commitment to the Middle East Peace Process and their belief that peace should be consolidated through regional cooperation.
The Parties reaffirm that the Agreement forms part of the process launched at the Barcelona Conference of 27 November 1995 and that the bilateral cooperation between the European Community and the Palestinian Authority is complementary to the regional cooperation taking place in the context of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership.
Joint Declaration on Article 58 of the Agreement The Parties agree that access to employment will not be included in the framework of youth exchange programmes.
Joint Declaration on decentralized cooperation The Parties reaffirm the importance they attach to decentralized cooperation programmes as a means of encouraging exchanges of experience and transfer of knowledge in the Mediterranean region and between the European Community and its Mediterranean partners.
Joint Declaration on Article 67 of the Agreement When the arbitration procedure is applied, the Parties will endeavour to ensure that the Joint Committee appoints a third arbitrator within two months of the appointment of the second arbitrator.
Joint Declaration on Article 70 of the Agreement 1.
The Parties agree, for the purposes of the interpretation and the application of the Agreement, that the cases of special urgency referred to in Article 70 of the Agreement mean cases of substantial violation of the Agreement by one of the two Parties.
The Parties agree that the appropriate measures referred to in Article 70 are measures taken in accordance with international law.
Joint Declaration on a programme of support for Palestinian industry The Parties agree that a programme of support will be put at the disposal of Palestinian industry, designed to nurture and develop the capacity of the Palestinian industrial sector.
Joint Declaration concerning the Principality of Andorra 1.
Products originating in the Principality of Andorra falling within Chapters 25 to 97 of the Harmonized System shall be accepted by the Palestinian Authority as originating in the Community within the meaning of this Agreement. 2.
Joint Declaration concerning the Republic of San Marino 1.
