Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Agreement: (a) "FSM authorities" means FSM National Oceanic Resource Management Authority (NORMA); (b) "Community authorities" means the European Commission; (c) "FSM Exclusive Economic Zone" means the waters over which FSM has sovereign right or jurisdiction in respect of fisheries, identified by Title 18 and 24 of the Code of the FSM; (d) "Community vessel" means a fishing vessel flying the flag of a Member State and registered in the Community; (e) "Joint enterprise" means a commercial company set up in FSM by vessel owners or national enterprises from the Parties in order to engage in fishing or related activities; (f) "Joint Committee" means a committee made up of representatives of the Community and FSM whose functions are described in Article 9 of this Agreement; (g) "fishing" means: (i) searching for, catching, taking or harvesting fish; (ii) attempting to search for, catch, take or harvest fish; (iii) engaging in any other activity which can reasonably be expected to result in locating, catching, taking or harvesting fish; (iv) placing, searching for or recovering fish aggregating devices or associated electronic equipment such as radio beacons; (v) any operation at sea directly in support of or in preparation for any activity described in subparagraphs (i) to (iv); and (vi) use of any other vehicle, air or seaborne, for any activity described in subparagraphs (i) to (v) except for emergencies involving health and safety of the crew or the safety of a vessel; (h) "fishing vessel" means any vessel used or intended for use for the purpose of fishing, including support ships, carrier vessels, and any other vessels directly involved in such fishing operations; (i) "operator" means any person who is in charge of, or is responsible for the operation of, or directs or controls a fishing vessel, including the owner, charterer or master; (j) "transhipment" means the unloading of any or all of the fish on board a fishing vessel onto another fishing vessel in a designated port.
Article 3 Principles and objectives referred to on the implementation of this Agreement 1.
The Parties hereby undertake to promote responsible fishing in the FSM EEZ based on the principle of non-discrimination between the different fleets fishing in the zone, without prejudice to agreements concluded between developing countries within a geographical region, including reciprocal fisheries agreements. 2.
Article 4 Scientific cooperation 1.
During the period covered by this Agreement, the Community and FSM shall exchange information on the ongoing state of resources in FSM EEZ; a joint scientific meeting shall be held when necessary to recommend measures to the Joint Committee as provided for in Article 9. 2.
Article 5 Access by community vessels to FSM EEZ 1.
They shall apply without discrimination to Community, FSM and foreign vessels, without prejudice to agreements concluded between developing countries within a single geographical region, including reciprocal fisheries agreements. 4.
Article 6 Licences The procedure for obtaining a fishing licence for a vessel, the fees applicable and the method of payment to be used by ship owners shall be as set out in the Annex to the Protocol.
Article 7 Financial contribution 1.
The financial contribution granted by the Community shall be paid each year in accordance with the Protocol and without prejudice to the provisions of this Agreement and its Protocol on any change of the amount of the contribution as a result of: (a) serious circumstances, other than natural phenomena, preventing fishing activities in FSM EEZ, in accordance with Article 14 of this Agreement; (b) a reduction in the fishing opportunities granted to Community vessels made by mutual agreement between the Parties for the purposes of managing the stocks concerned, where this is considered necessary for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of resources on the basis of the best available scientific advice, in accordance with Article 4 of the Protocol; (c) an increase in the fishing opportunities granted to Community vessels, made by mutual agreement between the Parties where the best available scientific advice concurs that the state of resources so permits, in accordance with Articles 1 and 4 of the Protocol; (d) a reassessment of the terms of Community financial support for implementing a sectoral fisheries policy in FSM, in accordance with Article 5 of the Protocol, where this is warranted by the results of the annual and multiannual programming observed by both Parties; (e) termination of this Agreement under Article 12; (f) suspension of the implementation of this Agreement under Article 13.
Article 8 Promoting cooperation among economic operators and in civil society 1.
Article 9 Joint Committee 1.
Article 11 Duration This Agreement shall apply for nine years from the date of its entry into force; it shall be renewable for additional periods of three years, unless notice of termination is given in accordance with Article 12.
Article 12 Termination 1.
The Party concerned shall notify the other Party of its intention to withdraw from this Agreement in writing at least six months before the date of expiry of the initial period or each additional period. 3.
Dispatch of the notification referred to in paragraph 2 shall open consultations by the Parties. 4.
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 for the year in which the termination takes effect shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis. 5.
Article 13 Suspension and review of the payment of the financial contribution 1.
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis, according to the duration of the suspension.
Article 14 Suspension of the payment of the financial contribution on grounds of force majeure 1.
This payment should be done within a time limit of two months upon confirmation from both parties. 3.
Article 15 Protocol and Annex The Protocol and the Annex shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
Article 16 Entry into force 1.
