SECTION I READMISSION OBLIGATIONS BY ALBANIA Article 2 Readmission of own nationals 1.
The same shall apply to persons who have been deprived of, or who have renounced, the nationality of Albania since entering the territory of a Member State, unless such persons have at least been promised naturalisation by that Member State. 2.
If, for legal or factual reasons, the person concerned cannot be transferred within the period of validity of the travel document that was initially issued, Albania shall, within 14 calendar days, extend the validity of the travel document or, where necessary, issue a new travel document with the same period of validity.
Article 3 Readmission of third-country nationals and stateless persons 1.
The readmission obligation in paragraph 1 shall not apply if (a) the third country national or stateless person has only been in airside transit via an international airport of Albania; or (b) the requesting Member State has issued to the third-country national or stateless person a visa or residence authorisation before or after entering its territory unless - that person is in possession of a visa or residence permit, issued by Albania, which has a longer period of validity, or - the visa or residence authorisation issued by the requesting Member State has been obtained by using forged or falsified documents. 3.
If, for legal or factual reasons, the person concerned cannot be transferred within the period of validity of the travel document that was initially issued, Albania shall, within 14 calendar days, extend the validity of the travel document or, where necessary, issue a new travel document with the same period of validity.
SECTION II READMISSION OBLIGATIONS BY THE COMMUNITY Article 4 Readmission of own nationals 1.
If, for legal or factual reasons, the person concerned cannot be transferred within the period of validity of the travel document that was initially issued, the Member State concerned shall, within 14 calendar days, extend the validity of the travel document or, where necessary, issue a new travel document with the same period of validity.
If the Member State concerned has not, within 14 calendar days, issued the travel document, extended its validity or, where necessary, renewed it, it shall be deemed to accept the use of the Albanian certificate for expulsion purposes [2].
Article 5 Readmission of third-country nationals and stateless persons 1.
The readmission obligation in paragraph 1 shall not apply if (a) the third-country national or stateless person has only been in airside transit via an international airport of the requested Member State; or (b) Albania has issued to the third-country national or stateless person a visa or residence authorisation before or after entering its territory unless - that person is in possession of a visa or residence permit, issued by the requested Member State, which has a longer period of validity, or - the visa or residence authorisation issued by Albania has been obtained by using forged or falsified documents. 3.
The readmission obligation in paragraph 1 is for the Member State that issued a visa or residence authorisation.
If two or more Member States issued a visa or residence authorisation, the readmission obligation in paragraph 1 is for the Member State that issued the document with a longer period of validity or, if one or several of them have already expired, the document that is still valid.
If all of the documents have already expired, the readmission obligation in paragraph 1 is for the Member State that issued the document with the most recent expiry date.
If, for legal or factual reasons, the person concerned cannot be transferred within the period of validity of the travel document that was initially issued, the Member State concerned shall, within 14 calendar days, extend the validity of the travel document or, where necessary, issue a new travel document with the same period of validity.
If the Member State concerned has not within 14 calendar days issued the travel document, extended its validity or, where necessary, renewed it, it shall be deemed to accept the use of the Albanian certificate for expulsion purposes.
SECTION III READMISSION PROCEDURE Article 6 Principle 1.
Subject to paragraph 2, any transfer of a person to be readmitted on the basis of one of the obligations contained in Articles 2 to 5 shall require the submission of a readmission application to the competent authority of the requested State. 2.
Article 7 Readmission application 1.
Article 8 Means of evidence regarding nationality 1.
Proof of nationality pursuant to Articles 2(1) and 4(1) can be particularly furnished through any of the documents listed in Annex 1 to this Agreement, even if their period of validity has expired.
Prima facie evidence of nationality pursuant to Articles 2(1) and 4(1) can be particularly furnished through any of the documents listed in Annex 2 to this Agreement, even if their period of validity has expired.
Article 9 Means of evidence regarding third-country nationals and stateless persons 1.
Article 10 Time limits 1.
Article 11 Transfer modalities and modes of transportation 1.
Article 12 Readmission in error Albania shall take back without delay any person readmitted by a Member State, and a Member State shall take back without delay any person readmitted by Albania, if it is established, within a period of three months after the transfer of the person concerned, that the requirements laid down in Articles 2 to 5 of this Agreement were not met.
SECTION IV TRANSIT OPERATIONS Article 13 Principles 1.
The Member States and Albania should restrict the transit of third-country nationals or stateless persons to cases where such persons cannot be returned to the State of destination directly. 2.
Albania shall allow the transit of third-country nationals or stateless persons if a Member State so requests, and a Member State shall authorise the transit of third-country nationals or stateless persons if Albania so requests, if the onward journey in possible other States of transit and the readmission by the State of destination is assured. 3.
Transit can be refused by Albania or a Member State (a) if the third-country national or the stateless person runs the real risk of being subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment or the death penalty or of persecution because of his or her race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political conviction in the State of destination or another State of transit; or (b) if the third-country national or the stateless person is subject to criminal prosecution or sanctions in the requested State or in another State of transit; or (c) on grounds of public health, domestic security, public order or other national interests of the requested State. 4.
SECTION V COSTS Article 15 Transport and transit costs Without prejudice to the right of the competent authorities to recover the costs associated with the readmission from the person to be readmitted or third parties, all transport costs incurred in connection with readmission and transit operations pursuant to this Agreement as far as the border of the State of final destination shall be borne by the requesting State.
SECTION VI DATA PROTECTION AND NON-AFFECTION CLAUSE Article 16 Data Protection The communication of personal data shall only take place if such communication is necessary for the implementation of this Agreement by the competent authorities of Albania or a Member State as the case may be.
Article 17 Non-affection clause 1.
This Agreement shall be without prejudice to the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the Community, the Member States and Albania arising from International Law and, in particular, from the European Convention of 4 November 1950 for the Protection of Human Rights, the Convention of 28 July 1951 and the Protocol of 31 January 1967 on the Status of Refugees, and international instruments on extradition. 2.
SECTION VII IMPLEMENTATION AND APPLICATION Article 18 Joint readmission committee 1.
Article 19 Implementing Protocols 1.
Albania and a Member State may draw up implementing Protocols which shall cover rules on (a) designation of the competent authorities, border crossing points and exchange of contact points; (b) conditions for escorted returns, including the transit of third-country nationals and stateless persons under escort; (c) means and documents additional to those listed in the Annexes 1 to 4 to this Agreement. 2.
Article 20 Relation to bilateral readmission agreements or arrangements of Member States The provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence over the provisions of any bilateral agreement or arrangement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation which have been or may, under Article 19, be concluded between individual Member States and Albania.
SECTION VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 21 Territorial application 1.
Subject to paragraph 2, this Agreement shall apply to the territory in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applicable and to the territory of Albania. 2.
Article 22 Entry into force, duration and termination 1.
Articles 3 and 5 of this Agreement shall enter into force two years after the date referred to in paragraph 2. 4.
This Agreement is concluded for an unlimited period. 5.
Article 23 Annexes Annexes 1 to 6 shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
Por la Comunidad Europea Za Evropské společenství For Det Europæiske Fællesskab Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft Euroopa Ühenduse nimel Για την Ευρωπαϊκή Κοινότητα For the European Community Pour la Communauté européenne Per la Comunità europea Eiropas Kopienas vārdā Europos bendrijos vardu az Európai Közösség részéről Għall-Komunità Ewropea Voor de Europese Gemeenschap W imieniu Wspólnoty Europejskiej Pela Comunidade Europeia Za Európske spoločenstvo za Evropsko skupnost Euroopan yhteisön puolesta På Europeiska gemenskapens vägnar Për Komunitetin Evropian Por la República de Albania Za Albánskou republiku På Republikken Albaniens vegne Für die Republik Albanien Albaania Vabariigi nimel Για τη Δημοκρατία της Αλβανίας For the Republic of Albania Pour la République d'Albanie Per la Repubblica di Albania Albānijas Republikas vārdā - Albanijos Respublikos vardu az Albán Köztársaság részéről Għar-Repubblika ta' l-Albanija Voor de Republiek Albanië W imieniu Republiki Albanii Për Republikën e Shqipërisë För Republiken Albanien Albanian tasavallan puolesta Za Republiko Albanijo Za Albánsku republiku Pela República da Albânia [1] Council Recommendation of 30 November 1994 concerning the adoption of a standard travel document for the expulsion of third-country nationals (OJ C 274, 19.9.1996, p. 18). [2] Endorsed by Instruction No 553 of 19 November 2003 of the acting Minister of Foreign Affairs on the issuing of laissez-passer by the Albanian representations for returns to Albania. [3] Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31).
The Parties therefore agree that this Agreement will be fully taken into account in the relevant provisions of the SAA. -------------------------------------------------- JOINT DECLARATION ON ARTICLE 3 The Parties take note that the readmission obligation vis-à-vis third-country nationals and stateless persons holding a valid visa issued by Albania (Article 3(1)(a) of this Agreement) shall only apply if the visa has been used for entering the territory of Albania. -------------------------------------------------- JOINT DECLARATION ON ARTICLE 18 The meeting of the Joint Readmission Committee shall be held, wherever possible, in parallel with the relevant Subcommittee set up under the future Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
In such circumstances it is appropriate that Albania and Denmark conclude a readmission agreement in the same terms as this Agreement. -------------------------------------------------- JOINT DECLARATION CONCERNING ICELAND AND NORWAY The Contracting Parties take note of the close relationship between the European Community and Iceland and Norway, particularly by virtue of the Agreement of 18 May 1999 concerning the association of these countries with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis.
