Article 2 The budget shall be established and implemented in euro and the accounts shall be presented in euro.
The financial rules applicable to the management of these resources are set out in Article 34 of this Decision.
Article 4 The estimates of expenditure shall include administrative and operating expenditure.
The financial year shall run from 1 January to 31 December. 2.
However, appropriations duly committed during a financial year but not paid by 31 December of that year shall be carried over automatically to the following financial year.
SECTION 2 Principles of sound financial management Article 6 1.
CHAPTER II ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BUDGET Article 7 1.
The payment arrangements governing the EDF's contribution shall be set out in a grant agreement signed between the Commission and the Centre. 2.
The contribution of previous financial years corresponding to cancelled appropriations shall be repaid to the EDF by the Centre on the basis of audited financial statements. 3.
Article 9 Where necessary, the Director may submit a draft supplementary or amending budget which shall be established in the same form and subject to the same procedures as the budget whose estimates it amends.
CHAPTER III IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET Article 10 1.
The Director must apply the budget appropriations in accordance with the principles of sound financial management as referred to in Article 6.
No expenditure may be committed or authorised in excess of the appropriations authorised for the financial year concerned or in excess of the appropriations carried over from the previous financial year. 2.
Article 12 Transfers from one title to another shall be submitted for the approval of the Executive Board.
Article 13 The revenue of the Centre shall be paid into one or more accounts opened in the name of the Centre.
CHAPTER IV FINANCIAL CONTROL Article 14 1.
The purpose of endorsement shall be to ensure that: (a) the expenditure or revenue is consistent with the budget and the regulations; (b) the principles of sound financial management referred to in Article 6 have been applied.
The checks shall be performed in accordance with rules of internal procedure submitted by the Director to the Executive Board and approved by the latter. 5.
The Director shall inform the Executive Board in writing of any such decisions at its next meeting. 6.
The financial controller may carry out checks on the spot. 7.
At the end of each financial year, and by 30 April of the following year at the latest, the financial controller shall draw up an annual report giving an opinion on the financial administration and implementation of the budget.
CHAPTER V ADMINISTRATION OF THE BUDGET Article 15 1.
Collection and payment operations shall be carried out by the accounting officer. 3.
When payments are suspended, the Director may require in writing, and on his own responsibility, that payment be effected.
Cheques and post office or bank transfers shall bear two signatures: that of the accounting officer and that of the authorising officer or a representative. 3.
In accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article and Article 21, the accounting officer shall be the only person authorised to handle cash and securities.
CHAPTER VI ACCOUNTS, RENDERING AND CHECKING OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, AUDIT, COURT OF AUDITORS, OLAF Article 25 1.
They shall show all revenue and expenditure from 1 January to 31 December of each year and shall include the original supporting documents.
The accounts shall be closed at the end of the financial year to enable financial statements to be drawn up for the Centre. 2.
The Centre shall establish no later than 30 April of the year N+1 a balance-sheet and a revenue and expenditure account.
The balance-sheet shall show the Centre's assets and liabilities as at 31 December of the previous financial year.
The revenue and expenditure account shall include: (a) a "Revenue" table comprising: - revenue estimates for the calendar year, - changes with respect to the revenue estimates, - entitlements arising during the calendar year, - amounts pending recovery at the end of the calendar year, - additional revenue; (b) an "Expenditure" table comprising: - a summary table of committed appropriations, appropriations carried over from year N and cancelled appropriations, - a summary table of appropriations carried over from year N-1 and cancelled appropriations, - a table giving an overall view of commitments and authorisations for year N, - a table giving an overall view of commitments and authorisations for appropriations carried forward from year N-1; (c) notes on the financial statements comprising: - the accounting principles applied, - detailed notes and calculations explaining the line items in the statements, - any explication required to ensure transparency of the accounts. 4.
The Executive Board shall appoint a firm of auditors of international standing for a maximum of three years on the basis of a recommendation from the Centre's Director and following a call for tenders. 2.
Article 27 The Commission (on behalf of the Community), the Court of Auditors and the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) may control the financing received by the Centre from the EDF in accordance with the Financial Regulation of the Ninth EDF.
CHAPTER VII RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUTHORISING OFFICERS, ACCOUNTING OFFICERS AND IMPREST ADMINISTRATORS Article 28 Authorising officers who, when establishing entitlements to be recovered, issuing recovery orders, entering into a commitment of expenditure or signing a payment order, do so without complying with this Financial Regulation, shall render themselves liable to disciplinary action and, where appropriate, to payment of compensation.
The accounting officer shall render himself liable to disciplinary action and to payment of compensation as regards any loss or deterioration of the monies, assets and documents in his charge where such loss or deterioration was caused intentionally or was the result of serious negligence on his part.
The accounting officers and imprest administrators shall insure themselves against the risks arising under Article 29.
Article 31 Liability for payment of compensation and disciplinary action of authorising officers, accounting officers and imprest administrators shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of the rules applicable to the staff of the Centre.
Article 32 In connection with the implementation of the budget, all staff members are prohibited from acting in cases where their own interests could be in conflict with those of the Centre.
CHAPTER VIII GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 33 The award of contracts shall comply with the general regulations concerning services, works and supplies as laid down by Decision No 2/2002 of the ACP-EC Council of Ministers of 7 October 2002 regarding the implementation of Articles 28, 29 and 30 of Annex IV to the Cotonou Agreement [4].
The list of these resources shall be given in an annex to the budget of the Centre. 2.
Separate accounts shall be kept for the management of these resources on behalf of third parties. 4.
The financial statements of each fund managed by the Centre on behalf of a third party shall include a balance-sheet and a revenue and expenditure account, indicating the situation as at 31 December of the financial year concerned.
Only movable property of a value of EUR 350 or more shall be entered in the inventory.
Any sale of movable property and equipment of a unit purchase value in excess of EUR 350 shall be suitably advertised. 3.
Article 36 The ACP States, the Member States and the Community shall be bound, each to the extent to which they are concerned, to take the measures necessary to implement this Decision.
Article 37 The Financial Regulation of the Centre approved by Decision No 2/91 of the ACP-EEC Committee of Ambassadors of 19 April 1991 is hereby repealed.
Article 38 This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
Done at Brussels, on 27 September 2006.
Makongo [1] OJ L 317, 15.12.2000, p. 3.
Agreement as last amended by the Agreement signed in Luxembourg on 25 June 2005 (OJ L 287, 28.10.2005, p. 4). [2] OJ L 317, 15.12.2000, p. 355. [3] OJ L 83, 1.4.2003, p. 1. [4] OJ L 320, 23.11.2002, p. 1. --------------------------------------------------
