Article 2 Basic obligations 1.
Article 3 Exchange of technology 1.
Article 4 Unleaded fuel The Parties shall, as soon as possible and no later than two years after the date of entry into force of the present Protocol, make unleaded fuel sufficiently available, in particular cases as a minimum along main international transit routes, to facilitate the circulation of vehicles equipped with catalytic converters.
Article 5 Review process 1.
Article 6 Work to be undertaken The Parties shall give high priority to research and monitoring related to the development and application of an approach based on critical loads to determine, on a scientific basis, necessary reductions in emissions of nitrogen oxides.
Article 7 National programmes, policies and strategies The Parties shall develop without undue delay national programmes, policies and strategies to implement the obligations under the present Protocol that shall serve as a means of controlling and reducing emissions of nitrogen oxides or their transboundary fluxes.
Article 8 Information exchange and annual reporting 1.
Article 9 Calculations EMEP shall, utilizing appropriate models and in good time before the annual meetings of the executive body, provide to the executive body calculations of nitrogen budgets and also of transboundary fluxes and deposition of nitrogen oxides within the geographical scope of EMEP.
Article 10 Technical Annex The Technical Annex to the present Protocol is recommendatory in character.
Article 11 Amendments to the Protocol 1.
Amendments under paragraphs 3 and 4 above shall, as soon as possible after their adoption, be communicated by the Executive Secretary to all Parties.
Article 12 Settlement of disputes If a dispute arises between two or more Parties as to the interpretation or application of the present Protocol, they shall seek a solution by negotiation or by any other method of dispute settlement acceptable to the Parties to the dispute.
The present Protocol shall be open for signature at Sofia from 1 November to 4 November 1988 inclusive, then at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York until 5 May 1989, by the Member States of the Commission as well as States having consultative status with the Commission, pursuant to paragraph 8 of Economic and Social Council resolution 36 (IV) of 28 March 1947, and by regional economic intregration organizations, constituted by sovereign States, members of the Commission, which have competence in respect of the negotiation, conclusion and application of international agreements in matters covered by the Protocol, provided that the States and organizations concerned are Parties to the Convention. 2.
Article 14 Ratification, acceptance, approval and accession 1.
The present Protocol shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by Signatories. 2.
A State or organization which accedes to the present Protocol after 31 December 1993 may implement Articles 2 and 4 no later than 31 December 1995. 4.
Article 15 Entry into force 1.
The present Protocol shall enter into force on the 90th day following the date on which the 16th instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession has been deposited. 2.
Article 16 Withdrawal At any time after five years from the date on which the present Protocol has come into force with respect to a Party, that Party may withdraw from it by giving written notification to the depositary.
Article 17 Authentic texts The original of the present Protocol, of which the English, French and Russian texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
TECHNICAL ANNEX 1.
Information regarding emission performance and costs is based on official documentation of the executive body and its subsidiary bodies, in particular documents EB.AIR/WG.3/R. 8, R. 9 and R. 16, and ENV/WP.1/R. 86, and Corr. 1, as reproduced in chapter 7 of Effects and Control of Transboundary Air Pollution (1).
However, in the case of retrofitting for instance at large power plants, they ranged from about 8 to 25 Swiss francs per kWel (in 1985).
For stationary sources, emission factors are expressed in milligrams of NO2 per normal (0 °C, 1013 mb) cubic metre (mg/m³), dry basis.
Combustion plants 9.
The category of combustion plants comprises fossil fuel combustion in furnaces, boilers, indirect heaters and other combustion facilities with a heat input larger than 10 MW, without mixing the combustion flue gases with other effluents or treated materials.
Performance standards that can be achieved are summarized in Table 1. %gt%TABLE%gt% 10.
Flue gas treatment by selective catalytic reduction (SCR) is an additional NOx emission reduction measure with efficiencies of up to 80 % and more.
Considerable operational experience from new and retrofitted installations is now being obtained within the region of the Commission, in particular for power plants larger than 300 MW (thermal).
When combined with combustion modifications, emission values of 200 mg/m³ (solid fuels, 6 % O2) and 150 mg/m³ (liquid fuels, 3 % O2) can be easily met. 11.
Stationary gas turbines and internal combustion (IC) engines 12.
By these means, emission values of 150 mg/m3 (gas, 15 % O2) and 300 mg/m3 (oil, 15 % O2) can be met.
The lean-burn concept is capable of meeting NOx emission values of 800 mg/m3 (5 % O2), the SCR process reduces NOx emissions well below 400 mg/m3 (5 % O2), and the three-way catalytic converter reduces such emissions even below 200 mg/m3 (5 % O2).
The precalcination process is being evaluated within the region of the Commission as a possible technology with the potencial for reducing NOx concentrations in the flue gas of new and existing cement calcination furnaces to about 300 mg/m3 (10 % O2).
Nitric acid production with a high pressure absorption (%gt%8 bar) is capable of keeping NOx concentrations in undiluted effluents below 400 m3.
CONTROL TECHNOLOGIES FOR NOX EMISSIONS FROM MOTOR VEHICLES 16.
Appropriate reference is made, as necessary, to the specific vehicle categories (M1, M2, M3, N1, N2, N3) defined in EEC Regulation N° 13 pursuant to the 1958 Agreement concerning the adoption of uniform conditions of approval and reciprocal recognition of approval for motor vehicles equipment and parts. 17.
Typically, petrol-fuelled vehicles contribute two-thirds of total road transport NOx emissions. 18.
The technologies available for the control of nitrogen oxides from motor vehicles are summarized in Tables 3 and 6.
The additional production cost figures for the various technologies given in Tables 3 and 6 are manufacturing cost estimates rather than retail prices. 20.
Petrol-fuelled and diesel-fuelled passenger cars (M1) 22.
These are used in Table 3 to group the various engine technologies for petrol vehicles according to their NOx emission reduction potential. %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% 23.
The emission standards A, B, C and D include limits on hydrocarbon (HC) and carbon monoxide (CO) emissions as well as NOx.
Estimates of emission reductions for these pollutants, relative to the baseline ECE R. 15-04 case, are given in Table 4. %gt%TABLE%gt% 24.
Current diesel cars can meet the NOx emission requirements of standards A, B and C.
Heavy-duty petrol-fuelled vehicles (M2, M3, N2, N3) 26.
Heavy-duty diesel-fuelled vehicles (M2, M3, N2, N3) 27.
These are used in Table 6 to group engine technologies for heavy-duty diesel vehicles according to NOx reduction potential.
