International Agreement in the form of an Agreed Minute between the European Community and the United States of America on humane trapping standards - Standards for the humane trapping of specified terrestrial and semi- aquatic mammals AGREED MINUTE 1.
In the course of the negotiations of the Agreement described in paragraph 8 below to develop a common framework for describing and evaluating progress towards the use of more humane traps and trapping methods, the Representatives of the European Community and of the United States of America acknowledge that the following understanding has been reached. 2.
The European Community and the United States of America consider that the Standards annexed to this Understanding provide such a common framework and a basis for cooperation on the further development and implementation by their respective competent authorities of the Standards. 3.
The European Community and the United States of America recognise that nothing in this understanding affects their rights and obligations under the Marrakesh Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation. 7.
Done at Brussels this eighteenth day of December 1997, in duplicate, in the English language.
Principles 1.2.1.
The principle for deciding that a trapping method is humane is that it meets the threshold requirements in sections 2 and 3. 1.2.3.
General considerations 1.3.1.
The thresholds established in the standards for the certification of traps include: (a) for restraining traps: the level of indicators beyond which the welfare of trapped animals is considered poor; and (b) for killing traps: the time to unconsciousness and insensibility and the maintenance of this state until death of the animal. 1.3.3.
Notwithstanding that the trapping methods must meet the requirements of sections 2.4 and 3.4, consideration should be given to continuing the improvement of the design and setting of traps, in particular to: (a) improving the welfare of animals trapped in restraining traps during the period of restraint; (b) producing rapid onset of unconsciousness and insensibility of animals trapped in killing traps; and (c) minimizing the capture of non-target animals. 2.
Parameters 2.2.1.
The parameters must include indicators of behaviour and injury listed in paragraphs 2.3.1 and 2.3.2. 2.2.3.
The magnitude of responses for each of those parameters must be assessed. 2.3.
Indicators 2.3.1.
Thresholds A restraining trapping method would meet the Standards if: (a) the number of specimens of the same target species from which the data are derived is at least 20; and (b) at least 80 per cent of these animals show none of the indicators listed in paragraphs 2.3.1 and 2.3.2. 3.
Parameters 3.2.1.
Thresholds A killing trapping method would meet the Standards if: (a) the number of specimens of the same target species from which the data are derived is at least 12; and (b) at least 80 per cent of these animals are unconscious and insensible within the time limit, and remain in this state until death.
PART II: LIST OF SPECIES AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE 4.
In cases in which this paragraph applies with respect to trapping in the United States, the competent authorities in the United States should transmit such information to the Government of the United States for transmission to the European Community. 4.2.4.
Consultations on the subjects referred to in paragraphs 4.2.3 and 4.2.4 should be held pursuant to paragraph 7 of the Agreed Minute at the request of either the European Community or the United States of America.
PART III: GUIDELINES 5.
General guidelines 5.1.1.
Study situation 5.2.1.
Animals should not be housed in a manner that might in itself result in poor welfare. 5.4.3.
Behavior 5.5.1.1.
Physiology 5.5.2.1.
Injuries and pathology 5.5.3.1.
Representatives of the competent authorities in the United States have advised that BMPs for traps and trapping methods will be based upon the latest technical and scientific information and data.
Representatives of the competent authorities in the United States have advised that best management practices for traps and trapping methods in the United States will be developed based upon the standards annexed to the Agreed Minute.
Paragraph 6 of the Agreed Minute provides that 'the United States of America and the European Community recognise that nothing in this understanding affects their rights and obligations under the Marrakesh Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation`.
