Article 2 For the purposes of this Agreement, classified information shall mean any information (namely, knowledge that can be communicated in any form) or material determined to require protection against unauthorised disclosure and which has been so designated by a security classification (hereinafter classified information).
Article 3 For the purposes of this Agreement, "EU" shall mean the Council of the European Union (hereinafter the Council), the Secretary General/High Representative and the General Secretariat of the Council, and the Commission of the European Communities (hereinafter the European Commission).
Article 6 Each of the Parties, and entities thereof as defined in Article 3, shall have a security organisation and security programmes, based upon such basic principles and minimum standards of security which shall be implemented in the security systems of the Parties to be established pursuant to Articles 11 and 12, to ensure that an equivalent level of protection is applied to classified information subject to this Agreement.
Article 8 The Parties shall provide mutual assistance with regard to security of classified information subject to this Agreement and matters of common security interest.
Reciprocal security consultations and inspections shall be conducted by the authorities as defined in Article 11 to assess the effectiveness of the Security Arrangements within their respective responsibility to be established pursuant to Articles 11 and 12.
As far as the EU is concerned, this correspondence shall be transmitted through the Chief Registry Officer of the Council.
Article 10 The Government of Romania and the Secretaries-General of the Council and of the European Commission shall oversee the implementation of this Agreement.
Article 13 The authorities defined in Article 11 shall establish procedures to be followed in the case of proven or suspected compromise of classified information subject to this Agreement.
Article 14 Prior to the provision of classified information subject to this Agreement between the Parties, the responsible security authorities defined in Article 11 must agree that the receiving Party is able to protect and safeguard the information subject to this Agreement in a way consistent with the arrangements to be established pursuant to Articles 11 and 12.
Article 15 This Agreement shall in no way prevent the Parties from concluding other Agreements relating to the provision or exchange of classified information subject to this Agreement provided that they do not conflict with the provisions of this Agreement.
Article 16 All differences between the EU and Romania arising out of the interpretation or application of this Agreement shall be dealt with by negotiation between the Parties.
Article 18 This Agreement may be denounced by one Party by written notice of denunciation given to the other Party.
