The same applies to Denmark, in accordance with the Protocol annexed to those Treaties on the position of Denmark; DESIROUS of fully achieving the objectives of the association between them by implementing the relevant provisions of this Agreement to bring the levels of economic and social development of the Community and Lebanon closer to each other; CONSCIOUS of the importance of this Agreement, which is based on reciprocity of interests, mutual concessions, cooperation and dialogue; DESIROUS of developing a regular political dialogue on bilateral and international issues of mutual interest; TAKING ACCOUNT of the Community's willingness to provide Lebanon with support in its endeavours to bring about economic reconstruction, reform and adjustment and social development; DESIROUS of establishing, maintaining and intensifying cooperation, sustained by regular dialogue, on economic, scientific, technological, social, cultural and audiovisual issues in order to achieve better mutual understanding; CONVINCED that this Agreement will create a climate conducive to growth in economic relations between them, more particularly in the trade and investment sectors which are essential to the success of the economic reconstruction and restructuring programme and to technological modernisation, HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: Article 1 1.
The aims of this Agreement are to: (a) provide an appropriate framework for political dialogue between the Parties, allowing the development of close relations in all areas they consider relevant to such dialogue, (b) establish the conditions for the gradual liberalisation of trade in goods, services and capital, (c) promote trade and the expansion of harmonious economic and social relations between the Parties, notably through dialogue and cooperation, so as to foster the development and prosperity of Lebanon and its people, (d) promote economic, social, cultural, financial and monetary cooperation, (e) promote cooperation in other areas which are of mutual interest.
Article 2 Relations between the Parties, as well as all the provisions of this Agreement itself, shall be based on respect of democratic principles and fundamental human rights as set out in the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, which guides their internal and international policy and constitutes an essential element of this Agreement.
TITLE I POLITICAL DIALOGUE Article 3 1.
A regular political dialogue shall be established between the Parties.
Political dialogue and cooperation are intended in particular to: (a) facilitate rapprochement between the Parties through the development of better mutual understanding and regular coordination on international issues of common interest; (b) enable each Party to consider the position and interests of the other; (c) contribute to consolidating security and stability in the Mediterranean region and in the Middle East in particular; (d) promote common initiatives.
Article 4 Political dialogue shall cover all issues of common interest to the Parties, examining in particular the conditions required to ensure peace and security through support for cooperation.
TITLE II FREE MOVEMENT OF GOODS BASIC PRINCIPLES Article 6 The Community and Lebanon shall gradually establish a free trade area over a transitional period not exceeding 12 years from the entry into force of this Agreement according to the modalities set out in this Title and in conformity with the provisions of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of 1994 and of the other multilateral agreements on trade in goods annexed to the Agreement establishing the World Trade Organisation (WTO), hereinafter referred to as the GATT.
CHAPTER 1 Industrial products Article 7 The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to products originating in the Community and Lebanon falling within Chapters 25 to 97 of the Combined Nomenclature and of the Lebanese Customs tariff with the exception of the products listed in Annex 1.
Article 8 Imports into the Community of products originating in Lebanon shall be allowed free of customs duties and of any other charge having equivalent effect.
Customs duties and charges having equivalent effect applicable on import into Lebanon of products originating in the Community shall be progressively abolished in accordance with the following schedule: - five years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement each duty and charge shall be reduced to 88 % of the basic rate, - six years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement each duty and charge shall be reduced to 76 % of the basic rate, - seven years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement each duty and charge shall be reduced to 64 % of the basic rate, - eight years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement each duty and charge shall be reduced to 52 % of the basic rate, - nine years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement each duty and charge shall be reduced to 40 % of the basic rate, - 10 years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement each duty and charge shall be reduced to 28 % of the basic rate, - 11 years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement each duty and charge shall be reduced to 16 % of the basic rate, - 12 years after the date of entry into force of this Agreement the remaining duties and charges shall be abolished. 2.
In the event of serious difficulties for a given product, the schedule applicable under paragraph 1 above may be reviewed by the Association Committee by common accord on the understanding that the schedule for which the review has been requested may not be extended in respect of the product concerned beyond the maximum transitional period of 12 years.
If the Association Committee has not taken a decision within 30 days of an application by Lebanon to review the schedule, Lebanon may suspend the schedule provisionally for a period which may not exceed one year. 3.
For each product concerned, the basic duty to be gradually reduced as provided in paragraph 1 shall be the rates referred to in Article 19.
Article 10 The provisions concerning the abolition of customs duties on imports shall also apply to customs duties of a fiscal nature.
Exceptional measures of limited duration which derogate from the provisions of Article 9 may be taken by Lebanon in the form of an increase or reintroduction of customs duties. 2.
Customs duties on imports into Lebanon of products originating in the Community that are introduced by such exceptional measures may not exceed 25 % ad valorem and shall maintain an element of preference for products originating in the Community.
The total value of imports of the products which are subject to these measures may not exceed 20 % of the yearly average of total imports of industrial products from the Community during the last three years for which statistics are available. 4.
The Association Committee may decide on a different schedule. 7.
CHAPTER 2 Agricultural, fisheries and processed agricultural products Article 12 The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to products originating in the Community and Lebanon falling within Chapters 1 to 24 of the Combined Nomenclature and of the Lebanese Customs tariff and to the products listed in Annex 1.
Article 13 The Community and Lebanon shall progressively establish a greater liberalisation of their trade in agricultural, fisheries and processed agricultural products, of interest to both parties.
Agricultural products originating in Lebanon listed in Protocol 1 on importation into the Community shall be subject to the arrangement set out in that Protocol. 2.
Agricultural products originating in the Community listed in Protocol 2 on importation into Lebanon shall be subject to the arrangement set out in that Protocol. 3.
Trade in processed agricultural products falling under this chapter shall be subject to the arrangements set out in Protocol 3.
Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 1 and taking account of the volume of trade in agricultural, fisheries and processed agricultural products between the two Parties and the particular sensitivity of such products, the Community and Lebanon shall examine on a regular basis in the Association Council, product by product and on an orderly and reciprocal basis, the possibility of granting each other further concessions.
If the Community or Lebanon, in applying paragraph 1, modifies the arrangements made by this Agreement for agricultural products, they shall accord imports originating in the other Party an advantage comparable to that provided for in this Agreement. 4.
Both Parties agree to cooperate to reduce the potential for fraud in the application of the trade provisions of this Agreement. 2.
CHAPTER 3 Common provisions Article 18 1.
No new customs duties on imports or exports or charges having equivalent effect shall be introduced in trade between the Community and Lebanon, nor shall those already applied upon entry into force of this Agreement be increased unless this Agreement provides otherwise. 2.
No new quantitative restriction on imports or measure having equivalent effect shall be introduced in trade between the Community and Lebanon. 3.
Quantitative restrictions on imports and measures having equivalent effect in trade between Lebanon and the Community shall be abolished upon the entry into force of this Agreement. 4.
If, after the accession to the WTO, a tariff reduction is applied on an erga omnes basis, the reduced rate shall apply. 3.
The provision laid down in paragraph 2 is of application for any tariff reduction applied after the day of conclusion of the negotiations on an erga omnes basis. 4.
Article 20 Products originating in Lebanon shall not enjoy more favourable treatment when imported into the Community than that applied by Member States among themselves.
The Parties shall refrain from any measure or practice of an internal fiscal nature establishing, whether directly or indirectly, discrimination between the products of one Party and like products originating in the territory of the other Party. 2.
Article 23 If one of the Parties finds that dumping is taking place in trade with the other Party in line with prevailing international rules as defined in Article VI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) 1994 and related internal legislation, it may take appropriate measures against this practice in accordance with the WTO Agreement on the implementation of Article VI of the GATT 1994 and related internal legislation.
Until the necessary rules referred to in Article 35(2) are adopted, if either Party finds that subsidy is taking place in trade with the other Party in line with prevailing international rules as defined in Articles VI and XVI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) 1994 and related internal legislation, it may invoke appropriate measures against this practice in accordance with those rules as defined by the WTO Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures and related internal legislation.
The provisions of Article XIX of the GATT 1994 and the WTO Agreement on Safeguards and related internal legislation are applicable between the Parties. 2.
The difficulties arising from the situations referred to in paragraph 1 shall be submitted for examination to the Association Committee.
Article 28 The concept of "originating products" for the application of the provisions of the present Title and the methods of administrative cooperation relating thereto are laid down in Protocol 4.
Article 29 The Combined Nomenclature of goods shall be applied to the classification of goods for imports into the Community.
TITLE III RIGHT OF ESTABLISHMENT AND SUPPLY OF SERVICES Article 30 1.
The objective provided for in paragraph 3 shall be subject to a first examination by the Association Council one year after the entry into force of this Agreement. 5.
The Parties shall not, between the date of entry into force of this Agreement and Lebanon's accession to the WTO, take any measures or actions which render the conditions for the supply of services by Community or Lebanese service suppliers more discriminatory than those existing on the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 6.
TITLE IV PAYMENTS, CAPITAL, COMPETITION AD OTHER ECONOMIC PROVISIONS CHAPTER 1 Current payments and movement of capital Article 31 Within the framework of the provisions of this Agreement, and subject to the provisions of Articles 33 and 34, there shall be no restrictions between the Community of the one part, and Lebanon of the other part, on the movement of capital and no discrimination based on the nationality or on the place of residence of their nationals or on the place where such capital is invested.
Article 32 Current payments connected with the movement of goods, persons, services or capital within the framework of this Agreement shall be free of all restrictions.
Subject to other provisions in this Agreement and other international obligations of the Community and Lebanon, the provisions of Articles 31 and 32 shall be without prejudice to the application of any restriction which exists between them on the date of entry into force of this Agreement, in respect of the movement of capital between them involving direct investment, including in real estate, establishment, the provision of financial services or the admission of securities to capital markets. 2.
Article 34 Where one or several Member States of the Community or Lebanon face or risk facing serious difficulties concerning balance of payments, the Community or Lebanon respectively may, in conformity with the conditions laid down within the framework of the GATT and Articles VIII and XIV of the Statutes of the International Monetary Fund, take restrictive measures with regard to current payments if such measures are strictly necessary.
CHAPTER 2 Competition and other economic matters Article 35 1.
The necessary rules for cooperation in order to implement paragraph 1 shall be adopted by the Association Committee within five years of entry into force of this Agreement. 3.
Article 36 The Member States and Lebanon shall progressively adjust, without prejudice to their commitments respectively taken or to be taken under the GATT, any State monopolies of a commercial character, so as to ensure that, by the end of the fifth year following the entry into force of this Agreement, no discrimination regarding the conditions under which goods are procured and marketed exists between nationals of the Member States and of Lebanon.
Article 37 With regard to public enterprises and enterprises to which special or exclusive rights have been granted, the Association Council shall ensure that as from the fifth year following the date of entry into force of this Agreement there is neither enacted nor maintained any measure distorting trade between the Community and Lebanon to an extent contrary to the Parties' interests.
The Association Council shall take the steps necessary to implement paragraph 1.
TITLE V ECONOMIC AND SECTOR COOPERATION Article 40 Objectives 1.
The Parties undertake to intensify economic cooperation in their mutual interest and in the spirit of partnership which is at the root of this Agreement. 3.
Article 41 Scope 1.
Article 42 Methods and modalities Economic cooperation shall be implemented in particular by: (a) a regular economic dialogue between the Parties, which covers all areas of macroeconomic policy; (b) regular exchange of information and ideas in every sector of cooperation including meetings of officials and experts; (c) transfer of advice, expertise and training; (d) implementation of joint actions such as seminars and workshops; (e) technical, administrative and regulatory assistance; (f) the dissemination of information on cooperation.
Article 43 Education and training Cooperation aims at: (a) defining the means to appreciably improve the situation in the field of education and training, particularly in vocational training; (b) encouraging the setting up of strong links between agencies specialised in joint actions, and the exchange of experiences and know-how, essentially, the exchange of youth, exchanges between universities and other educational institutions, so as to bring cultures closer together; (c) particularly encouraging access of the female population to education, including technical and higher education, and vocational training.
Article 45 Environment 1.
Article 46 Industrial cooperation The aim of cooperation shall be to: (a) encourage cooperation between the Parties' economic operators, including cooperation in the context of access for Lebanon to Community business networks; (b) support the effort to modernise and restructure Lebanon's public and private sector industry (including the agri-food industry); (c) foster an environment which favours private initiative, with the aim of stimulating and diversifying output for the domestic and export markets; (d) enhance Lebanon's human resources and industrial potential through better use of policy in the fields of innovation and research and technological development; (e) facilitate access to capital markets to finance productive investment; (f) encourage the development of SMEs, particularly by: - promoting contacts between enterprises, partly by using Community networks and instruments for the promotion of industrial cooperation and partnership, - facilitating credit access for financing investment, - making information and support services available, - enhance human resources to encourage innovation, and setting up projects and economic activities.
Article 47 Promotion and protection of investment 1.
Article 48 Cooperation in standardisation and conformity assessment The Parties shall cooperate in: (a) reducing divergences in standardisation, metrology, quality control and conformity assessment; (b) developing the updating of Lebanese laboratories; (c) negotiating mutual recognition agreements as soon as the conditions for them are met; (d) strengthening the Lebanese institutions responsible for standardisation, quality, and intellectual, industrial and commercial property.
Article 49 Approximation of legislation The Parties shall use their best endeavours to approximate their respective laws in order to facilitate the implementation of this Agreement.
Article 50 Financial services The aim of cooperation shall be to achieve closer common rules and standards in areas including the following: (a) developing the financial markets in Lebanon; (b) improving accounting, auditing, supervision and regulation of financial services and financial monitoring in Lebanon.
Article 51 Agriculture and fisheries The aims of cooperation shall be: (a) to support policies aiming to diversify production; (b) to reduce food dependency; (c) to promote a form of agriculture which pays due regard to the environment; (d) to establish closer relations between enterprises, groupings and professional organisations of the two Parties; (e) to provide assistance and technical training; support for agronomic research, advisory services, agricultural education and technical training of staff in the agricultural sector; (f) to harmonise phytosanitary and veterinary standards; (g) to support integrated rural development, including improvement of basic services and development of ancillary economic activities, particularly in the regions affected by the eradication of illicit crops; (h) cooperation between rural areas, exchange of experience and know-how on rural development; (i) development of sea fishing and aquaculture; (j) development of packaging, storage and marketing techniques; and the improvement of distribution channels; (k) to develop agricultural water resources; (l) to develop the forestry sector, especially in the fields of reafforestation, forest fire prevention, forest pasture and combating desertification; (m) to develop agricultural mechanisation and promotion of agricultural service cooperatives; (n) to strengthen the agricultural credit system.
Article 53 Information society and telecommunications 1.
Article 54 Energy Cooperation shall focus on: (a) promotion of renewable energy; (b) promotion of energy-saving and energy efficiency; (c) applied research relating to networks of databases linking the two Parties' economic and social operators; (d) supporting modernisation and development of energy networks and the interconnection of such networks with Community networks.
Article 55 Tourism Cooperation shall aim to: (a) promote investment in tourism; (b) improve the knowledge of the tourist industry and ensure greater consistency of policies affecting tourism; (c) promote a good seasonal spread of tourism; (d) highlight the importance of the cultural heritage for tourism; (e) ensure that the interaction between tourism and the environment is suitably maintained; (f) make tourism more competitive through support for increased standards and professionalism; (g) enhance information flows; (h) intensify training activities in hotel management and administration, and training in other hotel trades; (i) organise exchanges of experience so as to ensure balanced, sustainable development of tourism, notably through exchanges of information, exhibitions, conventions and publications on tourism.
Article 56 Customs cooperation 1.
For this purpose they shall establish a dialogue on customs matters. 2.
Without prejudice to other forms of cooperation provided for in this Agreement, particularly in the fields of combating drug abuse and money laundering, the Contracting Parties' administrative authorities shall provide mutual assistance in accordance with the terms of Protocol 5.
Article 57 Cooperation in statistics The aim of cooperation shall be to harmonise methodology used by the Parties and to put to use data, including data-banks, on all areas covered by this Agreement for which statistics can be collected.
Article 58 Consumer protection Cooperation in this field should be geared to making consumer protection schemes in the Community and Lebanon compatible and should, as far as possible, involve: (a) increasing the compatibility of consumer legislation in order to avoid barriers to trade; (b) establishment and development of systems of mutual information on dangerous food and industrial products and interconnecting them (rapid alert systems); (c) exchanges of information and experts; (d) organising training schemes and supplying technical assistance.
Article 59 Cooperation in reinforcement of institutions and rule of law The Parties reiterate the importance of the rule of law and the proper functioning of institutions at all levels in the areas of administration in general, and law enforcement and the machinery of justice in particular.
Article 60 Money laundering 1.
Article 61 Prevention and fight against organised crime 1.
Parties shall cooperate closely in order to establish appropriate mechanisms and standards. 3.
TITLE VI COOPERATION IN SOCIAL AND CULTURAL MATTERS CHAPTER 1 Dialogue and cooperation in the social field Article 63 The two Parties shall decide together on the methods needed to achieve cooperation in the fields covered by this Title.
Article 66 Cooperation schemes may be carried out in coordination with Member States and relevant international organisations.
CHAPTER 2 Cooperation in cultural matters, audiovisual media and information Article 67 1.
The Parties shall seek ways to encourage Lebanese participation in Community initiatives in this sector. 3.
The Parties shall in addition, work to promote cultural cooperation of a commercial nature, particularly through joint projects (production, investment and marketing), training and exchange of information. 5.
Cooperation shall be implemented in the way set out in Article 42.
CHAPTER 3 Cooperation for the prevention and control of illegal immigration Article 68 1.
In respect of the Member States of the European Union, the obligation in this Article applies only in respect of those persons who are to be considered their nationals for Community purposes in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community. 3.
Article 70 The Association Council shall examine what other joint efforts can be made to prevent and control illegal immigration.
TITLE VII FINANCIAL COOPERATION Article 71 1.
These procedures shall be adopted by mutual agreement between the Parties by means of the most suitable instruments once this Agreement enters into force. 3.
Article 72 Within the framework of Community instruments intended to buttress structural adjustment programmes in the Mediterranean countries – and in close coordination with the Lebanese authorities and other contributors, in particular the international financial institutions – the Community will examine suitable ways of supporting structural policies carried out by Lebanon to restore financial equilibrium in all its key aspects and create an economic environment conducive to boosting growth, while at the same time enhancing social welfare.
Article 73 In order to ensure a coordinated approach to dealing with the exceptional macroeconomic and financial problems which could stem from the progressive implementation of this Agreement, the Parties shall closely monitor the development of trade and financial relations between the Community and Lebanon as part of the regular economic dialogue established under Title V.
TITLE VIII INSTITUTIONAL, GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 74 1.
An Association Council is hereby established which shall meet at ministerial level when circumstances require, on the initiative of its Chairman and in accordance with the conditions laid down in its rules of procedure. 2.
Members of the Association Council may arrange to be represented, in accordance with the provisions laid down in its rules of procedure. 3.
The Association Council shall establish its rules of procedure. 4.
The Association Council shall be chaired in turn by a member of the Council of the European Union and a member of the Government of Lebanon in accordance with the provisions laid down in its rules of procedure.
The Association Council shall, for the purpose of attaining the objectives of this Agreement, have the power to take decisions in the cases provided for therein. 2.
The Association Council shall draw up its decisions and recommendations by agreement between the two Parties.
The Association Committee shall establish its rules of procedure. 3.
The Association Committee shall normally meet alternately in the Community and in Lebanon.
The Association Committee shall have the power to take decisions for the management of this Agreement as well as in the areas in which the Association Council has delegated its powers to it. 2.
The Association Committee shall draw up its decisions by agreement between the Parties.
Article 81 The Association Council shall take all appropriate measures to facilitate cooperation and contacts between the European Parliament and the Lebanese Parliament, and between the Economic and Social Committee of the Community and its counterpart in Lebanon.
Article 83 Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent a Party from taking any measures: (a) which it considers necessary to prevent the disclosure of information contrary to its essential security interests; (b) which relate to the production of, or trade in, arms, munitions or war materials or to research, development or production indispensable for defence purposes, provided that such measures do not impair the conditions of competition in respect of products not intended for specifically military purposes; (c) which it considers essential to its own security in the event of serious internal disturbances affecting the maintenance of law and order, in time of war or serious international tension constituting threat of war or in order to carry out obligations it has accepted for the purpose of maintaining peace and international security.
Article 84 In the fields covered by this Agreement, and without prejudice to any special provisions contained therein: (a) the arrangements applied by Lebanon in respect of the Community shall not give rise to any discrimination between the Member States, their nationals, or their companies or firms, (b) the arrangements applied by the Community in respect of Lebanon shall not give rise to any discrimination between Lebanese nationals or its companies or firms.
Article 85 As regards direct taxation, nothing in this Agreement shall have the effect of: (a) extending the fiscal advantages granted by either Party in any international agreement or arrangement by which it is bound; (b) preventing the adoption or application by either Party of any measure aimed at preventing fraud or the evasion of taxes; (c) opposing the right of either Party to apply the relevant provisions of its tax legislation to taxpayers who are not in an identical situation, in particular as regards their place of residence.
Article 87 Annexes 1 and 2 and Protocols 1 to 5 shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
Article 88 For the purposes of this Agreement, "Parties" shall mean, on the one hand, the Community, or the Member States, or the Community and its Member States, in accordance with their respective powers, and Lebanon, on the other hand.
Article 90 This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of Lebanon.
Article 91 This Agreement is drawn up in duplicate in the Arabic, Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Swedish languages, each of these texts being equally authentic.
Upon its entry into force, this Agreement shall replace the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Lebanon and the Agreement between the Member States of the European Coal and Steel Community and Lebanon, signed in Brussels on 3 May 1977.
