No new customs duty on imports shall be introduced in trade between the Community and Norway. 2.
Customs duties on imports shall be progressively abolished in accordance with the following timetable: (a) on the date of entry into force of the Agreement each duty shall be reduced to 80 % of the basic duty; (b) four further reductions of 20 % each shall be made on: 1 January 1974, 1 January 1975, 1 January 1976, 1 July 1977.
The Contracting Parties may replace a customs duty of a fiscal nature or the fiscal element of a customs duty by an internal tax. 2.
Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom may retain until 1 January 1976 a customs duty of a fiscal nature or the fiscal element of a customs duty in the event of implementation of Article 38 of the %quot%Act concerning the Conditions of Accession and the Adjustments to the Treaties%quot%. 3.
Norway may retain temporarily and not beyond 31 December 1975, while observing the conditions of Article 18, a customs duty of a fiscal nature or the fiscal element of any such duty.
No new charge having an effect equivalent to a customs duty on imports shall be introduced in trade between the Community and Norway. 2.
Charges having an effect equivalent to customs duties on imports introduced on or after 1 January 1972 in trade between the Community and Norway shall be abolished upon the entry into force of the Agreement.
Any charge having an effect equivalent to a customs duty on imports, the rate of which on 31 December 1972 is higher than that actually applied on 1 January 1972, shall be reduced to the latter rate upon the entry into force of the Agreement. 3.
Charges having an effect equivalent to customs duties on imports shall be progressively abolished in accordance with the following timetable: (a) by 1 January 1974 at the latest each charge shall be reduced to 60 % of the rate applied on 1 January 1972; (b) three further reductions of 20 % each shall be made on: 1 January 1975, 1 January 1976, 1 July 1977.
Quantitative restrictions on imports shall be abolished on the date of entry into force of the Agreement and any measures having an effect equivalent to quantitative restrictions on imports shall be abolished not later than 1 January 1975.
Subject to paragraphs 1 and 2, the Agreement shall not prejudice the non-tariff rules applied to imports of petroleum products.
Article 16 From 1 July 1977 products originating in Norway may not enjoy more favourable treatment when imported into the Community than that applied by the Member States of the Community between themselves.
Article 17 The Agreement shall not preclude the maintenance or establishment of customs unions, free-trade areas or arrangements for frontier trade, except in so far as they alter the trade arrangements provided for in the Agreement, in particular the provisions concerning rules of origin.
Article 21 Nothing in the Agreement shall prevent a Contracting Party from taking any measures: (a) which it considers necessary to prevent the disclosure of information contrary to its essential security interests; (b) which relate to trade in arms, munitions or war materials or to research, development or production indispensable for defence purposes, provided that such measures do not impair the conditions of competition in respect of products not intended for specifically military purposes; (c) which it considers essential to its own security in time of war or serious international tension.
If either Contracting Party considers that the other Contracting Party has failed to fulfil an obligation under the Agreement, it may take appropriate measures under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 27.
The following are incompatible with the proper functioning of the Agreement in so far as they may affect trade between the Community and Norway: (i) all agreements between undertakings, decisions by associations of undertakings and concerted practices between undertakings which have as their object or effect the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition as regards the production of or trade in goods; (ii) abuse by one or more undertakings of a dominant position in the territories of the Contracting Parties as a whole or in a substantial part thereof; (iii) any public aid which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of certain goods. 2.
Should a Contracting Party consider that a given practice is incompatible with this Article, it may take appropriate measures under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 27.
Article 24 Where an increase in imports of a given product is, or is likely, to be seriously detrimental to any production activity carried on in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties and where this increase is due to: (i) the partial or total reduction in the importing Contracting Party, as provided for in the Agreement, of customs duties and charges having equivalent effect levied on the product in question ; and (ii) the fact that the duties or charges having equivalent effect levied by the exporting Contracting Party on imports of raw materials or intermediate products used in the manufacture of the product in question are significantly lower than the corresponding duties or charges levied by the importing Contracting Party; the Contracting Party concerned may take appropriate measures under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 27.
Article 25 If one of the Contracting Parties finds that dumping is taking place in trade with the other Contracting Party, it may take appropriate measures against this practice in accordance with the Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 27.
In the cases specified in Articles 22 to 26, before taking the measures provided for therein or, in cases to which paragraph 3 (d) applies, as soon as possible, the Contracting Party in question shall supply the Joint Committee with all relevant information required for a thorough examination of the situation with a view to seeking a solution acceptable to the Contracting Parties.
The Joint Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure.
Each Contracting Party shall preside in turn over the Joint Committee, in accordance with the arrangements to be laid down in its rules of procedure. 2.
Article 33 The Annex and Protocols to the Agreement shall form an integral part thereof.
Article 34 Either Contracting Party may denounce the Agreement by notifying the other Contracting Party.
Article 35 The Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories to which the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community applies upon the terms laid down in that Treaty and, on the other, to the territory of the Kingdom of Norway.
Article 36 This Agreement is drawn up in duplicate in the Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Italian and Norwegian languages, each of these texts being equally authentic.
The products referred to in paragraph 1 are the following: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0005744%quot%%gt% Article 3 Customs duties on imports into the Community as originally constituted and into Ireland of the products falling within subheading No 76.01 A and of headings Nos 76.02 and 76.03 of the Common Customs Tariff shall be progressively reduced to the following levels in accordance with the following timetable: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0005745%quot%%gt% Article 4 Imports to which the tariff treatment provided for in Articles 1, 2 and 3 applies shall be subjected to annual indicative ceilings above which the customs duties applicable in respect of third countries may be reintroduced in accordance with the following provisions: (a) Taking into account the Community's right to suspend application of ceilings for certain products, the basic amounts for fixing the ceilings for 1973 are shown in Annex C.
Customs duties on imports into Norway from the Community as originally constituted and from Ireland of the products listed in Annex D shall be progressively reduced to the following levels in accordance with the following timetable: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0005747%quot%%gt% 2.
products originating in the Community : those products referred to in Article 1 (1) which, after being exported from the Community, have undergone no working or processing in any of those six countries or have not undergone sufficient working or processing there to confer on them the status of products originating in any of those countries by virtue of provisions corresponding to those of Article 1 (1) (b) or (2) (b) of this Protocol contained in the agreements referred to above, provided that: (a) only products originating in any of those six countries or in the Community or in Norway have been used in the course of the working or processing; (b) where a percentage rule limits, in the Lists A or B referred to in Article 5, the proportion in value of non-originating products that can be incorporated under certain circumstances, the added value has been acquired in each of the countries in accordance with the percentage rules and with the other rules contained in the said lists without any possibility of cumulation from one country to another; B.
products originating in Norway : those products referred to in Article 1 (2) which, after being exported from Norway have undergone no working or processing in any one of these six countries or have undergone working or processing insufficient to confer on them the status of products originating in any of those countries by virtue of provisions corresponding to those of Article 1 (1) (b) or (2) (b) of this Protocol contained in the agreements referred to above, provided that: (a) only products originating in any one of those six countries or in the Community or in Norway have been used in the course of the working or processing; (b) where a percentage rules limits, in the Lists A or B referred to in Article 5, the proportion in value of non-originating products that can be incorporated under certain circumstances, the added value has been acquired in each of the countries in accordance with the percentage rules and with the other rules contained in the said lists without any possibility of cumulation from one country to another. 2.
For the purpose of implementing paragraph 1 (A) (a) and (B) (a), the fact that products other than those referred to therein are used in a proportion not exceeding in total value 5 % of the value of the products obtained and imported into Norway or the Community does not affect the determination of origin of the latter products, provided that they would not have caused the products exported from the Community or Norway in the first place to lose their status of products originating in the Community or in Norway had they been incorporated there. 3.
Article 3 Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2 and provided that all the conditions laid down in that Article are nevertheless fulfilled, the products obtained shall not continue to be considered as products originating in the Community or in Norway respectively unless the value of the products worked or processed originating in the Community or in Norway represents the highest percentage of the value of the products obtained.
Article 4 The following shall be considered as wholly obtained either in the Community or in Norway within the meaning of Article 1 (1) (a) and (2) (a): (a) mineral products extracted from their soil or from their seabed; (b) vegetable products harvested there; (c) live animals born and raised there; (d) products from live animals raised there; (e) products obtained by hunting or fishing conducted there; (f) products of sea fishing and other products taken from the sea by their vessels; (g) products made aboard their factory ships exclusively from products referred to in subparagraph (f); (h) used articles collected there fit only for the recovery of raw materials; (i) waste and scrap resulting from manufacturing operations conducted there; (j) goods produced there exclusively from products specified in subparagraphs (a) to (i).
When, for a given product obtained, a percentage rule limits in List A and in List B the value of the materials and parts which can be used, the total value of these materials and parts, whether or not they have changed tariff heading in the course of the working, processing or assembly within the limits and under the conditions laid down in each of those two lists, may not exceed, in relation to the value of the product obtained, the value corresponding either to the common rate, if the rates are identical in both lists, or to the higher of the two if they are different. 3.
Where the Lists A and B referred to in Article 5 provide that goods obtained in the Community or in Norway shall be considered as originating therein only if the value of the products worked or processed does not exceed a given percentage of the value of the goods obtained, the values to be taken into consideration for determining such percentage shall be: - on the one hand, as regards products whose importation can be proved : their customs value at the time of importation; as regards products of undetermined origin : the earliest ascertainable price paid for such products in the territory of the Contracting Party where manufacture takes place; - and on the other hand, the ex-works price of the goods obtained, less internal taxes refunded or refundable on exportation.
Article 7 Goods originating in Norway or in the Community and constituting one single shipment which is not split up may be transported through territory other than that of the Community, Norway, Austria, Finland, Iceland, Portugal, Sweden or Switzerland, with, should, the occasion arise, transhipment or temporary warehousing in such territory, provided that the crossing of the latter territory is justified for geographical reasons, that the goods have remained under the surveillance of the customs authorities in the country of transit or of warehousing, that they have not entered into the commerce of such countries or been delivered for home use there and have not undergone operations other than unloading, reloading or any operation designed to preserve them in good condition.
Originating products within the meaning of Article 1 of this Protocol shall, on import into the Community or into Norway, benefit from the provisions of the Agreement upon submission of an A.N.1 movement certificate, a specimen of which is given in Annex V to this Protocol, issued by the customs authorities of Norway or of the Member States of the Community. 2.
In order that the customs authorities may satisfy themselves as to the conditions in which the goods have been kept in the territory of each of the countries concerned in cases where they have not been placed in a bonded warehouse and are to be re-exported in the same state, the movement certificates issued earlier and presented on importation of the goods shall, at the request of the holder of the goods, be duly endorsed at the time of importation and thereafter every six months by the said authorities. 4.
Article 9 A movement certificate shall be issued only on application having been made in writing by the exporter, on the form prescribed for this purpose.
Each certificate shall measure 210 x 297 mm.
The paper used must be white sized writing paper not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 25 grammes per square metre.
Article 13 Movement certificates shall be submitted to customs authorities in the importing State, in accordance with the procedures laid down by that State.
Furthermore, the total value of these goods must not exceed 60 units of account in the case of small packages or 200 units of account in the case of the contents of travellers' personal luggage. 3.
Goods sent from the Community or from Norway for exhibition in a country other than those referred to in Article 2 and sold after the exhibition for importation into Norway or into the Community shall benefit on importation from the provisions of the Agreement on condition that the goods meet the requirements of this Protocol entitling them to be recognized as originating in the Community or in Norway and provided that it is shown to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that: (a) an exporter has consigned these goods from the Community or from Norway to the country in which the exhibition is held and has exhibited them there; (b) the goods have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that exporter to someone in Norway or in the Community; (c) the goods have been consigned during the exhibition or immediately thereafter to Norway or to the Community in the state in which they were sent for exhibition; (d) the goods have not, since they were consigned for exhibition, been used for any purpose other than demonstration at the exhibition. 2.
Article 17 Penalties shall be imposed on any person who draws up or causes to be drawn up a document which contains incorrect particulars for the purpose of obtaining a movement certificate enabling goods to be accepted as eligible for preferential treatment.
Article 22 The Contracting Parties undertake to introduce any measures necessary to ensure that the movement certificates which the customs authorities of the Member States of the Community and of Norway are authorized to issue in pursuance of the agreements referred to in Article 2 are issued under the conditions laid down by those agreements.
Without prejudice to Article 1 of Protocol No 2, no drawback or remission of any kind may be granted from customs duties in the Community or in Norway in respect of products used in manufacture which do not originate in the Community, Norway or the countries specified in Article 2 of this Protocol, as from the date on which the duty applicable to originating products of the same kind has been reduced in the Community and in Norway to 40 % of the basic duty. 2.
Without prejudice to Article 1 of Protocol No 2, no drawback or remission of any kind may be granted from customs duties in Denmark or the United Kingdom in respect of products imported and used in the manufacture of goods for which a movement certificate is issued by the customs authorities of either of these two countries for the purpose of benefiting in Norway from the tariff provisions in force in Norway and covered by Article 3 (1) of the Agreement.
Declaration by the European Economic Community concerning Article 23 (1) of the Agreement, 2.
Declaration by the European Economic Community concerning the regional application of certain provisions of the Agreement.
På Rådet for De europæiske Fællesskabers vegne Im Namen des Rates der Europäischen Gemeinschaften In the name of the Council of the European Communities Au nom du Conseil des Communautés européennes A nome del Consiglio delle Comunità europee Namens de Raad van de Europese Gemeenschappen %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0005823%quot%%gt% DECLARATIONS Declaration by the European Economic Community concerning Article 23 (1) of the Agreement The European Economic Community declars that in the context of the autonomous implementation of Article 23 (1) of the Agreement which is incumbent on the Contracting Parties, it will assess any practices contrary to that Article on the basis of criteria arising from the application of the rules of Articles 85, 86, 90 and 92 of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community.
Declaration by the European Economic Community concerning the regional application of certain provisions of the Agreement The European Economic Community declares that the application of any measures it may take under Articles 23, 24, 25 or 26 of the Agreement, in accordance with the procedure and under the arrangements set out in Article 27, or under Article 28 may be limited to one of its regions by virtue of Community rules.
