Article 2 Framework 1.
Article 3 Status of personnel and forces 1.
Article 4 Classified information 1.
SECTION II PROVISIONS ON PARTICIPATION IN CIVILIAN CRISIS MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS Article 5 Personnel seconded to an EU civilian crisis management operation 1.
The Republic of Turkey shall ensure that its personnel seconded to the EU civilian crisis management operation undertake their mission in conformity with: - the Joint Action and subsequent amendments as referred to in Article 2(1) of this Agreement, - the Operation Plan, - implementing measures. 2.
The Republic of Turkey shall inform in due time the EU civilian crisis management operation Head of Mission and the General Secretariat of the Council of the European Union of any change to its contribution to the EU civilian crisis management operation. 3.
Personnel seconded to the EU civilian crisis management operation shall undergo a medical examination, vaccination and be certified medically fit for duty by a competent authority from the Republic of Turkey.
Personnel seconded to the EU civilian crisis management operation shall produce a copy of this certification.
Personnel seconded by the Republic of Turkey shall carry out their duties and conduct themselves solely with the interests of the EU civilian crisis management operation in mind. 2.
Article 7 Financial aspects 1.
Article 8 Contribution to operational budget 1.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 2, the Republic of Turkey shall not make any contribution towards the financing of per diem allowances paid to personnel of the European Union Member States. 4.
SECTION III PROVISIONS ON PARTICIPATION IN MILITARY CRISIS MANAGEMENT OPERATIONS Article 9 Participation in the EU military crisis management operation 1.
The Republic of Turkey shall ensure that its forces and personnel participating in the EU military crisis management operation undertake their mission in conformity with: - the Joint Action and subsequent amendments as referred to in Article 2(1) of this Agreement, - the Operation Plan, - implementing measures. 2.
Article 11 Financial aspects 1.
Article 12 Contribution to the common costs 1.
SECTION IV FINAL PROVISIONS Article 13 Arrangements to implement the Agreement Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 8(5) and 12(4), any necessary technical and administrative arrangements in pursuance of the implementation of this Agreement shall be concluded between the Secretary General of the Council of the European Union, High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, and the appropriate authorities of the Republic of Turkey.
Article 14 Non-compliance Should one of the Parties fail to comply with its obligations laid down in the previous Articles, the other Party shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by serving a notice of one month.
Article 15 Dispute settlement Disputes concerning the interpretation or application of this Agreement shall be settled by diplomatic means between the Parties.
Article 16 Entry into force 1.
This Agreement shall be subject to review not later than 1 June 2008, and subsequently at least every three years. 3.
Decision as last amended by Decision 2005/952/EC (OJ L 346, 29.12.2005, p. 18). [2] OJ L 63, 28.2.2004, p. 68.
Decision as last amended by Decision 2005/68/CFSP (OJ L 27, 29.1.2005, p. 59). --------------------------------------------------
