The provision of this information does not require detailed nuclear material accountancy. (vi) Information regarding source material which has not reached the composition and purity suitable for fuel fabrication or for being isotopically enriched, as follows: (a) the quantities, the chemical composition, the use or intended use of such material, whether in nuclear or non-nuclear use, for each location in the States at which the material is present in quantities exceeding 10 tonnes of uranium and/or 20 tonnes of thorium, and for other locations with quantities of more than 1 tonne, the aggregate for the States as a whole if the aggregate exceeds 10 tonnes of uranium or 20 tonnes of thorium.
The provision of this information does not require detailed nuclear material accountancy; (b) The quantities, the chemical composition and the destination of each export from the States to a State outside the Community, of such material for specifically non-nuclear purposes in quantities exceeding: (1) 10 tonnes of uranium, or for successive exports of uranium to the same state, each of less than 10 tonnes, but exceeding a total of 10 tonnes for the year; (2) 20 tonnes of thorium, or for successive exports of thorium to the same State, each of less than 20 tonnes, but exceeding a total 20 tonnes for the year; (c) the quantities, chemical composition, current location and use or intended use of each import into the Sates from outside the Community of such material for specifically non-nuclear purposes in quantities exceeding: (1) 10 tonnes of uranium, or for successive imports of uranium each of less than 10 tonnes, but exceeding a total of 10 tonnes for the year; (2) 20 tonnes of thorium, or for successive imports of thorium each of less than 20 tonnes, but exceeding a total of 20 tonnes for the year; it being understood that there is no requirement to provide information on such material intended for a non-nuclear use once it is in its non-nuclear end-use form. (vii) (a) Information regarding the quantities, uses and locations of nuclear material exempted from safeguards pursuant to Article 37 of the Safeguards Agreement; (b) information regarding the quantities (which may be in the form of estimates) and uses at each location, of nuclear material exempted from safeguards pursuant to Article 36(b) of the Safeguards Agreement but not yet in a non-nuclear end-use form, in quantities exceeding those set out in Article 37 of the Safeguards Agreement.
Article 7 (a) On request by a State, the Agency and that State shall make arrangements for managed access under this Protocol in order to prevent the dissemination of proliferation sensitive information, to meet safety or physical protection requirements, or to protect proprietary or commercially sensitive information.
Article 8 Nothing in this Protocol shall preclude a State from offering the Agency access to locations in addition to those referred to in Articles 5 and 9 or from requesting the Agency to conduct verification activities at a particular location.
Article 9 Each State shall provide the Agency with access to locations specified by the Agency to carry out wide-area environmental sampling, provided that if a State is unable to provide such access that State shall make every reasonable effort to satisfy Agency requirements at alternative locations.
VISAS Article 12 Each State shall, within one month of the receipt of a request therefor, provide the designated inspector specified in the request with appropriate multiple entry/exit and/or transit visas, where required, to enable the inspector to enter and remain on the territory of the State concerned for the purpose of carrying out his/her functions.
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS Article 14 (a) Each State shall permit and protect free communications by the Agency for official purposes between Agency inspectors in that State and Agency Headquarters and/or Regional Offices, including attended and unattended transmission of information generated by Agency containment and/or surveillance or measurement devices.
ANNEXES Article 16 (a) The Annexes to this Protocol shall be an integral part thereof.
Por el Gobierno del Reino de Bélgica For Kongeriget Belgiens regering Für die Regierung des Königreichs Belgien Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôïõ Âáóéëåßïõ ôïõ Âåëãßïõ For the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium Pour le gouvernement du Royaume de Belgique Per il governo del Regno del Belgio Voor de regering van het Koninkrijk België Pelo Governo do Reino da Bélgica Belgian kuningaskunnan hallituksen puolesta För Konungariket Belgiens regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Mireille CLAEYS Por el Gobierno del Reino de Dinamarca For Kongeriget Danmarks regering Für die Regierung des Königreichs Dänemark Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôïõ Âáóéëåßïõ ôïõ Äáíßáò For the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark Pour le gouvernement du Royaume de Danemark Per il governo del Regno di Danimarca Voor de regering van het Koninkrijk Denemarken Pelo Governo do Reino da Dinamarca Tanskan kuningaskunnan hallituksen puolesta För Konungariket Danmarks regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Henrik WØHLK Por el Gobierno de la República Federal de Alemania For Forbundsrepublikken Tysklands regering Für die Regierung der Bundesrepublik Deutschland Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôçò ÏìïóðïíäéáêÞò Äçìïêñáôßáò ôçò Ãåñìáíßáò For the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany Pour le gouvernement de la République fédérale d'Allemagne Per il governo della Repubblica federale di Germania Voor de regering van de Bondsrepubliek Duitsland Pelo Governo da República Federal da Alemanha Saksan liittotasavallan hallituksen puolesta För Förbundsrepubliken Tysklands regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Karl BORCHARD Helmut STAHL Por el Gobierno de la República Helénica For Den Hellenske Republiks regering Für die Regierung der Griechischen Republik Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôçò ÅëëçíéêÞò Äçìïêñáôßáò For the Government of the Hellenic Republic Pour le gouvernement de la République hellénique Per il governo della Repubblica ellenica Voor de regering van de Helleense Republiek Pelo Governo da República Helénica Helleenien tasavallan hallituksen puolesta För Republiken Greklands regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Emmanuel FRAGOULIS Por el Gobierno del Reino de España For Kongeriget Spaniens regering Für die Regierung des Königreichs Spanien Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôïõ Âáóéëåßïõ ôçò Éóðáíßáò For the Government of the Kingdom of Spain Pour le gouvernement du Royaume d'Espagne Per il governo del Regno di Spagna Voor de regering van het Koninkrijk Spanje Pelo Governo do Reino de Espanha Espanjan kuningaskunnan hallituksen puolesta För Konungariket Spaniens regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% ad referendum Antonio Ortiz GARCÍA Por el Gobierno de Irlanda For Irlands regering Für die Regierung Irlands Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôçò Éñëáíäßáò For the Government of Ireland Pour le gouvernement de l'Irlande Per il governo dell'Irlanda Voor de regering van Ierland Pelo Governo da Irlanda Irlannin hallituksen puolesta För Irlands regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Thelma M.
DORAN Por el Gobierno de la República Italiana For Den Italienske Republiks regering Für die Regierung der Italienischen Republik Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôçò ÉôáëéêÞò Äçìïêñáôßáò For the Government of the Italian Republic Pour le gouvernement de la République italienne Per il governo della Repubblica italiana Voor de regering van de Italiaanse Republiek Pelo Governo da República Italiana Italian tasavallan hallituksen puolesta För Republiken Italiens regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Vincenzo MANNO Por el Gobierno del Gran Ducado de Luxemburgo For Storhertugdømmet Luxembourgs regering Für die Regierung des Großherzogtums Luxemburg Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôïõ ÌåãÜëïõ ÄïõêÜôïõ ôïõ Ëïõîåìâïýñãïõ For the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Pour le gouvernement du Grand-Duché de Luxembourg Per il governo del Granducato di Lussemburgo Voor de regering van het Groothertogdom Luxemburg Pelo Governo do Grão-Ducado do Luxemburgo Luxemburgin suurherttuakunnan hallituksen puolesta För Storhertigdömet Luxemburgs regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Georges SANTER Por el Gobierno del Reino de los Países Bajos For Kongeriget Nederlandenes regering Für die Regierung des Königreichs der Niederlande Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôïõ Âáóéëåßïõ ôùí ÊÜôù ×ùñþí For the Government of the Kingdom of the Netherlands Pour le gouvernement du Royaume des Pays-Bas Per il governo del Regno dei Paesi Bassi Voor de regering van het Koninkrijk der Nederlanden Pelo Governo do Reino dos Países Baixos Alankomaiden kuningaskunnan hallituksen puolesta För Konungariket Nederländernas regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Hans A.F.M.
FÖRSTER Por el Gobierno de la República de Austria For Republikken Østrigs regering Für die Regierung der Republik Österreich Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôçò Äçìïêñáôßáò ôçò Áõóôñßáò For the Government of the Republic of Austria Pour le gouvernement de la République d'Autriche Per il governo della Repubblica d'Austria Voor de regering van de Republiek Oostenrijk Pelo Governo da República da Áustria Itävallan tasavallan hallituksen puolesta För Republiken Österrikes regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Irene FREUDENSCHUSS-REICHL Por el Gobierno de la República Portuguesa For Den Portugisiske Republiks regering Für die Regierung der Portugiesischen Republik Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôçò ÐïñôïãáëéêÞò Äçìïêñáôßáò For the Government of the Portuguese Republic Pour le gouvernement de la République portugaise Per il governo della Repubblica portoghese Voor de regering van de Portugese Republiek Pelo Governo da República Portuguesa Portugalin tasavallan hallituksen puolesta För Republiken Portugals regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Álvaro José Costa DE MENDONÇA E MOURA Por el Gobierno de la República de Finlandia For Republikken Finlands regering Für die Regierung der Republik Finnland Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôçò ÖéíëáíäéêÞò Äçìïêñáôßáò For the Government of the Republic of Finland Pour le gouvernement de la République de Finlande Per il governo della Repubblica di Finlandia Voor de regering van de Republiek Finland Pelo Governo da República da Finlândia Suomen tasavallan hallituksen puolesta För Republiken Finlands regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Eva-Christina MÄKELÄINEN Por el Gobierno del Reino de Suecia For Kongeriget Sveriges regering Für die Regierung des Königreichs Schweden Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôïõ Âáóéëåßïõ ôçò Óïõçäßáò For the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden Pour le gouvernement du Royaume de Suède Per il governo del Regno di Svezia Voor de regering van het Koninkrijk Zweden Pelo Governo do Reino da Suécia Ruotsin kuningaskunnan hallituksen puolesta För Konungariket Sveriges regering %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Björn SKALA Por la Comunidad Europea de la Energía Atómica For Det Europæiske Atomenergifællesskab Für die Europäische Atomgemeinschaft Ãéá ôçí ÅõñùðáúêÞ Êïéíüôçôá ÁôïìéêÞò ÅíÝñãåéáò For the European Atomic Energy Community Pour la Communauté européenne de l'énergie atomique Per la Comunità europea dell'energia atomica Voor de Europese Gemeenschap voor Atoomenergie Pela Comunidade Europeia da Energia Atómica Euroopan atomienergiayhteisön puolesta För Europeiska atomenergigemenskapen %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Lars-Erik LUNDIN Por el Organismo Internacional de Energía Atómica For Den Internationale Atomenergiorganisation Für die Internationale Atomenergie-Organisation Ãéá ôïí ÄéåèíÞ Ïñãáíéóìü ÁôïìéêÞò ÅíÝñãåéáò For the International Atomic Energy Agency Pour l'Agence internationale de l'énergie atomique Per l'Agenzia internazionale dell'energia atomica Voor de Internationale Organisatie voor Atoomenergie Pela Agência Internacional da Energia Atómica Kansainvälisen atomienergiajärjestön puolesta För Internationella atomenergiorganet %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Mohamed ELBARADEI (1*) On 8 June 1998, the Council approved the conclusion by the Commission on behalf of the European Atomic Energy Community (the Community) not only of this Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the 13 non-nuclear-weapon Member States of the Community, the Community and the IAEA (published in OJ L 51 Volume 21, dated 22 February 1978 and as IAEA document INFCIRC/193, dated 14 September 1973) but also Additional Protocols to the Agreements between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Community and the IAEA (published as IAEA document INFCIRC/263, dated October 1978) and between France, the Community and the IAEA (published as IAEA document INFCIRC/290, dated December 1981).
All three Additional Protocols were signed by the relevant Parties in Vienna on 22 September 1998.
Gas centrifuges means centrifuges as described in the introductory note to point 5.1 of Annex II. (ii) The manufacture of diffusion barriers.
Complete nuclear reactors Nuclear reactors capable of operation so as to maintain a controlled self-sustaining fission chain reaction, excluding zero energy reactors, the latter being defined as reactors with a designed maximum rate of production of plutonium not exceeding 100 grams per year.
It is not intended to exclude reactors which could reasonably be capable of modification to produce significantly more than 100 grams of plutonium per year.
Reactor fuel charging and discharging machines Manipulative equipment especially designed or prepared for inserting or removing fuel in a nuclear reactor as defined in paragraph 1.1 capable of on-load operation or employing technically sophisticated positioning or alignment features to allow complex off-load fuelling operations such as those in which direct viewing of or access to the fuel is not normally available. 1.4.
Reactor control rods Rods especially designed or prepared for the control of the reaction rate in a nuclear reactor as defined in paragraph 1.1.
Reactor pressure tubes Tubes which are especially designed or prepared to contain fuel elements and the primary coolant in a reactor as defined in paragraph 1.1 at an operating pressure in excess of 5,1 MPa (740 psi). 1.6.
Zirconium tubes Zirconium metal and alloys in the form of tubes or assemblies of tubes, and in quantities exceeding 500 kg in any period of 12 months, especially designed or prepared for use in a reactor as defined in paragraph 1.1, and in which the relation of hafnium to zirconium is less than 1:500 parts by weight. 1.7.
Primary coolant pumps Pumps especially designed or prepared for circulating the primary coolant for nuclear reactors as defined in paragraph 1.1.
This definition encompasses pumps certified to NC-1 or equivalent standards. 2.
Deuterium and heavy water Deuterium, heavy water (deuterium oxide) and any other deuterium compound in which the ratio of deuterium to hydrogen atoms exceeds 1:5000 for use in a nuclear reactor as defined in paragraph 1.1 in quantities exceeding 200 kg of deuterium atoms for any one recipient country in any period of 12 months. 2.2.
Nuclear grade graphite Graphite having a purity level better than 5 parts per million boron equivalent and with a density greater than 1,50 g/cm3 for use in a nuclear reactor as defined in paragraph 1.1 in quantities exceeding 3 x 104 kg (30 tonnes) for any one recipient country in any period of 12 months.
Especially designed or prepared holding or storage vessels for use in a plant for the reprocessing of irradiated fuel.
Holding or storage vessels may be designed for remote operation and maintenance and may have the following features for control of nuclear criticality: (1) walls or internal structures with a boron equivalent of at least 2 %, or (2) a maximum diameter of 175 mm (7%amp%Prime;) for cylindrical vessels, or (3) a maximum width of 75 mm (3%amp%Prime;) for either a slab or annular vessel. 3.5.
PLANTS FOR THE FABRICATION OF FUEL ELEMENTS A 'plant for the fabrication of fuel elements` includes the equipment: (a) which normally comes in direct contact with, or directly processes, or controls, the production flow of nuclear material, or (b) which seals the nuclear material within the cladding. 5.
Gas centrifuges and assemblies and components especially designed or prepared for use in gas centrifuges Introductory note The gas centrifuge normally consists of a thin-walled cylinder(s) of between 75 mm (3%amp%Prime;) and 400 mm (16%amp%Prime;) diameter contained in a vacuum environment and spun at high peripheral speed of the order of 300 m/s or more with its central axis vertical.
Explanatory note The materials used for centrifuge rotating components are: (a) maraging steel capable of an ultimate tensile strength of 2,05 x 109 N/m2 (300 000 psi) or more, (b) aluminium alloys capable of an ultimate tensile strength of 0,46 x 109 N/m2 (67 000 psi) or more, (c) filamentary materials suitable for use in composite structures and having a specific modulus of 12,3 x 106 m or greater and a specific ultimate tensile strength of 0,3 x 106 m or greater ('Specific Modulus` is the Young's Modulus in N/m2 divided by the specific weight in N/m3; 'Specific Ultimate Tensile Strength` is the ultimate tensile strength in N/m2 divided by the specific weight in N/m3. 5.1.2.
The magnet may be in a form having an initial permeability of 0,15 H/m (120 000 in CGS units) or more, or a remanence of 98,5 % or more, or an energy product of greater than 80 kJ/m3 (107 gauss-oersteds).
Typical dimensions are as follows: 75 mm (3%amp%Prime;) to 400 mm (16%amp%Prime;) internal diameter, 10 mm (0,4%amp%Prime;) or more wall thickness, with the length equal to or greater than the diameter.
The housing consists of a rigid cylinder of wall thickness up to 30 mm (1,2%amp%Prime;) with precision machined ends to locate the bearings and with one or more flanges for mounting.
The machined ends are parallel to each other and perpendicular to the cylinder's longitudinal axis to within 0,05° or less.
The tubes are made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF6. 5.2.
Especially designed or prepared auxiliary systems, equipment and components for gas centrifuge enrichment plants Introductory note The auxiliary systems, equipment and components for a gas centrifuge enrichment plant are the systems of plant needed to feed UF6 to the centrifuges, to link the individual centrifuges to each other to form cascades (or stages) to allow for progressively higher enrichments and to extract the 'product` and 'tails` UF6 from the centrifuges, together with the equipment required to drive the centrifuges or to control the plant.
The equipment, components and piping systems are fabricated to very high vacuum and cleanliness standards. 5.2.1.
Feed systems/product and tails withdrawal systems Especially designed or prepared process systems including: - feed autoclaves (or stations), used for passing UF6 to the centrifuge cascades at up to 100 kPa (15 psi) and at a rate of 1 kg/h or more, - desublimers (or cold traps) used to remove UF6 from the cascades at up to 3 kPa (0,5 psi) pressure.
The desublimers are capable of being chilled to 203 K (-70 °C) and heated to 343 K (70 °C), - 'product` and 'tails` stations used for trapping UF6 into containers.
Explanatory note The items listed above either come into direct contact with the UF6 process gas or directly control the centrifuges and the passage of the gas from centrifuge to centrifuge and cascade to cascade.
Materials resistant to corrosion by UF6 include stainless steel, aluminium, aluminium alloys, nickel or alloys containing 60 % or more nickel. 5.3.
Such compounds and powders include nickel or alloys containing 60 % or more nickel, aluminium oxide, or UF6-resistant fully fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers having a purity of 99,9 % or more, a particle size less than 10 microns, and a high degree of particle size uniformity, which are especially prepared for the manufacture of gaseous diffusion barriers. 5.3.2.
Diffuser housings Especially designed or prepared hermetically sealed cylindrical vessels greater than 300 mm (12%amp%Prime;) in diameter and greater than 900 mm (35%amp%Prime;) in length, or rectangular vessels of comparable dimensions, which have an inlet connection and two outlet connections all of which are greater than 50 mm (2%amp%Prime;) in diameter, for containing the gaseous diffusion barrier, made of or lined with UF6-resistant materials and designed for horizontal or vertical installation. 5.3.3.
These compressors and gas blowers have a pressure ratio between 2:1 and 6:1 and are made of, or lined with, materials resistant to UF6. 5.3.4.
Especially designed or prepared auxiliary systems, equipment and components for use in gaseous diffusion enrichment Introductory note The auxiliary systems, equipment and components for gaseous diffusion enrichment plants are the systems of plant needed to feed UF6 to the gaseous diffusion assembly, to link the individual assemblies to each other to form cascades (or stages) to allow for progressively higher enrichments and to extract the 'product` and 'tails` UF6 from the diffusion cascades.
Feed systems/product and tails withdrawal systems Especially designed or prepared process systems, capable of operating at pressures of 300 kPa (45 psi) or less, including: - feed autoclaves (or systems), used for passing UF6 to the gaseous diffusion cascades, - desublimers (or cold traps) used to remove UF6 from diffusion cascades, - liquefaction stations where UF6 gas from the cascade is compressed and cooled to form liquid UF6, - 'product` or 'tails` stations used for transferring UF6 into containers. 5.4.2.
These pumps may be either rotary or positive, may have displacement and fluorocarbon seals, and may have special working fluids present. 5.4.4.
Special shut-off and control valves Especially designed or prepared manual or automated shut-off and control bellows valves made of UF6-resistant materials with a diameter of 40 to 1 500 mm (1,5 to 59%amp%Prime;) for installation in main and auxiliary systems of gaseous diffusion enrichment plants. 5.4.5.
Explanatory note The items listed above either come into direct contact with the UF6 process gas or directly control the flow within the cascade.
For the purposes of the sections relating to gaseous diffusion items the materials resistant to corrosion by UF6 include stainless steel, aluminium, aluminium alloys, aluminium oxide, nickel or alloys containing 60 % or more nickel and UF6-resistant fully fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers. 5.5.
Especially designed or prepared systems, equipment and components for use in aerodynamic enrichment plants Introductory note In aerodynamic enrichment processes, a mixture of gaseous UF6 and light gas (hydrogen of helium) is compressed and then passed through separating elements wherein isotopic separation is accomplished by the generation of high centrifugal forces over a curved-wall geometry.
Explanatory note The items listed in this section either come into direct contact with the UF6 process gas or directly control the flow within the cascade.
All surfaces which come into contact with the process gas are wholly made of or protected by UF6-resistant materials.
For the purpose of the section relating to aerodynamic enrichments items, the materials resistant to corrosion by UF6 include copper, stainless steel, aluminium, aluminium alloys, nickel or alloys containing 60 % or more nickel and UF6-resistant fully fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers. 5.5.1.
The separation nozzles consist of slit-shaped, curved channels having a radius of curvature less than 1 mm (typically 0,1 to 0,05 mm), resistant to corrosion by UF6 and having a knife-edge within the nozzle that separates the gas flowing through the nozzle into two fractions. 5.5.2.
The vortex tubes are cylindrical or tapered, made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF6, having a diameter of between 0,5 cm and 4 cm, a length to diameter ratio of 20:1 or less and with one or more tangential inlets.
Explanatory note These compressors and gas blowers typically have a pressure ratio between 1.2:1 and 6:1. 5.5.4.
Separation element housings Especially designed or prepared separation element housings, made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF6, for containing vortex tubes or separation nozzles.
Explanatory note These housings may be cylindrical vessels greater than 300 mm in diameter and greater than 900 mm in length, or may be rectangular vessels of comparable dimensions, and may be designed for horizontal or vertical installation. 5.5.7.
Header piping systems Especially designed or prepared header piping systems, made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF6 for handling UF6 within the aerodynamic cascades.
These pumps may use fluorocarbon seals and special working fluids. 5.5.10.
Special shut-off and control valves Especially designed or prepared manual or automated shut-off and control bellows valves made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF6 with a diameter of 40 to 1 500 mm for installation in main and auxiliary systems of aerodynamic enrichment plants. 5.5.11.
Especially designed or prepared systems, equipment and components for use in chemical exchange or ion exchange enrichment plants Introductory note The slight difference in mass between the isotopes of uranium causes small changes in chemical reaction equilibria that can be used as a basis for separation of the isotopes.
The contactors employed in the separation cascade can be liquid-liquid exchange columns (such as pulsed columns with sieve plates) or liquid centrifugal contactors.
The stage residence time of the centrifugal contactors is designed to be short (30 seconds or less). 5.6.3.
Uranium reduction systems and equipment (chemical exchange) (a) Especially designed or prepared electrochemical reduction cells to reduce uranium from one valence state to another for uranium enrichment using the chemical exchange process.
Explanatory note These systems consist of dissolution, solvent extraction and/or ion exchange equipment for purification and electrolytic cells for reducing the uranium U6+ or U4+ to U3+.
Uranium oxidation systems (chemical exchange) Especially designed or prepared systems for oxidation of U3+ to U4+ for return to the uranium isotope separation cascade in the chemical exchange enrichment process.
The resins/adsorbents are especially designed to achieve very fast uranium isotope exchange kinetics (exchange rate half-time of less than 10 seconds) and are capable of operating at a temperature in the range of 100 °C to 200 °C. 5.6.7.
Ion exchange columns (ion exchange) Cylindrical columns greater than 1 000 mm in diameter for containing and supporting packed beds of ion exchange resin/adsorbent, especially designed or prepared for uranium enrichment using the ion exchange process.
These columns are made of or protected by materials (such as titanium or fluorocarbon plastics) resistant to corrosion by concentrated hydrochloric acid solutions and are capable of operating at a temperature in the range of 100 °C to 200 °C and pressures above 0,7 MPa (102 psia). 5.6.8.
Common nomenclature for such processes include: first category, atomic vapour laser isotope separation (AVLIS or SILVA); second category, molecular laser isotope separation (MLIS or MOLIS) and chemical reaction by isotope selective laser activation (CRISLA).
Explanatory note Many of the items listed in this section come into direct contact with uranium metal vapour or liquid or with process gas consisting of UF6 or a mixture of UF6 and other gases.
All surfaces that come into contact with the uranium or UF6 are wholly made of or protected by corrosion-resistant materials.
For the purposes of the section relating to laser-based enrichment items, the materials resistant to corrosion by the vapour or liquid of uranium metal or uranium alloys include yttria-coated graphite and tantalum; and the materials resistant to corrosion by UF6 include copper, stainless steel, aluminium, aluminium alloys, nickel or alloys containing 60 % or more nickel and UF6-resistant fully fluorinated hydrocarbon polymers. 5.7.1.
Uranium vaporisation systems (AVLIS) Especially designed or prepared uranium vaporisation systems which contain high-power strip or scanning electron beam guns with a delivered power on the target of more than 2,5 kW/cm. 5.7.2.
Liquid uranium metal handling systems (AVLIS) Especially designed or prepared liquid metal handling systems for molten uranium or uranium alloys, consisting of crucibles and cooling equipment for the crucibles.
Explanatory note The crucibles and other parts of this system that come into contact with molten uranium and uranium alloys are made of or protected by materials of suitable corrosion and heat resistance.
Uranium metal 'product` and 'tails` collector assemblies (AVLIS) Especially designed or prepared 'product` and 'tails` collector assemblies for uranium metal in liquid or solid form.
Explanatory note Components for these assemblies are made of or protected by materials resistant to the heat and corrosion of uranium metal vapour or liquid (such as yttria-coated graphite or tantalum) and may include pipes, valves, fittings, 'gutters`, feed-throughs, heat exchangers and collector plates for magnetic, electrostatic or other separation methods. 5.7.4.
Separator module housings (AVLIS) Especially designed or prepared cylindrical or rectangular vessels for containing the uranium metal vapour source, the electron beam gun, and the 'product` and 'tails` collectors.
Supersonic expansion nozzles (MLIS) Especially designed or prepared supersonic expansion nozzles for cooling mixtures of UF6 and carrier gas to 150 K or less and which are corrosion resistant to UF6. 5.7.6.
The components of these compressors that come into contact with process gas are made of or protected by materials resistant to corrosion by UF6. 5.7.8.
Explanatory note These systems are designed to fluorinate the collected UF5 powder to UF6 for subsequent collection in product containers or for transfer as feed to MLIS units for additional enrichment.
The carrier gas may be nitrogen, argon, or other gas.
Laser systems (AVLIS, MLIS and CRISLA) Lasers or laser systems especially designed or prepared for the separation of uranium isotopes.
Especially designed or prepared systems, equipment and components for use in plasma separation enrichment plants Introductory note In the plasma separation process, a plasma of uranium ions passes through an electric field tuned to the U-235 ion resonance frequency so that they preferentially absorb energy and increase the diameter of their corkscrew-like orbits.
The main technological systems of the process include the uranium plasma generation system, the separator module with superconducting magnet and metal removal systems for the collection of 'product` and 'tails`. 5.8.1.
Microwave power sources and antennae Especially designed or prepared microwave power sources and antennae for producing or accelerating ions and having the following characteristics: greater than 30 GHz frequency and greater than 50 kW mean power output for ion production. 5.8.2.
Ion excitation coils Especially designed or prepared radio frequency ion excitation coils for frequencies of more than 100 kHz and capable of handling more than 40 kW mean power. 5.8.3.
Uranium plasma generation systems Especially designed or prepared systems for the generation of uranium plasma, which may contain high-power strip or scanning electron beam guns with a delivered power on the target of more than 2,5 kW/cm. 5.8.4.
Liquid uranium metal handling systems Especially designed or prepared liquid metal handling systems for molten uranium or uranium alloys, consisting of crucibles and cooling equipment for the crucibles.
Explanatory note The crucibles and other parts of this system that come into contact with molten uranium or uranium alloys are made of or protected by materials of suitable corrosion and heat resistance.
Uranium metal 'product` and 'tails` collector assemblies Especially designed or prepared 'product` and 'tails` collector assemblies for uranium metal in solid form.
These collector assemblies are made of or protected by materials resistant to the heat and corrosion of uranium metal vapour, such as yttria-coated graphite or tantalum. 5.8.6.
Separator module housings Cylindrical vessels especially designed or prepared for use in plasma separation enrichment plants for containing the uranium plasma source, radio-frequency drive coil and the 'product` and 'tail` collectors.
High voltage power supplies Especially designed or prepared high-voltage power supplies for ion sources, having all of the following characteristics: capable of continuous operation, output voltage of 20 000 V or greater, output current of 1 A or greater, and voltage regulation of better than 0,01 % over a period of eight hours. 5.9.3.
Magnet power supplies Especially designed or prepared high-power, direct current magnet power supplies having all of the following characteristics: capable of continuously producing a current output of 500 A or greater at a voltage of 100 V or greater and with a current or voltage regulation better than 0,01 % over a period of 8 hours. 6.
The product of the last stage, water enriched up to 30 % in deuterium, is sent to a distillation unit to produce reactor grade heavy water, i.e., 99,75 % deuterium oxide.
The ammonia-hydrogen exchange process can extract deuterium from synthesis gas through contact with liquid ammonia in the presence of a catalyst.
The synthesis gas feed can be provided by an ammonia plant that, in turn, can be constructed in association with a heavy water ammonia-hydrogen exchange plant.
Finally, it should be noted that, in both the GS and the ammonia-hydrogen exchange processes, items of equipment which individually are not especially designed or prepared for heavy water production can be assembled into systems which are especially designed or prepared for producing heavy water.
The items of equipment which are especially designed or prepared for the production of heavy water utilising either the water-hydrogen sulphide exchange process or the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process include the following: 6.1.
Water - hydrogen sulphide exchange towers Exchange towers fabricated from fine carbon steel (such as ASTM A516) with diameters of 6 m (20') to 9 m (39'), capable of operating at pressures greater than or equal to 2 MPa (300 psi) and with a corrosion allowance of 6 mm or greater, especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilising the water-hydrogen sulphide exchange process. 6.2.
Blowers and compressors Single stage, low head (i.e., 0,2 MPa or 30 psi) centrifugal blowers or compressors for hydrogen-sulphide gas circulation (i.e., gas containing more than 70 % H2S) especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilising the water-hydrogen sulphide exchange process.
These blowers or compressors have a throughput capacity greater than or equal to 56 m3/second (120,000 SCFM) while operating at pressures greater than or equal to 1,8 MPa (260 psi) suction and have seals designed for wet H2S service. 6.3.
Ammonia-hydrogen exchange towers Ammonia-hydrogen exchange towers greater than or equal to 35 m (114,3' in height with diameters of 1,5 m (4,9' to 2,5 m (8,2') capable of operating at pressures greater than 15 MPa (2225 psi) especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilising the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process.
Tower internals and stage pumps Tower internals and stage pumps especially designed or prepared for towers for heavy water production utilising the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process.
Ammonia crackers Ammonia crackers with operating pressures greater than or equal to 3 MPa (450 psi) especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilising the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process. 6.6.
Infrared absorption analysers Infrared absorption analysers capable of on-line hydrogen/deuterium ratio analysis where deuterium concentrations are equal to or greater than 90 %. 6.7.
Catalytic burners Catalytic burners for the conversion of enriched deuterium gas into heavy water especially designed or prepared for heavy water production utilising the ammonia-hydrogen exchange process. 7.
PLANTS FOR THE CONVERSION OF URANIUM AND EQUIPMENT ESPECIALLY DESIGNED OR PREPARED THEREFOR Introductory note Uranium conversion plants and systems may perform one or more transformations from one uranium chemical species to another, including: conversion of uranium ore concentrates to UO3, conversion of UO3 to UO2, conversion of uranium oxides to UF4 or UF6, conversion of UF4 to UF6, conversion of UF6 to UF4, conversion of UF4 to uranium metal, and conversion of uranium fluorides to UO2.
Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UO3 to UO2 Explanatory note Conversion of UO3 to UO2 can be performed through reduction of UO3 with cracked ammonia gas or hydrogen. 7.4.
Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UO2 to UF4 Explanatory note Conversion of UO2 to UF4 can be performed by reacting UO2 with hydrogen fluoride gas (HF) at 300-500 °C. 7.5.
The process requires a source of fluorine gas. 7.6.
Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UF4 to U metal Explanatory note Conversion UF4 to U metal is performed by reduction with magnesium (large batches) or calcium (small batches).
The reaction is carried out at temperatures above the melting point of uranium (1 130 °C). 7.7.
Especially designed or prepared systems for the conversion of UF6 to UF4 Explanatory note Conversion of UF6 to UF4 is performed by reduction with hydrogen.
ANNEX III To the extent that the measures in this Protocol involve nuclear material declared by the Community and without prejudice to Article 1 of this Protocol, the Agency and the Community shall cooperate to facilitate implementation of those measures and shall avoid unnecessary duplication of activities.
