Goods carried under the TIR procedure in sealed road vehicles, combinations of vehicles or containers shall not as a general rule be subjected to examination at customs offices en route. 2.
CHAPTER II ISSUE OF TIR CARNETS Liability of guaranteeing associations Article 6 1.
Article 7 TIR carnet forms sent to the guaranteeing associations by the corresponding foreign associations or by international organizations shall not be liable to import and export duties and taxes and shall be free of import and export prohibitions and restrictions.
In the succeeding countries through which goods are transported under the TIR procedure, this liability shall commence at the time when the goods are imported or, where the TIR operation has been suspended under Article 26 (1) and (2), at the time when the TIR carnet is accepted by the customs office where the TIR operation is resumed. 5.
When payment of sums mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article becomes due, the competent authorities shall so far as possible require payment from the person or persons directly liable before making a claim against the guaranteeing association.
Provided that it has been accepted by the customs office of departure on or before the final date of validity as provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article, the carnet shall remain valid until the termination of the TIR operation at the customs office of destination.
When the customs authorities of a country have discharged a TIR carnet unconditionally they can no longer claim from the guaranteeing association payment of the sums mentioned in Article 8 (1) and (2) unless the certificate of discharge was obtained in an improper or fraudulent manner.
Where a TIR carnet has not been discharged or has been discharged conditionally, the competent authorities shall not have the right to claim payment of the sums mentioned in Article 8 (1) and (2) from the guaranteeing association unless, within a period of one year from the date of acceptance of the TIR carnet by those authorities, they have notified the association in writing of the non-discharge or conditional discharge.
The claim for payment of the sums referred to in Article 8 (1) and (2) shall be made to the guaranteeing association at the earliest three months after the date on which the association was informed that the carnet had not been discharged or had been discharged conditionally or that the certificate of discharge had been obtained in an improper or fraudulent manner and at the latest not more than two years after that date.
The guaranteeing association shall have a period of three months, from the date when a claim for payment is made upon it, in which to pay the amounts claimed.
CHAPTER III TRANSPORT OF GOODS UNDER TIR CARNET (a) Approval of vehicles and containers Article 12 In order to fall within the provisions of (a) and (b) of this Chapter, every road vehicle must as regards its construction and equipment fulfil the conditions set out in Annex 2 to this Convention and must have been approved according to the procedure laid down in Annex 3 hereto.
To fall within the provisions of (a) and (b) of this Chapter, containers must be constructed in conformity with the conditions laid down in Part I of Annex 7 and must have been approved according to the procedure laid down in Part II of that Annex. 2.
Before it is used again for the transport of goods under customs seal, any road vehicle or container which no longer meets the conditions which justified its approval, shall be either restored to its original state, or presented for re-approval. (b) Procedure for transport under cover of a TIR carnet Article 15 1.
A single TIR carnet shall be made out in respect of each road vehicle or container.
Article 18 A TIR operation may involve several customs offices of departure and destination, but, save as may otherwise be authorized by the Contracting Party or Parties concerned: (a) the customs offices of departure shall be situated in only one country; (b) the customs offices of destination shall be situated in not more than two countries; (c) the total number of customs offices of departure and destination shall not exceed four.
Article 19 The goods and the road vehicle, the combination of vehicles or the container shall be produced with the TIR carnet at the customs office of departure.
The customs authorities of the country of departure shall take such measures as are necessary for satisfying themselves as to the accuracy of the goods manifest and/or for affixing the customs seals or for checking customs seals affixed under the responsibility of the said customs authorities by duly authorized persons.
Article 20 For journeys in the territory of their country, the customs authorities may fix a time limit and require the road vehicle, the combination of vehicles or the container to follow a prescribed route.
Article 21 At each customs office en route and at customs offices of destination, the road vehicle, the combination of vehicles or the container shall be produced for purposes of control to the customs authorities together with the load and the TIR carnet relating thereto.
As a general rule and except when they examine the goods in accordance with Article 5 (2), the customs authorities of the customs offices en route of each of the Contracting Parties shall accept the customs seals of other Contracting Parties, provided that they are intact.
The customs seals thus accepted by a Contracting Party shall have in the territory of that Contracting Party the benefit of the same legal protection as is accorded to the national seals.
Article 23 The customs authorities shall not, except in special cases: - require road vehicles, combinations of vehicles or containers to be escorted at the carriers' expense on the territory of their country, - require examination en route of road vehicles, combinations of vehicles or containers and their loads.
Article 24 If the customs authorities conduct an examination of the load of a road vehicle, combination of vehicles or container in the course of the journey or at a customs office en route, they shall record on the TIR carnet vouchers used in their country, on the corresponding counterfoils, and on the vouchers remaining in the TIR carnet, particulars of the new seals affixed and of the controls carried out.
When transport under cover of a TIR carnet takes place in part in the territory of a State which is not a Contracting Party to this Convention, the TIR operation shall be suspended during that part of the journey.
In that case, the customs authorities of the Contracting Party on whose territory the journey continues shall accept the TIR carnet for the resumption of the TIR operation, provided that the customs seals and/or identifying marks have remained intact. 2.
The same shall apply where for a part of the journey the TIR carnet is not used by the holder of the carnet in the territory of a Contracting Party because of the existence of simpler customs transit procedures or when the use of a customs transit regime is not necessary. 3.
In such cases the customs offices where the TIR operation is suspended or resumed shall be deemed to be customs offices of exit en route and customs offices of entry en route respectively.
Article 27 Subject to the provisions of this Convention, and in particular Article 18, another customs office of destination may he substituted for a customs office of destination originally indicated.
The provisions of this section apply only to the transport of heavy or bulky goods as defined in Article 1 (k) of this Convention. 2.
Article 30 All the provisions of this Convention, save those to which the special provisions of this section make an exception, shall apply to the transport of heavy or bulky goods under the TIR procedure.
Article 31 The liability of the guaranteeing association shall cover not only the goods enumerated in the TIR carnet, but also any goods which, though not enumerated in the carnet, are on the load platform or among the goods enumerated in the TIR carnet.
Article 32 The cover and all vouchers of the TIR carnet shall bear the endorsement %quot%heavy or bulky goods%quot% in hold letters in English or in French.
Article 33 The authorities at the customs office of departure may require such packing lists, photographs, drawings, etc., as are necessary for the identification of the goods carried to be appended to the TIR carnet.
Article 34 The authorities at the customs offices en route of each of the Contracting Parties shall accept the customs seals and/or identifying marks affixed by the competent authorities of other Contracting Parties.
They may, however, affix additional seals and/or identifying marks ; they shall record particulars of the new seals and/or identifying marks on the vouchers of the TIR carnet used in their country, on the corresponding counterfoils and on the vouchers remaining in the TIR carnet.
Article 35 If customs authorities conducting an examination of the load at a customs office en route or in the course of the journey are obliged to break seals and/or remove identifying marks, they shall record the new seals and/or identifying marks on the vouchers of the TIR carnet, used in their country, on the corresponding counterfoils and on the vouchers remaining in the TIR carnet.
CHAPTER IV IRREGULARITIES Article 36 Any breach of the provisions of this Convention shall render the offender liable, in the country where the offence was committed, to the penalties prescribed by the law of that country.
Article 37 When it is not possible to establish in which territory an irregularity was committed it shall be deemed to have been committed in the territory of the Contracting Party where it is detected.
This exclusion shall be notified immediately to the customs authorities of the Contracting Party on whose territory the person concerned is established or resident, and also to the guaranteeing association(s) in the country where the offence has been committed.
Article 39 When TIR operations are accepted as being otherwise in order: 1.
Article 40 The customs administrations of the countries of departure and of destination shall not consider the holder of the TIR carnet responsible for the discrepancies which may be discovered in those countries, when the discrepancies in fact relate to the customs procedures which preceded or followed a TIR operation and in which the holder was not involved.
Article 41 When it is established to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that goods specified on the manifest of a TIR carnet have been destroyed or have been irrecoverably lost by accident or force majeure or that they are short by reason of their nature, payment of the duties and taxes normally due shall be waived.
Article 42 On receipt from a Contracting Party of a request giving the relevant reasons, the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties concerned in a TIR operation shall furnish that Contracting Party with all available information needed for implementation of the provisions of Articles 39, 40 and 41 above.
CHAPTER V EXPLANATORY NOTES Article 43 The Explanatory Notes set out in Annex 6 and in Part III of Annex 7 interpret certain provisions of this Convention and its Annexes.
CHAPTER VI MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Article 44 Each Contracting Party shall provide the guaranteeing associations concerned with facilities for: (a) the transfer of the currency necessary for the sums claimed by the authorities of Contracting Parties by virtue of the provisions of Article 8 of this Convention ; and (b) the transfer of currency for payment for TIR carnet forms sent to the guaranteeing association by the corresponding foreign associations or by the international organizations.
Article 45 Each Contracting Party shall cause to be published the list of customs offices of departure, customs offices en route and customs offices of destination approved by it for accomplishing TIR operations.
Article 48 Nothing in this Convention shall prevent Contracting Parties which form a customs or economic union from enacting special provisions in respect of transport operations commencing or terminating in, or passing through, their territories, provided that such provisions do not attenuate the facilities provided for by this Convention.
Article 51 The Annexes to this Convention form an integral part thereof.
CHAPTER VII FINAL CLAUSES Article 52 Signature, ratification, acceptance, approval and accession 1.
All States which are members of the United Nations or members of any of the specialized agencies or of the International Atomic Energy Agency or parties to the Statute of the International Court of Justice, and any other State invited by the General Assembly of the United Nations, may become Contracting Parties to this Convention: (a) by signing it without reservation of ratification, acceptance or approval; (b) by depositing an instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval after signing it subject to ratification, acceptance or approval ; or (c) by depositing an instrument of accession. 2.
Customs or economic unions may, together with all their member States or at any time after all their member States have become Contracting Parties to this Convention, also become Contracting Parties to this Convention in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article.
Article 53 Entry into force 1.
This Convention shall enter into force six months after the date on which five States referred to in Article 52 (1) have signed it without reservation of ratification, acceptance or approval or have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession. 2.
After five States referred to in Article 52 (1) have signed it without reservation of ratification, acceptance or approval, or have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, this Convention shall enter into force for further Contracting Parties six months after the date of the deposit of their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession. 3.
Article 54 Denunciation 1.
The validity of TIR carnets accepted by the customs office of departure before the date when the denunciation takes effect shall not be effected thereby and the guarantee of the guaranteeing association shall hold good in accordance with the provisions of this Convention.
Article 57 Settlement of disputes 1.
Article 58 Reservations 1.
Any State may, at the time of signing, ratifying or acceding to this Convention, declare that it does not consider itself bound by Article 57 (2) to (6) of this Convention.
Any Contracting Party having entered a reservation as provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article may at any time withdraw such reservation by notifying the Secretary-General of the United Nations. 3.
Article 59 Procedure for amending this Convention 1.
Repairs shall be made in accordance with the method described in Sketch No 4 appended to these Regulations ; the edges shall be folded into one another and sewn together with two visible seams at least 15 mm apart ; the colour of the thread visible from the inside shall be different from that of the thread visible from the outside and from that of the sheet itself ; all seams shall be machine-sewn.
The spaces between the rings and the spaces between the eyelets shall not exceed 200 mm.
The following fastenings shall be used: (a) steel wire ropes of at least 3 mm diameter ; or (b) ropes of hemp or sisal of at least 8 mm diameter encased in a transparent sheath of unstretchable plastic.
The competent authorities of the country of registration of the vehicle or, in the case of vehicles for which registration is not required, the competent authorities of the country where the owner or user of the vehicle is established may, as the case may be, withdraw or renew the approval certificate or issue a new approval certificate in the circumstances set out in Article 14 of this Convention and in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 of this Annex.
The competent authority shall inspect the road vehicle produced in accordance with the general rules laid down in paragraphs 1 to 7 above and shall satisfy itself that the vehicle complies with the technical conditions prescribed in Annex 2, and after approval shall issue a certificate conforming to the model in Annex 4.
The manufacturer shall give an undertaking in writing that he will: (a) produce to the competent authority such vehicles of the type concerned as that authority may wish to examine; (b) permit the competent authority to examine further units at any time during the production of the type series concerned; (c) advise the competent authority of any change, however small, in the design or specification before proceeding with such change; (d) mark the road vehicles in a visible place with the identification numbers or letters of the design-type and the serial number of the vehicle in the type series (manufacturer's number); (e) keep a record of vehicles manufactured to the approved design-type. 13.
When a vehicle which has been approved by design-type is exported to another country which is a Contracting Party to this Convention, no further approval procedure shall be required in that country on account of its importation.
Procedure for endorsement of the certificate of approval 19.
In each of these cases the customs authorities shall make an appropriate endorsement in item 10 of the certificate of approval of the vehicle.
The letters %quot%TIR%quot% in capital Latin characters shall be 200 mm high and their strokes at least 20 mm wide.
The TIR carnet must not, for example, be used to cover the storage of goods under customs control at destination.
Where no irregularity has taken place, the office of destination must discharge the TIR carnet as soon as the goods covered by the carnet have come under another customs procedure or have been cleared for home use.
Article 38 (1) A business enterprise should not be excluded from the TIR system because of offences committed by one of its drivers without the knowledge of the management. 0.38.2.
Annex 3 provides that the competent authorities of a Contracting Party may issue a certificate of approval in respect of a vehicle constructed within its territory and that no additional approval procedures shall be applied in respect of such a vehicle in the country where it is registered or, as the case may be, where the owner is resident. 2.
This device must be such that it cannot be removed and replaced from outside the container without leaving visible traces, or the door or fastening be opened without breaking the customs seals.
It shall be in good condition and made up in such a way that once the closing device has been secured, it is impossible to gain access to the load without leaving visible traces. 3.
If the sheet is made up of several pieces, their edges shall be folded into one another and sewn together with two seams at least 15 mm apart.
One of the seams shall be visible only from the inside and the colour of the thread used for that seam shall be clearly different from the colour of the sheet itself and from the colour of the thread used for the other seam.
If the sheet is of plastic-covered cloth, and is made up of several pieces, the pieces may alternatively be welded together in the manner shown in Sketch No 3 appended to these Regulations.
The edges of the pieces shall overlap by at least 15 mm.
The edge of the outer sheet shall be covered with a band of plastic material at least 7 mm wide, affixed by the same welding process.
Repairs shall be made in accordance with the method described in Sketch No 4 appended to these Regulations ; the edges shall be folded into one another and sewn together with two visible seams at least 15 mm apart ; the colour of the thread visible from the inside shall be different from that of the thread visible from the outside and from that of the sheet itself ; all seams shall be machine-sewn.
The following fastenings shall be used: (a) steel wire rope of at least 3 mm diameter ; or (b) a rope of hemp or sisal of at least 8 mm diameter encased in a transparent unstretchable plastic sheath.
Containers may be approved for the transport of goods under customs seal either: (a) at the manufacturing stage, by design type (procedure for approval at the manufacturing stage) ; or (b) at a stage subsequent to manufacture, either individually or in respect of a specified number of containers of the same type (procedure for approval at a stage subsequent to manufacture).
The approval plate shall be affixed permanently and in a clearly visible place adjacent to any other approval plate issued for official purposes. 5.
The following particulars shall be stamped into or embossed on the plate or indicated on its surface in any other permanent and legible way, in at least the English or the French language: (a) the words %quot%Approved for transport under customs seal%quot%; (b) an indication of the country, in which approval was granted either by name or by means of the distinguishing sign used to indicate the country of registration of motor vehicles in international road traffic, and the number (figures, letters, etc.) of the certificate of approval and the year (e.g. %quot%NL/26/73%quot% means %quot%Netherlands, certificate of approval No 26, issued in 1973%quot%); (c) the serial number assigned to the container by the manufacturer (manufacturer's number): (d) if the container has been approved by type, the identification numbers or letters of the type of container. 6.
The manufacturer shall state in his application the identification numbers or letters which he assigns to the type of container to which his application for approval relates. 10.
The manufacturer shall give an undertaking in writing that he will: (a) produce to the competent authority such containers of the type concerned as that authority may wish to examine; (b) permit the competent authority to examine further units at any time during the production of the type series concerned; (c) advise the competent authority of any change, of whatever magnitude, in the design or specification before proceeding with such change; (d) mark the containers in a visible place with, in addition to the markings required on the approval plate, the identification numbers or letters of the design type and the serial number of the container in the type series (manufacturer's number); (e) keep a record of containers manufactured to the approved design type. 12.
An application for approval submitted under paragraph 15 shall state the serial number (manufacturer's number) placed on each container by the manufacturer. 17.
Article 2 The Secretary-General of the United Nations shall provide the Committee with secretariat services.
Article 7 Before the closure of its session, the Committee shall adopt its report.
Article 8 In the absence of relevant provisions in this Annex, the Rules of Procedure of the Economic Commission for Europe shall be applicable unless the Committee decides otherwise
