Article 2 Chairmanship The Trade Committee shall be chaired alternately, for a period of six months, by the member of the Commission of the European Communities on behalf of the European Community, and by a representative of the ACP States.
Article 3 Meetings 1.
Article 4 Representation 1.
Article 5 Delegations 1.
Article 6 Secretariat The Secretariat of the ACP-EC Council of Ministers shall act as Secretariat of the Trade Committee.
Article 7 Documents The Secretariat of the ACP-EC Council of Ministers shall be responsible for the establishment of all the documents necessary for the meetings of the Trade Committee.
Article 8 Correspondence 1.
All correspondence addressed to the Trade Committee or to the Chairman thereof shall be forwarded to the Secretariat of the Trade Committee. 2.
Article 9 Publicity Unless otherwise decided, Trade Committee meetings shall not be public.
Article 10 Agenda for meetings 1.
The Secretariat of the Trade Committee shall forward it to the addressees not later than 15 days before the beginning of the meeting. 2.
The provisional agenda shall include the items in respect of which the Chairman has received a request for inclusion in the agenda from either party not later than 21 days before the beginning of the meeting.
The agenda shall be adopted by the Trade Committee at the beginning of each meeting.
The minutes shall include a list of members of the Trade Committee or their representatives who took part in the meeting. 4.
Article 12 Recommendations 1.
Recommendations of the Trade Committee shall be authenticated by the Secretariat and by the Chairman. 5.
Recommendations shall be forwarded to each of the addressees referred to in Article 8 as documents of the Trade Committee. 6.
Article 13 Languages Unless decided otherwise, the Trade Committee shall conduct its deliberations on the basis of documents drafted in the official languages of the parties.
Article 14 Expenses Paragraph 1 of Protocol 1 to the Agreement, on the operating expenditure of the Joint Institutions, shall also apply to costs incurred by the Trade Committee.
Article 15 The present Decision annuls and replaces Decision No 4/2001 of 24 April 2001 of the ACP-EC Committee of Ambassadors concerning the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Joint ACP-EC Ministerial Trade Committee.
Done at Brussels, 8 March 2005.
