For the purpose of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: (a) "EUJUST THEMIS" means the European Union Rule of Law Mission in the Host Party established by the Council of the European Union in Joint Action 2004/523/CFSP dated 28 June 2004, including its components, headquarters and personnel deployed in the territory of the Host Party and assigned to EUJUST THEMIS; (b) "Head of Mission" means the Head of Mission of EUJUST THEMIS, appointed by the Council of the European Union; (c) "EUJUST THEMIS personnel" means the Head of Mission, personnel seconded by EU Member States and EU institutions, and international staff recruited on a contractual basis by EUJUST THEMIS deployed for the preparation, support and implementation of the Mission, and shall not include commercial contractors or local personnel; (d) "Headquarters" means the EUJUST THEMIS main headquarters in Tbilisi; (e) "Sending State" means any EU Member State that has seconded personnel to EUJUST THEMIS; (f) "Premises" means all buildings, facilities and land required for the conduct of the activities of EUJUST THEMIS, as well as for the accommodation of EUJUST THEMIS personnel.
Article 2 General provisions 1.
The Host Party shall respect the unitary and international nature of EUJUST THEMIS. 3.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Host Party shall provide diplomatic cards to EUJUST THEMIS personnel in accordance with their status as set down in Article 6. 3.
Article 4 Border crossing, movement and presence on the territory of the host party 1.
EUJUST THEMIS personnel and EUJUST THEMIS assets and means of transport shall cross the border of the Host Party at official border crossings and via the international air corridors. 2.
If necessary, technical arrangements may be concluded in accordance with Article 16. 8.
Article 5 Immunities and privileges of EUJUST THEMIS 1.
EUJUST THEMIS shall be granted the status equivalent to that of a diplomatic mission under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 18 April 1961, hereafter referred to as "the Vienna Convention". 2.
The archives and documents of EUJUST THEMIS shall be inviolable at all times. 6.
Correspondence of EUJUST THEMIS shall be granted a status equivalent to that of official correspondence granted under the Vienna Convention. 7.
For imported goods and services and in respect of its premises, provided these are intended for the purpose of EUJUST THEMIS, EUJUST THEMIS shall be exempt from all national and municipal dues, taxes or charges of similar nature.
Article 6 Immunities and privileges of EUJUST THEMIS personnel 1.
Article 7 Local personnel employed by EUJUST THEMIS Local personnel employed by EUJUST THEMIS who are nationals of or permanently resident in the Host Party shall enjoy a status equivalent to that enjoyed, in accordance with the Vienna Convention, by locally employed staff in diplomatic missions in the Host Party.
Article 8 Security 1.
Article 9 Cooperation and access to information 1.
The Host Party shall provide full cooperation and support to EUJUST THEMIS and EUJUST THEMIS personnel. 2.
If required, supplementary arrangements as referred to in Article 16 shall be concluded. 3.
Article 10 Host party support and contracting 1.
Article 12 Communications EUJUST THEMIS shall enjoy the right to unrestricted communication by radio (including satellite, mobile or hand-held radio), telephone, telegraph, facsimile and other means.
Article 13 Claims for death, injury, damage or loss 1.
Article 14 Disputes 1.
Article 15 Other provisions 1.
Article 16 Supplementary arrangements The Head of Mission and the administrative authorities of the Host Party shall conclude such supplementary arrangements as may be necessary to implement this Agreement.
Article 17 Entry into force and termination 1.
