Article 3 Beneficiaries of protection under this Treaty 1.
In respect of these criteria of eligibility, Contracting Parties shall apply the relevant definitions in Article 2 of this Treaty. 3.
Article 4 National treatment 1.
CHAPTER II RIGHTS OF PERFORMERS Article 5 Moral rights of performers 1.
Article 6 Economic rights of performers in their unfixed performances Performers shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorising, as regards their performances: (i) the broadcasting and communication to the public of their unfixed performances except where the performance is already a broadcast performance; and (ii) the fixation of their unfixed performances.
Article 7 Right of reproduction Performers shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorising the direct or indirect reproduction of their performance fixed in phonograms, in any manner or form.
Article 8 Right of distribution 1.
Nothing in this Treaty shall affect the freedom of Contracting Parties to determine the conditions, if any, under which the exhaustion of the right in paragraph 1 applies after the first sale or other transfer of ownership of the original or a copy of the performance with the authorisation of the performer.
Article 9 Right of rental 1.
Article 10 Right of making available of fixed performances Performers shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorising the making available to the public of their performances fixed in phonograms, by wire or wireless means, in such a way that members of the public may access them from a place at a time individually chosen by them.
CHAPTER III RIGHTS OF PRODUCERS OF PHONOGRAMS Article 11 Right of reproduction Producers of phonograms shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorising the direct of indirect reproduction of their phonograms, in any manner or form.
Article 12 Right of distribution 1.
Producers of phonograms shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorising the making available to the public of the original and copies of their phonograms through sale or other transfer of ownership. 2.
Article 13 Right of rental 1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, a Contracting Party that, on April 15, 1994, had and continues to have in force a system of equitable remuneration of producers of phonograms for the rental of copies of their phonograms, may maintain that system provided that the commercial rental of phonograms is not giving rise to the material impaiment of the exclusive right of reproduction of producers of phonograms.
Article 14 Right of making available of phonograms Producers of phonograms shall enjoy the exclusive right of authorising the making available to the public of their phonograms, by wire or wireless means, in such a way that members of the public may access them from a place and at a time indivisually chosen by them.
CHAPTER IV COMMON PROVISIONS Article 15 Right to remuneration for broadcasting and communication to the public 1.
For the purposes of this Article, phonograms made available to the public by wire or wireless means in such a way that members of the public may access them from a place and at a time individually chosen by them shall be considered as if they had been published for commercial purposes.
Article 16 Limitations and exceptions 1.
Article 17 Term of protection 1.
The term of protection to be granted to performers under this Treaty shall last, at least, until the end of a period of 50 years computed from the end of the year in which the performance was fixed in a phonogram. 2.
The term of protection to be granted to producers of phonograms under this Treaty shall last, at least, until the end of a period of 50 years computed from the end of the year in which the phonogram was published, or failing such publication within 50 years from fixation of the phonogram, 50 years from the end of the year in which the fixation was made.
Article 18 Obligations concerning technological measures Contracting Parties shall provide adequate legal protection and effective legal remedies against the circumvention of effective technological measures that are used by performers of producers of phonograms in connection with the exercise of their rights under this Treaty and that restrict acts, in respect of their performances or phonograms, which are not authorised by the performers or the producers of phonogram concerned or permitted by law.
Article 19 Obligations concerning rights management information 1.
Article 20 Formalities The enjoyment and exercise of the rights provided for in this Treaty shall not be subject to any formality.
Article 21 Reservations Subject to the provisions of Article 15(3), no reservations to this Treaty shall be permitted.
Article 22 Application in time 1.
Contracting Parties shall apply the provisions of Article 18 of the Berne Convention, mutatis mutandis, to the rights of performers and producers of phonograms provided for in this Treaty. 2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, a Contracting party may limit the application of Article 5 of this Treaty to performances which occurred after the entry into force of this Treaty for that Party.
Article 23 Provisions on enforcement of rights 1.
Article 25 International Bureau The International Bureau of WIPO shall perform the administrative tasks concerning the Treaty.
Article 26 Eligibility for becoming Party to the Treaty 1.
The European Community, having made the Declaration referred to in the preceding paragraph in the Diplomatic Conference that has adopted this Treaty, may become Party to this Treaty.
Article 27 Rights and obligations under the Treaty Subject to any specific provisions to the contrary in this Treaty, each Contracting Party shall enjoy all of the rights and assume all of the obligations under this Treaty.
Article 31 Denunciation of the Treaty This Treaty may be denounced by any Contracting Party by notification addressed to the Director-General of WIPO.
Article 32 Languages of the Treaty 1.
Article 33 Depositary The Director-General of WIPO is the depositary of this Treaty.
Concerning Articles 2(e), 8, 9, 12 and 13 As used in these Articles, the expressions %quot%copies%quot% and %quot%original and copies%quot% being subject to the right of distribution and the right of rental under the said Articles, refer exclusively to fixed copies that can be put into circulation as tangible objects.
Concerning Articles 7, 11 and 16 The reproduction right, as set out in Articles 7 and 11, and the exceptions permitted thereunder through Article 16, fully apply in the digital environment, in particular to the use of performances and phonograms in digital form.
Concerning Article 15 It is understood that Article 15 does not represent a complete resolution of the level of rights of broadcasting and communication to the public that should be enjoyed by performers and phonogram producers in the digital age.
Concerning Article 15 It is understood that Article 15 does not prevent the granting of the right conferred by this Article to performers of folklore and producers of phonograms recording folklore where such phonograms have not been published for commercial gain.
Concerning Article 16 The agreed statement concerning Article 10 (on limitations and exceptions of the WIPO Copyright Treaty is applicable mutatis mutandis also to Article 16 (on limitations and exceptions) of the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty.
Concerning Article 19 The agreed statement concerning Article 12 (on obligations concerning rights management information) of the WIPO Copyright Treaty is applicable mutatis mutandis also to Article 19 (on obligations concerning rights management information) of the WIPO Performance and Phonograms Treaty.
