All items of revenue and expenditure of the Centre shall be included in estimates based on a costed annual work programme to be drawn up for each financial year and shall be shown in the budget. 2.
Article 2 The budget shall be drawn up and implemented in euro and the accounts shall be presented in euro.
Revenue shall include contributions from other donors to the budget of the Centre. 3.
The financial rules applicable to the management of these resources are set out in Article 37 of this Financial Regulation.
Article 4 The estimates of expenditure shall include operating and intervention expenditure.
PRINCIPLE OF ANNUALITY Article 5 1.
The financial year shall begin on 1 January and end on 31 December. 2.
PRINCIPLE OF SOUND FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT Article 6 1.
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BUDGET Article 7 1.
This draft shall be forwarded to the Executive Board no later than 15 July of the year preceding its implementation.
The annual work programme and related budget shall be approved by the Executive Board by 31 July and submitted to the Committee of Ambassadors for adoption.
The terms and conditions applicable to the contribution from the EDF shall be fixed in a financing agreement signed between the Centre and the Commission. 4.
Article 9 Where necessary, the Director shall submit a draft supplementary or amending budget, which shall be examined and approved in the same form and according to the same procedures as the budget containing the original estimates.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET Article 10 1.
He shall report to the Executive Board on the administration of the budget. 2.
The authorised appropriations shall be used only in accordance with the principles and rules laid down in the Financial Regulation and in particular the principle of sound financial management as defined in Article 6.
He shall inform the Executive Board of his decisions at its next meeting.
Transfers from one title to another, where articles related to staff emoluments are concerned, shall be decided by the Executive Board, on the basis of a proposal from the Director. 2.
Article 13 The revenue of the Centre shall be paid into one or more accounts opened in the name of the Centre.
FINANCIAL CONTROL Article 14 1.
The financial control shall be composed of a financial controller and, if necessary, one or more assistant controllers, who must all be experienced in the financial regulations of international organisations. 2.
The controller shall report for administrative purposes directly to the Director and the assistant controllers shall report directly to the controller. 3.
However, any measures relating to disciplinary action, suspension, termination of employment or legal proceedings must be endorsed by the Executive Board, on the basis of a fully substantiated proposal from the Director. 4.
The purpose of this verification shall be to ascertain that: (a) the expenditure is in order and conforms to the relevant provisions; (b) the principle of sound financial management referred to in Article 6 has been applied.
The Director shall inform the Executive Board of all such decisions in writing at its next meeting.
At the end of each financial year, and no later than 30 April of the following year, the financial control shall prepare an activity report in which it gives its opinion on the financial management and on the implementation of the budget.
It shall submit its report to the Director, who shall forward it, along with his comments if necessary, to the Executive Board at its next meeting.
Article 15 The external auditors referred to in Article 27 shall express independent opinions on the quality of the management and control systems.
ADMINISTRATION OF THE BUDGET Article 16 1.
The duties of authorising officer, controller and accounting officer shall be mutually incompatible. 3.
The proposal, accompanied by the original supporting documents, shall be sent to the financial control for prior verification. 2.
Payment orders shall be sent to the financial control for prior verification.
Payment shall be made by the accounting officer within the limits of the funds available. 3.
The Director shall inform the Executive Board of all such decisions in writing at its next meeting.
Each decision shall specify: - the name of the imprest administrator, - the responsibility of the administrator so designated, - the maximum amount of the advance, - the duration of the utilisation of the advance, - the means whereby supporting documents shall be provided and the time limit for so doing, - the nature and maximum amount of each item of expenditure. 4.
The accounting officer shall be appointed by the Director with the endorsement of the Executive Board. 2.
He shall be responsible in the Centre for: (a) proper implementation of payments, collection of revenue and recovery of amounts established as being receivable; (b) preparing and presenting the accounts in accordance with Article 26; (c) keeping the accounts in accordance with Article 26; (d) implementing, in accordance with Article 26, the accounting rules and methods and the chart of accounts in accordance with the provisions adopted by the Commission’s accounting officer; (e) laying down and validating the accounting systems and where appropriate validating systems laid down by the authorising officer to supply or justify accounting information; (f) treasury management. 3.
ACCOUNTS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, AUDIT, COURT OF AUDITORS, OLAF Article 26 1.
They shall show all revenue and expenditure from 1 January to 31 December of each year and shall include the original supporting documents.
All imprests shall be entered in a suspense account and cleared no later than the end of the following financial year, except in the case of standing imprests. 3.
The separate accounts kept for the resources managed on behalf of third Parties, as provided for in Article 37, shall be consolidated in the balance sheet and the revenue and expenditure account of the Centre. 5.
The Centre shall draw up a balance sheet and a revenue and expenditure account no later than 31 March of year N + 1.
The balance sheet shall show the assets and liabilities of the Centre at 31 December of year N.
This report shall be forwarded to the Director, who shall in turn forward it, with his comments if necessary, to the Executive Board.
On the basis of this report and the financial statements, the Committee shall give the Director a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget.
Article 28 The Commission, the Court of Auditors and OLAF may undertake checks on the financing received by the Centre from the EDF in accordance with the EDF Financial Regulation.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUTHORISING OFFICERS, ACCOUNTING OFFICER, ASSISTANT ACCOUNTING OFFICERS AND IMPREST ADMINISTRATORS Article 29 Authorising officers who, when determining entitlements to be recovered, issuing recovery orders, entering into a commitment of expenditure or signing a payment order, violate this Financial Regulation, shall render themselves liable to disciplinary action and, where appropriate, to payment of compensation.
Article 32 The liability to payment of compensation and to disciplinary action of the authorising officer, accounting officer, assistant accounting officers and imprest administrators shall be determined in accordance with the Staff Regulations of the Centre.
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES AND OTHER PROVISIONS Article 33 A.
Supply contracts (a) Contracts relating to the purchase or hire of supplies, equipment or movable property shall be concluded following an open tender.
Only movable property whose value is EUR 350 or more shall be entered in the inventory.
Article 36 This Financial Regulation shall be applicable in full to the Centre’s decentralised structures.
MANAGEMENT ON BEHALF OF THIRD PARTIES Article 37 1.
The list of these resources shall be given in an annex to the budget of the Centre. 2.
The financial statements of each fund managed by the Centre on behalf of a third Party shall include a balance sheet and a revenue and expenditure account, indicating the situation as at 31 December of the financial year concerned.
These financial statements shall be attached as an annex to the financial statements of the Centre.
Article 38 The ACP States, the Member States and the Community shall be bound, each to the extent to which it is concerned, to take the measures necessary to implement this Decision.
Article 39 This Decision shall enter into force on 1 January 2005.
Done at Brussels, 17 December 2004.
de Bruijn [1] OJ L 317, 15.12.2000, p. 3. --------------------------------------------------
