2005/939/EC: Decision No%nbsp%9/2005 of the ACP-EC Committee OF Ambassadors of 27%nbsp%July 2005 concerning the Staff Regulations of the Centre for the Development of Enterprise (CDE) Decision No 9/2005 of the ACP-EC Committee OF Ambassadors of 27 July 2005 concerning the Staff Regulations of the Centre for the Development of Enterprise (CDE) (2005/939/EC) THE ACP-EC COMMITTEE OF AMBASSADORS, Having regard to the Partnership Agreement between the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Cotonou on 23 June 2000 [1], hereinafter referred to as the "Cotonou Agreement" and in particular Article 2(6) of Annex III thereto, Having regard to the Internal Agreement of 12 September 2000 between Representatives of the Governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council, on the Financing and Administration of Community Aid under the Financial Protocol to the Cotonou Agreement, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission drawn up in agreement with the Centre for the Development of Enterprise, Whereas the Committee of Ambassadors after the signature of the Cotonou Agreement should lay down the Staff Regulations of the Centre for the Development of Enterprise, HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING STAFF REGULATIONS OF THE CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF ENTERPRISE: TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1 1.
In particular, they regulate the rights and obligations of the staff, conditions relating to employment, grading of posts and termination of service; working conditions; remuneration and social benefits, disciplinary arrangements and appeals procedures. 2.
The Executive Board shall notify the ACP-EC Committee of Ambassadors, hereinafter referred to as "the Committee", and the Commission of proposals for internal rules or amendments thereto it has adopted as soon as possible and not later than 30 working days from the date of their adoption.
The Cotonou Agreement, the Headquarters Agreement between Belgium and the Centre, the Statutes and Rules of Procedure of the Centre, these Regulations and the Annexes thereto, which form an integral part thereof, the Financial Regulation of the Centre, the internal rules approved in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article after the entry into force of these Regulations, the internal implementing rules established by the Director and any individual conditions laid down in writing at the time of recruitment or subsequently, in both cases with the Executive Board's approval, together make up the legal framework applicable to the Director, the Deputy Director and the staff of the Centre within the meaning of Article 2. 5.
These Regulations lay down the conditions applicable to: - the Director and Deputy Director of the Centre, - the staff of the Centre, - the local staff of the Centre. 2.
Within the meaning of these Regulations, a member of staff of the Centre is any person employed under a contract signed by the Director for a specified period within the meaning of Article 6(2) (a) and (b) and in the manner and within the limitations laid down herein. 3.
For the purpose of these Regulations, a member of local staff is any person employed under a contract for a specified period by the Centre to perform manual or service duties in a post not specified in Article 7, and in accordance with local custom. 4.
Any reference in these Regulations to a person of the male sex shall be deemed also to constitute a reference to a person of the female sex, and vice versa, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
The recruitment of local staff and the renewal, extension or termination of their contracts shall be decided by the Director following the normal procedures in accordance with internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director. 2.
There shall be set up: - a Staff Committee, and - a Recruitment/Promotion Committee which shall perform the functions assigned to them by these Regulations.
For each vacant statutory post or promotion provided for in the budget (and relating to a contract for an indefinite period of time as referred to in Article 6(2)(a)) a Recruitment/Promotion Committee shall be appointed by the Director.
Article 5 The Centre may draw upon the services of seconded experts or experts funded by third parties.
These experts shall be governed by internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
TITLE II STAFF CHAPTER I Appointment — grading of posts — establishment plan Article 6 1.
The sole object of any appointment of a member of staff shall be to fill, in accordance with the conditions laid down in these Regulations, a vacancy for a post contained in the list of posts annexed to the budget in accordance with Article 10. 2.
Statutory staff shall be engaged under one of the following contracts: (a) Contracts for an indefinite period of time A contract approved by the Executive Board is subject to: - the availability of funding, - continuing satisfactory performance, in accordance with Article 30, - continuance of the functions occupied by the staff member, - ability to perform the functions as per contract.
Any contract can be terminated as a result of disciplinary action. (b) Contracts for a fixed period of time - A contract approved by the Director for staff engaged to fill a post which is included in the list of posts appended to the section of the Centre's budget and which the budgetary authorities have classified as temporary.
The duration of such contracts shall be up to two years, renewable twice only, up to a maximum overall period of five years. - A contract approved by the Director for staff engaged to fill a post established under programmes or funds managed by the Centre. (c) Short-term contracts A contract approved by the Director for staff engaged for the performance of full-time or part-time duties but not assigned to a post included in the list of posts appended to the section of the Centre's budget.
The duration of short-term contracts shall be up to one year, renewable twice only, up to a maximum overall period of two years.
Each category shall comprise levels, and each level steps.
This category shall comprise four levels: (a) a level 2.A and a level 2.B for staff carrying out the duties of "main expert", requiring a university degree or equivalent, giving entitlement to undertake post-graduate studies, and specific relevant professional experience of at least 20 and 15 years respectively after having obtained a degree; (b) a level 2.C and a level 2.D for staff carrying out the duties of "expert", requiring a university degree or equivalent, giving entitlement to undertake post-graduate studies, and specific relevant professional experience of at least 10 and 5 years respectively after having obtained a degree.
The Executive Board, on a proposal from the Director, shall define the number of posts at level 2.A. 4.
The grading of a member of staff at the time of appointment, specifying category, level and step, shall be established by the Director in accordance with the budget and with the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director. 2.
Assignment of members of staff shall reflect as far as possible the joint ACP-EC nature of the Centre. 4.
Assignment to a duty station outside Brussels shall be governed by internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
Article 10 A table attached to the annual budget of the Centre shall fix the number of posts in each category and level and specify any vacancies.
CHAPTER II Rights and obligations Article 11 1.
Article 13 If the legal spouse of a staff member or the person with whom the staff member lives in a marital status is in gainful employment, the staff member shall inform the Director.
Article 14 A staff member who, in the performance of his duties, is called upon to decide on a matter in the handling or outcome of which he has a personal interest such as to impair his independence shall inform the Director thereof.
Article 15 A staff member shall, after leaving the service, continue to be bound by the obligation to behave with integrity and discretion as regards the acceptance of certain appointments or benefits linked directly or indirectly with the Centre.
They shall continue to be bound by this obligation after leaving the service for a period of 10 years. 2.
Permission shall be refused only where the proposed publication is liable to prejudice the interests of the Centre.
Article 17 All rights, including copyright and other intellectual property rights, in any writings or other work carried out by staff in the performance of their duties shall be the property of the Centre.
Article 18 Staff shall reside either in the place where they are employed or at no greater distance therefrom than is compatible with the proper performance of their duties.
A staff member shall be required to make good, in whole or in part, any damage suffered by the Centre as a result of serious misconduct on his part in the course of, or in connection with, the performance of his duties 2.
Article 23 A staff member shall be entitled to exercise the right of association; he may in particular be a member of trade unions or staff associations.
After leaving the service, he shall retain this right for a maximum period of two years.
Any document contained in the staff member's personal file concerning a disciplinary measure for the first degree of seriousness in accordance with Article 55(2) shall be cancelled after a period of three years if no further disciplinary measure has been imposed on the staff member during that period.
CHAPTER III Recruitment — periodic assessment - professional advancement - termination of service/contract - removal from post Section 1 Recruitment Article 26 1.
Staff members shall be selected on the basis of a competition in accordance with internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director. 3.
The recruitment procedure established by the rules referred to in paragraph 2 shall be open and transparent, offering the same participation and employment opportunities to all nationals of States signatory to the Cotonou Agreement.
In order to fill vacant posts, the Director, after considering the possibilities of assigning members of staff from the Centre to those posts by transfer or promotion in level or category pursuant to the terms of Articles 32 and 33, shall initiate an external recruitment procedure on the basis of a competition in accordance with the rules referred to in Articles 4(1) and 26(2) and Annex V. 2.
Without prejudice to paragraph 3, the total length of the trial period shall in no circumstances exceed 12 months. 5.
Section 2 Periodic Assessment — Professional Advancement Article 30 1.
Every 12 months, at the end of the calendar year and subject to the internal implementing rules laid down by the Director, the ability, efficiency and conduct of a staff member shall be the subject of an assessment report by his superiors. 2.
A member of staff, after good performance and continuous service of not less than two years at the same level and step and whose contract will continue for at least one month after that period, may advance to the next step of his level. 2.
Any promotion in level of a staff member shall occur only in order to fill vacancies by means of appointment by the Director to the level immediately above, in accordance with internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director. 2.
The appointment of a staff member to the level immediately above the category to which he belongs shall take place from among staff members who have completed a minimum length of service at their level, after consideration of their comparative merits and the reports of their hierarchical superiors. 3.
A staff member may be appointed to the category immediately above only after a competitive assessment among staff members applying, who have the requisite training and experience and have completed a minimum length of service at their level.
A minimum of two years at the same level shall be a condition for eligibility for promotion in level or category.
In no case shall a staff member be penalised in monetary terms in a case where, had he not been promoted, he would have received a merit step at his former level.
In such a case, the staff member shall receive a supplementary step on the date on which the merit step would have been due at his former level.
The period of notice shall not commence to run, however, during maternity leave or sick leave, provided such sick leave does not exceed three months.
In the event of redundancy of a post, the staff member concerned shall receive notice as provided for in paragraph 2 and shall receive compensation as defined in paragraph 5.
Article 35 The contract of a staff member may be terminated without notice on the initiative of the Director: (a) during or at the end of the trial period, under the conditions set out in Article 29(2); (b) if the staff member ceases to fulfil the conditions set out in Article 27(1); (c) in the case provided for in Article 36; (d) in the case provided for in Article 37.
Prior to the termination of his contract, the staff member may be suspended under the conditions set out in Article 57. 3.
In the event of termination of duties pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article, the Director may propose that the Executive Board should decide to withhold from the person concerned all or part of his entitlement to the compensation and reimbursement of costs provided for in the rules referred to in Articles 46 and 52.
The contract of a staff member must be terminated without notice by the Centre where the Director finds that, at the time of his recruitment, the person concerned intentionally provided false information concerning his professional skills or the conditions set out in Article 27(1). 2.
In this case, the termination of the contract shall be declared by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director, after the person concerned has been heard and after completion of the disciplinary procedure laid down in Chapter VI of this Title. 3.
Prior to the termination of his contract, the staff member may be suspended under the conditions set out in Article 57.
CHAPTER IV Working conditions Section 1 Duration of work Article 38 1.
However, the normal working week shall not exceed 37,5 hours, the hours of the normal working day being determined in accordance with the internal implementing rules laid down by the Director. 2.
The arrangements for granting this authorisation shall be set out in the internal implementing rules laid down by the Director.
Night work and all work on Sundays or public holidays may be authorised only in accordance with the internal implementing rules laid down by the Director. 2.
The total amount of overtime required of a staff member may not exceed 150 hours worked in a six-month period. 3.
Section 2 Leave Article 40 1.
Staff shall be entitled to a minimum of 24 working days and a maximum of 30 working days of annual leave per calendar year, in accordance with the internal implementing rules laid down by the Director.
These rules shall specify the conditions for carrying over leave from one calendar year to the next. 2.
The arrangements for granting such leave shall be laid down in internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
Article 41 Female members of staff shall be entitled, in addition to the leave provided for in Article 40, and on production of a medical certificate, to maternity leave with full pay normally starting six weeks before the expected date of confinement shown in the certificate and normally ending 10 weeks after the date of confinement; such leave shall not be for less than 16 weeks.
Article 42 A staff member who provides evidence of incapacity to perform his duties because of sickness or accident shall automatically be entitled to sick leave, in accordance with the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
Article 43 The annual leave of a staff member authorised to work part-time shall, for the duration of such work, be reduced accordingly.
Fractions of deductible days shall be calculated on a pro rata basis, in accordance with the internal implementing rules laid down by the Director.
The duration of such leave shall not exceed one year per period of 15 years.
Section 3 Public holidays Article 45 The list of public holidays shall be drawn up by the Director.
CHAPTER V Remuneration and expenses Article 46 1.
Under the conditions set out in the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director, and save as otherwise provided, a staff member shall be entitled to the remuneration relating to his category, level and step by the sole fact of his employment.
Article 47 The remuneration shall be expressed and paid in euro.
Article 48 On a proposal from the Director, the Executive Board shall approve the adjustment of remuneration on a yearly basis based on the methodology agreed by the Council of the European Union for Community staff.
Article 49 The basic monthly salaries shall be fixed for each category, level and step in accordance with the table in Annex II.
The family allowances to which a staff member is entitled shall be laid down in the internal rules referred to in Article 46 and comprise: (a) the household allowance; (b) the dependent child allowance; (c) the education allowance. 2.
A staff member in receipt of the family allowances referred to in this Article shall be required to declare allowances of the same type paid elsewhere, these allowances being deducted from those paid under these Regulations. 3.
Article 51 If a staff member dies during his term of employment, the surviving legal spouse or the dependent children shall receive the overall remuneration of the deceased until the end of the sixth month following that of the death.
Article 52 Under the conditions set out in the internal rules referred to in Article 46, a staff member shall be entitled to reimbursement of the expenses which he incurred on taking up his duties, on being transferred, on periodic home leave or at the end of his contract, as well as the expenses he incurred in the pursuit, or in connection with the pursuit, of his duties, without prejudice to Article 36(3).
Article 54 Any sum overpaid shall be recovered if the recipient had knowledge of the irregularity of the payment or if such irregularity was so obvious that he could not fail to have knowledge of it.
The arrangements for recovery shall be laid down by the Director.
CHAPTER VI Disciplinary measures Article 55 1.
Disciplinary measures shall take one of the following forms: - measures for the first degree of seriousness: (a) written warning; (b) reprimand; - measures for the second degree of seriousness: (a) relegation in step; (b) downgrading in level or category; (c) removal from post. 3.
The other measures shall be imposed by the Executive Board after completion of the disciplinary procedure laid down in Article 58.
The decision that a staff member be suspended shall be taken as a precautionary step within four working days of the day following discovery of the acts with which he is charged. 2.
Where no decision has been taken on the staff member by the end of two months, from the date on which the decision that the staff member be suspended came into force, the continuation of that suspension must be confirmed by the Executive Board. 4.
Where no decision has been taken on the staff member by the end of four months, from the date on which the decision that the staff member be suspended came into force, the staff member shall again receive his full remuneration. 5.
The composition and procedures of the ad hoc committee of enquiry shall be laid down in the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
TITLE III THE DIRECTOR AND DEPUTY DIRECTOR Article 59 1.
TITLE IV PROVISIONS CONCERNING SOCIAL SECURITY, TAXATION AND APPEALS CHAPTER I Social provisions Section 1 Social Security Article 60 1.
The degree of cover shall be defined in the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director. 3.
The contributions necessary to provide such cover against illness shall be borne by the staff members and the Centre in accordance with the internal rules referred to in paragraph 2.
On the birth of a child to a staff member, the Deputy Director or the Director, a single, flat-rate grant shall be paid to the person who has actual care of the child, in accordance with the internal rules referred to in Article 60. 2.
Section 2 Provident Fund Article 63 1.
The Centre shall set up a provident fund for staff members, the Deputy Director and the Director in accordance with the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
The contributions necessary to set up the Provident Fund shall be borne by the staff members and the Centre in accordance with the internal rules referred to in paragraph 1.
Section 3 Final and Voluntary Severance Bonus Article 64 1.
A staff member whose contract is terminated as the result of an agreement between the staff member and the Centre, and who has served in the Centre for at least five years, may receive, by a decision of the Executive Board and on the basis of a report drawn up by the Director, a final and voluntary severance bonus in accordance with the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director. 2.
Payment shall be made under the conditions laid down by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director and in accordance with the internal rules referred to in paragraph 1. 3.
No severance bonus shall be paid where the contract is terminated, as laid down in Articles 36 and 37. 4.
The Director and Deputy Director shall not receive this severance bonus. 5.
The severance bonus shall be incompatible with the compensation referred to in Article 34(5).
CHAPTER II Tax Provisions Article 65 1.
The Director, the Deputy Director and the staff of the Centre shall be liable to a tax for the benefit of the Centre on remuneration paid by the Centre.
CHAPTER III Appeals Provisions Article 66 1.
The competent authority shall notify the person concerned of his reasoned decision within two months from the date on which the request was made.
Staff members, the Deputy Director and the Director may submit to the competent authority a complaint against an act adversely affecting them, either where the competent authority has taken a decision, or where it has failed to adopt a measure prescribed by these Regulations.
The procedure whereby the competent authority shall reach its reasoned decision shall be laid down in the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
The competent authority within the meaning of this Article shall be: - the Director for staff members, - the Executive Board for the Director and Deputy Director, and for cases of appeal against a disciplinary measure taken by the Director, - the Committee for cases of appeal against a disciplinary measure taken by the Executive Board regarding the Director or Deputy Director.
Disputes between staff members and the Centre, as well as disputes between the Director or Deputy Director and the Centre, may be resolved by conciliation in accordance with the procedures set out in Annex IV to these Regulations.
The Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour Organisation, hereinafter referred to as "the Administrative Tribunal", shall have jurisdiction in any dispute between the Centre and a member of the staff of the Centre regarding the legality of an act adversely affecting such person within the meaning of Article 66(2). 3.
An appeal to the Administrative Tribunal shall only be admissible if: - the competent authority has previously had a complaint submitted to it pursuant to Article 66(2) within the period prescribed therein, - the complaint has been rejected by express decision or by implied decision, - conciliation has failed or there is no settlement within four months of the appointment of the conciliator. 4.
Appeals under paragraph 2 shall be filed within three months.
This period shall begin on the date on which the failure of the conciliation has been notified to the two parties or, if there is no settlement, on the date of expiry of the deadline of four months as from the date of appointment of the conciliator.
TITLE V LOCAL STAFF Article 68 1.
Article 69 The conditions of employment of local staff and in particular: (a) the manner of their engagement and termination of their contracts, (b) leave, and (c) grading and remuneration shall be determined by the Director in accordance with current rules and practices in the place where they are to perform their duties.
Article 70 The Centre shall cover the employer's share of the social security contributions required under current regulations in the place where a local staff member is to perform his duties.
Article 71 Any member of the local staff may submit to the Director a request that he takes a decision relating to him.
The Director shall notify the person concerned of his decision, giving the grounds therefore, within one month of the date on which the request was made.
In the event of disagreement, the local staff member may lodge an appeal in accordance with Article 72.
Article 72 Disputes between the Centre and local staff shall be referred to the competent court in accordance with the legislation in force at the place where the local staff member performs his duties.
TITLE VI STAFF SERVING ABROAD Article 73 Provisions applicable to staff serving abroad shall be covered in the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
TITLE VII RULES APPLICABLE TO STAFF TEMPORARILY TRANSFERRED TO THE CENTRE Article 74 Provisions applicable to persons from organisations or companies, who are temporarily transferred to the Centre under special cooperation or exchange agreements, shall be covered in the internal rules adopted by the Executive Board on a proposal from the Director.
TITLE VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 75 These Regulations shall enter into force at the same time as the Decision of the ACP-EC Committee of Ambassadors approving them.
Article 76 This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
Done at Brussels, 27 July 2005.
Wahnon Ferreira [1] OJ L 317, 15.12.2000, p. 3.
WORKING WEEK The working week consists of 37,5 hours. 6.
TERMINATION OF SERVICE FOLLOWING A PERIOD OF NOTICE In accordance with Article 34 of the current Staff Regulations of the Centre, either party may terminate this contract by registered letter. 7.
STAFF REGULATIONS The two parties hereto acknowledge that they are bound by the following: (a) the Statutes and Rules of Procedure of the Centre, the Staff Regulations of the Centre and the Headquarters Agreement; (b) the various internal rules issued by the Centre in accordance with the aforementioned Staff Regulations, of which you state you have cognisance; no amendments to those rules may be invoked against you unless they have been notified to you; (c) any individual conditions which the Centre may lay down for you, in accordance with Article 1 (5) of the aforementioned Staff Regulations.
DISPUTES Any disputes between you and the Centre shall be resolved by conciliation or shall be brought before the Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour Organisation in accordance with Article 67 of the Staff Regulations.
The following shall be liable to the tax for the benefit of the Centre referred to in Article 65 of the Staff Regulations: the Director, the Deputy Director and the staff of the Centre, excluding local staff.
All amounts paid by the person under the social security scheme to which he is subject shall be deducted from the basic taxable amount, as defined in Articles 60 to 63 and the corresponding internal rules. 4.
The tax shall be calculated on the taxable amount obtained by applying paragraph 3 disregarding any amount not exceeding EUR 84,96 and by applying the following rate: — | 0 % | to amounts of less than EUR | 84,96 | | | — | 8 % | to amounts between EUR | 84,97 | to | 1501,99 | — | 10 % | to amounts between EUR | 1502,00 | to | 2068,75 | — | 12,5 % | to amounts between EUR | 2068,76 | to | 2370,93 | — | 15 % | to amounts between EUR | 2370,94 | to | 2692,21 | — | 17,5 % | to amounts between EUR | 2692,22 | to | 2994,41 | — | 20 % | to amounts between EUR | 2994,42 | to | 3287,26 | — | 22,5 % | to amounts between EUR | 3287,27 | to | 3588,08 | — | 25 % | to amounts between EUR | 3588,09 | to | 3882,46 | — | 27,5 % | to amounts between EUR | 3882,47 | to | 4184,60 | — | 30 % | to amounts between EUR | 4184,61 | to | 4477,50 | — | 32,5 % | to amounts between EUR | 4477,51 | to | 4779,78 | — | 35 % | to amounts between EUR | 4779,79 | to | 5072,72 | — | 40 % | to amounts between EUR | 5072,73 | to | 5374,80 | — | 45 % | to amounts above EUR | 5374,81 | | | The amount of tax shall be rounded down to the nearest unit.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 3 and 4, the sums paid as compensation for overtime shall be assessed for purposes of tax at the rate which, in the month preceding that of payment, was applied to the highest taxable amount of the remuneration of the staff member.
Payments made on account of termination of service shall be taxed, after applying the abatements laid down in the first three subparagraphs of paragraph 3, at a rate equal to two-thirds of the ratio existing at the time of last salary payment, between: - the amount of tax payable, and - the basic taxable amount as defined in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. 6.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1750/2002 (OJ L 264, 2.10.2002, p. 15). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX IV TO THE STAFF REGULATIONS CONCILIATION Article 1 Scope Disputes between the staff of the Centre, the Director or the Deputy Director, on the one hand, and the Centre, on the other, may be settled by conciliation in accordance with these procedural rules.
Article 2 Definitions In these rules, unless the context requires otherwise, the following words and expressions shall have the meaning here assigned to them: - ACP State: a State belonging to the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States which are signatories to the Cotonou Agreement - Member State: a Member State of the European Union - The Tribunal: the Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour Organisation - The Agreement: the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement of Cotonou - The Council of Ministers: the ACP-EC Council of Ministers referred to in the Cotonou Agreement - The Committee: the ACP-EC Committee of Ambassadors - The Executive Board: the Executive Board of the Centre for the Development of Enterprise - The Centre: the Centre for the Development of Enterprise - The Staff Regulations: the Staff Regulations of the Centre for the Development of Enterprise under the Cotonou Agreement - Claimant: the party which commences conciliation by giving notice to the other party requesting the proceedings and submitting claims - Respondent: the party to the conciliation against whom claims are made - Party: when used in connection with conciliation, the claimant or respondent in the conciliation.
Article 3 Notice and calculation of time 1.
For the purposes of calculating a period of time under these rules, such period shall begin to run on the day following the day on which a notice, communication or proposal is received.
Before an application to the Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour Organisation, a person with the right to request such a settlement must request the settlement of the dispute by conciliation in accordance with these rules.
This period shall begin: - on the date of notification of the decision taken in response to the complaint, - on the date of expiry of the period prescribed for the reply, where the request for conciliation is in response to an implied decision rejecting a complaint submitted pursuant to Article 66(2).
However, where a complaint is rejected by express decision after being rejected by implied decision but before the period for submitting a request for conciliation has expired, the period for submitting a request for conciliation shall start to run afresh. 2.
If the dispute is between the Director or the Deputy Director and the Centre, the claimant shall send the Committee a request for the appointment of a conciliator.
The appointment shall be made by the Committee within 60 days at most following receipt of the request. 3.
If the dispute is between a member of staff and the Centre, the claimant shall send the Executive Board a request for the appointment of a conciliator.
Within 30 days of receiving notice of the request, the other party shall submit to the conciliator and to the claimant a reply to the claimant's case. 7.
Copies of the record of settlement so signed shall be given to the parties. 11.
This period shall begin on the date on which the failure of the conciliation has been notified to the two parties or, if there is no settlement, on the date of expiry of the deadline of four months as from the date of appointment of the conciliator. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX V TO THE STAFF REGULATIONS Composition and procedures of the bodies provided for in article 4 of the Staff Regulations Section 1 Staff Committee The Staff Committee shall comprise the members thereof whose term of office shall be three years.
Membership of the Staff Committee shall be such as to ensure the representation of all categories provided for in Article 7 and will as far as possible reflect the joint ACP-EU nature of the Centre.
Section 2 Recruitment/Promotion Committee For each vacant post or promotion provided for in the budget, a Recruitment/Promotion Committee shall be appointed by the Director.
The composition and functioning of the Recruitment/Promotion Committee shall be determined in the internal rules. --------------------------------------------------
