Trade in steel products set out in Annex I may be subject to quantitative limits. 3.
Trade in steel products not set out in Annex I shall not be subject to quantitative limits. 4.
Such exports shall be subject to a double-checking system as specified in Protocol A. 2.
The Parties reiterate their commitment to achieve complete liberalisation of trade in respect of the steel products mentioned in Annex I provided that compatible competitive conditions have been established. 3.
Quantitative restrictions, customs duties, charges or any similar measures on the export of ferrous scrap and waste under the Combined Nomenclature heading 7204 are prohibited among the Parties. 4.
The Parties agree that imports into the Community from Kazakhstan of products mentioned in Annex I as from 1.1.2005 until the entry into force of this Agreement shall be deducted from the quantitative limits set out in Annex II. 5.
Carryover to the corresponding quantitative limits for the following calendar year of the amounts of quantitative limits set out in Annex II not used during the first calendar year is authorised up to 10 % of the relevant quantitative limit for the year in which it was not used.
Kazakhstan shall notify the Community no later than 31 March of the following year if it intends to make use of this provision. 4.
The quantitative limit for a given product group can be adjusted once in the course of a calendar year up to 10 % of the quantitative limit for a given product group, subject to the consent of both Parties.
Kazakhstan shall notify the Community no later than 31 May if it intends to make use of this provision.
In addition to the obligation contained in paragraph 3, where licences issued by the Kazakh authorities have reached 90 % of the quantitative limits for the calendar year in question, either Party may request consultations concerning the quantitative limits for that year.
Should the consultations referred to in paragraph 1 fail to lead to agreement within 30 days of the Community's request for consultations, the Community may utilise the right to take action concerning safeguard measures pursuant to the provisions of the PCA. 3.
The procedures for control of the origin of the products referred to above are laid down in Protocol A.
All other consultations shall be governed by the following provisions: - any request for consultations shall be notified in writing to the other Party, - where appropriate, the request shall be followed within a reasonable period by a report setting out the reasons for the consultations, - consultations shall begin within one month from the date of the request, - consultations shall arrive at a mutually acceptable result within one month of their commencement, unless the period is extended by agreement between the Parties. 4.
In that event, the Agreement shall come to an end on the expiry of the period of notice and the quantitative limits in the Community established in Annex II shall be reduced on a pro rata basis up to the date on which denunciation takes effect unless the Parties decide otherwise. 4.
Article 12 This Agreement shall be drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Swedish, Kazakh and Russian languages, each of these texts being equally authentic.
Por la Comunidad Europea Za Evropské společenství For Det Europæiske Fællesskab Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft Euroopa Ühenduse nimel Για την Ευρωπαϊκή Κοινότητα For the European Community Pour la Communauté européenne Per la Comunità europea Eiropas Kopienas vārdā Europos bendrijos vardu az Európai Közösség részéről Għall-Komunità Ewropea Voor de Europese Gemeenschap W imieniu Wspólnoty Europejskiej Pela Comunidade Europeia Za Európske spoločenstvo Za Evropsko skupnost Euroopan yhteisön puolesta På Europeiska gemenskapens vägnar За Европейское сообщество Por el Gobierno de la República de Kazajstán Za vládu Republiky Kazachstán For regeringen for Republikken Kasakhstan Im Namen der Regierung der Republik Kasachstan Kasahstani Vabariigi valitsuse nimel Για την κυβέρνηση της Δημοκρατίας του Καζακστάν For the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan Pour le gouvernement de la République du Kazakhstan Per il governo della Repubblica del Kazakstan Kazahstānas Republikas valdības vārdā Kazachstano Respublikos Vyriausybės vardu a Kazah Köztársaság Kormánya részéről Għall-Gvern tar-Repubblika tal-Kazakastan Voor de regering van de Republiek Kazachstan W imieniu rządu Republiki Kazachstanu Pelo Governo da República do Cazaquistão Za vládu Kazašskej republiky Za Vlado Republike Kazahstan Kazakstanin tasavallan hallituksen puolesta På Republiken Kazakstans regerings vägnar За Правительство Республики Казахстан [1] OJ L 196, 28.7.1999, p. 3. --------------------------------------------------
