Article 2 Scope 1.
TITLE II RAIL TRANSPORT AND COMBINED TRANSPORT Article 4 General provisions 1.
Article 5 Infrastructure works and planning of measures in Switzerland Details of the measures planned are given in Annex 2.
They are based on the following principles: (a) In the short and medium term: Switzerland shall progressively increase the combined transport capacity of the Gotthard and Lötschberg trans-Alpine routes from 330 000 consignments in 1991 to 710 000 consignments in 1994 (*).
Article 6 Infrastructure works and planning of measures in the Community In accordance with the declaration in Annex 3 and with the intentions of the Member States, the following measures shall be taken in the Community: - new terminals are to be created and existing terminals improved, in particular in Germany, northern Italy and the Rotterdam area, - the clearance height of railway lines in northern Italy is to be increased so as to allow the unhindered passage of combined transport traffic, whether or not accompanied.
In particular, the tunnels on the Iselle-Domodossola line are to be enlarged before the end of 1994 (*) so as to make possible the conveyance by train of lorries with a corner height of four metres, - the capacity of certain sections of railway line in Germany, in particular between Mannheim and Basle, and in northern Italy is to be increased.
Article 7 Support measures 1.
The Parties shall, in a concrete manner within the limits of their competences, prevail on the railway companies to: 2.1.
assemble complete trains; 2.2.
improving productivity; 2.2.4.
Article 8 Pricing 1.
Article 9 Crisis situation In the event of a serious disturbance in rail transit traffic due for instance to a natural disaster, the competent authorities of each Party shall take all possible concerted action to maintain the flow of the traffic concerned within their respective jurisdictions.
TITLE III ROAD TRANSPORT A.
TECHNICAL AND TAX ASPECTS Article 10 Facilitation of road transport 1.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article and the provisions of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, should the latter enter into force between the Community and Switzerland, Switzerland shall admit road vehicles registered in the Community Member States and conforming to the dimensions and driven axle weights stipulated in the Community legislation as it stands at the time of this Agreement's entry into force (¹).
Article 11 Environmental protection 1.
Article 12 Taxation 1.
MARKET ACCESS Article 13 Market access The two Parties declare their intention to grant each other access to the transport market under the Agreement on the European Economic Area or, if necessary, on terms to be set out in a bilateral agreement (²).
TITLE IV FACILITATION OF BORDER CROSSINGS AND SIMPLIFICATION OF FORMALITIES Article 14 1.
TITLE V GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 15 Non-discrimination The Parties shall not take discriminatory measures in the fields covered by this Agreement or with regard to traffic through Community Member States. (²) See Annex 8.
Article 16 Unilateral measures The Parties shall refrain from taking unilateral measures which discriminate against transit traffic authorized pursuant to this Agreement.
Article 17 Additional measures Where one of the Parties finds, in its experience of the application of this Agreement, that other measures falling within its scope would serve the interests of a coordinated European transport policy, and in particular, help to resolve the problem of trans-Alpine transit, it shall make appropriate proposals to the other.
Article 18 Joint Committee 1.
Article 19 Operation of the Committee 1.
Article 21 Entry into force This Agreement shall be subject to ratification or approval in accordance with the Parties' own procedures.
Article 22 Annexes Annexes 1 to 8 shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
Article 23 Languages This Agreement shall be drawn up in duplicate in Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish, each text being equally authentic.
Por el Consejo de las Comunidades Europeas For Rådet for De Europæiske Fællesskaber Für den Rat der Europäischen Gemeinschaften Ãéá ôï Óõìâïýëéï ôùí Åõñùðáúêþí ÊïéíïôÞôùí For the Council of the European Communities Pour le Conseil des Communautés européennes Per il Consiglio delle Comunità Europee Voor de Raad van de Europese Gemeenschappen Pelo Conselho das Comunidades Europeias Für die Regierung der Schweizerischen Eidgenossenschaft Por el Gobierno de la Confederación Suiza For regeringen for Schweiz Ãéá ôçí êõâÝñíçóç ôçò ÅëâåôéêÞò Óõíïìïóðïíäßáò For the Government of the Swiss Confederation Pour le gouvernement de la Confédération suisse Per il governo della Confederazione svizzera Voor de Regering van de Zwitserse Bondsstaat Pelo Governo da Confederação Suíça ANNEX 1 DECLARATION BY THE SWISS DELEGATION ON THE SCOPE OF ARTICLE 3 (d) The Swiss Confederation confirms, subject to the reservation that such action be reciprocal, that the movement of empty Community vehicles on its territory shall be subject to no restrictions other than those arising from the general ban on night and Sunday driving and the 28-tonne limit.
ANNEX 2 INFRASTRUCTURE WORKS AND MEASURES PLANNED IN SWITZERLAND A.
Basic action to be taken by 1994 (*) Increased capacity requires the creation of a 'piggy-back` transport corridor consisting of two routes - one via the St Gotthard and the other via Lötschberg-Simplon.
Between now and 1994 (*) the transitional arrangements planned by the Swiss government will enable 470 000 consignments or 10 million tonnes of goods to be sent via Switzerland - 710 000 consignments or 14 million tonnes if container transport is included. 2.2.
In the case of unaccompanied traffic, semi-trailers can be as much as 4 metres high.
Projects Switzerland undertakes to achieve the following improvements: - construct a new line between Arth-Goldau and Lugano, with a base tunnel at St Gotthard (about 50 km in length) and another under Monte Ceneri (13 km), - bore a base tunnel under the Lötschberg (around 30 km).
The work will take 7 to 10 years at the Lötschberg and 12 to 15 years at St Gotthard.
In the case of combined transport, the planned improvements will (depending on market conditions) enable 260 trains to be put into service carrying 43 million tonnes. (*) or 1995, depending on the progress of works.
ANNEX 3 DECLARATION BY THE COMMUNITY DELEGATION ON THE SCOPE OF THE UNDERTAKING GIVEN IN ARTICLE 6 1.
Article 6 shall be applied as follows: - within the Committee on Transport Infrastructures, the Commission shall submit and examine with the Member States concerned the measures to be taken (see Council Decision 78/174/EEC, OJ No L 54, 25. 2. 1978, p. 16), - the Community as such, given its interest in solving the problem of trans-Alpine transit through Switzerland, shall support the implementation of those measures by deploying the resources available to it, notably in the context of the common policy on support for transport infrastructure (see Council Regulation (EEC) No 3359/90, OJ N° L 326, 24. 11. 1990, p. 1).
ANNEX 4 INFRASTRUCTURE OPERATIONS AND MEASURES PLANNED IN THE COMMUNITY A.
In this perspective, with a view to enabling the railways to cope with the expected sharp rise in demand and taking account of the work already carried out in a number of areas by the Community Member States directly concerned, the Community must, in consultation with Switzerland, take coordinated steps to: - establish priorities and draw up a timetable for investment in infrastructure, terminals, the purchase of rolling stock, the introduction of services, etc., - draw up joint, supervised infrastructure plans in accordance with the order of priorities established, - take the necessary financial measures.
WORK PROGRAMME 3.
ANNEX 5 DECLARATION BY THE COMMUNITY DELEGATION CONCERNING ARTICLE 8 OF THE AGREEMENT The Community delegation declares that aid from the Member States of the Community is subject to the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 77, 92 and 93 thereof.
ANNEX 6 EXEMPTIONS FROM THE BAN ON NIGHT AND SUNDAY DRIVING AND FROM THE 28-TONNE LIMIT The exemptions listed below are in accordance with the Federal Law on road traffic of 19 December 1958.
For journeys originating abroad and finishing in the area of the Swiss frontier (*) (and vice versa), exceptions are permitted without charge for any goods up to a total 40 tonnes and for 40-foot ISO containers in combined transport up to a total of 44 tonnes.
stipulated in Article 10 of this Agreement, provided combined transport capacity is saturated.
The annual maximum is 15 000 permits for each direction.
ANNEX 8 EXCHANGE OF LETTERS ON MARKET ACCESS Letter from the Swiss delegation Berne, . . . . . .
