Article 3 General provisions 1.
The Parties shall ensure that the operator is obliged to take all measures necessary for the safe performance of the hazardous activity and for the prevention of industrial accidents. 4.
To implement the provisions of this Convention, the Parties shall take appropriate legislative, regulatory, administrative and financial measures for the prevention of, preparedness for and response to industrial accidents. 5.
Article 4 Identification, consultation and advice 1.
If the Parties concerned do not agree on whether an activity is such a hazardous activity, any such Party may, unless the Parties concerned agree on another method of resolving the question, submit that question to an inquiry commission in accordance with the provisions of Annex II hereto for advice. 3.
When a hazardous activity is subject to an environmental impact assessment in accordance with the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context and that assessment includes an evaluation of the transboundary effects of industrial accidents from the hazardous activity which is performed in conformity with the terms of this Convention, the final decision taken for the purposes of the Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context shall fulfil the relevant requirements of this Convention.
Where the Parties concerned so agree, this Convention, or any part thereof, shall apply to the activity in question as if it were a hazardous activity.
Article 6 Prevention 1.
The Parties shall take appropriate measures for the prevention of industrial accidents, including measures to induce action by operators to reduce the risk of industrial accidents.
Article 7 Decision-making on siting Within the framework of its legal system, the Party of origin shall, with the objective of minimising the risk to the population and the environment of all affected Parties, seek the establishment of policies on the siting of new hazardous activities and on significant modifications to existing hazardous activities.
Within the framework of their legal systems, the affected Parties shall seek the establishment of policies on significant developments in areas which could be affected by transboundary effects of an industrial accident arising out of a hazardous activity so as to minimise the risks involved.
In elaborating and establishing these policies, the Parties should consider the matters set out in Annex V, paragraph 2, subparagraphs 1 to 8, and Annex VI hereto.
Article 8 Emergency preparedness 1.
Article 9 Information to, and participation of the public 1.
This information shall be transmitted through such channels as the Parties deem appropriate, shall include the elements contained in Annex VIII hereto and should take into account matters set out in Annex V, paragraph 2, subparagraphs 1 to 4 and 9. 2.
The Parties shall, in accordance with their legal systems and, if desired, on a reciprocal basis provide natural or legal persons who are being or are capable of being adversely affected by the transboundary effects of an industrial accident in the territory of a Party, with access to, and treatment in the relevant administrative and judicial proceedings, including the possibilities of starting a legal action and appealing a decision affecting their rights, equivalent to those available to persons within their own jurisdiction.
Article 10 Industrial accident notification systems 1.
Such notification shall include the elements contained in Annex IX hereto. 3.
The Parties concerned shall ensure that, in the event of an industrial accident or imminent threat thereof, the contingency plans prepared in accordance with Article 8 are activated as soon as possible and to the extent appropriate to the circumstances.
Article 11 Response 1.
In the event of an industrial accident, or imminent threat thereof, which causes or is capable of causing transboundary effects, the Parties concerned shall ensure that the effects are assessed - where appropriate, jointly for the purpose of taking adequate response measures.
Article 12 Mutual assistance 1.
The Parties concerned shall cooperate to facilitate the prompt provision of assistance agreed to under paragraph 1 of this Article, including, where appropriate, action to minimise the consequences and effects of the industrial accident, and to provide general assistance.
Article 13 Responsibility and liability The Parties shall support appropriate international efforts to elaborate rules, criteria and procedures in the field of responsibility and liability.
Article 16 Exchange of technology 1.
Article 17 Competent authorities and points of contact 1.
Each Party shall designate or establish one or more competent authorities for the purposes of this Convention. 2.
Without prejudice to other arrangements at the bilateral or multilateral level, each Party shall designate or establish one point of contact for the purpose of industrial accident notifications pursuant to Article 10, and one point of contact for the purpose of mutual assistance pursuant to Article 12.
Each Party shall, within three months of the date of entry into force of this Convention for that Party, inform the other Parties, through the Secretariat referred to in Article 20, which body or bodies it has designated as its point(s) of contact and as its competent authority or authorities. 4.
Each Party shall, within one month of the date of decision, inform the other Parties, through the Secretariat, of any changes regarding the designation(s) it has made under paragraph 3 of this Article. 5.
Article 18 Conference of the Parties 1.
The first meeting of the Conference of the Parties shall be convened not later than one year after the date of the entry into force of this Convention.
The Conference of the Parties shall also decide on the method of work, including the use of national centres and cooperation with relevant international organisations and the establishment of a system with a view to facilitating the implementation of this Convention, in particular for mutual assistance in the event of an industrial accident, and building upon pertinent existing activities within relevant international organisations.
The Conference of the Parties shall adopt guidelines and criteria to facilitate the identification of hazardous activities for the purposes of this Convention.
Article 19 Right to vote 1.
Article 20 Secretariat The executive secretary of the Economic Commission for Europe shall carry out the following secretariat functions: (a) convene and prepare meetings of the Parties; (b) transmit to the Parties reports and other information received in accordance with the provisions of this Convention; (c) such other functions as may be determined by the Parties.
Article 21 Settlement of disputes 1.
When signing, ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to this Convention, or at any time thereafter, a Party may declare in writing to the Depositary that, for a dispute not resolved in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, it accepts one or both of the following means of dispute settlement as compulsory in relation to any Party accepting the same obligation: (a) submission of the dispute to the International Court of Justice; (b) arbitration in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex XIII hereto. 3.
Article 22 Limitations on the supply of information 1.
Article 23 Implementation The Parties shall report periodically on the implementation of this Convention.
Article 24 Bilateral and multilateral agreements 1.
Article 25 Status of Annexes The Annexes to this Convention form an integral part of the Convention.
Article 26 Amendments to the Convention 1.
Any Party may propose amendments to this Convention. 2.
For amendments to this Convention - other than those to Annex I, for which the procedure is described in paragraph 4 of this Article: (a) amendments shall be adopted by consensus of the Parties present at the meeting and shall be submitted by the Depositary to all Parties for ratification, acceptance or approval; (b) instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval of amendments shall be deposited with the Depositary.
Amendments adopted in accordance with this Article shall enter into force for Parties that have accepted them on the 90th day following the day of receipt by the Depositary of the 16th instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval; (c) thereafter, amendments shall enter into force for any other Party on the 90th day after that Party deposits its instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval of the amendments. 4.
If adopted by the Conference of the Parties, the amendments shall be communicated to the Parties and recommended for approval; (b) on the expiry of 12 months from the date of their communication by the Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Europe, the amendments to Annex I shall become effective for those Parties to this Convention which have not submitted a notification in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of this Article, provided that at least 16 Parties have not submitted such a notification; (c) any Party that is unable to approve an amendment to Annex I of this Convention shall so notify the executive secretary of the Economic Commission for Europe in writing within 12 months from the date of the communication of the adoption.
Article 27 Signature This Convention shall be open for signature at Helsinki from 17 to 18 March 1992 inclusive, and thereafter at United Nations headquarters in New York until 18 September 1992, by States members of the Economic Commission for Europe, as well as States having consultative status with the Economic Commission for Europe pursuant to paragraph 8 of Economic and Social Council Resolution 36 (IV) of 28 March 1947, and by regional economic integration organisations constituted by sovereign States members of the Economic Commission for Europe to which their member States have transferred competence in respect of matters governed by this Convention, including the competence to enter into treaties in respect of these matters.
Article 29 Ratification, acceptance, approval and accession 1.
This Convention shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by the signatory States and regional economic integration organisations referred to in Article 27. 2.
This Convention shall be open for accession by the States and organisations referred to in Article 27. 3.
Any organisations referred to in Article 27 which becomes Party to this Convention without any of its member States being a Party shall be bound by all the obligations under this Convention.
In the case of such organisations, one or more of whose member States is a Party to this Convention, the organisation and its member States shall decide on their respective responsibilities for the performance of their obligations under this Convention.
In their instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, the regional economic integration organisations referred to in Article 27 shall declare the extent of their competence with respect to the matters governed by this Convention.
Article 30 Entry into force 1.
This Convention shall enter into force on the 90th day after the date of deposit of the 16th instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession. 2.
For the purposes of paragraph 1 of this Article, any instrument deposited by an organisation referred to in Article 27 shall not be counted as additional to those deposited by States members of such an organisation. 3.
For each State or organisation referred to in Article 27 which ratifies, accepts or approves this Convention or accedes thereto after the deposit of this 16th instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, this Convention shall enter into force on the 90th day after the date of deposit by such State or organisation of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
Article 32 Authentic texts The original of this Convention, of which the English, French and Russian texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Where a substance or preparation named in Part II also falls within a category in Part I, the threshold quantity set out in Part II shall be used.
ANNEX II Inquiry commission procedure pursuant to Articles 4 and 5 1.
The Secretariat shall immediately inform all Parties to the Convention of this submission. 2.
If it fails to do so within that period, the president shall inform the Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Europe who shall make this appointment within a further two-month period. 5.
The inquiry commission shall adopt its own rules of procedure. 6.
The inquiry commission shall keep a record of all its expenses and shall furnish a final statement thereof to the parties. 11.
Any Party which has an interest of a factual nature in the subject matter of the inquiry procedure and which may be affected by an opinion in the matter may intervene in the proceedings with the consent of the inquiry commission. 12.
ANNEX III PROCEDURES PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 4 1.
A Party of origin may request consultations with another Party, in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 5 of this Annex, in order to determine whether that Party is an affected Party. 2.
For a proposed or existing hazardous activity, the Party of origin shall, for the purposes of ensuring adequate and effective consultations, provide for the notification at appropriate levels of any Party that it considers may be an affected party as early as possible and no later than when informing its own public about that proposed or existing activity.
Upon receipt of a response from a notified Party indicating its desire to enter into consultation, the Party of origin shall, if it has not already done so, provide to the notified Party: (a) relevant information regarding the time schedule for analysis, including an indication of the time schedule for the transmittal of comments; (b) relevant information on the hazardous activity and its transboundary effects in the event of an industrial accident; (c) the opportunity to participate in evaluations of the information or any report demonstrating possible transboundary effects. 7.
The Party of origin shall furnish the affected party directly, as appropriate, or, where one exists, through a joint body with the analysis and evaluation documentation as described in Annex V, paragraphs 1 and 2. 9.
The parties shall ensure them an opportunity for making comments on, or objections to, the hazardous activity and shall arrange for their views to be submitted to the competent authority of the Party of origin, either directly to that authority or, where appropriate, through the Party of origin, within a reasonable time. 10.
The Party of origin shall, after completion of the analysis and evaluation documentation, enter without undue delay into consultations with the affected Party concerning, inter alia, the transboundary effects of the hazardous activity in the event of an industrial accident, and measures to reduce or eliminate its effects.
The Parties concerned shall ensure that due account is taken of the analysis and evaluation, as well as of the comments received pursuant to paragraph 9 of this Annex and of the outcome of the consultations referred to in paragraph 10 of this Annex. 12.
ANNEX V ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION 1.
ANNEX VII EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS MEASURES PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 8 1.
They should also include arrangements for warning people and, where appropriate, arrangements for their evacuation, other protective or rescue actions and health services. 3.
An explanation in simple terms of the hazardous activity, including the risks. 3.
The common names or the generic names or the general danger classification of the substances and preparations which are involved in the hazardous activity, with an indication of their principal dangerous characteristics. 4.
Adequate information on the actions the affected population should take and on the behaviour they should adopt in the event of an industrial accident. 8.
General information on the emergency services' off-site contingency plan, drawn up to cope with any off-site effects, including the transboundary effects of an industrial accident. 10.
The industrial accident notification shall include the following: (a) the type and magnitude of the industrial accident, the hazardous substances involved (if known), and the severity of its possible effects; (b) the time of occurrence and exact location of the accident; (c) such other available information as necessary for an efficient response to the industrial accident. 3.
The industrial accident notification shall be supplemented at appropriate intervals, or whenever required, by further relevant information on the development of the situation concerning transboundary effects. 4.
ANNEX X MUTUAL ASSISTANCE PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 12 1.
The assisting Party may at any time waive wholly or partly the reimbursement of costs. 4.
ANNEX XI EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 15 Information shall include the following elements, which can also be the subject of multilateral and bilateral cooperation: (a) legislative and administrative measures, policies, objectives and priorities for prevention, preparedness and response, scientific activities and technical measures to reduce the risk of industrial accidents from hazardous activities, including the mitigation of transboundary effects; (b) measures and contingency plans at the appropriate level affecting other Parties; (c) programmes for monitoring, planning, research and development, including their implementation and surveillance; (d) measures taken regarding prevention of, preparedness for and response to industrial accidents; (e) experience with industrial accidents and cooperation in response to industrial accidents with transboundary effects; (f) the development and application of the best available technologies for improved environmental protection and safety; (g) emergency preparedness and response; (h) methods used for the prediction of risks, including criteria for the monitoring and assessment of transboundary effects.
Assistance in the case of an emergency Provision, at the request of a Party, of assistance by, inter alia, sending experts to the site of an industrial accident to provide consultative and other kinds of assistance in response to the industrial accident.
ANNEX XIII ARBITRATION 1.
The Secretariat shall forward the information received to all Parties to this Convention. 2.
The arbitral tribunal shall consist of three members.
If it fails to do so within that period, the president shall inform the executive secretary of the Economic Commission for Europe, who shall make this appointment within a further two-month period. 5.
The arbitral tribunal shall render its decision in accordance with international law and in accordance with the provisions of this Convention. 6.
Any arbitral tribunal constituted under the provisions set out herein shall draw up its own rules of procedure. 7.
The tribunal may take all appropriate measures to establish the facts. 9.
The arbitral tribunal may, at the request of one of the parties, recommend interim measures of protection. 12.
The tribunal shall keep a record of all its expenses and shall furnish a final statement thereof to the parties to the dispute. 15.
The Secretariat will forward the information received to all Parties to this Convention. 18.
