Article 2 For the purposes of this Agreement, classified information shall mean any information (namely, knowledge that can be communicated in any form) or material determined to require protection against unauthorised disclosure and which has been so designated by a security classification (hereinafter referred to as classified information).
Article 3 For the purposes of this Agreement, "EU" shall mean the Council of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the Council), the Secretary-General/High Representative and the General Secretariat of the Council, and the Commission of the European Communities (hereinafter referred to as the European Commission).
In implementing paragraphs 1 and 2, no generic release shall be possible unless procedures are established and agreed between the Parties regarding certain categories of information, relevant to their operational requirements.
Article 8 The Parties shall provide mutual assistance with regard to security of classified information subject to this Agreement and matters of common security interest.
Reciprocal security consultations and inspections shall be conducted by the authorities as defined in Article 11 to assess the effectiveness of the Security Arrangements within their respective responsibility to be established pursuant to Articles 11 and 12.
For the purpose of this Agreement (a) as regards the EU: all correspondence shall be sent to the Council at the following address: Council of the European Union Chief Registry Officer Rue de la Loi/Wetstraat, 175 B-1048 Brussels.
All correspondence shall be forwarded by the Chief Registry Officer of the Council to the Member States and to the European Commission subject to paragraph 2. (b) as regards the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: all correspondence shall be addressed to the Central Registry Officer of the Directorate for Security of Classified Information and forwarded where appropriate, via the Mission of that State to the European Communities, at the following address: Registry Officer Avenue Louise 209A B-1050 Brussels. 2.
Article 13 The Authorities defined in Article 11 shall establish procedures to be followed in the case of proven or suspected compromise of classified information subject to this Agreement.
Article 14 Prior to the provision of classified information subject to this Agreement between the Parties, the responsible security authorities defined in Article 11 must agree that the receiving Party is able to protect and safeguard the information subject to this Agreement in a way consistent with the arrangements to be established pursuant to Articles 11 and 12.
Article 15 This Agreement in no way prevents the Parties from concluding other Agreements relating to the provision or exchange of classified information subject to this Agreement provided that they do not conflict with the provisions of this Agreement.
Article 16 All differences between the EU and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia arising out of the interpretation or application of this Agreement shall be dealt with by negotiation between the Parties.
Article 18 This Agreement may be denounced by one Party by written notice of denunciation given to the other Party.
