The provisions of this Convention shall in no way affect the right of Parties to adopt, in accordance with international law, domestic measures additional to those referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, nor shall they affect additional domestic measures already taken by a Party, provided that these measures are not incompatible with their obligations under this Convention. 4.
Article 3 Research ans systematic observations 1.
Article 4 Cooperation in the legal, scientific and technical fields 1.
Article 5 Transmission of information The Parties shall transmit, through the secretariat, to the Conference of the Parties established under Article 6, information on the measures adopted by them in implementation of this Convention and of protocols to which they are party in such form and at such intervals as the meetings of the parties to the relevant instruments may determine.
Article 6 Conference of the Parties 1.
The first meeting of the Conference of the Parties shall be convened by the secretariat designated on an interim basis under Article 7 not later than one year after entry into force of this Convention.
Article 7 Secretariat 1.
Article 8 Adoption of protocols 1.
Article 9 Amendment of the Convention or protocols 1.
The procedure mentioned in paragraph 3 above shall apply to amendmends to any protocol, except that a two-thirds majority of the parties to that protocol present and voting at the meeting shall suffice for their adoption. 5.
Amendments adopted in accordance with paragraphs 3 or 4 above shall enter into force between parties having accepted them on the 90th day after the receipt by the Depositary of notification of their ratification, approval or acceptance by at least three-fourths of the Parties to this Convention or by at least two-thirds of the parties to the protocol concerned, except as may otherwise be provided in such protocol.
Article 11 Settlement of disputes 1.
When ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to this Convention, or at any time thereafter, a State or regional economic integration organization may declare in writing to the Depositary that for a dispute not resolved in accordance with paragraph 1 or 2 above, it accepts one or both of the following means of dispute settlement as compulsory: (a) arbitration in accordance with procedures to be adopted by the Conference of the Parties at its first ordinary meeting; (b) submission of the dispute to the International Court of Justice. 4.
Article 12 Signature This Convention shall be open for signature by States and by regional economic integration organizations at the Federal Ministry for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Austria in Vienna from 22 March 1985 to 21 September 1985, and at United Nations Headquarters in New York from 22 September 1985 to 21 March 1986.
Article 13 Ratification, acceptance or approval 1.
This Convention and any protocol shall be subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by States and by regional economic integration organizations.
Any organization referred to in paragraph 1 above which becomes a Party to this Convention or any protocol without any of its member States being a Party shall be bound by all the obligations under the Convention or the protocol, as the case may be.
In their instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval, the organizations referred to in paragraph 1 above shall declare the extent of their competence with respect to the matters governed by the Convention or the relevant protocol.
Article 14 Accession 1.
In their instruments of accession, the organizations referred to in paragraph 1 above shall declare the extent of their competence with respect to the matters governed by the Convention or the relevant protocol.
These organizations shall also inform the Depositary of any substantial modification in the extent of their competence. 3.
Article 15 Right to vote 1.
Except as provided for in paragraphe 1 above, regional economic integration organizations, in matters within their competence, shall exercise their right to vote with a number of votes equal to the number of their member States which are Parties to the Convention or the relevant protocol.
Article 16 Relationship between the Convention and its protocols 1.
A State or a regional economic integration organization may not become a party to a protocol unless it is, or becomes at the same time, a Party to the Convention. 2.
Article 17 Entry into force 1.
Any protocol, except as otherwise provided in such protocol, shall enter into force for a party that ratifies, accepts or approves that protocol or accedes thereto after its entry into force pursuant to paragraph 2 above, on the 90th day after the date on which that party deposits its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, or on the date on which the Convention enters into force for that Party, whichever shall be the later. 5.
Article 18 Reservations N째 reservations may be made to this Convention.
Article 20 Depositary 1.
The Depositary shall inform the Parties, in particular, of: (a) the signature of this Convention and of any protocol, and the deposit of instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession in accordance with Articles 13 and 14; (b) the date on which the Convention and any protocol will come into force in accordance with Article 17; (c) notification of withdrawal made in accordance with Article 19; (d) Amendments adopted with respect to the Convention and any protocol, their acceptance by the parties and their date of entry into force in accordance with Article 9; (e) all communications relating to the adoption and approval of annexes and to the amendment of annexes in accordance with Article 10; (f) notifications by regional economic integration organizations of the extent of their competence with respect to matters governed by this Convention and any protocols, and of any modifications thereof. (g) declarations made in accordance with Article 11, paragraph 3.
Article 21 Authentic texts The original of this Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Annex I RESEARCH AND SYSTEMATIC OBSERVATIONS 1.
CCl4, CFCl3 (CFC-11), CF2Cl2 (CFC-12), C2F3Cl3 (CFC-113), C2F4Cl2 (CFC-114) Fully halogenated alkanes are anthropogenic and act as a source of ClOx, which plays a vital role in ozone photochemistry, especially in the 30 to 50 kilometre altitude region; (ii) Partially halogenated alkanes, e.g.
CH3Cl, CHF2Cl (CFC-22), CH3CCl3, CHFCl2 (CFC-21) The sources of CH3Cl are natural, whereas the other partially halogenated alkanes mentioned above are anthropogenic in origin.
Annex II INFORMATION EXCHANGE 1.
