Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Agreement: (a) "Comorian authorities" means the Ministry with responsibility for fisheries in the Comoros; (b) "Community authorities" means the European Commission; (c) "Community vessel" means a fishing vessel flying the flag of a Community Member State and registered in the Community; (d) "joint enterprise" means a commercial company set up in the Comoros by vessel owners or national enterprises from the Parties to carry on fishing or related activities; (e) "Joint Committee" means a committee made up of representatives of the Community and the Comoros whose functions are described in Article 9 of this Agreement.
Article 3 Principles and objectives underlying the implementation of this Agreement 1.
Based on the recommendations and resolutions adopted within the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC) and the best available scientific advice, the Parties shall consult one another within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 and, where necessary and by mutual agreement, take measures to ensure the sustainable management of fisheries resources. 3.
Article 5 Access for Community vessels to Comorian fisheries 1.
The Comoros undertakes to authorise Community vessels to carry on fishing activities in its fishing zone in accordance with this Agreement, including the Protocol and Annex. 2.
Article 7 Financial contribution The Community shall grant the Comoros a financial contribution in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down in the Protocol and Annexes.
Article 8 Promoting cooperation among economic operators and in civil society 1.
Article 9 Joint Committee 1.
Article 10 Geographical area to which the Agreement applies This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community applies, under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other, to the territory of the Union of the Comoros.
Article 11 Duration This Agreement shall apply for seven years from the date of its entry into force; it shall be renewable for additional periods of seven years, unless notice of termination is given in accordance with Article 12.
Article 12 Termination 1.
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 for the year in which the termination takes effect shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis.
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis, according to the duration of the suspension.
Article 14 The Protocol and the Annex shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
Article 15 Repeal and transitional provisions This Agreement shall repeal and replace on the date of its entry into force the fisheries agreement between the European Economic Community and the Islamic Federal Republic of the Comoros on fishing off the Comoros which entered into force on 20 July 1988.
Article 16 Entry into force This Agreement, drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovene, Spanish, Swedish and Arabic languages, each of these texts being equally authentic, shall enter into force on the date on which the Parties notify each other that their adoption procedures have been completed. --------------------------------------------------
