Protocol setting out, for the period from 18%nbsp%January 2005 to 17%nbsp%January 2011 , the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles Protocol setting out, for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles Article 1 Period of application and fishing opportunities 1.
For a period of six years from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities granted under Article 2 of the Agreement shall be as follows: (a) 40 ocean-going tuna seiners, and (b) 12 surface longliners. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4 and 5. 3.
Under Article 4 of the Agreement, vessels flying the flag of a Member State of the European Community may engage in fishing activities in the Seychelles waters only if they are in possession of a fishing licence issued under this Protocol in accordance with the Annex.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4, 6 and 8. 3.
The Community shall pay the financial contribution referred to in paragraph 1 at the rate of EUR 4125000 per year during the period of application of this Protocol. 4.
Payment shall be made no later than 30 September 2005 for the first year and no later than the anniversary date of the Protocol for the following years. 6.
Article 3 Cooperation on responsible fishing 1.
The two Parties hereby undertake to promote responsible fishing in Seychelles waters based on the principle of non-discrimination between the different fleets fishing in those waters. 2.
Based on the recommendations and resolutions taken within the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC) and the best available scientific advice and, where appropriate after a joint meeting of scientists, the two parties may consult each other within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 7 of the Agreement and, where necessary, agree on the measures to ensure the sustainable management of fisheries resources.
Article 4 Review of fishing opportunities 1.
The fishing opportunities referred to in Article 1 may be increased by mutual agreement insofar as the conclusions of the joint meeting of scientists referred to in Article 3(2) confirm that such an increase will not endanger the sustainable management of Seychelles' resources.
In this case the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) shall be increased proportionately and pro rata temporis.
However, the total amount of the financial contribution paid by the European Community shall not be more than twice the amount indicated in Article 2(1).
In the event that the quantities caught by Community fishing vessels exceed the quantity which correspond to the total amount of financial contribution, the Parties shall consult each other as soon as possible in order to establish the amount due for the quantity caught in excess of this limit. 2.
Conversely, if the parties agree to reduce the fishing opportunities provided for in Article 1, the financial contribution shall be reduced proportionally and pro rata temporis. 3.
Article 5 New fishing opportunities 1.
In the event that Community fishing vessels are interested in engaging in fisheries not provided for in Article 1, the Parties shall consult each other before authorisation is granted for any such activities and, where appropriate, agree to the conditions for such fishing, including effecting corresponding amendments to this Protocol and the Annex thereto. 2.
The authorisations for experimental fishing should be agreed for a maximum period of six months.
Article 6 Suspension and review of the payment of the financial contribution 1.
Article 7 Promoting responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries in Seychelles waters 1.
A share of at least 36 % of the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) shall be put towards defining and implementing a sectoral fisheries policy in Seychelles with a view to promoting responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries in its waters.
For the purposes of paragraph 1, as soon as this Protocol enters into force and no later than three months after that date, the Community and Seychelles shall agree, within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 7 of the Agreement, on a multiannual sectoral programme and detailed implementing rules covering, in particular: (a) annual and multiannual guidelines for using the percentage of the financial contribution referred to in paragraph 1; (b) the objectives, both annual and multiannual, to be achieved with a view to introducing, over time, responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries, taking account of the priorities expressed by Seychelles in its national fisheries policy and other policies relating to or having an impact on the promotion of responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries; (c) criteria and procedures for evaluating the results obtained each year. 3.
Each year, Seychelles shall allocate the percentage of the financial contribution referred to in paragraph 1 with a view to implementing the multiannual programme.
Any dispute between the Parties over the interpretation of this Protocol or its application shall be the subject of consultations between the parties within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 7 of the Agreement, in a special meeting if necessary. 2.
Without prejudice to Article 9, application of the Protocol may be suspended at the initiative of one party if the dispute between the Parties is deemed to be serious and if the consultations held within the Joint Committee under paragraph 1 have not resulted in an amicable settlement. 3.
Where such settlement is reached, application of the Protocol shall resume and the amount of the financial contribution shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis according to the period during which application of the Protocol was suspended.
Article 9 Suspension of application of the Protocol on grounds of non-payment Subject to Article 3, if the European Community fails to make the payments provided for in Article 2, Seychelles may suspend the implementation of this Protocol.
Article 10 National law The activities of Community fishing vessels in Seychelles are subject to the national laws and regulations unless otherwise provided under this Protocol and the Annex thereto.
Article 12 Repeal The Protocol and Annex I, dated 17 January 2002, to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles, which came into force on 28 October 1987, is hereby repealed and replaced by this Protocol and the Annex thereto.
Article 13 Entry into force 1.
It shall apply with effect from 18 January 2005. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX CONDITIONS FOR THE PURSUIT OF FISHING ACTIVITIES BY COMMUNITY VESSELS IN SEYCHELLES WATERS CHAPTER I APPLICATION FOR AND ISSUE OF LICENCES SECTION 1 Issue of licences 1.
Only eligible Community vessels may obtain a licence to fish in Seychelles waters under the Protocol setting out, for the period from 18 January 2005 to 17 January 2011, the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution provided for by the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Seychelles on fishing off Seychelles. 2.
The relevant Community authorities shall present to the SFA (Seychelles Fishing Authority) an application for each vessel wishing to fish under the Agreement at least 20 days before the date of commencement of the period of validity requested.
However, vessel owners who have not submitted a licence application prior to the period of validity may do so, during the period of validity, no later than 20 days before the start of the fishing activities.
Applications shall be submitted to the competent authority of Seychelles on a form drawn up in accordance with the specimen in Appendix 1. 6.
All licence applications shall be accompanied by the following documents: - proof of payment of the fee for the period of validity of the licence, - any other documents or certificates required under the specific rules applicable to the type of vessel concerned pursuant to this Protocol. 7.
However, if the gross registered tonnage (GRT) of the replacement vessel is above that of the vessel to be replaced, the difference in fee shall be paid pro rata temporis. 12.
The fee shall be EUR 25 per tonne caught within Seychelles waters. 3.
Licences shall be issued once the following standard amounts have been paid to the competent national authorities: - EUR 15000 for tuna seiners, equivalent to the fees due for 600 tonnes of tuna and tuna‐like species caught within Seychelles waters per year, - EUR 3000 for surface longliners of more than 150 GRT, equivalent to the fees due for 120 tonnes of tuna and tuna-like species caught within Seychelles waters per year, - EUR 2250 for surface longliners of 150 GRT or less, equivalent to the fees due for 90 tonnes of tuna and tuna-like species caught within Seychelles waters per year. 4.
The statement shall be sent to the Commission before 31 March of the current year.
The Commission shall transmit it before 15 April simultaneously to the shipowners and national authorities of the Member States concerned. 6.
Where the shipowners do not agree with the statement submitted by the SFA, they may consult the scientific institutes competent for verifying catch statistics such as the IRD (Institut de Recherche pour le Développement), the IEO (Instituto Español de Oceanografia) and IPIMAR (Instituto de Investigação das Pescas e do Mar), and thereafter discuss together with the Seychelles authorities to establish the final statement before 31 May of the current year.
In the absence of observations by the shipowners at that date, the statement submitted by the SFA is considered as the final one. 7.
Shipowners shall make any additional payment to the competent Seychelles authorities at the latest by 30 June of the same year at a bank account designated by the authorities of the Seychelles in accordance with Article 2(6) of the Protocol. 9.
CHAPTER III CATCH REPORTING ARRANGEMENTS 1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the duration of a trip by a Community vessel shall be defined as follows: - either the period elapsing between entering and leaving Seychelles waters, - or the period elapsing between entering Seychelles waters and a transhipment, - or the period elapsing between entering Seychelles waters and a landing in Seychelles. 2.
All vessels authorised to fish in Seychelles waters under the Agreement shall be obliged to communicate their catches to the competent authority of Seychelles in the following manner: 2.1.
As far as the submission of the fishing forms referred to in points 2.1 and 2.3 is concerned, the Community vessels shall: - in the event they call into Port Victoria, submit the completed forms to the Seychelles authorities within five days of arrival, or in any event before it leaves port, whichever occurs first, - in any other case, send the completed forms to the Seychelles authorities within 14 days of arrival in any port other than Victoria.
CHAPTER IV EMBARKING SEAMEN 1.
Each tuna seiner shall take on board during its trip in Seychelles waters at least two Seychelles seamen designated by the agent of the vessel, in agreement with the shipowner, from the names on a list submitted by the competent authority of Seychelles. 2.
The shipowner or agent shall inform the competent authority of Seychelles of the names and particulars of the Seychelles seamen taken on board the vessel concerned, mentioning their position in the crew. 4.
CHAPTER VI OBSERVERS 1.
The competent authority shall inform the shipowners or their agents thereof when notifying them of the name of the observer appointed to be taken on board the vessel concerned. 3.
The conditions under which observers are taken on board shall be agreed between shipowners or their agents and the authorities of Seychelles. 4.
Should a vessel with an observer from Seychelles on board leave Seychelles waters, all measures must be taken to ensure the observer's return to Seychelles as soon as possible at the expense of the shipowner. 7.
CHAPTER IX MONITORING 1.
Vessels Monitoring System Community vessels shall be monitored, inter alia, by vessel monitoring systems, without discrimination, in accordance with the provisions set out in Appendix 4. 3.
The sanctions referred to in Chapter X, point 1 shall be applicable in such cases. 4.
CHAPTER X ENFORCEMENT 1.
During the period of the suspension of a licence or during the remaining period of the validity of a licence which has been revoked, the European Commission may request another licence which would have otherwise have been applicable, for a vessel from another ship-owner, in accordance with the procedure set out in section 1.11 of Chapter I. 2.
Arrest of fishing vessels The Seychelles authorities shall inform the European Commission delegation responsible for Seychelles and the flag State, within 48 hours, of the arrest of any fishing vessel flying the flag of a Member State of the Community fishing under the Agreement in Seychelles fishing zone and shall transmit a brief report of the circumstances and reasons leading to such arrest.
The delegation and the flag State shall be kept informed of any proceedings initiated and penalties imposed. -------------------------------------------------- Appendix 1 APPLICATION FOR A FOREIGN FISHING VESSEL LICENCE Name of applicant: … Address of applicant: … Name and address of charterer of vessel if different from above: … Name and address of other legal representative in Seychelles: … Name and address of master of vessel: … Name of vessel: … Type of vessel: … Length and registered net tonnage of vessel: … Engine type, horse power and gross registered tonnage: … Port and country of registry: … Registration number: … Fishing vessel external identification: … Radio call sign/signal letters: … Frequency: … Particulars of equipment: … Number and nationality of crew: … Proposed fishing area and species of fish: … … … Description of fishing operations, joint ventures and other contractual arrangements: … … I certify that the above particulars are correct.
At least one Global Position Report every four hours shall be sufficient under such circumstances as long as the vessel stays in Seychelles waters.
If the Seychelles Monitoring Centre establishes that the flag State is not transmitting the data in conformity with item 4 above, the other party shall be notified immediately.
The optional data has to be inserted between the beginning and the end of the recording. -------------------------------------------------- Appendix 5 COMMUNICATION FORMAT REPORTS 1.
Entry report format (within three hours before the event) (Content) | (Transmission) | Addressee | SFA | Action code | IN | Vessel name | | International radio call sign | | Position of entry | | Date and hour (UTC) of entry | | Quantity (Mt) of fish on board | | Yellowfin | (Mt) | Bigeye tuna | (Mt) | Skipjack | (Mt) | Others (specify) | (Mt) | 2.
Exit report format (within 3 hours before the event) (Content) | (Transmission) | Addressee | SFA | Action code | OUT | Vessel name | | International radio call sign | | Position of entry | | Date and hour (UTC) of exit | | Quantity (Mt) of fish on board | | Yellowfin | (Mt) | Bigeye tuna | (Mt) | Skipjack | (Mt) | Others (specify) | (Mt) | 3.
Weekly catch report format (every three days when the vessel is operating in seychelles waters) (Content) | (Transmission) | Addressee | SFA | Action code | WCRT | Vessel name | | International radio call sign | | Quantity (Mt) of fish on board | | Yellowfin | (Mt) | Bigeye tuna | (Mt) | Skipjack | (Mt) | Others (specify) | (Mt) | Number of sets made since last report | | All reports shall be transmitted to the competent authority at: Fax (248) 22 59 57 E-mail fmcsc@sfa.sc Seychelles Fishing Authority, P.O.
