The Council shall function directly and/or through the committees and sub-committees referred to in Article 7, as well as through the executive secretariat comprising its executive director, senior officials and staff.
Article 4 Membership of the Council 1.
Each Party to this Agreement shall be a member of the Council. 2.
Article 5 Membership of intergovernmental organizations Any reference in this Agreement to a 'Government' or 'Governments' shall be construed as including the European Economic Community and any other intergovernmental organization having responsibilities in respect of the negotiation, conclusion and application of international agreements, in particular commodity agreements.
Article 6 Privileges and immunities 1.
The Council shall endeavour to conclude the agreement described in paragraph 6 of this Article with the government of the country to which the headquarters of the Council is to be moved before transferring the headquarters.
Article 7 Powers and functions of the Council 1.
Article 8 Chairman and vice-chairman of the Council 1.
Article 9 Sessions of the Council 1.
The Council shall meet at least twice a year, in the spring and autumn. 3.
Notice of the sessions provided for in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be given at least 45 days before the date of the first meeting of each such session.
Notice of the sessions provided for in paragraph 3 in this Article shall be given at least 15 days before the date of the first meeting of each such session.
Article 10 Participation shares 1.
The participation share of each member shall be determined on the basis of the result of the following formula: q = P1+i1+P2+i1+5 In this formula: - q shall be the figure which the Council shall use as the basis to determine the participation share; - P1 shall be the average unnual olive-oil production in thousands of tonnes in the crop years 1980/81 to 1983/84, any fraction of 1 000 tonnes above a whole number being disregarded; - i1 shall be the average annual net olive-oil imports in thousands of tonnes in the calendar years 1981 to 1984, - any fraction of 1 000 tonnes above a whole number being disregarded; - P2 shall be the average annual table-olive production in thousands of tonnes, converted into its olive-oil equivalent by the application of a conversion coefficient of 20 per cent, in the crop years 1980/81 to 1983/84, any fraction of 1 000 tonnes above a whole number being disregarded; - i2 shall be the average annual net table-olive imports in thousands of tonnes, converted into their olive-oil equivalent by the application of a conversion coefficient of 20 per cent, in the calendar years 1981 to 1984, any fraction of 1 000 tonnes above a whole number being disregarded; - 5 shall be the basic number allotted to each member in each group of members. 2.
Article 11 Decisions of the Council 1.
The representative of a member may not represent the interests or exercise the right to participate in decisions of the Council of more than one other member. 5.
Article 12 Cooperation with other organizations 1.
Article 14 Admission of observers 1.
Any member or observer member of the United Nations or of one of its specialized agencies that is not a Party to this Agreement, or any of the organizations referred to in Article 12 (1), may, subject to the consent of the Council, attend, as an observer, any of the sessions of the Council. 2.
Article 15 Quorum for the Council 1.
The quorum required for every session of the Council shall be the presence of the representatives of the majority of the members holding at least 90 per cent of the total participation shares allotted to the members. 2.
If this quorum does not exist, the session shall be postponed for 24 hours and the quorum required shall be the presence of the representatives of the members holding at least 85 per cent of the total participation shares allotted to the members.
CHAPTER IV EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT Article 16 Executive secretariat 1.
The executive director shall be the chief administrative officer of the Council and shall be responsible for the performance of the duties devolving upon him in the administration of this Agreement. 4.
Each member shall respect the exclusively international character of the responsibilities of the executive director, senior officials and staff and shall not seek to influence them in the discharge of their responsibilities. 4. 8. 87 Official Journal of the European Communities PART II FINANCIAL PROVISIONS CHAPTER V ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET Article 17 Constitution and administration 1.
The contribution of each member to the administrative budget for each calendar year shall be proportionate to the share which that member possesses when the budget for the year in question is approved. 4.
Thereafter, the Council shall, at the autumn session of each year, approve its administrative budget for the following calendar year and assess the contribution to be paid by each member for the calendar year in question. 6.
They shall be determined in United States dollars and be payable in that currency or in the equivalent amount of another freely convertible currency. 8.
It may not be relieved by any decision of the Council of its financial obligations under this Agreement. 9.
The programmes of activities referred to in Part Four of this Agreement shall be implemented using the sources of finance laid down in paragraph 2 of this Article. 2.
The above sum may be increased by the Council provided, on the one hand, that no member's contribution is increased without that member's consent and, on the other, that any alteration occuring in this connection in the shares referred to in Article 20 shall require a unanimous decision of the mainly-producing members. 3.
Article 20 Contribution to the fund 1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article, the mainly-producing members shall contribute to the publicity fund in accordance with the shares set for each of them in relation to their importance in the world olive-products economy and shown in Annex B to this Agreement. 2.
The Council may, if necessary, revise the above- mentioned shares in the light of the participation of the mainly-producing members in the publicity fund. 3.
Article 21 Voluntary contributions and donations 1.
Article 22 Decisions relating to publicity 1.
Decisions relating to publicity shall be taken by consensus of the members present that contribute to the publicity fund in accordance with Article 20 (1).
Those members may, by unanimous decision, allocate part of the publicity fund to the achievement of the objectives referred to in Article 38. 2.
Article 23 Liquidation of the fund On the expiry of this Agreement, and unless it is prolonged, extended or renewed, any funds not used for publicity shall be repaid to the members proportionately to their total contributions for publicity during the life of this Agreement.
CHAPTER VIII FINANCIAL CONTROL Article 24 Financial committees The Council shall establish: (a) To provide financial control of, in particular, the implementation of Chapters V and VI of this Agreement, a financial committee for the administrative budget comprising one representative of each member; (b) To provide financial control of the implementation of Chapter VII of this Agreement, a financial committee for the publicity fund comprising one representative of each member participating in that fund.
PART III ECONOMIC AND STANDARDIZATION PROVISIONS CHAPTER IX DESIGNATIONS AND DEFINITIONS OF OLIVE OILS AND OLIVE-POMACE OILS INDICATIONS OF SOURCE AND APPELLATIONS OF ORIGIN Article 25 Use of the designation 'olive oil' 1.
Article 26 Designations and definitions of olive oils and olive-pomace oils 1.
The designations prescribed in Article 26 (1), shall be compulsory in international trade and shall be used for each quality of olive oil and olive-pomace oil; they shall appear in clearly legible characters on all packagings. 2.
Article 28 Indications of source and appellations of origin 1.
Article 29 Undertakings 1.
The members undertake to adopt at the earliest possible date all the necessary measures, in the form prescribed by their respective legislations, to ensure the application of the principles and provisions set forth in Articles 25, 26 and 28. 2.
They shall, in addition, endeavour to apply the provisions of Articles 26 and 28 to their internal trade. 3.
Article 30 Disputes and reconciliation 1.
Each of the above types of table olives shall comply with the quality criteria laid down in conformity with the recommendations made under Article 38 (1), with regard to the essential composition and quality criteria of table olives. 4.
The designations prescribed under Article 31 (4) shall be compulsory in international trade; they shall be used for each trade preparation of the different types of table olives and shall appear in clearly legible characters on all packagings. 2.
Article 33 Undertakings 1.
The members undertake to adopt at the earliest possible date all the necessary measures, in the manner required by their respective legislations, to ensure the application of the principles and provisions set forth in Article 31 and shall endeavour to apply them in their internal trade. 2.
Article 34 Disputes and reconciliation 1.
Within the framework of the general objectives set forth in Article 1, and with a view to contributing towards the standardization of the market for olive oil and olive-pomace oil and correcting any imbalance between international supply and demand due to irregularity of harvests or to other factors, the Council shall, at the autumn session, make a detailed examination of olive-oil balances and an overall estimate of the supplies of and demand for olive oil and olive-pomace oil, on the basis of the information furnished by each member under Article 48 and any information communicated to the Council by governments of States not Parties to this Agreement but interested in the international olive oil and olive-pomace oil trade, and of any other relevant statistical material available to the Council. 2.
Article 36 Standardization of the market for olive oil and olive-pomace oil 1.
In particular, it shall make appropriate recommendations to the members concerning: (a) the adoption and use of a standard international contract for transactions in olive oil and olive-pomace oil; (b) the constitution and functioning of an international conciliation and arbitration office to deal with any disputes relating to transactions in olive oil and olive-pomace oil; (c) the establishment of uniform standards for the physical, chemical and organoleptic characteristics of olive oil and olive-pomace oil; (d) the establishment of uniform methods of analysis. 4.
Article 37 Examination of the situation of and developments in the table-olive market 1.
Article 38 Standardization of the table-olive market 1.
Article 40 Research and development 1.
Article 41 Training and specific operation 1.
In particular, the Council shall: (a) carry out specific studies and operations; (b) convene or foster international seminars and gatherings; (c) collect technical information and circulate it to all members; (d) promote the coordination of activities relating to technical cooperation among members in olive cultivation, olive-oil extraction and table-olive processing, including action within the framework of interregional or regional planning; (e) promote such bilateral or multilateral cooperation as may assist the Council in achieving the objectives of this Agreement.
CHAPTER XIII OTHER MEASURES Article 43 Other measures The Council shall: (a) foster and coordinate appropriate studies and research on the biological value of olive oil and table olives, with particular reference to their nutritional qualities and other intrinsic properties; (b) draw up, in association with specialist bodies, olive-related terminology, standards covering olive products and related methods of analysis, as well as any other standards connected with the olive sector; (c) take whatever measures are appropriate to draw up a compendium of established, fair trade practices for international trade in olive oil, olive-pomace oil and table olives.
PART V PUBLICITY PROVISIONS CHAPTER XIV WORLD PUBLICITY TO PROMOTE THE CONSUMPTION OF OLIVE OILS AND TABLE OLIVES Article 44 Publicity programmes to promote the consumption of olive oils and table olives 1.
Article 45 International guarantee label of the Council The members undertake to encourage the use of the international guarantee label of the Council in their domestic and international transactions in olive oils and table olives and to adopt appropriate measures for this purpose.
PART VI OTHER PROVISIONS CHAPTER XV GENERAL OBLIGATIONS Article 46 General obligations The members undertake not to adopt any measure that conflicts with their obligations under this Agreement or with the general objectives set forth in Article 1.
Article 47 Encouragement of international trade and consumption The members undertake to adopt all the appropriate measures to facilitate trade, encourage consumption of olive oils and table olives and ensure the proper development of the international trade in these products.
Article 48 Information The members undertake to make available and furnish to the Council all the statistics, data and documentation which it needs to discharge its functions under this Agreement, and in particular any information it requires in order to establish the balances for olive oil, olive-pomace oils and table olives and acquire a knowledge of members' national policies for olive products.
Article 49 Financial liability of members In accordance with the general principles of law, each member's financial liability to the Council and to other members is limited to the extent of its obligations under Articles 17 and 19 concerning contributions to the administrative budget and to the publicity fund.
CHAPTER XVI DISPUTES AND COMPLAINTS Article 50 Disputes and complaints 1.
Any dispute which concerns the interpretation or application of this Agreement, other than a dispute under Article 30 or Article 34, and which is not settled by negotiation shall, at the request of any member which is a party to the dispute, be referred to the Council for the latter to decide after seeking an opinion, where appropriate, from an advisory panel, the composition of which shall be laid down in the Council's rules of procedure. 2.
Any complaint that a member has failed to fulfil its obligations under this Agreement shall, at the request of the member making the complaint, be referred to the Council, which shall take a decision on the matter after consulting the members concerned and, where appropriate, seeking an opinion from the advisory panel referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 4.
A member may, if the Council so decides, be found in breach of this Agreement. 5.
If the Council finds that a member has committed a breach of this Agreement, it may either impose on that member sanctions, ranging from a simple warning to the suspension of the member's right to participate in decisions of the Council until it has met its obligations, or, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 58, exclude the member from participation in the Agreement.
CHAPTER XVII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 51 Depositary The Secretary-General of the United Nations is hereby designated as the depositary of this Agreement.
Article 52 Signature, ratification, acceptance and approval 1.
Instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval shall be deposited with the depositary not later than 31 December 1986.
Article 53 Accession 1.
Article 54 Notification of provisional application 1.
A signatory government which intends to ratify, accept or approve this Agreement, or a government for which the Council has established conditions for accession but which has not yet been able to deposit its instrument, may, at any time, notify the depositary that it will apply this Agreement provisionally when it enters into force in accordance with Article 55, or, if it is already in force, at a specified date. 2.
Article 55 Entry into force 1.
This Agreement shall enter into force definitively on 1 January 1987, or on any date thereafter, if five governments among those mentioned in Annex A to this Agreement and accounting for at least 95 per cent of the participation shares have signed this Agreement definitively or have ratified, accepted or approved it, or acceded thereto. 2.
If, on 1 January 1987, this Agreement has not entered into force in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, it shall enter into force provisionally if by that date five governments satisfying the percentage requirements of paragraph 1 of this Article have signed this Agreement definitively or have ratified, accepted or approved it, or have notified the depositary that they will apply this Agreement provisionally. 3.
If, on 1 January 1987, the requirements for entry into force under paragraph 1 or paragraph 2 of this Article have not been met, the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall invite those governments which have signed this Agreement definitively or have ratified, accepted or approved it, or have notified that they will apply this Agreement provisionally, to decide whether to put this Agreement into force definitively or provisionally among themselves, in whole or in part, on such date as they may determine. 4.
For any government which has not notified the depositary under Article 54 that it will apply this Agreement provisionally and which deposits an instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession after the entry into force of this Agreement, this Agreement shall enter into force on the date of such deposit.
Article 56 Amendment 1.
An amendment shall enter into force 90 days after the depositary has received notifications of its acceptance from all the members.
If this requirement has not been met by the date fixed by the Council in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, the amendment shall be considered withdrawn.
Article 57 Withdrawal 1.
Any member may withdraw from this Agreement at any time after the entry into force of this Agreement by giving written notice of withdrawal to the depositary.
Withdrawal under this Article shall become effective 90 days after the notice is received by the depositary.
Article 58 Exclusion If the Council decides that any member is in breach of its obligations under this Agreement and decides further that such breach significantly impairs the operation of this Agreement, it may, by unanimous decision of the other members, exclude that member from this Agreement.
Article 59 Settlement of accounts 1.
The Council shall determine any settlement of accounts which it finds equitable with a member which has withdrawn from this Agreement or which has been excluded from the Council or has otherwise ceased to be a Party to this Agreement.
Article 60 Duration, prolongation, extension and termination 1.
This Agreement shall remain in force until 31 December 1991 unless the Council decides to prolong it, extend it, renew it or terminate it in advance in accordance with the provisions of this Article. 2.
If, before 31 December 1991 or before the expiry of a period of prolongation referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, as the case may be, a new agreement or a protocol for the extension of this Agreement has been negotiated but has not yet entered into force either definitively or provisionally, this Agreement shall remain in force beyond its expiry date until the new agreement or protocol enters into force, provided that the period of such prolongation does not exceed 12 months. 4.
Article 61 Reservations No reservations may be made with respect to any of the provisions of this Agreement. 4. 8. 87 Official Journal of the European Communities In witness whereof the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, have affixed their signatures under this Agreement on the dates indicated.
EWG:L444UMBE01.93 FF: 4UEN; SETUP: 01; Hoehe: 8261 mm; 1457 Zeilen; 67748 Zeichen; Bediener: OLLI Pr.: A; Kunde: l444 (1) It shall be permissible to use the qualifier 'natural' for all virgin olive oils fit for consumption as they are.
ANNEX A Participation shares pertaining to the administrative budget Algeria13 European Economic Community740 Egypt4 Libyan Arab Jamahiriya33 Morocco24 Tunisia92 Turkey88 Yugoslavia6 Total 1 000 ANNEX B Shares allocated for the purposes of contribution to the publicity fund Algeria5,8 European Economic Community775,0 Morocco25,0 Tunisia125,0 Turkey66,7 Yugoslavia2,5 Total 1 000 EWG:L444UMBE02.96 FF: 4UEN; SETUP: 01; Hoehe: 254 mm; 21 Zeilen; 457 Zeichen; Bediener: MIKE Pr.: C; Kunde: l444
