Such activities shall be designed to promote the advancement of science, industrial competitiveness, and economic and social development, with emphasis on the following areas: - biotechnology, - information and communication technologies, - bioinformatics, - space, - micro- and nanotechnologies, - materials research, - clean technologies, - management and sustainable use of environmental resources, - biosafety, - health and medicine, - aeronautics, - metrology, standardisation and conformity assessment, and - human sciences.
Article V Cooperation arrangements and cooperative activities 1.
Article VI Coordination and implementation of cooperative activities 1.
This report shall be transmitted to the Joint Committee established under the Framework Cooperation Agreement concluded between the Parties on 29 June 1992. 4.
Article VIII Entry of personnel and equipment 1.
Article XII Entry into force, termination and dispute settlement 1.
Por la Comunidad Europea For Det Europæiske Fællesskab Für die Europäische Gemeinschaft Για την Ευρωπαϊκή Κοινότητα For the European Community Pour la Communauté européenne Per la Comunità europea Voor de Europese Gemeenschap Pela Comunidade Europeia Euroopan yhteisön puolesta På Europeiska gemenskapens vägnar Por la República Federativa de Brasil For Den Føderative Republik Brasilien Für die Föderative Republik Brasilien Για την Ομοσπονδιακή Δημοκρατία της Βραζιλίας For the Federative Republic of Brazil Pour la République fédérative du Brésil Per la Repubblica Federativa del Brasile Voor de Federale Republiek Brazilië Pela República Federativa do Brasil Brasilian liittotasavallan puolesta För Förbundsrepubliken Brasilien -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY In accordance with Article IX of this Agreement: The Parties shall ensure that the intellectual property created under this Agreement is protected appropriately and effectively.
For the purposes of this Agreement, "intellectual property" shall have the meaning defined in Article 2 of the Convention establishing the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO), signed at Stockholm on 14 July 1967.
ALLOCATION OF RIGHTS A.
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION A.
