Cooperation Agreement between the European Community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia - Protocol 1 on additional trade arrangements for certain iron and steel product - Protocol 2 on the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and methods of administrative cooperation - Protocol 3 on financial cooperation - Joint Declarations - Declarations of Intent by the Contracting Parties - Declarations by the Community COOPERATION AGREEMENT between the European Community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY, hereinafter referred as 'the Community`, of the one part, and THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA, of the other part, RESOLVED to strengthen economic cooperation between the Community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; RESOLVED to promote the development and diversification of economic, financial and trade cooperation in order to foster a better balance and an improvement in the structure of their trade and expand its volume and to improve the welfare of their populations; RESOLVED to provide a sounder basis for cooperation in conformity with their international obligations; RESOLVED to contribute to regional stability and to open and cooperative relations among countries of South-Eastern Europe, taking into consideration the specific situation of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; CONSCIOUS that the Interim Accord of 13 September 1995 contributes to regional stability and favours cooperative relations between Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; AWARE that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has taken the initiative leading to UN General Assembly Resolution No 48/84B of 16 December 1993 on the development of good neighbourly relations among Balkan States; CONSCIOUS of the need to bring about harmonious economic and trade relations between the Community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; AWARE of the importance of giving full effect to all the provisions and principles of the Organization on Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) process, and in particular those set out in the Helsinki Final Act, the concluding documents of the Madrid, Vienna and Copenhagen meetings and the Charter of Paris for a New Europe, particularly with regard to the rule of law, democracy and human rights, as well as those of the Bonn Conference on Economic Cooperation; CONSCIOUS that the respect for democratic principles and basic human rights, as proclaimed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, underpins the internal and international policies of the Community and of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and constitutes an essential element of this Agreement; CONSCIOUS that the same applies to the principles of a market economy as reflected in the document of the Bonn Conference on Economic Cooperation; RECOGNIZING the importance of social development which should go hand in hand with any economic development; RECOGNIZING the importance of guaranteeing the rights of ethnic and national groups and minorities, in accordance with the undertakings made within the Organization on Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE); AWARE of the importance of strengthening the democratic institutions and of supporting the process of economic reform in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, bearing in mind the overall situation in the region and the particular economic difficulties of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; DESIROUS of establishing regular political dialogue on bilateral and international issues of mutual interest with particular emphasis on the creation of conditions facilitating the progressive rapprochement of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia with the Community and favourable to cooperation and good-neighbourly relations in the region; CONSCIOUS that the readiness of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to enter into such cooperation and relations with the other countries in the region constitutes an important factor in the development of the relations and cooperation between the Community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; CONSCIOUS that this Agreement constitutes a first step of contractual relations between the Community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and that the Contracting Parties desire to strengthen their contractual relations as soon as possible, taking full account of the aspirations of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for an advanced relationship with the European Union, HAVE DECIDED to conclude this Agreement and to this end have designated as their Plenipotentiaries: THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY: THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA: WHO, having exchanged their full powers, found in good and due form, HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: Article 1 The objective of this Agreement between the Community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is to promote comprehensive cooperation between the Contracting Parties with a view to contributing to the economic development of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, in particular to the development of a market economy, and to deepening relations between the Contracting Parties.
The readiness of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to enter into cooperative and good neighbourly relations with the other countries of the region including the promotion of economic cooperation and trade constitutes an important factor in the development of the relations and cooperation between the Community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as foreseen in this Agreement.
Article 3 In order to achieve the cooperation referred to in Article 2, account shall be taken, in particular, of the development objectives and priorities of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The purpose of cooperation between the Community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in the field of industry shall be to promote in particular: - Community involvement in the efforts made by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to modernize and restructure its industry with a view to facilitating the transition to a market economy and to foster economic cooperation with the other countries in the region, - market surveys and trade promotion by both Contracting Parties on their respective markets and on the markets of third countries, - the transfer and development of technology and know-how in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, - fostering of cooperation in long-term production between economic operators of the Contracting Parties in order to establish more stable and balanced links between their respective economies, - efforts to find appropriate ways and means of removing any barriers to trade on both sides which are likely to impede access to either market, - the putting up for tender of goods and services contracts, - the organization of contacts and meetings between industrial policy-makers, promoters and economic operators in order to encourage the establishment of new relations in the field of industry, in accordance with the objectives of this Agreement, - the exchange of available information on short- and medium-term prospects and forecasts for production, consumption and trade. 2.
Article 5 The Contracting Parties shall cooperate in the field of research and technological development in accordance with the existing instruments.
Article 8 The Community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall encourage exchanges of information on tourism and participation in joint studies on possible ways of developing this sector in a balanced and sustainable manner, and shall promote contacts between their competent bodies and tourist trade associations, with a view to increasing tourist flows.
Article 9 With the aim of improving health, the quality and circumstances of life, the environment and living conditions of both Contracting Parties, pooling technical know-how on environmental matters and encouraging cooperation on environmental problems, the Community and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall exchange information on developments in their respective policies with particular emphasis on sustainable development and shall encourage the joint implementation of specific schemes.
Within the limits of their powers, the Contracting Parties shall make efforts to encourage and promote cooperation in the following fields: - establishment and supply of services, including financial services, - payment and movement of capital, - information, - development of human resources, education and training, social affairs and public health, - statistics and customs, - telecommunications, - standardization and certification, - investment promotion and protection, - public procurement. 2.
TITLE II TRADE Article 13 1.
Article 14 Subject to the special provisions laid down or envisaged in respect of certain products in this Title and in Protocol 2, products originating in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia other than those listed in Annex II to the Treaty establishing the European Community and in Annex A to this Agreement shall be imported into the Community free of quantitative restrictions and measures having equivalent effect, and of customs duties and charges having equivalent effect.
Imports into the Community of the products originating in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia listed in Annex C shall be subject to annual ceilings, the ceilings fixed for the year of entry into force of this Agreement being indicated against each product. 2.
Once a ceiling set for imports of a product is reached, the customs duties generally applied in respect of third countries may be reintroduced in respect of imports of the product in question until the end of the calendar year. 4.
Once a tariff quota set for imports of a product is reached, the customs duties generally applied in respect of third countries will be reintroduced in respect of imports of the product in question until the end of the calendar year. 5.
If, during two consecutive years, imports of a product listed in Annex C have been less than 80 % of the amount laid down, the Community may suspend the ceiling in question. 7.
As from the second year following the entry into force of the Agreement, the amounts of the ceilings given in Annex C shall be increased annually by 5 % except that the Community may extend for a period of one year the ceiling or ceilings set for the preceding year. 8.
Additional trade arrangements for certain iron and steel products are laid down in Protocol 1. 9.
Pending the conclusion of a separate agreement setting out specific trade arrangements, the regime applicable to trade in textile products (Chapters 50 to 63 of the combined nomenclature) shall be the one defined by Council Regulation (EC) No 517/94. 10.
The trade arrangements to apply to wine products will be defined in a separate wine and spirit agreement.
Article 16 Imports into the Community of the products listed in Annex B shall be subject to the tariff arrangements and rules indicated for each of them in that Annex.
Article 18 The products referred to in this Agreement originating in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia may not be given more favourable treatment when imported into the Community than that given by the Member States among themselves.
However, in order to promote regional exchanges the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia will be entitled during a transitional period expiring five years after the entry into force of this Agreement to grant preferential treatment to imports originating in other States which emerged from former Yugoslavia or in other adjacent countries.
The Cooperation Council shall examine periodically the measures taken by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia under paragraph 2.
Article 21 The concept of originating products for the purposes of implementing Title II and the methods of administrative cooperation relating thereto are laid down in Protocol 2.
Article 22 In the event of modifications to the nomenclature of the customs tariffs of the Contracting Parties affecting products referred to in this Agreement, the Cooperation Council may adapt the tariff nomenclature of these products to conform with such modifications, provided the real advantages resulting from this Agreement are maintained.
Article 23 The Contracting Parties shall refrain from any internal tax establishing, whether directly or indirectly, discrimination between the products of one Contracting Party and like products originating in the territory of the other Contracting Party.
Article 24 The Contracting Parties undertake to authorize in freely convertible currency, any payments on the current account balance of payments between residents of the Community and of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia connected with the movements of goods made in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Article 25 The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall take measures guaranteeing effective and appropriate protection of intellectual, industrial and commercial property, including effective means for enforcing such rights, at a level similar to that which exists in the Community, and shall accede to international conventions on intellectual, industrial and commercial property.
Article 26 The Agreement shall not preclude prohibitions or restrictions on imports, exports or goods in transit justified on grounds of public morality, public policy or public security; the protection of health and life of humans, animals or plants; the protection of national treasures possessing artistic, historic or archaeological value; the protection of intellectual, industrial and commercial property.
Article 28 Where any product is being imported into the territory of one of the Contracting Parties in such increased quantities or under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause injury to domestic producers of like or directly competitive products, the Contracting Party concerned may take the necessary safeguard measures under the conditions and in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 30.
Article 29 In the event of a Contracting Party subjecting imports of products liable to give rise to the difficulties referred to in Article 28 to an administrative procedure aimed at providing rapid information on the trend of trade flows, it shall inform the other Contracting Party.
In the cases specified in Article 28, before taking the measures provided for therein or, in cases to which paragraph 3 applies, as soon as possible, the Contracting Party in question shall supply the Cooperation Council with all relevant information required for a thorough examination of the situation, with a view to seeking a solution acceptable to the Contracting Parties.
Consultations shall take place in the Cooperation Council before the Contracting Party concerned takes the appropriate measures, should the other Contracting Party so request. 3.
Where exceptional circumstances require immediate action making prior examination impossible, the Contracting Party concerned may, in the situations specified in Articles 27 and 28, apply forthwith such precautionary measures as are strictly necessary to remedy the situation. 4.
Article 31 In the event of a sudden and very substantial worsening of a trade imbalance which is liable to jeopardize the smooth functioning of this Agreement, the Contracting Parties shall hold special consultations within the Cooperation Council to examine the difficulties that have arisen with a view to keeping this Agreement functioning as normally as possible.
Article 32 Where one or more Member States of the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is in serious difficulties or is seriously threatened with difficulties as regards its balance of payments, the Contracting Party concerned may take the necessary safeguard measures.
TITLE III GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 33 1.
The decisions taken shall be binding on the Contracting Parties, which shall take such measures as are required to implement them. 2.
Article 37 Where, in the course of the exchanges of information provided for in this Agreement, problems arise or seem likely to arise in the general functioning of this Agreement, particularly in the field of trade, consultations shall take place between the Contracting Parties in the Cooperation Council with a view to avoiding market disturbances as far as possible.
Article 38 Either Contracting Party shall provide, if so requested by the other Contracting Party, all relevant information on any agreements it concludes containing tariff or trade provisions, and on any amendments to its customs tariff or external trade arrangements.
Article 39 When the Community concludes an association or cooperation agreement having a direct and specific impact on the functioning of this Agreement, appropriate consultations shall be held within the Cooperation Council so that the Community may take into consideration the interests of the Contracting Parties as defined by this Agreement.
Any dispute which arises between the Contracting Parties concerning the interpretation of this Agreement may be placed before the Cooperation Council. 2.
Article 42 In the fields covered by this Agreement: - the arrangements applied by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in respect of the Community shall not give rise to any discrimination between the Member States and their nationals, whether natural or legal persons, - the arrangements applied by the Community in respect of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall not give rise to any discrimination between its nationals, whether natural or legal persons.
Article 43 Annexes A, B, C, D, and E and Protocols 1, 2 and 3 shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
Article 44 This Agreement is concluded for an unlimited period.
Article 45 The Contracting Parties shall examine, in due course, when conditions are met, the possibility of strengthening their contractual relations, bearing in mind the aspiration of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia for an advanced relationship towards an association with the European Community.
Article 46 This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Article 47 This Agreement is drawn up in duplicate in each of the official languages of the Contracting Parties, each of these texts being equally authentic.
Article 48 The Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union shall be the depository of this Agreement.
Article 49 This Agreement shall be approved by the Contracting Parties in accordance with their own procedures.
ANNEX A concerning the products referred to in Article 14 Notwithstanding the rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature, the wording for the description of the products is to be considered as having no more than an indicative value, the preferential scheme being determined, within the context of this Annex, by the coverage of the CN codes.
Where ex CN codes are indicated, the preferential scheme is to be determined by application of the CN code and corresponding description taken together. %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX B concerning the tariff arrangements and rules applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products referred to in Article 16 Notwithstanding the rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature, the wording for the description of the products is to be considered as having no more than an indicative value, the preferential scheme being determined, within the context of this Annex, by the coverage of the CN codes.
Where ex CN codes are indicated, the preferential scheme is to be determined by application of the CN code and corresponding description taken together. %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX C concerning the annual ceilings referred to in Article 15 (1) Notwithstanding the rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature, the wording for the description of the products is to be considered as having no more than an indicative value, the preferential scheme being determined, within the context of this Annex, by the coverage of the CN codes.
Where ex codes are indicated, the preferential scheme is to be determined by application of the CN code and corresponding description taken together. %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX D Products referred to in Article 15 (2) IMPORTS INTO THE COMMUNITY OF THE FOLLOWING PRODUCTS SHALL BENEFIT FROM AN EXEMPTION FROM CUSTOMS DUTY Notwithstanding the rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature, the wording for the description of the products is to be considered as having no more than an indicative value, the preferential scheme being determined, within the context of this Annex, by the coverage of the CN codes.
Where ex CN codes are indicated, the preferential scheme is to be determined by application of the CN code and corresponding description taken together. %gt%TABLE%gt% Appendix 1 to Annex D %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% DEFINITION Plum spirit with an alcoholic strength of 40 % vol or more, marketed under the name OSLJIVOVICA, corresponding to the specifications laid down in the Regulation relating to the quality of spirituous beverages, being in force in the Republics and territory referred to in this Regulation.
Appendix 2 to Annex D %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% ANNEX E Products referred to in Article 15 (2) IMPORTS INTO THE COMMUNITY OF THE FOLLOWING PRODUCTS SHALL BE SUBJECT TO AN 80 % REDUCTION OF CUSTOMS DUTY Notwithstanding the rules for the interpretation of the combined nomenclature, the wording for the description of the products is to be considered as having no more than an indicative value, the preferential scheme being determined, within the context of this Annex, by the coverage of the CN codes.
Where ex CN codes are indicated, the preferential scheme is to be determined by application of the CN code and corresponding description taken together. %gt%TABLE%gt% PROTOCOL 1 on additional trade arrangements for certain iron and steel products Article 1 This Protocol shall apply to the products listed in Chapters 72 and 73 of the Common Customs Tariff (1) under the following headings: 7204, 7208 to 7212, 7303 to 7306.
It shall also apply to other finished steel products which may originate in future in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Article 4 Where any product is being imported into the territory of one of the Contracting Parties in such increased quantities or under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause injury to domestic producers of like or directly competitive products or serious disturbances to the steel markets of the other Contracting Party, the Contracting Parties shall enter into consultations immediately to find an appropriate solution before the Contracting Party concerned takes the appropriate measures.
Article 6 The Contracting Parties commit themselves to close cooperation in matters relating to the iron and steel industry, particularly in the areas listed in Article 4 of the Agreement.
Article 7 The Parties agree that one of the special bodies established by the Cooperation Council shall be a Contact Group responsible for discussing the implementation of this Protocol. (1) Commission Regulation (EC) No 1734/96 of 9 September 1996 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 238, 19. 9. 1996, p. 1).
The competent authorities of the Community undertake to inform the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia of any changes in the combined nomenclature (CN) in respect of products covered by the double-checking system before the date of their entry into force in the Community. 4.
Import into the Community of the iron and steel products listed in Appendix I and which originate in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall, in addition, be subject to the issue of an export document by the competent authorities of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
In order to avoid problems at the end of a year, presentation by the importer of the original of the export document must be effected not later than 31 March of the year following that in which in the goods covered by the document were shipped. 5.
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall also notify the Commission of any change in these particulars. 9.
Article 3 If necessary, at the request of either of the Parties, consultations shall be held on any problems arising from the operation of the double-checking system.
Appendix I to Annex II THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONA LIST OF PRODUCTS SUBJECT TO DOUBLE-CHECKING Complete CN heading 7208 Complete CN heading 7209 Complete CN heading 7210 Complete CN heading 7211 Complete CN heading 7212 Complete CN heading 7303 Complete CN heading 7304 Complete CN heading 7305 Complete CN heading 7306 Appendix II to Annex II %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Appendix III to Annex II %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% Annex IV to Annex II THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA Technical annex on the double-checking system 1.
The export documents shall measure 210 × 297 mm.
The export documents shall be valid for four months from the date of their issue.
In such cases, Box 9 of the export document should indicate the reason for not showing the price information and that it is available to the competent authorities of the European Communities on request. 6.
The duplicate shall bear the date of the original export document. 8.
PROTOCOL 2 on the definition of the concept of 'originating products` and methods of administrative cooperation TABLE OF CONTENTS Page TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS . 65 - Article 1 Definitions . 65 TITLE II DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF 'ORIGINATING PRODUCTS` . 65 - Article 2 General requirements . 65 - Article 3 Bilateral cumulation of origin . 65 - Article 4 Wholly obtained products . 66 - Article 5 Sufficiently worked or processed products . 66 - Article 6 Insufficient working or processing operations . 67 - Article 7 Unit of qualification . 67 - Article 8 Accessories, spare parts and tools . 67 - Article 9 Sets . 67 - Article 10 Neutral elements . 67 TITLE III TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS . 68 - Article 11 Principle of territoriality . 68 - Article 12 Direct transport . 68 - Article 13 Exhibitions . 68 TITLE IV DRAWBACK OR EXEMPTION . 69 - Article 14 Prohibition of drawback of, or exemption from, customs duties . 69 TITLE V PROOF OF ORIGIN . 69 - Article 15 General requirements . 69 - Article 16 Procedure for the issue of an EUR.1 movement certificate . 69 - Article 17 EUR.1 movement certificates issued retrospectively . 70 - Article 18 Issue of a duplicate EUR.1 movement certificate . 70 - Article 19 Issue of EUR.1 movement certificates on the basis of a proof of origin issued or made out previously . 71 - Article 20 Conditions for making out an invoice declaration . 71 - Article 21 Approved exporter . 71 - Article 22 Validity of proof of origin . 71 - Article 23 Submission of proof of origin . 72 - Article 24 Importation by instalments . 72 - Article 25 Exemptions from proof of origin . 72 - Article 26 Supporting documents . 72 - Article 27 Preservation of proof of origin and supporting documents . 72 - Article 28 Discrepancies and formal errors . 73 - Article 29 Amounts expressed in ecu . 73 TITLE VI ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION . 73 - Article 30 Mutual assistance . 73 - Article 31 Verification of proofs of origin . 73 - Article 32 Dispute settlement . 74 - Article 33 Penalties . 74 - Article 34 Free zones . 74 TITLE VII CEUTA AND MELILLA . 74 - Article 35 Application of the Protocol . 74 - Article 36 Special conditions . 74 TITLE VIII FINAL PROVISIONS . 75 - Article 37 Amendments to the Protocol . 75 TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1 Definitions For the purposes of this Protocol: (a) 'manufacture` means any kind of working or processing including assembly or specific operations; (b) 'material` means any ingredient, raw material, component or part, etc., used in the manufacture of the product; (c) 'product` means the product being manufactured, even if it is intended for later use in another manufacturing operation; (d) 'goods` means both materials and products; (e) 'customs value` means the value as determined in accordance with the 1994 Agreement on implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (WTO Agreement on customs valuation); (f) 'ex-works price` means the price paid for the product ex works to the manufacturer in the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in whose undertaking the last working or processing is carried out, provided the price includes the value of all the materials used, minus any internal taxes which are, or may be, repaid when the product obtained is exported; (g) 'value of materials` means the customs value at the time of importation of the non-originating materials used, or, if this is not known and cannot be ascertained, the first ascertainable price paid for the materials in the Community or the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; (h) 'value of originating materials` means the value of such materials as defined in subparagraph (g) applied mutatis mutandis; (i) 'added value` shall be taken to be the ex-works price minus the customs value of each of the products incorporated which did not originate in the country in which those products were obtained; (j) 'chapters` and 'headings` mean the chapters and the headings (four-digit codes) used in the nomenclature which makes up the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System, referred to in this Protocol as 'the Harmonized System` or 'HS`; (k) 'classified` refers to the classification of a product or material under a particular heading; (l) 'consignment` means products which are either sent simultaneously from one exporter to one consignee or covered by a single transport document covering their shipment from the exporter to the consignee or, in the absence of such a document, by a single invoice; (m) 'territories` includes territorial waters.
TITLE II DEFINITION OF THE CONCEPT OF 'ORIGINATING PRODUCTS` Article 2 General requirements 1.
For the purpose of implementing the Agreement, the following products shall be considered as originating in the Community: (a) products wholly obtained in the Community within the meaning of Article 4 of this Protocol; (b) products obtained in the Community incorporating materials which have not been wholly obtained there, provided that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing in the Community within the meaning of Article 5 of this Protocol. 2.
For the purpose of implementing the Agreement, the following products shall be considered as originating in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: (a) products wholly obtained in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia within the meaning of Article 4 of this Protocol; (b) products obtained in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia incorporating materials which have not been wholly obtained there, provided that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia within the meaning of Article 5 of this Protocol.
Article 3 Bilateral cumulation of origin 1.
It shall not be necessary that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing, provided they have undergone working or processing going beyond that referred to in Article 6 (1) of this Protocol. 2.
It shall not be necessary that such materials have undergone sufficient working or processing, provided they have undergone working or processing going beyond that referred to in Article 6 (1) of this Protocol.
Article 4 Wholly obtained products 1.
The terms 'their vessels` and 'their factory ships` in paragraph 1 (f) and (g) shall apply only to vessels and factory ships: (a) which are registered or recorded in an EC Member State or in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; (b) which sail under the flag of an EC Member State or of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; (c) which are owned to an extent of at least 50 % by nationals of EC Member States or of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, or by a company with its head office in one of these States, of which the manager or managers, Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Supervisory Board, and the majority of the members of such boards are nationals of EC Member States or of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and of which, in addition, in the case of partnerships or limited companies, at least half the capital belongs to those States or to public bodies or nationals of the said States; (d) of which the master and officers are nationals of EC Member States or of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; and (e) of which at least 75 % of the crew are nationals of EC Member States or of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Article 5 Sufficiently worked or processed products 1.
For the purposes of Article 2, products which are not wholly obtained are considered to be sufficiently worked or processed when the conditions set out in the list in Annex II are fulfilled.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, non-originating materials which, according to the conditions set out in the list, should not be used in the manufacture of a product may nevertheless be used, provided that: (a) their total value does not exceed 10 % of the ex-works price of the product; (b) any of the percentages given in the list for the maximum value of non-originating materials are not exceeded through the application of this paragraph.
This paragraph shall not apply to products falling within Chapters 50 to 63 of the Harmonized System. 3.
Article 6 Insufficient working or processing operations 1.
Without prejudice to paragraph 2, the following operations shall be considered as insufficient working or processing to confer the status of originating products, whether or not the requirements of Article 5 are satisfied: (a) operations to ensure the preservation of products in good condition during transport and storage (ventilation, spreading out, drying, chilling, placing in salt, sulphur dioxide or other aqueous solutions, removal of damaged parts, and like operations); (b) simple operations consisting of removal of dust, sifting or screening, sorting, classifying, matching (including the making-up of sets of articles), washing, painting, cutting up; (c) (i) changes of packaging and breaking up and assembly of packages; (ii) simple placing in bottles, flasks, bags, cases, boxes, fixing on cards or boards, etc., and all other simple packaging operations; (d) affixing marks, labels and other like distinguishing signs on products or their packaging; (e) simple mixing of products, whether or not of different kinds, where one or more components of the mixtures do not meet the conditions laid down in this Protocol to enable them to be considered as originating in the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; (f) simple assembly of parts to constitute a complete product; (g) a combination of two or more operations specified in subparagraphs (a) to (f); (h) slaughter of animals. 2.
Article 8 Accessories, spare parts and tools Accessories, spare parts and tools dispatched with a piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle, which are part of the normal equipment and included in the price thereof or which are not separately invoiced, shall be regarded as one with the piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle in question.
Article 9 Sets Sets, as defined in General Rule 3 of the Harmonized System, shall be regarded as originating when all component products are originating.
Nevertheless, when a set is composed of originating and non-originating products, the set as a whole shall be regarded as originating, provided that the value of the non-originating products does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the set.
Article 10 Neutral elements In order to determine whether a product originates, it shall not be necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be used in its manufacture: (a) energy and fuel; (b) plant and equipment; (c) machines and tools; (d) goods which do not enter and which are not intended to enter into the final composition of the product.
TITLE III TERRITORIAL REQUIREMENTS Article 11 Principle of territoriality 1.
The conditions set out in Title II relative to the acquisition of originating status must be fulfilled without interruption in the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. 2.
Article 12 Direct transport 1.
However, products constituting one single consignment may be transported through other territories with, should the occasion arise, trans-shipment or temporary warehousing in such territories, provided that they remain under the surveillance of the customs authorities in the country of transit or warehousing and do not undergo operations other than unloading, reloading or any operation designed to preserve them in good condition.
Article 13 Exhibitions 1.
Originating products, sent for exhibition in another country and sold after the exhibition for importation in the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, shall benefit on importation from the provisions of the Agreement provided it is shown to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that: (a) an exporter has consigned these products from the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to the country in which the exhibition is held and has exhibited them there; (b) the products have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that exporter to a person in the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; (c) the products have been consigned during the exhibition or immediately thereafter in the state in which they were sent for exhibition; and (d) the products have not, since they were consigned for exhibition, been used for any purpose other than demonstration at the exhibition. 2.
The exporter of products covered by a proof of origin shall be prepared to submit at any time, on request from the customs authorities, all appropriate documents proving that no drawback has been obtained in respect of the non-originating materials used in the manufacture of the products concerned and that all customs duties or charges having equivalent effect applicable to such materials have actually been paid. 4.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia may apply arrangements for drawback of, or exemption from, customs duties or charges having an equivalent effect, applicable to materials used in the manufacture of originating products, subject to the following provisions: (a) a 5 % rate of customs charge shall be retained in respect of products falling within Chapters 25 to 49 and 64 to 97 of the Harmonized System, or such lower rate as is in force in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; (b) a 10 % rate of customs charge shall be retained in respect of products falling within Chapters 50 to 63 of the Harmonized System, or such lower rate as is in force in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The provisions of this paragraph shall apply until 31 December 1998 and may be reviewed by common accord.
TITLE V PROOF OF ORIGIN Article 15 General requirements 1.
Products originating in the Community shall, on importation into the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and products originating in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall, on importation into the Community, benefit from this Agreement on submission of either: (a) an EUR.1 movement certificate, a specimen of which appears in Annex III; or (b) in the cases specified in Article 20 (1), a declaration, the text of which appears in Annex IV, given by the exporter on an invoice, a delivery note or any other commercial document which describes the products concerned in sufficient detail to enable them to be identified (hereinafter referred to as the 'invoice declaration`). 2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, originating products within the meaning of this Protocol shall, in the cases specified in Article 25, benefit from this Agreement without it being necessary to submit any of the documents referred to above.
Article 16 Procedure for the issue of an EUR.1 movement certificate 1.
The exporter applying for the issue of an EUR.1 movement certificate shall be prepared to submit at any time, at the request of the customs authorities of the exporting country where the EUR.1 movement certificate is issued, all appropriate documents proving the originating status of the products concerned as well as the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol. 4.
An EUR.1 movement certificate shall be issued by the customs authorities of an EC Member State or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia if the products concerned can be considered as products originating in the Community, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 5.
The date of issue of the EUR.1 movement certificate shall be indicated in box 11 of the certificate. 7.
Article 17 EUR.1 movement certificates issued retrospectively 1.
The customs authorities may issue an EUR.1 movement certificate retrospectively only after verifying that the information supplied in the exporter's application agrees with that in the corresponding file. 4.
The endorsement referred to in paragraph 4 shall be inserted in the 'Remarks` box of the EUR.1 movement certificate.
Article 18 Issue of a duplicate EUR.1 movement certificate 1.
Article 19 Issue of EUR.1 movement certificates on the basis of a proof of origin issued or made out previously When originating products are placed under the control of a customs office in the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, it shall be possible to replace the original proof of origin by one or more EUR.1 movement certificates for the purpose of sending all or some of these products elsewhere within the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Article 20 Conditions for making out an invoice declaration 1.
An invoice declaration as referred to in Article 15 (1) (b) may be made out: (a) by an approved exporter within the meaning of Article 21, or (b) by any exporter for any consignment consisting of one or more packages containing originating products whose total value does not exceed ECU 6 000. 2.
The exporter making out an invoice declaration shall be prepared to submit at any time, at the request of the customs authorities of the exporting country, all appropriate documents proving the originating status of the products concerned as well as the fulfilment of the other requirements of this Protocol. 4.
However, an approved exporter within the meaning of Article 21 shall not be required to sign such declarations provided that he gives the customs authorities of the exporting country a written undertaking that he accepts full responsibility for any invoice declaration which identifies him as if it had been signed in manuscript by him. 6.
Article 21 Approved exporter 1.
The customs authorities may grant the status of approved exporter subject to any conditions which they consider appropriate. 3.
The customs authorities shall grant to the approved exporter a customs authorization number which shall appear on the invoice declaration. 4.
The customs authorities shall monitor the use of the authorization by the approved exporter. 5.
The customs authorities may withdraw the authorization at any time.
Article 22 Validity of proof of origin 1.
A proof of origin shall be valid for four months from the date of issue in the exporting country, and must be submitted within the said period to the customs authorities of the importing country. 2.
Proofs of origin which are submitted to the customs authorities of the importing country after the final date for presentation specified in paragraph 1 may be accepted for the purpose of applying preferential treatment, where the failure to submit these documents by the final date set is due to exceptional circumstances. 3.
In other cases of belated presentation, the customs authorities of the importing country may accept the proofs of origin where the products have been submitted before the said final date.
Article 23 Submission of proof of origin Proofs of origin shall be submitted to the customs authorities of the importing country in accordance with the procedures applicable in that country.
Article 24 Importation by instalments Where, at the request of the importer and on the conditions laid down by the customs authorities of the importing country, dismantled or non-assembled products within the meaning of General Rule 2 (a) of the Harmonized System falling within Sections XVI and XVII or heading Nos 7308 and 9406 of the Harmonized System are imported by instalments, a single proof of origin for such products shall be submitted to the customs authorities on importation of the first instalment.
Article 25 Exemptions from proof of origin 1.
Article 26 Supporting documents The documents referred to in Articles 16 (3) and 20 (3) used for the purpose of proving that products covered by an EUR.1 movement certificate or an invoice declaration can be considered as products originating in the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol may consist inter alia of the following: (a) direct evidence of the processes carried out by the exporter or supplier to obtain the goods concerned, contained for example in his accounts or internal bookkeeping; (b) documents proving the originating status of materials used, issued or made out in the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia where these documents are used in accordance with domestic law; (c) documents proving the working or processing of materials in the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, issued or made out in the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, where these documents are used in accordance with domestic law; (d) EUR.1 movement certificates or invoice declarations proving the originating status of materials used, issued or made out in the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in accordance with this Protocol in accordance this Protocol.
Article 27 Preservation of proof of origin and supporting documents 1.
The exporter applying for the issue of an EUR.1 movement certificate shall keep for at least three years the documents referred to in Article 16 (3). 2.
The customs authorities of the exporting country issuing an EUR.1 movement certificate shall keep for at least three years the application form referred to in Article 16 (2). 4.
The customs authorities of the importing country shall keep for at least three years the EUR.1 movement certificates and the invoice declarations submitted to them.
Article 28 Discrepancies and formal errors 1.
Article 29 Amounts expressed in ecu 1.
Amounts in the national currency of the exporting country equivalent to the amounts expressed in ecu shall be fixed by the exporting country and communicated to the importing countries through the Commission of the European Communities. 2.
The amounts to be used in any given national currency shall be the equivalent in that national currency of the amounts expressed in ecu as at the first working day in October 1996. 4.
The amounts expressed in ecu and their equivalents in the national currencies of the EC Member States and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall be reviewed by the Cooperation Council at the request of the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
TITLE VI ARRANGEMENTS FOR ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION Article 30 Mutual assistance 1.
Article 31 Verification of proofs of origin 1.
These results must indicate clearly whether the documents are authentic and whether the products concerned can be considered as products originating in the Community or the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and fulfil the other requirements of this Protocol. 6.
Article 32 Dispute settlement Where disputes arise in relation to the verification procedures of Article 31 which cannot be settled between the customs authorities requesting a verification and the customs authorities responsible for carrying out this verification or where they raise a question as to the interpretation of this Protocol, they shall be submitted to the Cooperation Council.
Article 33 Penalties Penalties shall be imposed on any person who draws up, or causes to be drawn up, a document which contains incorrect information for the purpose of obtaining a preferential treatment for products.
Article 34 Free zones 1.
By means of an exemption to the provisions contained in paragraph 1, when products originating in the Community or the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are imported into a free zone under cover of a proof of origin and undergo treatment or processing, the authorities concerned shall issue a new EUR.1 certificate at the exporter's request, if the treatment or processing undergone is in conformity with the provisions of this Protocol.
TITLE VII CEUTA AND MELILLA Article 35 Application of the Protocol 1.
The term 'Community` used in Article 2 does not cover Ceuta and Melilla. 2.
For the purpose of the application of paragraph 2 concerning products originating in Ceuta and Melilla, this Protocol shall apply mutatis mutandis subject to the special conditions set out in Article 36.
Article 36 Special conditions 1.
Providing they have been transported directly in accordance with the provisions of Article 12, the following shall be considered as: (1) products originating in Ceuta and Melilla: (a) products wholly obtained in Ceuta and Melilla; (b) products obtained in Ceuta and Melilla in the manufacture of which products other than those referred to in (a) are used, provided that: (i) the said products have undergone sufficient working or processing within the meaning of Article 5 of this Protocol; or that (ii) the products are originating in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia or the Community within the meaning of this Protocol, provided that they have been submitted to working or processing which goes beyond the insufficient working or processing referred to in Article 6 (1); (2) products originating in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia: (a) products wholly obtained in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; (b) products obtained in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, in the manufacture of which products other than those referred to in (a) are used, provided that: (i) the said products have undergone sufficient working or processing within the meaning of Article 5 of this Protocol; or that (ii) the products are originating in Ceuta and Melilla or the Community within the meaning of this Protocol, provided that they have been submitted to working or processing which goes beyond the insufficient working or processing referred to in Article 6 (1). 2.
Ceuta and Melilla shall be considered as a single territory. 3.
The exporter or his authorized representative shall enter 'the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia` and 'Ceuta and Melilla` in box 2 of EUR.1 movement certificates or on invoice declarations.
In addition, in the case of products originating in Ceuta and Melilla, this shall be indicated in box 4 of EUR.1 movement certificates or on invoice declarations. 4.
The Spanish customs authorities shall be responsible for the application of this Protocol in Ceuta and Melilla.
TITLE VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 37 Amendments to the Protocol The Cooperation Council may decide to amend the provisions of this Protocol.
ANNEX I INTRODUCTORY NOTES TO THE LIST IN ANNEX II Note 1: The list sets out the conditions required for all products to be considered as sufficiently worked or processed within the meaning of Article 5 of the Protocol.
For each entry in the first two columns a rule is specified in columns 3 or 4.
Where, in some cases, the entry in the first column is preceded by an 'ex`, this signifies that the rules in columns 3 or 4 apply only to the part of that heading as described in column 2. 2.2.
Where several heading numbers are grouped together in column 1 or a chapter number is given and the description of products in column 2 is therefore given in general terms, the adjacent rules in columns 3 or 4 apply to all products which, under the Harmonized System, are classified in headings of the chapter or in any of the headings grouped together in column 1. 2.3.
Where there are different rules in the list applying to different products within a heading, each indent contains the description of that part of the heading covered by the adjacent rules in columns 3 or 4. 2.4.
Where, for an entry in the first two columns, a rule is specified in both columns 3 and 4, the exporter may opt, as an alternative, to apply either the rule set out in column 3 or that set out in column 4.
If no origin rule is given in column 4, the rule set out in column 3 has to be applied.
Example: An engine of heading No 8407, for which the rule states that the value of the non-originating materials which may be incorporated may not exceed 40 % of the ex-works price, is made from 'other alloy steel roughly shaped by forging` of heading No ex 7224.
The rule in the list represents the minimum amount of working or processing required and the carrying out of more working or processing also confers originating status; conversely, the carrying out of less working or processing cannot confer originating status.
Without prejudice to Note 3.2 where a rule states that 'materials of any heading` may be used, materials of the same heading as the product may also be used, subject, however, to any specific limitations which may also be contained in the rule.
However, the expression 'manufacture from materials of any heading, including other materials of heading No . . .` means that only materials classified in the same heading as the product of a different description than that of the product as given in column 2 of the list may be used. 3.4.
Where a rule in the list specifies that a product must be manufactured from a particular material, the condition obviously does not prevent the use of other materials which, because of their inherent nature, cannot satisfy the rule. (See also Note 6.2 below in relation to textiles).
However, this does not apply to products which, although they cannot be manufactured from the particular materials specified in the list, can be produced from a material of the same nature at an earlier stage of manufacture.
Where, in a rule in the list, two percentages are given for the maximum value of non-originating materials that can be used, then these percentages may not be added together.
The term 'natural fibres` includes horsehair of heading No 0503, silk of heading Nos 5002 and 5003 as well as the wool fibres, fine or coarse animal hair of heading Nos 5101 to 5105, the cotton fibres of heading Nos 5201 to 5203 and the other vegetable fibres of heading Nos 5301 to 5305. 4.3.
The terms 'textile pulp`, 'chemical materials` and 'paper-making materials` are used in the list to describe the materials not classified in Chapters 50 to 63, which can be used to manufacture artificial, synthetic or paper fibres or yarns. 4.4.
The term 'man-made staple fibres` is used in the list to refer to synthetic or artificial filament tow, staple fibres or waste, of heading Nos 5501 to 5507.
The following are the basic textile materials: - silk, - wool, - coarse animal hair, - fine animal hair, - horsehair, - cotton, - paper-making materials and paper, - flax, - true hemp, - jute and other textile bast fibres, - sisal and other textile fibres of the genus Agave, - coconut, abaca, ramie and other vegetable textile fibres, - synthetic man-made filaments, - artificial man-made filaments, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polypropylene, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyester, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyamide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyacrylonitrile, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyimide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polytetrafluoroethylene, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyphenylene sulphide, - synthetic man-made staple fibres of polyvinyl chloride, - other synthetic man-made staple fibres, - artificial man-made staple fibres of viscose, - other artificial man-made staple fibres, - yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether whether or not gimped, - yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyester whether or not gimped, - products of heading No 5605 (metallized yarn) incorporating strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of a transparent or coloured adhesive between two layers of plastic film, - other products of heading No 5605.
Example: A yarn of heading No 5205 made from cotton fibres of heading No 5203 and synthetic staple fibres of heading No 5506 is a mixed yarn.
Therefore, non-originating synthetic staple fibres that do not satisfy the origin rules (which require manufacture from chemical materials or textile pulp) may be used up to a weight of 10 % of the yarn.
Example: A woollen fabric of heading No 5112 made from woollen yarn of heading No 5107 and synthetic yarn of staple fibres of heading No 5509 is a mixed fabric.
Example: Tufted textile fabric of heading No 5802 made from cotton yarn of heading No 5205 and cotton fabric of heading No 5210 is only a mixed product if the cotton fabric is itself a mixed fabric being made from yarns classified in two separate headings or if the cotton yarns used are themselves mixtures.
Example: If the tufted textile fabric concerned had been made from cotton yarn of heading No 5205 and synthetic fabric of heading No 5407, then, obviously, the yarns used are two separate basic textile materials and the tufted textile fabric is accordingly a mixed product.
Thus, any non-originating materials that are at a later stage of manufacture than the rule allows may be used, provided their total weight does not exceed 10 % of the weight of the textile materials of the carpet.
In the case of products incorporating 'yarn made of polyurethane segmented with flexible segments of polyether whether or not gimped` this tolerance is 20 % in respect of this yarn. 5.4.
In the case of products incorporating 'strip consisting of a core of aluminium foil or of a core of plastic film whether or not coated with aluminium powder, of a width not exceeding 5 mm, sandwiched by means of an adhesive between two layers of plastic film`, this tolerance is 30 % in respect of this strip.
In the case of those textile products which are marked in the list by a footnote referring to this note, textile materials, with the exception of linings and interlinings, which do not satisfy the rule set out in the list in column 3 for the made-up product concerned may be used provided that they are classified in a heading other than that of the product and that their value does not exceed 8 % of the ex-works price of the product. 6.2.
Without prejudice to Note 6.3, materials which are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63 may be used freely in the manufacture of textile products, whether or not they contain textiles.
Example: If a rule in the list provides that for a particular textile item, such as trousers, yarn must be used, this does not prevent the use of metal items, such as buttons, because buttons are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63.
Where a percentage rules applies, the value of materials which are not classified within Chapters 50 to 63 must be taken into account when calculating the value of the non-originating materials incorporated.
For the purposes of heading Nos ex 2707, 2713 to 2715, ex 2901, ex 2902 and ex 3403, the 'specific processes` are the following: (a) vacuum distillation; (b) redistillation by a very thorough fractionation process (1); (c) cracking; (d) reforming; (e) extraction by means of selective solvents; (f) the process comprising all the following operations: processing with concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralization with alkaline agents; decolorization and purification with naturally active earth, activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite; (g) polymerization; (h) alkylation; (i) isomerization. 7.2.
For the purposes of heading Nos 2710, 2711 and 2712, the 'specific processes` are the following: (a) vacuum distillation; (b) redistillation by a very thorough fractionation process (2); (c) cracking; (d) reforming; (e) extraction by means of selective solvents; (f) the process comprising all the following operations: processing with concentrated sulphuric acid, oleum or sulphuric anhydride; neutralization with alkaline agents; decolorization and purification with naturally active earth, activated earth, activated charcoal or bauxite; (g) polymerization; (h) alkylation; (ij) isomerization; (k) in respect of heavy oils falling within heading No ex 2710 only, desulphurization with hydrogen resulting in a reduction of at least 85 % of the sulphur content of the products processed (ASTM D 1266-59 T method); (l) in respect of products falling within heading No 2710 only, deparaffining by a process other than filtering; (m) in respect of heavy oils falling within heading No ex 2710 only, treatment with hydrogen at a pressure of more than 20 bar and a temperature of more than 250 °C with the use of a catalyst, other than to effect desulphurization, when the hydrogen constitutes an active element in a chemical reaction.
For the purposes of heading Nos ex 2707, 2713 to 2715, ex 2901, ex 2902 and ex 3403, simple operations such as cleaning, decanting, desalting, water separation, filtering, colouring, marking, obtaining a sulphur content as a result of mixing products with different sulphur content, any combination of these operations or like operations do not confer origin. (1) See additional explanatory note 4 (b) to Chapter 27 of the combined nomenclature. (2) See additional explanatory note 4 (b) to Chapter 27 of the combined nomenclature.
This amount may be committed up to 31 December 2000 in the form of loans from the Bank's own resources according to the rules, conditions and procedures laid down in its statute.
If, by the end of the period referred to in Article 2, not all of the funds have been committed, this period shall be automatically extended by six months.
Article 6 Enterprises registered under the law of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, with or without foreign holdings, shall have access to the financing provided for under financial cooperation on equal terms.
Article 8 All natural and legal persons coming within the scope of the Treaty establishing the European Community and all natural and legal persons of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia may participate on equal terms in tendering procedures and other procedures for the award of contracts which may be financed.
Article 9 The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall apply to contracts awarded for the execution of projects financed under financial cooperation, fiscal and customs arrangements at least as favourable as those applied to most favoured nations and most favoured international organizations in the field of development.
Article 10 The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall take the necessary measures to ensure that interest and all other payments due to the Bank in respect of loans granted under financial cooperation are exempt from any taxes or levies imposed by the national or local authorities.
Article 11 The provision of a guarantee by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, or other sufficient guarantees, shall be required by the Bank as a condition for granting loans to beneficiaries other than the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Article 12 Throughout the duration of the loans granted under this Protocol, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall undertake to make available to debtors holding such loans and to guarantors of such loans the foreign exchange necessary for the payment of interest, commission and other charges and repayment of the principal.
Article 13 The results of financial cooperation may be examined by the Cooperation Council.
Article 14 One year before the expiry of this Protocol the Contracting Parties shall examine what arrangements could be made for financial cooperation during a possible further period.
Article 15 The Annex shall form an integral part of this Protocol.
The Community may, subject to the conditions set out below, commit ECU 20 million from its budgetary resources in the form of grants for the purpose of providing a two point interest-rate subsidy on the Bank loans for infrastructure projects which are of interest to the Community and to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. 2.
It is noted that Bank loans used to finance transport infrastructure projects other than those listed below are not eligible for an interest rate subsidy: - Roads - North to south-east motorway (E-75) connecting the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia-Montenegro) to the Hellenic Republic, particularly the sections Kumanovo to Tabanovce on the border of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (9 km) and Gradsko to Gevgelija on the border of the Hellenic Republic (73 km), - Main road (M-5) connecting Kriva Krusha to Medzitlija on the border of the Hellenic Republic (93 km), via Titov Veles, Prilep and Bitola, reconstruction and new construction, - Section of motorway (E-65) connecting Skopje to Tetovo (36 km) together with bypass of Skopje (25 km). - Rail/combined transport - North to south-east railway connecting the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia-Montenegro) to the Hellenic Republic (via Titov Veles), particularly multimodal terminals at Tabanovce, Miravci and Gevgelija, - Multimodal terminal at Bitola (on the N/S branch line connecting Titov Veles to Kremenica on the border of the Hellenic Republic), - Railway connecting Kumanovo to Beljakovce (30 km, reconstruction) and Beljakovce to Deve Bair (54 km, new construction) on the border of the Republic of Bulgaria with multimodal terminal at Deve Bair and tunnel at border to be connected by new line (2 km) to existing line at Gjueshevo in the Republic of Bulgaria. 3.
Joint Interpretative Declaration concerning Article 40 of the Agreement (a) For the purposes of the interpretation and practical application of this Agreement, the Contracting Parties agree that the cases of special urgency referred to in Article 40 of the Agreement mean cases of material breach of the Agreement by one of the two Parties.
Declaration of Intent by the Contracting Parties on the trade arrangements between the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and other countries of South-Eastern Europe 1.
Joint Declaration concerning the Principality of Andorra 1.
Products originating in the Principality of Andorra falling within Chapters 25 to 97 of the Harmonized System shall be accepted by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as originating in the Community within the meaning of this Agreement. 2.
Protocol 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis for the purpose of defining the originating status of the abovementioned products.
Joint Declaration concerning Article 4 of Protocol 3 on financial cooperation It is understood that the application of Article 4 is dependent upon the submission to the Bank by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia of mutually acceptable projects.
Declaration by the Community concerning Article 8 of Protocol 3 on financial cooperation The provisions of Protocol 3 on financial cooperation are without prejudice to the general question of the origin of goods and services eligible for financing by the Bank from its own resources and do not, in this connection, affect the exercise by the Bank's bodies of their powers under the statute of the Bank.
