Staff Regulations of the European Union Satellite Centre Staff Regulations of the European Union Satellite Centre [1] PRELIMINARY REMARKS PREAMBLE Article 1 TITLE I — GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 2 — Provisions applicable to all staff members Authority Declaration Conduct Financial responsibility Security TITLE II — STATUS OF STAFF MEMBERS CHAPTER I — GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 3 — General provisions applicable to staff members Privileges and immunities Assistance and compensation Proprietary rights External activities Candidacy for public or political office CHAPTER II — RECRUITMENT AND CONTRACTS Article 4 — Recruitment Article 5 — Age limit for employment Article 6 — Medical examinations Article 7 — Contracts and length of contracts Initial contracts Probationary period Termination of contracts Compensation for loss of job Reduced notice of termination CHAPTER III — SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES Article 8 — General provisions Article 9 — Basic salary Article 10 — Expatriation allowance Article 11 — Family and social allowances Household allowance Children's and other dependants' allowance Education allowance Handicapped children's and other dependants' allowance Rent allowance Transport allowance Article 12 — Extra duties allowance Article 13 — Installation allowance Article 14 — Deductions Internal tax Contributions to pension scheme Contributions to supplementary insurance scheme Article 15 — Salary advances and reimbursement CHAPTER IV — TRAVEL COSTS Article 16 — Installation and departure Article 17 — Removal expenses Article 18 — Travel on duty CHAPTER V — INTERNAL ORGANISATION Article 19 — Hours of work Article 20 — Public holidays Article 21 — Leave Article 22 — Home leave Article 22a — Special leave CHAPTER VI — REPORTS AND PROMOTION Article 23 — General provisions Article 24 — Procedure Article 25 — Follow-up action on reports CHAPTER VII — DISCIPLINARY MEASURES Article 26 — Definitions Article 27 — Compensation for damage Article 28 — Notification of complaints Article 29 — Disciplinary Board CHAPTER VIII — APPEALS AND APPEALS BOARD Article 30 — Appeals CHAPTER IX — PENSION SCHEMES Article 31 TITLE III — PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO TEMPORARY STAFF Article 32 — Statutory provisions Article 33 — Contracts Article 34 — Remuneration Article 35 — Special provisions TITLE IV — PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO EXPERTS AND SECONDED EXPERTS Article 36 — Statutory and financial provisions Article 37 — Representation of staff ANNEX I INDEMNITY FOR LOSS OF JOB ANNEX II EXPATRIATION ALLOWANCE ANNEX III CHILDREN AND OTHER DEPENDANTS ANNEX IV HANDICAPPED DEPENDANTS ANNEX V RENT ALLOWANCE ANNEX VI TRAVEL COSTS AND REMOVAL EXPENSES ANNEX VII OFFICIAL DUTY EXPENSES ANNEX VIII SICK LEAVE, MATERNITY LEAVE AND OTHER SPECIAL LEAVE ANNEX IX COMPOSITION AND PROCEDURES OF DISCIPLINARY BOARDS ANNEX X APPEALS BOARD PRELIMINARY REMARKS The Staff Regulations of the European Union Satellite Centre have been drawn up in parallel with those of the Institute for Security Studies, which explains the considerable similarities between the two texts.
TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 2 Provisions applicable to all staff members 1.
Financial responsibility 5.
TITLE II STATUS OF STAFF MEMBERS CHAPTER I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 3 General provisions applicable to staff members Staff members of the Centre are natural persons holding contracts as defined in Chapter II below, and occupying budget posts listed in the table of staff annexed each year to the Centre's budget. 1.
Privileges and immunities 2.
Proprietary rights 4.
CHAPTER II RECRUITMENT AND CONTRACTS Article 4 Recruitment 1.
Candidates under 18 or over 60 years of age will not normally be considered for engagement. 3.
Article 6 Medical examinations 1.
Article 7 Contracts and length of contracts 1.
Initial contracts 2.
Probationary period 3.
Reduced notice of termination CHAPTER III SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES Article 8 General provisions The remuneration paid to members of the staff of the Centre shall include basic salary, expatriation allowance, and family and social allowances.
Article 9 Basic salary Net basic salary shall be the amount shown for the grade and step of a staff member in the scales approved each year by the Board.
Article 10 Expatriation allowance This allowance shall be paid to staff members in A, L and B grades who, at the time of their first appointment, were not nationals of the State in whose territory their permanent place of duty is situated and who had not been continuously resident in that State's territory for three years.
The amount of the allowance shall be calculated in accordance with Annex II.
Article 11 Family and social allowances These allowances shall be added to basic salary monthly. 1.
If the latter amount is equal to or greater than the former, no allowance shall be payable; (d) shall not be paid to a staff member whose spouse is a member of an international organisation and has a higher basic salary than the staff member. 2.
Children's and other dependants' allowance: This allowance: (a) shall be paid to staff members who mainly and continuously maintain either a legally recognised child or another member of their family by virtue of a legal or judicial obligation, or a child who has lost both parents and for whom they have assumed responsibility; (b) shall be a fixed amount for each dependant, set each year in the scales approved by the Board; (c) where both spouses work for international organisations, shall be paid to whichever of them is in receipt of household allowance or equivalent; 3.
Education allowance 4.
Handicapped children's and other dependants' allowance (a) An allowance for handicapped children or dependants shall be paid to staff members who are primarily and continuously responsible for their care.
Transport allowance Article 12 Extra duties allowance (a) An extra duties allowance may be granted by the Director to staff members who are required, in the interests of the service, to assume temporarily part or all of the responsibilities of a staff member of a higher grade.
The allowance shall be paid on the basis of the remuneration of two additional steps in the grade of the staff member and shall not take effect until the Director has confirmed the staff member's extra duties and the staff member has completed one month's continuous service in the higher grade post.
Article 13 Installation allowance 1.
An installation allowance shall be paid to staff members whose place of residence was more than 100 kilometres from their duty station at the time they accepted employment with the Centre. 2.
The amount of the allowance shall be 30 days' basic salary. 3.
Installation allowance shall be paid in advance to the staff member when he assumes his duties at the Centre. 4.
Internal tax 2.
Contributions to supplementary insurance scheme Article 15 Salary advances and reimbursement 1.
CHAPTER IV TRAVEL COSTS Article 16 Installation and departure 1.
Staff members shall be entitled to reimbursement of travel costs for the journey from their previous place of duty to the location of the Centre, in respect of themselves and members of their family living with them. 2.
The same entitlement shall apply when staff members leave the service of the Centre and return to the country where they were in post before joining the Centre. 3.
Article 17 Removal expenses 1.
The same entitlement shall apply when staff members leave the service of the Centre and return to the country where they were in post before joining the Centre. 2.
Article 18 Travel on duty Members of the staff of the Centre shall be entitled to reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with travel on official duty ordered by the Director [5].
Hours of night work not exceeding the number set out in (a) shall give entitlement to additional remuneration at the rate of 50 % of basic salary.
Article 20 Public holidays The list of public holidays shall be drawn up by the Director on the basis of the official list of public holidays published in the Boletin Oficial del Estado (BOE).
Article 21 Leave 1.
Unpaid leave 3.
Failure to comply with (i) will result in the staff member concerned being obliged to reimburse to the Satellite Centre all the payments received in connection with the home leave and may also result in the staff member's unexpended leave being reduced by the number of days home leave granted.
Article 24 Procedure 1.
On the basis of the advice of the Head of Administration, the Director shall make a definitive evaluation of each staff member and have reports written that shall be signed by all members of the Promotions Board. 4.
Article 25 Follow-up action on reports 1.
CHAPTER VII DISCIPLINARY MEASURES Article 26 Definitions 1.
Article 27 Compensation for damage Staff members may be required to pay compensation, either in part or in full, for any damage sustained by the Centre through their gross negligence or wilful act.
Where the staff member has left the Centre, this compensation may be obtained by withholding a percentage of the benefits due under the pension scheme, up to 70 % of the pension.
Article 29 Disciplinary Board Within five working days of his being notified as provided by Article 28, the staff member concerned may make a request in writing that his case be examined by a Disciplinary Board, which shall be convened by the Director within five days.
The composition and procedures of the Disciplinary Board are given in Annex IX.
CHAPTER VIII APPEALS AND APPEALS BOARD Article 30 Appeals Serving or former staff members, or their heirs and assigns, may appeal against decisions made by the Director.
Contentious appeals 4.
These expenses shall be calculated on the basis of Article 18 and Annex VII of these Regulations.
CHAPTER IX PENSION SCHEMES Article 31 The rules and conditions contained in the Pension Schemes Rules of the Coordinated Organisations are applied mutatis mutandis to the staff members of the Centre.
The "New Pension Scheme (NPS) of the Coordinated Organisations" applies mutatis mutandis to staff members taking up duty after 30 June 2005.
TITLE III PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO TEMPORARY STAFF Article 32 Statutory provisionsTemporary staff are auxiliary personnel recruited in principle for short periods.
These employees shall be subject to the provisions of Title I and the following provisions of Title II: - Chapter I: Articles 3(2) (assistance and compensation), (4) (external activities) and (5) (candidacy for public or political office) - Chapter II: Articles 5 (age limit for employment) and 6 (medical examinations) - Chapter III: Article 15 (salary advances) - Chapter IV: Articles 17 (removal expenses) and 18 (travel on duty) - Chapter V: Articles 19 (hours of work) and 20 (public holidays) - Chapter VII: Article 27 (compensation for damage) - Chapter VIII: (appeals) — subject to Article 35(3) Article 33 Contracts Temporary staff shall be engaged for a period of 1 to 6 months.
Article 34 Remuneration 1.
Article 35 Special provisions 1.
They shall be subject to the provisions of Title I of these Regulations, with which they shall acquaint themselves on appointment. 2.
An indemnity for loss of job [1] may be awarded to a staff member whose contract is terminated for one of the following reasons: (a) suppression of the budgeted post; (b) changes in the duties of the budgeted post occupied by the staff member of such a nature that he no longer possesses the required qualifications; (c) the withdrawal from the Board of the Member State of which the staff member is a national; (d) the transfer of the headquarters of the Centre, by a distance of over 100 km, from the location where the staff member was engaged, and the refusal of the staff member to be transferred since such an eventuality was not foreseen in his contract; (e) the withdrawal of security clearance [2] from the staff member for reasons other than disciplinary ones.
The indemnity shall not be due if: (f) the staff member has obtained another post at the same grade at the Centre; (g) the staff member has obtained a new appointment in another international organisation in the same locality; (h) the staff member, as a public employee of a Member State, has obtained re-integration and remuneration in his national administration within 30 days following the termination of his contract by the Centre; (i) the staff member's contract has been terminated as a result of a disciplinary procedure. 2.
Payment of the indemnity to staff members having served less than 10 years at the Centre. [3] Provided that their current contract has not come to an end, such staff members shall be entitled to an indemnity amounting to 50 % of their net monthly remuneration multiplied by the number of months [4] remaining up to the expiry of the term of their contract, up to a maximum of 5 months' remuneration.
Payment of the indemnity to staff members having served more than 10 years at the Centre. [3] Such staff members shall be entitled to an indemnity equal to 100 % of their net monthly remuneration per year of service at the Centre, up to a maximum of 24 months.
The amount of the indemnity shall not represent a number of months [4] which exceeds the period that the staff member would have to serve before reaching the age limit specified in Article 5 of these Regulations. [1] As distinct from leaving allowance, which represents merely the settlement of pension rights. [2] Only in cases where the post occupied requires such clearance. [3] Or 10 years accumulated uninterrupted service at the Centre and another international organisation. [4] Or fractions of months, expressed in thirtieths. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX II EXPATRIATION ALLOWANCE 1.
The reference salary shall be the net basic salary payable at step 1 of staff members' grades. 3.
Expatriation allowance shall not be lower than the basic salary payable at grade B3 step 1. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX III CHILDREN AND OTHER DEPENDANTS 1.
The amount of the allowance shall be equal to the amount of the allowance for a dependant child, and shall be additional thereto. 5.
In the event that the staff member concerned or his household is entitled to a similar allowance under a national or international scheme, the amount of the allowance payable by the Centre shall be the amount by which the rate payable under these Regulations exceeds the amount payable under the national or international scheme. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX V RENT ALLOWANCE 1.
The amount of the allowance shall be a proportion of the difference between the actual rent paid, excluding all charges mentioned in Article 11(5)(a), and a sum calculated as follows: (a) 15 % of net basic salary for staff members of grades C and B, up to and including B4; (b) 20 % of net basic salary for staff members of grades B5 and B6; (c) 22 % of net basic salary for staff members of grades A1 and L1. 2.
The said proportion shall be: (a) 50 % for single staff members and married staff members with no dependants; (b) 55 % for staff members with one dependant; (c) 60 % for staff members with two or more dependants. 3.
The allowance shall not exceed: (a) 10 % of net basic salary of the staff member concerned in the case of grades C to B4 inclusive; (b) 15 % of net basic salary in the case of grades B5 and B6, and A1 and L1.
Net basic salary shall be deemed to mean the actual basic salary as given in the annual scales agreed by the Board, but excluding any other additions to or deductions from remuneration. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX VI TRAVEL COSTS AND REMOVAL EXPENSES SECTION I — Travel costs of staff members and their families between their place of residence and duty station 1.
Staff members whose place of residence is more than 100 km from their duty station shall be entitled, subject to the provisions of Article 22 of these Regulations, to reimbursement of the actual costs of travel: (a) on taking up their appointment, for travel from their place of residence to their duty station; (b) on transfer from the duty station where they were recruited to another duty station more than 100 km away; (c) on leaving their appointment: - either for travel from their duty station to their place of residence at the time they were recruited; - or, for travel from their duty station to a place of residence other than that mentioned above, provided that the expenditure to be reimbursed is not greater. 2.
Reimbursement of the travel costs mentioned in paragraph 1 shall be totally or partially refused in the following cases: (a) where entitlement has not been established at the time a staff member takes up his appointment; (b) if all or part of the expenditure in question has been paid by a government or other body; (c) where a staff member leaves his appointment, if the journey does not take place within a period of three months starting from the date the staff member's duties cease, or if the application for reimbursement has not been received by the administrative section within 30 days of the journey; (d) when the staff member's duties cease, if the person concerned has resigned before completing 12 months' service at the Centre. 3.
Spouses and dependant children [1] shall be deemed to be of the same grade as the staff member concerned.
SECTION II — Removal expenses 1.
Staff members whose place of residence is more than 100 km from their duty station shall be entitled to the reimbursement of expenses actually incurred for the removal of their household effects on the following occasions: (a) on taking up their appointment; (b) on transfer of indefinite duration exceeding two months from one duty station to another duty station that is over 100 km away; (c) when leaving the Centre, except that the reimbursement may be refused if the staff member resigns before having completed twelve months' service at the Centre. 2.
Reimbursement of expenses incurred for removal of household effects, including packing, shall be made up to the following limits: (a) For staff members entitled to household allowance: 6000 kg | or 40 m3 | Plus 750 kg or 5 m3 per child residing with the staff member. (b) For staff members not entitled to household allowance: 4000 kg | or 27 m3 | To claim expenses under the provisions of this Section, staff members must submit to the Head of Administration and Personnel, for prior approval, at least two estimates of removal expenses, from different companies, together with an inventory of their household effects [2].
Staff members may only claim reimbursement under this Section if the expenditure in question is not reimbursable by a government or other authority. [1] Or dependants in the sense given in the provisions of Annex IV. [2] The two estimates must refer to the same weight (or volume), transported over the same distance. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX VII OFFICIAL DUTY EXPENSES Staff members travelling on official Centre duty shall be entitled to reimbursement of all of their travel costs and to a daily allowance to cover subsistence when away from their place of duty in accordance with the provisions of Article 18 of these Regulations.
SECTION I — Means of transport Travel by staff members on duty shall be performed by the most economic means available, subject to the derogations provided for in this Section [1].
This reimbursement may not exceed 30 % of the daily subsistence allowance. [1] These provisions may be extended to temporary staff, as decided by the Director. [2] The total sum paid may not exceed the amount that the Centre would otherwise have had to disburse. [3] In such cases, "passengers" shall not be entitled to any reimbursement of travel costs. [4] These periods are to be counted as from the date and time of departure from the Centre or the staff member's home up to the date and time of return to the Centre or home.
Composition of the Disciplinary Board The Disciplinary Board shall consist of: (a) a grade A or L staff member nominated by the Director, other than the Head of Administration and Personnel or the person to whom the staff member concerned is responsible, as Chairman; (b) a staff member nominated by the Director; (c) a staff member of the same grade as the staff member concerned and nominated by him; (d) the Head of Administration and Personnel, acting as legal adviser, without the right to vote. 2.
