Save as otherwise provided in regulations made pursuant to Article 94 of the Treaty or to other relevant provisions thereof, any plans to grant new aid shall be notified to the Commission in sufficient time by the Member State concerned.
Without prejudice to Article 8, the Commission shall take a decision pursuant to paragraphs 2, 3 or 4. 2.
Article 5 Request for information 1.
Article 6 Formal investigation procedure 1.
The comments received shall be submitted to the Member State concerned.
Article 7 Decisions of the Commission to close the formal investigation procedure 1.
Without prejudice to Article 8, the formal investigation procedure shall be closed by means of a decision as provided for in paragraphs 2 to 5 of this Article. 2.
Where the Commission finds that, where appropriate following modification by the Member State concerned, the notified measure does not constitute aid, it shall record that finding by way of a decision. 3.
Article 8 Withdrawal of notification 1.
Articles 6, 7 and 10, Article 11(1), Articles 13, 14 and 15 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
CHAPTER III PROCEDURE REGARDING UNLAWFUL AID Article 10 Examination, request for information and information injunction 1.
Article 11 Injunction to suspend or provisionally recover aid 1.
Article 12 Non-compliance with an injunction decision If the Member State fails to comply with a suspension injunction or a recovery injunction, the Commission shall be entitled, while carrying out the examination on the substance of the matter on the basis of the information available, to refer the matter to the Court of Justice of the European Communities direct and apply for a declaration that the failure to comply constitutes an infringement of the Treaty.
Article 13 Decisions of the Commission 1.
Article 14 Recovery of aid 1.
Article 15 Limitation period 1.
CHAPTER IV PROCEDURE REGARDING MISUSE OF AID Article 16 Misuse of aid Without prejudice to Article 23, the Commission may in cases of misuse of aid open the formal investigation procedure pursuant to Article 4(4).
Articles 6, 7, 9 and 10, Article 11(1), Articles 12, 13, 14 and 15 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
CHAPTER V PROCEDURE REGARDING EXISTING AID SCHEMES Article 17 Cooperation pursuant to Article 93(1) of the Treaty 1.
Article 18 Proposal for appropriate measures Where the Commission, in the light of the information submitted by the Member State pursuant to Article 17, concludes that the existing aid scheme is not, or is no longer, compatible with the common market, it shall issue a recommendation proposing appropriate measures to the Member State concerned.
Article 19 Legal consequences of a proposal for appropriate measures 1.
Articles 6, 7 and 9 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
CHAPTER VI INTERESTED PARTIES Article 20 Rights of interested parties 1.
Any interested party may submit comments pursuant to Article 6 following a Commission decision to initiate the formal investigation procedure.
Where the Commission considers that on the basis of the information in its possession there are insufficient grounds for taking a view on the case, it shall inform the interested party thereof.
CHAPTER VII MONITORING Article 21 Annual reports 1.
Article 22 On-site monitoring 1.
The Commission shall provide the Member State with a copy of any report produced as a result of the monitoring visit. 6.
Article 23 Non-compliance with decisions and judgments 1.
If the Commission considers that the Member State concerned has not complied with a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Commission may pursue the matter in accordance with Article 171 of the Treaty.
CHAPTER VIII COMMON PROVISIONS Article 24 Professional secrecy The Commission and the Member States, their officials and other servants, including independent experts appointed by the Commission, shall not disclose information which they have acquired through the application of this Regulation and which is covered by the obligation of professional secrecy.
Article 25 Addressee of decisions Decisions taken pursuant to Chapters II, III, IV, V and VII shall be addressed to the Member State concerned.
Article 26 Publication of decisions 1.
The Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Communities the decisions which it takes pursuant to Article 7. 4.
Article 27 Implementing provisions The Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 29, shall have the power to adopt implementing provisions concerning the form, content and other details of notifications, the form, content and other details of annual reports, details of time-limits and the calculation of time-limits, and the interest rate referred to in Article 14(2).
Article 29 Consultation of the Committee 1.
The Commission representative shall submit to the Committee a draft of the measures to be taken.
The Committee may recommend the publication of this opinion in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 5.
Article 30 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 22 March 1999.
VERHEUGEN (1) OJ C 116, 16. 4. 1998, p. 13. (2) Opinion delivered on 14 January 1999 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) OJ C 284, 14. 9. 1998, p. 10.
