The sludge referred to in Article 2 (a) (i) may only be used in agriculture in accordance with this Directive. 2.
Without prejudice to Directives 75/442/EEC and 78/319/EEC: -the sludge referred to in Article 2 (a) (ii) may be used in agriculture subject to any conditions that the Member State concerned may deem necessary for the protection of human health and the environment, -the sludge referred to in Article 2 (a) (iii) may be used in agriculture only if its use is regulated by the Member State concerned.
Article 4 Values for concentrations of heavy metals in soil to which sludge is applied, concentrations of heavy metals in sludge and the maximum annual quantities of such heavy metals which may be introduced into soil intended for agriculture are given in Annexes I A, I B and I C.
Article 6 Without prejudice to Article 7: (a)sludge shall be treated before being used in agriculture.
Article 7 Member States shall prohibit the use of sludge or the supply of sludge for use on: (a)grassland or forage crops if the grassland is to be grazed or the forage crops to be harvested before a certain period has elapsed.
Article 8 The following rules shall be observed when using sludge: -the sludge shall be used in such a way that account is taken of the nutrient needs of the plants and that the quality of the soil and of the surface and ground water is not impaired, -where sludge is used on soils of which the pH is below 6, Member States shall take into account the increased mobility and availability to the crop of heavy metals and shall, if necessary, reduce the limit values they have laid down in accordance with Annex I A.
Article 9 Sludge and soil on which it is used shall be analyzed as outlined in Annexes II A and II B.
The reference methods for sampling and analysis are indicated in Annex II C.
Article 12 Where conditions so demand, Member States may take more stringent measures than those provided for in this Directive.
Article 13 Adaptation to technical and scientific progress, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 15, shall cover the provisions of the Annexes to the Directive, except for the parameters and values listed in Annexes I A, I B and I C, any factors likely to affect the evaluation of the values, and the parameters for analysis referred to in Annexes II A and II B.
Article 18 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 12 June 1986.
