Done at Brussels, 22 July 1993.
GENERAL GUIDELINES A.
Where the directive concerned does not impose specific dimensions, the CE marking must have a height of at least 5 mm. 3.
References to Articles refer to the standard paragraphs of Annex II.B to the Council resolution of 7 May 1985 (OJ No C 136, 4. 6. 1985, p. 1), which have become standard Articles in the 'new approach' directives.
Module C is designed to be used in combination with module B (EC type-examination).
Module A (internal production control) 1.
Module Aa This module consists of module A, plus the following supplementary requirements: For each product manufactured one or more tests on one or more specific aspects of the product must be carried out by the manufacturer or on his behalf (4)().
An adequate sample of the final products, taken on site by the notified body, must be examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5, or equivalent tests, must be carried out to check the conformity of the product with the relevant requirements of the directive.
Module B (EC type-examination) 1.
The application for the EC type-examination must be lodged by the manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community with a notified body of his choice.
The application must include: - the name and address of the manufacturer and, if the application is lodged by the authorized representative, his name and address in addition, - a written declaration that the same application has not been lodged with any other notified body, - the technical documentation, as described in point 3.
The notified body must: 4.1.
perform or have performed the appropriate examinations and necessary tests to check whether, where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied, the solutions adopted by the manufacturer meet the essential requirements of the directive; 4.3.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the EC type-examination certificates and additions issued and withdrawn (8)(). 8.
Module C (conformity to type) 1.
An adequate sample of the final products, taken on site by the notified body, must be examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5, or equivalent tests, must be carried out to check the conformity of production with the relevant requirements of the directive.
Module D (12)(), (production quality assurance) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of point 2 ensures and declares that the products concerned [are in conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and] satisfy the requirements of the directive that apply to them.
The CE marking must be accompanied by the identification symbol of the notified body responsible for EC monitoring as specified in point 4. 2.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for production, final product inspection and testing as specified in paragraph 3 and is subject to monitoring as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the product category envisaged, - the documentation concerning the quality system, - if applicable, the technical documentation of the approved type and a copy of the EC type-examination certificate. 3.2.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body entrance for inspection purposes to the locations of manufacture, inspection and testing, and storage and must provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The manufacturer must, for a period ending at least 10 years (15)() after the last product has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of point 3.1, - the updating referred to in the second paragraph of point 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the final paragraph of point 3.4, points 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
Module E (17)() (product quality assurance) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of point 2 ensures and declares that the products concerned [are in conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and] satisfy the requirements of the directive that apply to them.
The CE mark must be accompanied by the identification symbol of the notified body responsible for surveillance as specified in point 4. 2.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for final product inspection and testing as specified in paragraph 3 and must be subject to surveillance as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the product category envisaged, - the quality system's documentation, - if applicable, the technical documentation of the approved type and a copy of the EC type-examination certificate. 3.2.
Under the quality system, each product must be examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5 or equivalent tests shall be carried out in order to ensure its conformity with the relevant requirements of the directive.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 4.
The purpose of surveillance is to make sure that the manufacturer duly fulfils the obligations arising out of the approved quality system. 4.2.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body entrance for inspection purposes to the locations of inspection, testing and storage and shall provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the technical documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
Each notified body must forward to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals issued and withdrawn (21)().
Module F (22)() (product verification) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby a manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community checks and attests that the products subject to the provisions of point 3 [are in conformity with the type as described in the EC-type examination certificate and] satisfy the requirements of the directive that apply to them. 2.
The manufacturer must take all measures necessary in order that the manufacturing process ensures conformity of the products [with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and] with the requirements of the directive that apply to them.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative must keep a copy of the declaration of conformity for a period ending at least 10 years (24)() after the last product has been manufactured. 4.
Verification by examination and testing of every product 4.1.
All products must be individually examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5 or equivalent tests shall be carried out in order to verify their conformity with [the type as described in the EC-type examination certificate and] the requirements of the directive that apply to them. 4.2.
The notified body must affix or cause to be affixed, its identification symbol to each approved product and draw up a written certificate of conformity relating to the tests carried out. 4.3.
Statistical verification 5.1.
The manufacturer must present his products in the form of homogeneous lots and shall take all measures necessary in order that the manufacturing process ensures the homogeneity of each lot produced. 5.2.
In the case of accepted lots, the notified body must affix, or cause to be affixed, its identification symbol to each product and shall draw up a written certificate of conformity relating to the tests carried out.
Module G (unit verification) 1.
The notified body must examine the individual product and carry out the appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5, or equivalent tests, to ensure its conformity with the relevant requirements of the directive.
The notified body must affix, or cause to be affixed, its identification number on the approved product and shall draw up a certificate of conformity concerning the tests carried out. 3.
Module H (full quality assurance) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of paragraph 2 ensures and declares that the products concerned satisfy the requirements of the directive that apply to them.
The CE marking must be accompanied by the identification symbol of the notified body responsible for the surveillance as specified in point 4. 2.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for design, manufacture and final product inspection and testing as specified in point 3 and shall be subject to surveillance as specified in point 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information for the product category envisaged, - the quality system's documentation. 3.2.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organizational structure, responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to design and product quality, - the technical design specifications, including standards, that will be applied and, where the standards referred to in Article 5 will not be applied in full, the means that will be used to ensure that the essential requirements of the directive that apply to the products will be met, - the design control and design verification techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used when designing the products pertaining to the product category covered, - the corresponding manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used, - the examinations and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc., - the means to monitor the achievement of the required design and product quality and the effective operation of the quality system. 3.3.
The decision must be notified to the manufacturer.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body entrance for inspection purposes to the locations of design, manufacture, inspection and testing, and storage, and shall provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records as foreseen by the design part of the quality system, such as results of analyses, calculations, tests, etc., - the quality records as foreseen by the manufacturing part of the quality system, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The manufacturer must, for a period ending at least 10 years (28)() after the last product has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of the second subparagraph of point 3.1, - the updating referred to in the second subparagraph of point 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the final subparagraph of point 3.4, points 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
Each notified body must forward to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals issued and withdrawn (29)().
The manufacturer must lodge an application for examination of the design with a single notified body. 2.
It must include: - the technical design specifications, including standards, that have been applied, - the necessary supporting evidence for their adequacy, in particular where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied in full.
