PROCEDURE (1) By letter dated 31 January 2003, the Commission informed France of its decision to open the formal investigation procedure provided for in Article 88(2) of the EC Treaty ("the opening decision") in respect of financial measures introduced by the French authorities for France Télécom ("France Télécom", "FT" or "the Company") and in respect of the business tax scheme applicable to that operator.
A description of the facts which led to the procedure being opened is not included in this Decision [2]. (2) The opening decision was notified to France on 31 January 2003.
After a number of substantive errors had been corrected, a corrigendum was notified to France on 7 March 2003. (3) France communicated additional information to the Commission by letters dated 4 April 2003, 15 May 2003 and 29 January 2004. (4) The Commission's decision to open the procedure was published in the Official Journal of the European Union [3].
The Commission invited interested third parties to submit their comments on the aid measures in question. (5) The Commission received the following comments on the subject from interested third parties: - 21 March 2003: comments from Cable and Wireless plc and Cable and Wireless SA - 11 April 2003: comments from Cegetel - 10 April 2003: comments from AFORS Telecom - 11 April 2003: comments from LDCOM - 11 April 2003: comments from A [4] - 10 April 2003: comments from Tiscali - 11 April 2003: comments from WorldCom France [5] - 11 April 2003: comments from B [6] - 11 April 2003: comments from Bouygues ITS and Bouygues Telecom [7] - 14 April 2003: comments from Telecom Italia - 14 April 2003: comments from C [8] - 29 April 2003: comments from B - 30 April 2003: comments from LDCOM [9]. (6) The Commission transmitted the comments to France on 16 May 2003, giving it the opportunity of commenting on them.
It received France's comments by letters dated 30 June and 29 July 2003 [10]. (7) On 30 May 2003, the Commission published an invitation to tender for a contract "for the provision of services to assist in assessing the compliance of the financial assistance granted to France Télécom with the principle of the private investor in a market economy and if necessary to analyse France Télécom's recovery plan" [11].
The Commission replied by letter dated 24 September 2003.
On 24 September 2003, the contract for the provision of services was awarded to the firm of consultants NERA ("NERA", or "the consultant").
The French authorities were informed of the expert's identity by fax dated 8 October 2003. (8) The Commission received other information and documents from the third parties listed below: - 23 June 2003: letter from LDCOM - 25 June 2003: letter from D [12] - 27 October 2003: letter from MCI - 16 October 2003: letter from ECTA - 25 June 2003: letter from XXX - 7 January 2004: letter from Bouygues Telecom - 16 January 2004: letter from Bouygues Telecom [13] - 19 March 2004: letter from France Télécom [14] - 5 April 2004: letter from Tiscali - 17 May 2004: letter from LDCOM - 26 May 2004: letter from Bouygues Telecom [15] - 22 June 2004: letter from France Télécom [16] - 30 June 2004: fax from France Télécom - 2 July 2004: fax from France Télécom. (9) The Commission requested additional explanations from the French authorities by the following letters: - 11 September 2003 (answer given by the French authorities on 20 October 2003) - 11 November 2003 (answer given by the French authorities on 4 December 2003) - 12 January 2004 (answer given by the French authorities on 21 January 2004) - 2 February 2004 (answer given by the French authorities on 16 February 2004) - 1 June 2004 (answer given by the French authorities at the meeting on 16 June 2004). (10) The Commission forwarded to the French authorities on 3 May and 14 June 2004 the letters referred to in paragraph 8 and the NERA report of 28 April 2004 ("the NERA report").
The report is in two separate parts: (i) a legal report by Professor Berlin; and (ii) an economic report. (11) The Commission heard representatives of third parties at various meetings during the course of the proceeding. (12) The Commission and the consultant met with the French authorities and France Télécom on 22 January and 16 and 23 June 2004. (13) By letter dated 14 May 2004, which was confirmed on 3 June 2004, the French authorities stressed that the opening decision did not cover all the facts forming the subject-matter of the Commission's investigation.
By email dated 9 June 2004, which was confirmed by letter dated 10 June 2004, the French authorities submitted comments on the NERA report, which were supplemented by letter dated 21 June 2004. 2.
DESCRIPTION OF FRANCE TELECOM (14) As indicated in the opening decision, the present proceeding concerns the France Télécom group as a single economic entity.
During that same period, the group's structure was characterised by "a policy of out-and-out subsidiarisation through the creation of four listed companies centred on France Télécom: Orange, Wanadoo, TPSA in Poland and Equant.
Before that date, the last financial results to have been published by France Télécom were those for the 2001 financial year.
The publication of these accounts showed improved operating results and substantial cash flow generation.
While the provisions correct the value of France Télécom's assets to a more realistic level, the colossal size of the debt, at EUR 63 billion, persists.
This is clearly demonstrated by the HSBC study submitted by France Télécom (see Section 4), which calculates a financing requirement of EUR 35 billion over the period 2002-05. (18) On 31 December 2001, France Télécom's net debt came to EUR 63,5 billion, as can be seen from Tables 1 and 2.
Table 1 Debt (leverage) ratios Source: NERA. | 1999 | 2000 | 2001 | Debt ratio [20] | 0,78 | 0,89 | 0,92 | Debt/equity [21] | 3,61 | 8,25 | 12,16 | Times interest earned [22] | 14,52 | 5,39 | 3,2 | Table 2 Bonds falling due from the third quarter (Q3) of 2002 to the fourth quarter of 2003 Source: NERA. | 2002 | 2003 | Q3 | Q4 | Q1 | Q2 | Q3 | Q4 | Total 2003 | Amount in EUR billion [23] | 3,89 | 3,61 | 8,86 | 4,08 | 4,09 | 2,23 | 19,26 | (19) In the light of these data, the Commission would observe that, in view of the scale of its debt, France Télécom was forced to announce, on 21 March 2002, not only a major clean-up of its balance sheet through balance sheet provisions and asset disposals totalling EUR 27,2 billion (comprising disposals worth EUR 17 billion and exceptional provisions of EUR 10,2 billion), but also a substantial increase in the available cash flow to the tune of EUR 14 billion for the period 2002-05. 3.1.1.
The downgrading of France Télécom's credit rating (20) During the first half of 2002, France Télécom's situation worsened rapidly, as reflected in a series of downgrades in the Company's credit rating.
Thus, on 27 March 2002, the Moody's credit rating agency announced a downgrading of France Télécom's rating for long-term debt [24]/ [25]. (21) On 28 March 2002, Standard %amp% Poor's ("S %amp% P") maintained France Télécom's rating but downgraded its prospects to negative [26] following news concerning Mobilcom. (22) On 13 May 2002, Moody's, doubting the Company's capacity to implement its debt-reduction strategy, announced a possible downgrade of France Télécom's short-term debt rating [27]. (23) On 14 May 2002, Standard %amp% Poor's maintained France Télécom's existing rating [28].
On 24 June 2002, Moody's downgraded France Télécom's rating.
The Company's prospective rating was maintained at a negative level [29].
Although Moody's was not concerned about the likelihood of a liquidity crisis in the Company in the immediate future, it did point out that France Télécom was confronted with debts of about EUR 15 billion falling due in 2003. (25) On 25 June 2002, Standard %amp% Poor's downgraded France Télécom's short- and long-term debt rating [30], basing its decision on the difficulties concerning Mobilcom and the Company's inability to reduce its debt far and fast enough.
S %amp% P also mentions France Télécom's considerable financing requirements, referring also to the EUR 15 billion of debt coming due in 2003. (26) This downward trend was confirmed several times [31] over the next few days.
On 12 July 2002, Standard %amp% Poor's even drew attention to a potential problem involving the refinancing of the debt coming due in 2003.
The downgrading of France Télécom's rating clearly revealed the Company's debt problems [32], worsened by the uncertainty surrounding Mobilcom. (27) Table 3 recapitulates the various positions of S %amp% P, Moody's and Fitch regarding France Télécom's rating: Table 3 Events connected with credit ratings Source: NERA. | S %amp% P | Moody's | Fitch | Short term | Long term | Short term | Long term | Short term | Long term | Situation in May 2002 | A2 | BBB+ | P2 | Baa1 | F2 | BBB+ | 24 June 2002 | | | P3 | Baa3 | | | 25 June 2002 | A3 | BBB | | | | | 05 July 2002 | | | | | F3 | BBB- | 12 July 2002 | | BBB- | | | | | 3.1.2.
The spreads study concerning France Télécom has thus demonstrated that the very short-term risks were higher than those in the medium and long term.
This phenomenon is called a "spread inversion".
Table 4 Credit spreads for bonds with a 1- and 3-year maturity — France Télécom Source: Bloomberg. +++++ TIFF +++++ 6543210spread (%)3 year1 yearJan-02Feb-02Mar-02Apr-02May-02Jun-02Jul-02Aug-02Sep-02Oct-02Nov-02Dec-02 | (31) A different way of observing the increased risk associated with France Télécom's debt is to study the price of its bonds.
The fall in the price of the bonds in June/July 2002, which is a mirror image of the increase in the credit spreads, reflects a lesser value of France Télécom's debt due to the increased risk of default perceived by the market.
Table 5: Price of France Télécom's bonds from 1 May 2002 to 24 July 2002 Source: Bloomberg. +++++ TIFF +++++ 1201008060402001/05/20028/05/200215/05/200222/05/200229/05/20025/06/200212/06/200219/06/200226/06/20023/07/200210/07/200217/07/200224/07/2002 | (32) It is clear, moreover, that, despite the difficulties of a few other operators in the telecommunications sector in Europe, the difficult situation with which France Télécom was faced was a direct result of the state of its balance sheet and financial structure. (33) This is highlighted by a study of the spreads of Deutsche Telekom and KPN, as shown in Tables 6 and 7.
Table 6: Credit spreads for bonds with a 1- and 3-year maturity — KPN Source: Bloomberg. +++++ TIFF +++++ 6543210spread (%)3 year1 yearJan-02Feb-02Mar-02Apr-02May-02Jun-02Jul-02Aug-02Sep-02Oct-02Nov-02Dec-02 | Table 7: Credit spreads for bonds with a 1- and 4-year maturity — Deutsche Telekom Source: Bloomberg. +++++ TIFF +++++ 6543210spread (%)1 year4 yearJan-02Feb-02Mar-02Apr-02May-02Jun-02Jul-02Aug-02Sep-02Oct-02Nov-02Dec-02 | (34) This study reveals that Deutsche Telekom also experienced spread inversions, but they were of short duration only and on a much smaller scale.
France Télécom's share price (35) At the same time, France Télécom's share price fell significantly during the first half of 2002, reaching its lowest level first on 27 June 2002 (EUR 7,79), and then on 30 September 2002 (EUR 6,01), as can be seen from Table 8.
Table 8: France Télécom's share price Source: Bloomberg. +++++ TIFF +++++ 100908037060504030201002-Jan-012-Feb-012-Mar-012-Apr-012-May-012-Jun-012-Jul-012-Aug-012-Sep-012-Oct-012-Nov-012-Dec-012-Jan-022-Feb-022-Mar-022-Apr-022-May-022-Jun-022-Jul-022-Aug-022-Sep-022-Oct-022-Nov-022-Dec-022-Jan-032-Feb-032-Mar-032-Apr-032-May-032-Jun-032-Jul-032-Aug-032-Sep-032-Oct-03 | 3.1.4.
The events of July 2002 (36) In an interview published in Les Échos on 12 July 2002, the French Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Industry ("the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance") said that: "The State shareholder will behave like a prudent investor and would take appropriate steps if France Télécom were to face any difficulties … I repeat, if France Télécom were to face any financing problems, which is not the case today, the State would take whatever decisions were necessary to overcome them" [33]. (37) On that same day, as indicated above, S %amp% P downgraded France Télécom's rating to BBB-.
This assurance had been provided, firstly, directly by the French Government to S %amp% P: "the French State — which owns 55 % of France Télécom — has made clear to Standard %amp% Poor's that it will behave as an aware investor and would take appropriate steps if France Télécom were to face any difficulties.
France Télécom LT rating cut to BBB-" [35].) and, secondly, publicly in the interview referred to in paragraph 36. (39) In the light of the above, there is no question but that in July 2002 France Télécom was facing a crisis of confidence.
The Company was therefore faced with an acute financing problem linked to its indebtedness [36].
The data published on 13 September 2002 and events at that time 3.2.1.
The data published on 13 September 2002 (40) The conclusion set out in paragraph 39 was confirmed retroactively in September 2002 when France Télécom's half-yearly accounts were presented.
From its scrutiny of the half-yearly accounts published on 13 September 2002, the Commission notes an improvement in France Télécom's figures for the first half of 2002 compared with the previous year: an increase of 10 % in turnover, 13,2 % in EBITDA and 17,3 % in the operating result.
The Commission notes also the sustained growth in mobile telephony and the improved performance of the Internet business.
However, the operating result of the fixed telephony segment in France, which accounted for 31 % of turnover for the same period, was down by 12,2 %. (41) Alongside the good operating results described above, France Télécom confirmed the imbalance in its financial situation.
As a result of this half-year loss, from being positive overall France Télécom's consolidated own funds became negative as at 30 June 2002 to the tune of EUR 440 million. (42) A simplified analysis of cash flow as at 30 June 2002 shows that net debt increased during the first half of 2002 by EUR 6,3 billion inasmuch as EBITDA, at EUR 6,870 billion, did not cover expenditure represented by: - debt interest (EUR 3099 million), - investments (EUR 3820 million), - the repurchase of France Télécom shares from Vodafone (EUR 4973 million), - the repurchase of Orange shares from E.On (EUR 950 million), and - the payment of taxes (EUR 608 million). (43) Of a net indebtedness of EUR 69,69 billion as at 30 June 2002, the bulk, or EUR 50,6 million worth, is made up of bonds.
Table 9 gives a breakdown, by major category, of the various components of the debt.
Thus, EUR 12,9 billion of debt comes due in 2003, including EUR 10,5 billion worth of bonds [38], EUR 1,0 billion worth of loans to subsidiaries, and EUR 1,4 billion worth of private investment. (45) During the first half of 2004, EUR 5,5 billion worth of bonds and EUR 6,4 billion worth of credit lines (EUR 1,4 billion and EUR 5 billion of the EUR 15 billion back-up facility) came due, giving a total of EUR 11,9 billion.
France Télécom was therefore faced with having to repay EUR 24,8 billion between 1 January 2003 and 30 June 2004. (46) During the second half of 2004, EUR 2,8 billion worth of bonds and EUR 2,6 billion worth of loans to subsidiaries will come due, giving an amount of EUR 5,4 billion and a total amount of EUR 17,4 billion for 2004 as a whole. (47) In 2005, lastly, EUR 8,5 billion worth of bonds, an amount of EUR 10 billion corresponding to the balance of the EUR 15 billion back-up facility, and an amount of EUR 0,1 billion relating to private investments will come due, giving a total of EUR 18,6 billion during the course of 2005. (48) During the period 2003-05, France Télécom will be faced with a total repayable debt of EUR 48,9 billion. (49) As was mentioned in the opening decision, the Commission would point out that France Télécom's debt stems mainly from the massive acquisitions engaged in by the Company as from 1999 [39], which were financed primarily out of cash [40].
More than EUR 100 billion was thus spent by France Télécom in its quest for growth, 80 % of which was paid for in cash [41]. (50) The Commission would also point out that the Company's external growth was focused on the mobile telephony sector [42](including the acquisition of Orange plc [43], which was the most costly, and the Mobilcom transaction [44], without forgetting the other transactions involving fixed telephony (e.g.
On 13 September, the Government reiterated in a press release its support for the Company and expressly indicated that it had decided to take part in a forthcoming operation aimed at increasing France Télécom's own funds: "… After the exceptional losses of the first six months, France Télécom is faced with a serious shortage of capital.
This financial situation is weakening the company's potential.
The State will help France Télécom implement this plan and will contribute to a very substantial strengthening of the company's capital base, according to a timetable and in a manner to be determined in the light of market conditions.
December 2002/January 2003 (54) On 4 December 2002, at a meeting of the Company's board, an action plan entitled Ambition FT 2005 [51]("the Ambition 2005 plan") was presented by France Télécom's new management, being aimed, according to the French authorities [52], at bringing about a noticeable improvement in the Company's operational performance and offering the prospect of a satisfactory return on capital invested.
Thus, the medium-term objectives were (i) to meet France Télécom's financing requirements; and (ii) to achieve a net reduction in debt and a reconstitution of capital, a sine qua non for the Company's rehabilitation in the long run in terms of borrowing on the stock market.
A detailed description of the Ambition 2005 plan and its various aspects (operations, debt renegotiation and strengthening of the Company's capital base) as well as of the other measures envisaged by the French authorities is given in the opening decision and is not repeated in this Decision. (56) The presentation of the Ambition 2005 plan was accompanied by a press release of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance in which the Government confirmed its support for the plan, its commitment to take part in the operation to strengthen the Company's capital base and the making-available of a shareholder loan in the form of a EUR 9 billion credit line.
However, the company is now faced with an unbalanced financial structure and a need for capital and refinancing in the medium term.
It will be for France Télécom to work out the detailed arrangements and precise timetable for the strengthening of its capital base.
The first bond issue was for a total amount of EUR 2,5 billion over seven years, at a fixed rate of 7 %, or Euribor + 290bp.
For France Télécom, the cost of the fixed-rate tranche is 7,165 % (all-in).
The second bond issue was placed on the pound sterling (GBP) market for an amount of GBP 250 million at a fixed rate of 8 % over 15 years, or LIBOR + 330bp [54].
Other issues were made on 15 January 2003 for a total amount of EUR 5,5 billion [55].
These were part of a three-tranche issue (EUR 1 billion at a fixed rate of 6 %, scheduled to mature in 4,7 years; EUR 3,5 billion at a fixed rate of 7,5 %, scheduled to mature in 10 years; and EUR 1 billion at a fixed rate of 8,125 %, scheduled to mature in 30 years).
On 10 February 2003, that part of the EUR 15 billion syndicated loan which had matured, namely approximately EUR 5 billion over three years at the rate Euribor + 125bp, was renewed. (58) On 17 December 2002, S %amp% P indicated that, since July 2002, the Government's support had been a key factor in maintaining France Télécom's investment-grade status [56] and that its announcement concerning the shareholder loan and the commitment to subscribe, in proportion to its shareholding, to a EUR 15 billion recapitalisation operation had confirmed that support [57]. 3.2.5.
February/March 2003 (59) France Télécom ended the 2002 financial year with a loss of approximately EUR 21 billion and a net financial debt of almost EUR 68 billion. (60) On 4 March 2003, the operation to strengthen the Company's capital base by EUR 15 billion as envisaged by the Ambition 2005 plan was launched.
The operation was broadly successful and was terminated on 11 April.
On 14 April 2003, the State held 58,9 % of France Télécom's capital, of which 28,6 % through ERAP. (61) The Commission notes that the capital increase largely met the structural needs of France Télécom's financing.
Thus, following the operation, France Télécom's credit rating began to improve: on 14 May 2003 S %amp% P raised its rating to BBB, outlook stable (from A-3 to A-2 for its short-term rating) and on 8 August 2003 Fitch raised its rating from BBB- to BBB.
The Commission would point out in this connection that the agencies thereupon ceased to consider the State's support to be a key factor in the Company's credit rating [58]. 4.
COMMENTS FROM THIRD PARTIES (62) The Commission has received comments from a number of interested third parties.
Comments from Telecom Italia (63) Telecom Italia stresses that any aid granted to France Télécom is likely to affect competition in the telecommunications markets, and in the French market in particular.
Comments from WorldCom (64) WorldCom indicates that it shares the Commission's analysis as set out in the opening decision.
It points out that the aid granted by the State to France Télécom enabled the latter to obtain the liquidity it needed to reimburse its debt without having to dispose of any strategic assets.
WorldCom concludes that this industrial strategy entails anticompetitive practices, including the existence of cross-subsidies and of a price squeeze between the price proposed by France Télécom to the final customer and the price of access proposed to competitors of the historical operator, and the possibility of making tailor-made bids that are impossible to match when public contracts are being awarded (the "Sipperec" and "public assistance/Paris hospitals" contracts being two such examples). (65) In order to reduce the distortions of competition caused by the aid granted to France Télécom, WorldCom proposes compensatory measures of a structural nature, including the disposal of assets such as Global One/Equant, Orange, Wanadoo/Oléane and/or the local network in France, or else the effective and transparent separation of France Télécom from its commercial activities.
Comments from C (66) C submits the following comments: (a) the measures at issue constitute state aid.
C argues that, in accordance with the Guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty [59]("the Guidelines"), where public funding is provided to a firm which is in financial difficulties there is a presumption that state aid is involved.
It also points out that the principle of concomitance has not been complied with in so far as the French authorities granted the credit line and announced their participation in the recapitalisation prior to the announcement of the Ambition 2005 plan and prior to the firm commitment of the investors.
C adds that France Télécom's privatisation would ensure compliance with the "one time last time" principle applicable to restructuring aid.
Comments from A (67) A points out that, as indicated in the opening decision, the State's intention of restoring France Télécom's financial health by granting a EUR 9 billion shareholder loan and the provision by the State to France Télécom of an "intangible" guarantee covering its bond issues are measures which do not satisfy the prudent private investor test and which contain aid elements.
Comments from Bouygues and Bouygues Télécom (68) Bouygues and Bouygues Télécom submit the following comments: (a) Bouygues Telecom points out that the unfailing and irrevocable support of the State is the cornerstone of France Télécom's recapitalisation plan, which has led to the Company's recovery.
Thus, according to Bouygues Telecom, only the French State could, in view of the Company's critical financial situation, restore the markets' confidence and create a virtuous circle enabling it to meet its short-term commitments and launch a huge recapitalisation operation under favourable economic conditions.
Bouygues Telecom stresses here that this commitment constitutes a veritable state guarantee producing legal effects committing the State's resources.
It adds that the State's guarantee is unlimited in amount and time. (71) Bouygues Telecom refers in this connection to the Crédit Foncier de France (CFF) decision [60], in which the Commission found that the public declarations by the Government had the object and effect of reassuring the bank's creditors about the quality of their loans and could not be considered — as the French authorities maintained — to be a mere political commitment without any legal value.
Bouygues Telecom adds that, even if the French Court of Cassation has not yet adopted a position in principle on the general value of a unilateral commitment as a source of obligation, it does recognise the value thereof on a case-by-case basis. (73) In preparing its comments, Bouygues Telecom called on the services of an expert [62] who stated that it followed from a long line of judgments by the French administrative courts that the existence of a commitment entered into by an administrative authority must be assessed in the light, not of the commitment's form, but of its intrinsic characteristics.
It mattered little, therefore, whether the commitment was written or verbal or whether it could simply be deduced from the authority's conduct, the only condition laid down by the administrative courts being that the promise in question must be firm and precise or sufficiently persuasive. (74) Bouygues Telecom's expert stated that, in the present case, the declarations by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance satisfied all the criteria for being characterised as a commitment by the State.
Furthermore, because the Minister had had his declarations published, they could not be mere declarations of intent. (75) Bouygues Telecom's expert stressed that, since those promises could be construed as constituting commitments by the State, they had by their very nature legal value and were of such a character as to render the State liable, whether they were legal or not, vis-à-vis France Télécom, its creditors and its employees. (76) Bouygues Telecom maintains that the declarations made by the French Government on and after 12 July 2002 are "administrative acts" binding on the State which are of such a character as to render the State answerable before the administrative courts.
Bouygues Telecom also submitted to the Commission on 26 May 2004 another study [63] which also comes to the conclusion that the declarations by the State constitute the expression of a formal, precise and irrevocable commitment by the State — legally sanctionable, where appropriate, via the incurment of the liability of the State should it be at fault in failing to respect its commitments towards France Télécom. (77) Bouygues Telecom states that there is therefore no doubt that the measures at issue constitute, not psychological support as the French authorities have maintained, but a guarantee legally binding on their author. (78) Bouygues Telecom states lastly on this point that the binding nature of the declarations made by the State by way of the guarantee is confirmed by a circular of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance dated 22 July 2003 which expressly refers to the existence of implicit guarantees [64]. (79) With regard to the shareholder loan and the operation to strengthen the Company's capital base, Bouygues Telecom maintains that, firstly, the opening of a EUR 9 billion credit line for the benefit of France Télécom and, secondly, the irrevocable commitment by the State to participate in any future capital increase in proportion to its shareholding in the Company followed by the recapitalisation operation as such, are the implementation of the state guarantee and are financed by state resources.
In this connection, Bouygues Telecom adds that the recourse to ERAP in the granting, by the French authorities, of a EUR 9 billion credit line for the benefit of France Télécom in no way alters the state origin of the funds.
It points out that the recourse to ERAP means that France Télécom benefited, firstly, from an advantageous interest rate owing to its status as an industrial and commercial public establishment and, secondly, from the express guarantee provided by the State for an amount of EUR 10 billion [65].
As a result, the measures at issue are financed by state resources, even if the credit line has ultimately not been used. (80) In its additional comments of 11 April 2003, Bouygues Telecom maintains that, in view of the Company's financial situation, the recapitalisation operation carried out on 24 March 2003 was possible only because of the prior intervention of the other aid measures.
Consequently, the recapitalisation constitutes per se state aid as it stems directly from prior state aid [66]. (81) As regards the condition relating to the advantage, Bouygues Telecom points out that the occurrence giving rise to the guarantee took place subsequently to the reduction in France Télécom's credit rating by the rating agencies with a view to restoring the market's confidence. (82) Again on this point, Bouygues Telecom states that the guarantee had the effect of enabling France Télécom to gain renewed access to the financial markets.
Bouygues Telecom stresses that, not only did the guarantee make possible France Télécom's very recourse to the financial market, but it also enabled the bond issues to be made at a rate which did not reflect France Télécom's true financial situation. (83) Bouygues Telecom states more precisely, in its comments of 11 April 2003, that the announcement and implementation of the state support gave rise to aid at the origin of advantages linked to the shareholder loan and the recapitalisation.
These advantages had the effect inter alia of moving the liquidity wall further away, that is to say, of increasing the amount of financing available for meeting debt repayments and of permitting an actual and potential postponement of payments and actual and potential cost savings. (84) Concluding on this point, Bouygues Telecom maintains that the advantage gained by France Télécom amounts to more than EUR 40 billion (EUR 3 billion in respect of all the support measures taken by the French State on France Télécom's behalf and EUR 36,7 billion in respect of the State's participation in the Company's recapitalisation), which amount takes no account of the considerable latitude granted to France Télécom as a result of the removal of all financial concerns, the liquidity wall being shifted by almost EUR 43 billion. (85) In its additional comments of 7 January 2004, Bouygues Telecom states that the advantage enjoyed by France Télécom as a result of the State's irrevocable commitment of support may be estimated at more than EUR 30 billion, while the advantage derived from the recapitalisation operation may be put at more than EUR 50 billion. (86) As to the prudent private investor test, Bouygues Telecom argues that the support measures do not satisfy that test for the following reasons: a) Unconditional, unlimited commitment: Bouygues Telecom takes the view that the State's declarations constitute a firm and unconditional legal commitment which an investor would never have undertaken without entering the slightest reservation.
In Bouygues Telecom's opinion, the measure at issue does not fulfil the criteria mentioned in the Commission Notice on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty to state aid in the form of guarantees [67](hereinafter called "the Notice on state aid in the form of guarantees") in so far as, in particular, France Télécom was in financial difficulties at the time the guarantee was granted and in so far as the guarantee does not relate to any specific transaction and gives rise to no remuneration.
b) Terms governing the granting of the shareholder loan: Bouygues Telecom argues that the mechanism adopted by the State meets by and large a concern falling within the realm of public finances (compliance with the Maastricht criteria, notably), and is not in keeping with the principle of a prudent investor operating in a market economy.
prior to the existence of the Ambition 2005 plan, without knowing France Télécom's exact economic situation, which had become much worse, and without the concomitant participation of private investors.
This rate is the minimum required by the Commission in the Alitalia [69] and Iberia cases [70].
According, however, to the methods used by Bouygues Telecom, that is to say, EPS (Enterprise value or Analysts target price 12 months), the return on investment in the transaction at issue is only 16 %.
Bouygues Telecom adds in this regard that, in accordance with the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, it cannot be maintained that the commitments entered into by the State towards France Télécom are a reflection of the conduct of a prudent investor solely on the ground that France Télécom had become a profitable company. - Difference between the situation of a private investor and that of the State: Bouygues Telecom argues that, in view of the prolonged crisis in the world economy and more particularly in a telecommunications sector undergoing transition, and bearing in mind the size of the sum in question, no private investor could have envisaged a capital increase of that amount without conditions and only a State of the creditworthiness of France could have coped with such uncertainty.
It thus points out that the financing of the strengthening of the Company's capital base, covered entirely by debt without any own funds, would have affected the credit rating of any private investor who behaved in a similar way, whereas a State, on the other hand, can be punished only by its electors, who do not have the same objectives.
Bouygues Telecom concludes that, at all events, a prudent investor whose financial capacity was comparable to that of the French State and who issued such a guarantee would not have inspired much confidence in the markets and that it is clear that it was due to the qualification of "sovereign debt" enjoyed by the State's commitments that confidence was restored. - Concomitance criterion: Bouygues Telecom argues that the concomitance principle has not been complied with.
Bouygues Telecom points out that the participation of private investors was neither certain nor significant at the time of the announcement by the Government of its participation in the capital increase, even if the analysis of the date of taking of the decision to invest is brought forward to 5 December.
Hence, in the present case, the fact that a banking syndicate undertook to underwrite the transaction cannot be taken as a basis for concluding that the concomitance principle is complied with.
At all events, Bouygues Telecom takes the view that, in accordance with the case law relating to the Seleco decision referred to in paragraph 80, a significant participation by private investors is not in itself sufficient to rule out any aid element.
It maintains, moreover, that the State's investment is higher than the amount of its participation in France Télécom's capital.
With a 49,8 % market share, Orange is in a dominant position in the French mobile telephony market.
In its comments of 11 April 2003, Bouygues Telecom points out that the structure of the mobile telecommunications market in France is due to a capitalistic investment strategy (together with an aggressive commercial strategy) carried on by Orange to the detriment of its operational profitability, thanks to the support granted to it by the State through France Télécom, notably via the aid at issue in the present case.
Bouygues Telecom insists also on the fact that the measures at issue are weak in comparison with those taken by the historical operator's competitors, such as KPN, Deutsche Telekom or British Telecom, both as regards the disposal of assets and as regards the social measures taken. (89) The restructuring plan does not contain any substantial compensatory measures capable of preventing any undue distortions of competition so as to offset the aid granted by the State.
Thus, the sales envisaged by France Télécom are limited to non-strategic assets worth very little (EUR 3,5 billion, according to France Télécom's own estimates). (90) Additionally, Bouygues Telecom maintains that compensatory measures must be adopted for the benefit of the historical operator's competitors in the mobile telecommunications market, and in particular for the benefit of the last entrant, the presence of whom is a precondition for the existence of genuine competition in the French market.
It also proposes a limitation of the length of the commitments entered into by consumers vis-à-vis Orange to 12 months (acquisition and renewal), a freezing of the deployment of Orange's GSM and GPRS network so as to re-establish a competitive balance, the obligation to dispose of strategic assets and the obligation to limit marketing activities. (91) In its comments of 26 May 2004, Bouygues Telecom furnishes inter alia an economic analysis which states that, in view of the specific attitude of States (variable according to their own credibility), the support of the State has a substantially different scope from that of a majority shareholder.
Any flagging in its support would have deprived the State of its capacity to act subsequently, which was speedily done in the case of Alstom. (92) Bouygues Telecom also furnishes an analysis of whether the State's declarations had any binding effect under the law of the state of New York, where the Company is also quoted.
According to that analysis, it is probable that such declarations would be considered binding either as a unilateral contract or by virtue of the principle of estoppel. (93) Bouygues Telecom furnishes, lastly, a study of whether such declarations emanating from the British Government would have a binding character under English law.
Comments from Cable %amp% Wireless (94) Cable %amp% Wireless expresses the view that the measures at issue constitute state aid.
Inasmuch as the Company is not in financial difficulties, the Guidelines are not applicable. 4.7.
AFORS Télécom observes that France Télécom's past acquisitions strategy was conducted without regard to the inherent risks inasmuch as the State in its capacity as shareholder assured France Télécom of its support against any prospect of bankruptcy. (98) The State's support has had the effect of preventing any further downgrading of France Télécom's credit rating by the rating agencies, which has made it possible to speed up France Télécom's return to the market and the refinancing of its debt under less onerous financial conditions.
Moreover, the State's support had the advantage that France Télécom no longer had to modify its strategic perimeter. (99) The Ambition 2005 plan consists of guidelines and not of clearly worded, binding and irreversible commitments and cannot be compared to the restructuring process implemented in Europe by, say, British Telecom. (100) The advantages enjoyed by France Télécom prolong distortions of competition damaging to the members of AFORS Télécom.
Comments from Cégétel (102) Cégétel maintains that there are two separate measures: (i) the announcement by the French authorities of the granting of a shareholder loan to France Télécom; and (ii) the participation by the State in the recapitalisation of France Télécom. (103) As regards the first measure, Cégétel remarks first of all that the situation of a company with a private reference shareholder and that of a company with a public majority shareholder are not comparable.
France Télécom thus enjoyed advantages which it would not have secured under normal market conditions, compared, for example, with the situation of Vivendi Universal.
More particularly, a prudent investor would never have agreed to the policy of financing acquisitions through debt which placed France Télécom in a critical financial situation such that the State had to carry out a recapitalisation.
Regarding quantification of the aid relating to the shareholder loan, Cégétel maintains that point 3.2, fourth subparagraph, of the Notice on state aid in the form of guarantees is applicable and that, in view of the fact that, thanks to state support, France Télécom has been able to borrow EUR 16 billion to meet its maturities despite the catastrophic nature of its finances, the amount of the aid is equivalent to the amount raised thanks to the announcement. (104) Cégétel maintains that the same reasoning applies to the recapitalisation, which it analyses, from an economic point of view, as being the transfer of EUR 9,2 billion of France Télécom's debt to ERAP, which benefits from the State's guarantee.
It also highlights the amount of the aid corresponding to the redundancy costs which a company would have had to bear in terms of staff cuts, namely EUR 1,5 billion, and which the historical operator would not bear owing to its employees being transferred to civil service jobs under the Ambition 2005 plan. (105) Cégétel maintains that France Télécom benefits from a formal guarantee in so far as the Court of Cassation considers that private-law companies enjoying special legal status are not subject to the applicable judicial liquidation procedures (cf., for example, SEITA or Air France).
Cégétel proposes inter alia the following compensatory measures in the fixed telecommunications market: (i) the sale of local loop access and associated services; and (ii) increased ring-fencing between France Télécom and the companies Orange and Wanadoo. 4.9.
Comments from LDCOM [75] (107) LDCOM identifies a dual mechanism of aid in support of France Télécom, backed by support for staff mobility, namely: (i) the provision of an unlimited guarantee; and (ii) the granting of a EUR 9 billion credit line. (108) Provision of the unlimited guarantee: LDCOM bases its considerations on the content of the declarations by the French authorities which have appeared since 20 June 2002 in the press via press releases of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance addressed directly or indirectly to the rating agencies.
These declarations, which seek to reassure the financial markets about France Télécom's situation [76], have contributed directly to the improvement in France Télécom's credit rating in the markets and have helped the Company to face up to the liquidity wall with which it was confronted.
It points out that, under French law, no form is required for the creation of a legal obligation and that an oral declaration may therefore, under certain conditions, constitute a legal act giving rise to a right on the part of its addressee.
This obligation arises from the dual condition of the firm and precise nature of the will.
Under international law, the State's contractual responsibility is also incurred in so far as a unilateral legal act has binding force where it can be shown that the declaration was expressed publicly with the intention of binding its author [77].
Inasmuch as the State's commitment is of a binding nature, any failure to honour that commitment may incur the State's contractual responsibility (third parties could have forced the State to carry out its commitment). (109) LDCOM asserts that the State's tortious liability was also incurred, notably under company law.
In accordance with the Notice on state aid in the form of guarantees, the criterion relating to state resources is fulfilled, whether or not the guarantee is called.
Lastly, LDCOM stresses that any analysis to the contrary would be fraught with consequences inasmuch as not only would it run counter to the principles of domestic positive law but it would also open up the possibility for Member States to sustain with impunity the share price of companies in which they have an interest [83]. (112) The effect of this unlimited guarantee is clearly felt in the market and the market's reaction corresponds to the value investors actually place on the guarantee.
These spreads make it possible to evaluate in concrete terms the financial weight of the State's announcement.
It argues that, in July 2002, without any state intervention, France Télécom would have had no choice but to reduce its range of assets, enforce redundancies [85] and revise its strategic objectives. (116) LDCOM puts the total amount of aid at EUR 15 billion, this being the sum which France Télécom succeeded in raising on the financial markets thanks to the aid granted to it by the State.
The aid amount cannot therefore be limited to the EUR 9 billion provided directly by the State, since it was through various state measures (unlimited guarantee, shareholder loan, staff movements) that France Télécom was able to increase its capital by such an amount. (117) In LDCOM's opinion, the aid granted by the State constitutes restructuring aid.
LDCOM has carried out a comparison between the situation before and after the public intervention in the markets for voice telephony, high-speed Internet access and low-speed Internet access, and that which would have obtained in the absence of any public intervention.
This comparison confirms that the aid has had the effect of maintaining the status quo ante in the run-up to 2005 (intact operational and marketing capacities), which makes it possible by deduction to quantify in terms of market shares some of the effects of the public intervention.
LDCOM proposes that remedies should be imposed on France Télécom under point 35 of the Guidelines, the effect of which will have to be to restore the market situation to what it would have been had France Télécom been forced to modify its business perimeter spontaneously.
It proposes, therefore, a reduction in the market shares of France Télécom and its subsidiaries in the high-speed Internet market (maximum of 42 % of the market for the sale of high-speed Internet access by DSL, in terms of value) and in the voice telecommunications market (maximum of 55 % of the local and national voice communications market, in terms of value) and a series of measures aimed at implementing the limitation in France Télécom's market shares [86].
The second category of measures proposed by LDCOM consists of the imposition of measures aimed at enabling the development of competitors [87]. (118) In its comments of 17 May 2004, LDCOM states that the declarations by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance constituted a unilateral state act non-compliance with which was punishable under international law.
It points out in this connection that the principle's applicability in the present case is incontestable in view of the fact that the French State is acting as a shareholder and hence also as an operator in international trade. (119) LDCOM also stresses that the State cannot go back on its declarations without harming its own financial credibility.
In its intervention on the market, the State plays a role of borrower and a role of majority shareholder in a number of companies.
This twofold intervention possibility calls for particular vigilance as any deficiency established in either of these two roles is likely to have consequences for its other role and for its rating (LDCOM refers to Moody's assessment of public undertakings).
A disengagement by the State would lead to a fall in its rating, which would result in a re-evaluation of public debt interest.
Likewise, B maintains that the concomitance principle has not been complied with, the participation of private investors having been made possible only by the announcement and making available of a shareholder loan the amount of which was so huge that no private investor would have been able to mobilise so much money.
It points out that the support measures reassured private investors that any risk of France Télécom's becoming bankrupt could be ruled out.
It also argues that the amount of France Télécom's recapitalisation (between 80 and 100 % of its stock exchange valuation) is such that, in the light of France Télécom's economic situation, no private investor would have carried out such a transaction were it not for the declarations of support and the prefinancing measures taken by the Government. (121) B maintains that the measures cannot be considered compatible within the meaning of the Guidelines.
In the alternative, it proposes compensatory measures, inter alia in the market for fixed telephony, in the market for Internet access and in the market for mobile telephony.
In the mobile telephony market, B proposes inter alia the imposition on Orange of an obligation to make a MVNO (Mobile Virtual Network Operator) offer to operators wishing to penetrate this market. 4.11.
At the same time, the State's option for its 2002 dividends to be paid in shares and not in cash is another signal by the State to the market that it supports France Télécom even though a prudent investor would have opted for payment of the dividends in cash.
Tiscalinet also stresses that the set of legislative measures aimed at extending ERAP's company objects so as to enable it to hold France Télécom shares [89], the provision of a state guarantee to ERAP to enable it to invest in France Télécom [90] and the instrument dealing with the method by which the State would hold France Télécom's capital strengthen the analysis of the irrevocable character of the state guarantee on which market operators, and in particular bond holders, relied when subscribing to the successive calls made by France Télécom.
Tiscalinet maintains that the conditions for the granting of restructuring aid are not met, inter alia because the Ambition 2005 plan does not contain sufficient compensatory measures to safeguard competition.
Moreover, Wanadoo has not had to dispose of major assets and continues to benefit from Yellow Pages income and from France Télécom's commercial agency network.
Tiscalinet also points out that the strategy introduced by France Télécom, notably as regards the launch of the simplified mixed public purchase and exchange offer concerning Wanadoo's shares of 11 March 2004, had the effect of enabling France Télécom to benefit from fiscal aid which it would not have received without the State's support measures.
Tiscali draws attention, moreover, in its letter of 5 April 2004 to the anticompetitive strategy introduced in the DSL market in France thanks to the initial aid from the French State. (125) In the alternative, if the aid were to be found compatible with the Guidelines, Tiscalinet proposes compensatory measures essentially in the high-speed Internet access market, such as the setting of a minimum price for France Télécom's ADSL retail offerings to its subsidiaries, a ban on making joint offers of France Télécom's and Wanadoo's services, a ban on distributing Wanadoo's services in France Télécom's commercial agencies, and the disposal of the Yellow Pages business and of Wanadoo's foreign subsidiaries. 4.12.
Comments from D (126) D has submitted a document entitled "Stage report on the fulfilment of President Jacques Chirac's campaign commitments in the fields of industry, energy, telecommunications and posts of June 2003".
These three reports are described briefly below. (128) The first report analyses the French authorities' conduct in the light of the rules applicable to state aid in general and of the prudent investor test in particular.
The report also seeks to show that France Télécom was not a company in financial difficulties within the meaning of the Guidelines at the time the State decided to take part in the recapitalisation and announced its readiness to provide a shareholder loan.
It stresses that it is normal and usual for the majority shareholder to grant a loan upfront of its participation in the recapitalisation. (129) The second report focuses on whether the mere announcement of the making available of a shareholder loan in the form of a credit line can as such constitute a commitment of state resources.
The report states that, according to the Commission's argument, an irrevocable announcement of a commitment to grant a loan, coupled with its apparent provision, is sufficient to establish a commitment of state resources, which corresponds to the concept of measure having an effect equivalent to state aid, which has already been rejected by the Court of Justice.
The report is based on an analysis of France Télécom's situation in September 2002 and draws a distinction between, on the one hand, France Télécom's operational performance (healthy activities with a potential for improving the operational cash flow) and, on the other, the amount of the operator's debt (level of indebtedness, debt maturities, negative consolidated own capital resulting from losses linked to non-recurring items).
The report concludes on this point that the time lag between the generation of the group's cash flow and the heavy short-term financial commitments (2003-2005) poses a problem of refinancing but not of solvency. (131) HSBC also describes the background to the short-term liquidity crisis, worsened as it was by a crisis of confidence on the part of the market vis-à-vis the group.
It also points out that in this case the shareholder loan was a low-risk, profitable and normal transaction — pending a capital increase — aimed at safeguarding the majority shareholder's financial interests at a time (the month of December) when it was not possible to recapitalise the company for reasons of scheduling.
It adds that the loan was to be made on market conditions. (132) The HSBC report mentions also the trend in the price of France Télécom shares on the stock exchange, pointing out that the shares had risen in July 2002 as a result of rumours of nationalisation, only to fall again in September because, although the market had got wind of a possible EUR 15 billion capital increase, the practical arrangements were not as yet clear.
It points out that France Télécom's financial projections presage, for the State, a highly satisfactory return: according to the DCF — discounted cash flow — method, the recapitalisation involves an annual rate of return of 25 %, whereas the average rate on the telecommunications market is 9,9 %. (133) In response to the dispatch of the consultant's legal report and economic report, France Télécom submitted three legal memoranda criticising the reports' content and an economic report [91]. (134) The first memorandum states that the various legal categories under French civil, commercial or administrative law used by the consultant in its analysis of the State's declarations are not relevant to any finding that the ministerial declarations may be capable of creating rights on the part of third parties.
It concludes on this point that there is nothing in French case law to show that there has been a "transfer of state resources" in the present case due to the conditional promise of a shareholder loan.
It adds that "unilateral declarations made by a state authority, acting in its role of majority shareholder, must, under French law and under Community law, fulfil various criteria in order to be able to be characterised as an irrevocable, clear and unconditional commitment and in order to be able to be characterised as state aid".
The memorandum concludes on this point that the various declarations on which the experts have focused manifestly do not satisfy these conditions.
The State, however, cannot commit itself without an act giving rise to a right, carried out in compliance with the rules on competence (the declaration in the present case is a declaration of intent without any material implementation) and on budgetary procedure.
An analysis of the declarations in the light of events between late June and December 2002 thus shows that the declarations could not constitute a promise, and does not show that the appropriate measures planned by the State were financial measures.
The report also states that the methodology used by NERA is based on "a highly theoretical approach which consists in assuming that the markets are efficient and in measuring the impact of an event by quantifying the variations in stock exchange prices at the time of that event.
The report stresses, moreover, that the NERA report is "confused about the profits, the sources of profits and the costs for France Télécom and its shareholders". (140) The report concludes by saying that the consultant's conclusions are wrong because: - "Analysis of the France Télécom group's situation at the time of the announcement of the results for the first half of 2002 shows that (i) the group has an unbalanced balance sheet and a short-term liquidity problem, but (ii) the business's operating results are very good. - Analysis of the range of measures a prudent shareholder must envisage in a situation of heavy indebtedness indicates that it was rational to introduce a recovery plan, including a recapitalisation, for a group with healthy assets whose intrinsic worth is greater than the sum of its market capitalisation and its net debt. - Analysis of value creation and profitability prospects suggest that the State is making a very good investment by participating in a capital increase and that it is taking little risk in providing a shareholder loan". 4.14.
Comments from ECTA (141) ECTA is of the opinion that the following measures constitute state aid: (i) the ministerial declarations of July and October 2002 informing the market that the State would not leave France Télécom in financial difficulties; (ii) the acceptance by the State of the payment of dividends for 2001 in shares and not in cash; (iii) the granting of a EUR 9 billion credit line and the advance commitment by the State to take part in the future capital increase; (iv) the provision by the State of a state guarantee for the benefit of ERAP enabling the latter to borrow on the markets at a rate of 3,375 % instead of the 10,4-10,9 % applicable to a company with junk bond status; and (v) the apparent transfer of France Télécom's employees within ERAP despite the fact that they continue to work for France Télécom. (142) The aid granted to France Télécom enabled it to maintain an aggressive marketing and advertising policy and to continue as an integrated operator while increasing its stake in Orange.
ECTA is of the opinion that a company in France Télécom's situation ought to have acted altogether differently, as did France Télécom's competitors in the global telecommunications services market, such as British Telecom and KPN, which had to dispose of strategic assets to reduce their debt. (143) ECTA is of the opinion that the measures mentioned in paragraph 141 constitute unlawful aid and that they cannot be justified under the Guidelines in so far as none of the criteria laid down in those guidelines are fulfilled.
As to behavioural measures, ECTA proposes a reduction in the market shares of France Télécom, Equant, Orange and Wanadoo, pointing out, however, that these latter measures are harder to introduce than structural measures. 5.
Comments from France 5.1.
Since the announcement of France Télécom's results for the first half of 2002, which highlighted an unbalanced financial structure and significant capital needs despite good operating results, the State has drawn the necessary conclusions, placing a new CEO at the head of the Company and gathering together a banking syndicate which undertook from September 2002 to underwrite a capital increase when the time came.
On the basis of the Ambition 2005 plan, about which the majority shareholder was kept regularly informed, and of the banking syndicate's commitment, the State announced, on 4 December 2002, its decision to participate in the strengthening of the Company's capital base to the tune of EUR 9 billion and the fact that it was prepared to place at France Télécom's disposal, through ERAP, an advance on this subscription remunerated at market rates.
However, in view of the financial terms of grant of this advance by the French authorities and of the Commission's misgivings about the presence of aid elements in the measure, France Télécom preferred to resort directly to the bond market. (145) The French authorities then point out that the total amount of the financing resulting from the bond issues came to approximately EUR 9 billion, equivalent to the maximum amount of the advance constituted by the shareholder loan.
They also state that the capital increase was launched as soon as was technically possible, namely on 24 March 2003, and that it was a success. (146) At the meeting between the French authorities and the Commission on 22 January 2004 the French authorities stressed that, in their view, the recapitalisation operation satisfied the prudent investor test and that, consequently, the financial measures granted by the State to France Télécom did not contain any aid element.
The Company's financial situation (147) The French authorities maintain that, when the decision to invest was taken, France Télécom was not a firm in difficulty within the meaning of the Guidelines.
The Company's turnover was increasing steadily (by 10 % between the first half of 2001 and the first half of 2002), and its gross cash flow was high and growing faster than its turnover.
Moreover, operating results and cash flow were increasing (with cash flow up 15 % on the first half of 2001).
France Télécom was therefore not in the situation referred to in the Guidelines in which shareholders' funds fall below the company capital. (149) France Télécom was not in a cessation of payments situation; there were merely signs of a possible liquidity requirement by the first half of 2003 should the expected market recovery not occur.
At the meeting on 22 January 2004, the French authorities indicated that France Télécom had had recourse to the syndicated loan, which was less expensive than the bond market and out of which EUR 4 billion had been made available to the Company. (150) The French authorities observe inter alia that France Télécom had access to the financial markets during the course of 2002 and describe all of the financing instruments at the Company's disposal between 11 July 2002 and 15 January 2003 [92].
They mention the fact that, on 14 February 2002, France Télécom negotiated the provision of a syndicated credit line of EUR 15 billion and that during the course of 2002 the Company issued bonds [93], EUR 442,2 million worth of which was repayable in shares. (151) The French authorities also state that France Télécom was not open to any financial risk owing to the downgrading of its credit rating by the rating agencies as there was no early repayment clause in the covenants. (152) Moreover, according to the concordant opinion of several consultant banks consulted between June and November 2002, France Télécom was, prior to the announcement of the Ambition 2005 plan and of the majority shareholder's support, able to refinance itself on the bond markets.
The French authorities thus indicate that, in July and September 2002 respectively, […] [94] and […] offered to refinance, through swap programmes starting in October or November, France Télécom's bond debts maturing between 2003 and 2005. (153) As to the statement by France Télécom's former CEO to the effect that the Company no longer had access to the market [95], the French authorities point out that his opinion was necessarily subjective in view of the circumstances. 5.3.
Duty of care of the State as shareholder (154) As regards the allegation that the State had failed in its duty of care as shareholder with regard to the Company's past conduct, the French authorities maintain that the argument to the effect that a prudent investor would not have found himself in the same situation as the French State is irrelevant as, according to well established case law, the Commission has to place its analysis at the time when the investment decision was taken, unless it can be shown that the State's past conduct involves aid elements, something which has not been claimed in the present case.
They also stress that the payment in shares of the dividends for 2001 was in keeping with the prudent private investor principle inasmuch as there was at that time a strong potential for an increase in the share price. 5.4.
Rationality of the TOP plan (155) The French authorities stress that, in the light of the above, the increase in the cash flow and the strengthening of the capital base provided for in the Ambition 2005 plan are components of a strategy that would have been followed by any prudent majority shareholder.
Hence, owing to the fact that the Company's fundamentals were healthy, France Télécom's situation cannot be compared to that of companies such as Vivendi Universal or Crédit Lyonnais. (156) As to the rationality of the TOP plan, the French authorities state that the plan in question represents a considerable effort on the Company's part.
The French authorities stress in this connection that the plan is an extremely precise one which makes possible an increase in the Company's profitability with a rate of return on investment (RRI) of 43 % in 2005 for those investors who participated in the April 2003 capital increase, that is, a much higher return than the reference RRI (11 %) expected by a private investor in the telecommunications sector.
As to the disposal plan, the French authorities state that the disposal of assets at the end of 2002 made it possible to carry forward any liquidity constraint to the end of 2003 without even having to resort to the financial markets.
Moreover, a disposal of strategic assets would not have been in the interests of France Télécom and its shareholders in the medium to long term. (157) The French authorities stress, lastly, that the strategies followed by competing operators are no more prudent and that a plan must be assessed, not in the light of the scope or strategic character of the assets whose disposal is being contemplated, but in that of the rationality of the plan as a whole.
Moreover, the success of the December 2002 and January 2003 bond issues confirmed a posteriori the confidence private investors place in the Company's operational potential. 5.5.
Application of the prudent investor principle to the participation in the strengthening of the Company's capital base (158) With regard to the application of the prudent private investor principle to the announcement by the State of its anticipated participation in the strengthening of the Company's capital base, the French authorities observe that they made their agreement conditional on the presentation, by the new management, of a new, credible rebalancing plan and on participation by the banks. (159) On compliance with the concomitance principle, the French authorities point out that, from the outset, the State shareholder took every step to ensure the concomitant participation of public and private shareholders and that it took no risk before private investors did.
Thus, the announcement of the State's intention to participate in the strengthening of the Company's capital base dates from 12 September 2002 [97], and on that date a banking syndicate had already undertaken to underwrite, when the time came, that part of a capital increase which was intended for private investors alongside the public shareholder, on condition that a credible rebalancing plan was announced to the market.
The French authorities stress that this condition was normal in view of France Télécom's unbalanced financial situation, the State's participation also being conditional on the announcement of a plan considered by the market to be credible.
The analysis of any making available of state funds must, in the French authorities' view, be carried out in the light of such private financing. (161) The French authorities maintain that the recapitalisation operation carried out on 24 March 2003 complies with the concomitance principle.
The banks' undertaking of September 2002 referred to in paragraph 159 was thus confirmed by the banking syndicate's formal guarantee in March 2003 and enabled the State to take no risk as regards the participation of private investors in the capital increase.
The French authorities stress that, in accordance with the judgment in Alitalia [98], the State did not commit itself formally prior to the banks' formal undertaking.
The private shareholder participation is significant at 40 %, which has been held by the Court of Justice to be in keeping with the concomitance principle.
The French authorities also mention that the commissions paid in the present case ([…] % of the total amount underwritten) are in keeping with the guidelines set out in the Alitalia decision of 19 June 2002 [99]. (162) As regards the expected return, the French authorities state that, as has already been indicated, compliance with the prudent private investor principle is also demonstrated by the high profitability prospects of the TOP plan, as confirmed by the plan's favourable reception by the market.
They maintain, moreover, that, when the investment decision was taken, France Télécom was not a firm in difficulty within the meaning of the Guidelines and that the Company had access to the financial markets during the second half of 2002. (163) The French authorities stress that the capital increase was effected as soon as it was technically possible to present to the State and to investors updated data on the Company's operational prospects, which demonstrates the State's choice of high-quality investors motivated by long-term return prospects.
The French authorities point out that the timetable constraints were technical constraints linked to France Télécom independent of any favourable stock market conditions. (164) The French authorities state that the operation was a success and that the fixed amount underwritten was more than five times that sought from the market. (165) The French authorities add that the amount of the recapitalisation is not a relevant factor and that all that matters is whether the operation was rational.
At all events, the amount in the present case was not excessive compared with, say, the capital increase in the case of KPN. (166) Concluding on this point, the French authorities stress that the capital increase seems already (the French authorities' comments date from July 2003) to be a prudent investment as France Télécom's share price has risen by almost 50 % compared with the rate of capital increase. (167) As to the repayment of the ERAP loan by the State as announced by the deputy Minister for the Budget in December 2002, it concerns only the modalities for investment by the State and has no impact on relations between the State, the shareholders and the Company. 5.6.
The shareholder loan (168) The French authorities maintain that the loan proposal was never signed by France Télécom owing to the excessive cost of the financial terms proposed to it and the fact that the Commission was raising doubts about the measure's lawfulness under the Treaty.
Consequently, no state resources were placed at the Company's disposal via the shareholder loan proposal.
The French authorities argue that the entry into force of the loan cannot be deduced from the announcement made by the State on 4 December 2002, which concerns only the commitment by the State shareholder to participate in the operation to strengthen the Company's capital base, mention being made only of the "possible" [100] provision of a shareholder loan. (169) The French authorities observe that, at all events, the loan proposal conferred no advantage on France Télécom. (170) The French authorities thus make clear that, in so far as it has not entered into force, the loan has not been used by the Company and therefore has not been able to postpone the Company's liquidity needs.
Moreover, bondholders have no recourse in the event of non-payment upon maturity.
Secondly, it is not possible to compare the announcement, by the State, of the possibility of its making an upfront prepayment towards the strengthening of the Company's capital base with the guarantee given in the above-mentioned Crédit Foncier de France decision because, inasmuch as the loan envisaged in the present case was hypothetical and strictly limited in duration and amount, it could not by itself resolve the Company's financial problems having regard to its debt repayment schedule.
Thirdly, the bond issues were determined solely by the market's perception of France Télécom's capacity to honour its commitments unaided by any state guarantee.
The confidence shown by the market at the time of the said bond issues is thus due essentially to the change in the management team and the favourable reception accorded to the new strategy revealed when the Ambition 2005 plan was presented. (172) As to compliance with the prudent investor principle in relation to any shareholder loan, the French authorities stress that, when the decision to take part in a capital increase was taken and the conditions therefor were met (credible plan and management, underwriting syndicate), it was logical that the State should make an upfront prepayment.
The repayment of the sum in shares was customary and was based on the cash value. (174) The French authorities state that, in accordance with the Alitalia judgment, rather than compare the strategy chosen by the public shareholder with alternative solutions involving less risk, the Commission should assess whether, in similar circumstances, a private investor could have taken such a measure. 5.7.
The French authorities point out that the State shareholder announced its intention to participate in the strengthening of the Company's capital base for the first time in September 2002 and that "this would take the form of a transaction followed by the market (reference to a timetable to be defined in the light of market conditions) [103]". (177) Concerning the declaration of 2 October 2002, the French authorities argue that this confirmed that the presentation of a credible plan was a precondition for the State's participation. (178) The French authorities state that, at all events, it was not possible "to deduce from the lack of precision of the State's declarations concerning France Télécom between July and October 2002, despite the State having indicated that it would act like a prudent investor, any intention on the State's part — nor a fortiori any commitment- to take measures which would contravene the Community rules on state aid.
Lastly, any factoring in by the rating agencies of the State's presence as majority shareholder irrespective of any implicit or explicit guarantee or of any specific measure and irrespective of the company's specific financial situation at any given moment cannot in itself be considered state aid.
Thus, the Company's share price rebounded on 2 October 2002 (up more than 10,4 % on the previous week) following the announcement of the appointment of the new CEO, indicative of a new operational management style, and the share price's progress continued upwards with the announcement of the TOP plan and of the new executive board on 5 December 2002, which led to a rise of more than 25 % in two days.
The French authorities maintain that the participation by the State in a strengthening of the capital base and in a possible shareholder loan constituted measures described in the press before 5 December 2002 and cannot therefore be considered as being behind the share price increase.
This perception led to a fall in the share price, which reached its lowest point on 30 September 2002 following a period of relative stability during the summer in the absence of any specific announcements or rumours.
A comparative analysis of the spreads of France Télécom and Deutsche Telekom since January 2002 shows a certain similarity throughout the period concerned: France Télécom's spreads narrowed in July 2002, reflecting the assessment of the telecoms risk independently of the State's declarations.
Moreover, the spreads widened in December 2002 following the announcement by the State of the operational measures it was considering taking.
The French authorities conclude that the movements in France Télécom's spreads are linked to trends in the telecommunications sector and that the State's declarations were not a decisive factor. (182) In response to the dispatch of the consultant's legal report and economic report on 9 and 10 June 2003, the French authorities maintained that remarks made by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance in an interview published in Les Échos on 12 July 2002 are outside the scope of the investigation procedure opened by the Commission on 30 January 2003.
At all events, they reserved the right to present to the Commission further expert opinions on the consultant's reports. (183) The French authorities have presented the following comments on the legal report: - They point out "first of all that the legal report is based on an erroneous (not to say tendentious) interpretation of the facts.
In particular, … the report manifestly twists — albeit clear — remarks made by the Minister for Economic Affairs in the course of an interview with a journalist published in July 2002.
The French authorities strongly contest that it is possible to propose interpretations as unfounded as these in order to draw legal conclusions and in particular to assert that there exists any guarantee granted by the State to France Télécom". - "They reiterate … that the State as shareholder in France Télécom has not only always intended to behave like a prudent investor with regard to France Télécom but has also chosen to express clearly and publicly that this position would be the point of departure for all of its potential actions in this area …".
The report is thus manifestly short on objectivity, adopting highly contestable legal analyses (for example regarding the characterisation of letters of intent and the scope of a unilateral commitment in civil and commercial law) and making an unjustified application to the facts at issue of certain irrelevant legal precepts (this is the case, for example, with the application of the theory of business management or of the rules of public international law in relations between a company and its majority shareholder". - "The legal report's finding of the existence of an "unlimited guarantee", granted by the State to France Télécom, is in any event totally baseless in Community law".
In accordance with the Compagnie nationale Air France judgment [107], the remarks in question cannot give rise to any firm and unconditional commitment on the part of the State.
With regard to the comparison between the Minister's July declarations and a letter of intent, the French authorities stress that "(i) firstly, it is of the essence of the letter of intent that it is addressed to a beneficiary; (ii) secondly, and as an extension of the preceding observation, the effectiveness of the method is dependent on acceptance by the said beneficiary; and (iii), lastly, the scope of the commitment given (both as regards its object and as regards the force which its author wishes to give to it) depends exclusively on the terms employed". "Thus … the general — to say the least — character of the Minister's remarks … rules out without doubt any commitment in favour of France Télécom or its creditors, and a fortiori any obligation as to the result to be achieved (and hence any idea of guarantee) as well as any obligation as to the means". "The Minister's reply … only confirms that no decision — other than to act like a "prudent investor" — had as yet been taken by the State shareholder, which, while trusting in the operational quality of the company, was not at that time able to make a sufficiently accurate diagnosis or to take any decision". "The courts have … never held that a guarantee commitment without a specific beneficiary or beneficiaries may thus be relied upon by any person who might have an interest therein.
Moreover, this argument would result in unjustified discrimination between the Community institutions and the Member States. "It is a principle of Community law that no person may rely even on promises made by a Community institution in the absence of "specific, unconditional and concordant assurances, emanating from authorised, reliable sources, given to him by the administration"" [108]. - "More fundamentally, the approach adopted by the legal consultant is likely to undermine the principle of neutrality enshrined in Article 295 of the EC Treaty and would make it impossible to apply the prudent investor test.
If the consultant's reasoning were taken to its logical conclusion, any public intervention by a State in relation to a public undertaking would thus constitute aid and a State would therefore always be presumed to act as a public authority and not in the capacity of a shareholder in the undertaking". (184) The French authorities have presented the following comments on the economic report: - "The economic consultant's conclusions have no intrinsic validity inasmuch as they are based exclusively on the mistaken premiss (contained in the legal report) that France Télécom received an "unlimited guarantee" from the State". - "Moreover … the economic report in no way shows that the company enjoyed any advantage over its competitors". - "The microeconomic method of the event study used by the economic consultant raises a number of fundamental issues, including the use of the very short-term trend in the share price as the sole measure of changes in the value of the company contrary to recognised usage (including by the Community courts [109] regarding valuation, and this despite the fact that the manifest errors committed recently by the markets in assessing the value of telecommunications operators call for, to say the least, serious caution.
The consultant's report can also be criticised for "the unjustified heterogeneousness of the method of reconstituting the "normal" movement" in shares and bonds, or the lack of care taken by the consultant in giving prominence to a "normal" trend in market indebtedness on the basis of certain highly illiquid bond lines or in extrapolating the market value of a few bonds from the totality of the debt.
The calculation takes no account of the specific rarity of CDSs during the period studied, which explains the excessive reactivity of that instrument (compared, for instance, with bond spreads) and rules it out as a suitable measuring stick over that period. - "The economic consultant's conclusions as to the existence of supposed aid granted to France Télécom are based, moreover, on errors of reasoning and stem from a confusion between the alleged increase in the theoretical market value of the company, the profit derived from that increase by shareholders and debtors, and the conferment of a supposed advantage on the company". "The consultant proceeds on the assumption that state aid increases the value of the company receiving it … [whereas] it should not be overlooked that market operators are nowadays fully aware of the risks which the grant of incompatible aid poses for a company … Consequently, … if it were to be perceived by the markets as unlawful, the grant of aid might lead to … a fall in the company's share price and hence in its market value". - "Such conclusions, which are based exclusively on an ex post analysis of the alleged "guarantee" granted by the State to France Télécom, are, moreover, incompatible with the assessment of the investor criterion, which calls for an ex ante evaluation". - "Last but not least, the economic report observes, as if there was any need to, that France Télécom was not a firm in difficulty at the time of the events in question (as it had access to the capital markets and no long-term viability problem) and that the participation by the State shareholder in the plan to rebalance the company's balance sheet was in keeping with the private investor criterion, thereby confirming the absence of any aid element in the financial measures forming the subject-matter of the Commission's investigation". 6.
Object of the present Decision (185) On 4 December 2002, the Commission received notification of a shareholder loan proposal which France was considering implementing in favour of France Télécom by way of an upfront prepayment towards its participation in a forthcoming operation to increase the Company's capital as part of a recovery plan entitled "Ambition 2005".
From a material point of view, there is no legal reason to limit the examination of the relevant facts to the facts which the Member State has decided to mention in the notification.
Inasmuch as the conduct of economic operators was itself influenced by the conduct of the State, it does not constitute an objective parameter for then judging the conduct of the State.
These prior interventions must therefore be taken into account in analysing the presence of aid in the December measures. (187) It is possible to view the successive declarations and measures of the French authorities from July 2002 onwards as forming a set which took concrete shape in the December measures (making available of a shareholder loan), these being the measures which were notified.
Of course, aid can be said to exist only in so far as the various elements of the aid concept are present (selective advantage, state resources, and effect on trade and competition). (188) The analysis of the present case suggests at first sight the existence of a time lag between the advantages for the Company, which were particularly distinct in July, and the potential commitment of state resources, which seems to be more clearly established in December.
The argument to the effect that the July 2002 declarations are aid is therefore innovative, but probably not without foundation. (189) The Commission does not, however, have sufficient evidence in the present case to establish irrefutably the existence of aid on the basis of this innovative argument.
On the other hand, it does consider that it can establish the existence of aid elements by following a more traditional approach, taking as a basis the December measures which were the subject-matter of the notification. (190) For one thing, the existence of a commitment of state resources is clear in December.
If such is the case, this conduct on the part of economic operators cannot be taken as a neutral point of comparison from which to judge the State's conduct.
The concept of aid refers to state measures which, in any form whatsoever, are likely directly or indirectly to favour certain undertakings or products in an appreciable way and which threaten, even potentially, to distort competition [112].
According to well established case law, the concept of aid embraces not only subsidies themselves, but also interventions which, in various forms, mitigate the charges which are normally included in the budget of an undertaking and which, without therefore being subsidies in the strict meaning of the word, are similar in character and have the same effect [113].
Consequently, these provisions must be interpreted not on the basis of formal criteria but rather by reference to their purpose, which, according to Article 3(g) of the Treaty, is to ensure that competition is not distorted [116]. (193) For a measure to qualify as aid, several elements must be present: a selective advantage, granted through state resources, which distorts or threatens to distort competition and trade between Member States. (194) As regards the advantage, the Commission would observe that the shareholder loan (which constitutes the upfront prepayment by the State towards the Company's recapitalisation), confers an advantage on France Télécom as it enables it to increase its means of financing and to reassure the market as to its capacity to meet its maturities.
This may have influenced France Télécom's borrowing terms. (195) As to the condition relating to state resources, the Commission would point out that the fact that an advantage results from the giving of a state commitment leading to a potential, but not immediate, transfer of resources does not rule out the possibility that the advantage may have been granted through state resources. "In that respect, it should first be noted that, according to settled case-law, it is not necessary to establish in every case that there has been a transfer of State resources for the advantage granted to one or more undertakings to be capable of being regarded as a State aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) EC" [118].
Thus, even an advantage granted through a potential additional burden for the State constitutes state aid where it affects competition and trade between Member States [119]. (196) Contrary to what the French authorities and France Télécom maintain, the Commission finds that a potential additional burden on the State's resources was created by the announcement of the provision of the shareholder loan coupled with the fulfilment of the preconditions for such provision [120], by the impression given to the market that the loan had actually been provided [] and, lastly, by the dispatch to France Télécom of the loan contract initialled and signed by ERAP [].
Inasmuch as it could not be unaware of this, the State accordingly had to keep at France Télécom's disposal through ERAP the amount of the corresponding resources. (197) The Commission must therefore consider whether the advantage thus granted to France Télécom satisfies the prudent private investor test and whether it affects competition and trade between Member States. (198) The advantage which the measures at issue procured for France Télécom enabled the Company to mitigate or partly avoid the consequences normally flowing from its unbalanced financial situation.
It must be concluded that, in a competitive sector like telecommunications, the advantages enjoyed by France Télécom distort or threaten to distort competition to a particularly appreciable extent. (199) When state financial aid strengthens the position of an undertaking compared with other undertakings competing in intra-Community trade, the latter must be regarded as affected by that aid [].
Similarly, where a Member State grants aid to undertakings operating in the service and distribution industries, it is not necessary for the recipient undertakings themselves to carry on their business outside the Member State for the aid to have an effect on Community trade []. (200) In so far as France Télécom operates in markets which have been gradually opened up to competition since the end of the 1980s, the declarations made by the Government as from July 2002 are likely to affect trade between Member States.
Many are the operators in this sector who, like France Télécom, are active in more than one Member State []. (201) It follows from the above that the measures in question are likely to affect trade between Member States. (202) The prudent private investor principle is discussed in Section 8 as part of the examination of all the declarations made by the Government during the months preceding the loan proposal. 8.
The content of these declarations and the impact they had on the market show that the State had decided as early as July to support the Company. (204) The Commission would point out first of all that Community law recognises in general the importance of promises and declarations made by the State for the application of the rules on state aid [].
On 12 July 2002, Les Échos published an interview with the French Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance in which the Minister confirmed more than once that if France Télécom were to have any financing problems, then the State would take whatever measures were necessary to overcome them.
We are the majority shareholder, with 55 % of the capital, there is clearly no question of our "renationalising" the company, as I have sometimes heard it said.
The focus became narrower [] with each subsequent declaration, culminating in the indication of the detailed arrangements for implementing the commitment to resolve France Télécom's financing problems (amount of the capital increase and state participation, shareholder loan, support for the Company's refinancing capacity before the recapitalisation) which formed the subject-matter of France's notification.
The first press release of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance dated 13 September 2002 spells out how the State will participate in the future increase in France Télécom's capital: "The State will support the plan's implementation and contribute to a very substantial strengthening of the company's capital base, according to a timetable and in a manner to be determined in the light of market conditions".
The same remarks are made in the press release of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance of 2 October 2002: "The State will assist in the implementation of the recovery measures and will contribute to the strengthening of the company's capital base in a manner to be determined in close collaboration with the company's chairman and board.
The press release of 4 December also focuses on these two aspects, namely, the participation in the capital increase and the refinancing of the Company through a shareholder loan in the form of a credit line []. (206) Taken as a whole, these declarations may be regarded as having made public the State's intention whereby, if France Télécom had any financing problems or financial difficulties, it, the State, would do whatever was necessary to overcome them.
As will be seen in Section 9, it was already clear at the time of the first of these declarations that France Télécom was experiencing structural financial difficulties as reflected in its unbalanced balance sheet.
The established inadequacy of the cash flow and undue optimism about the non-strategic asset disposals continued to have an impact on France Télécom's share price and on the rating of its debt [].
In any event, as indicated in paragraph 205, the remarks reported in the press were subsequently neither contradicted or amended by the Minister nor denied by the Government. (208) The Commission considers that these public declarations are sufficiently clear, precise and firm for them to attest to the existence of a credible commitment on the part of the State.
Consequently, the phrases in question cannot be regarded as conditions precedent when the condition precedent is, by definition, a future, uncertain event [].
The only mention of the prudent investor concept is to be found in the Standard %amp% Poor's press release of 12 July 2002, and then only as a quotation of the Minister's remarks; the interpretation of the Minister's remarks by the agency which follows the quotation is different [].
Nor is it taken up by the press releases of other rating agencies such as Moody's, which in any event see in the ministerial declarations an indication of the State's firm commitment to support France Télécom by whatever means.
The Commission would stress the clear contradiction in the French authorities' arguments.
In view of the Company's financial situation, the financial analyses and the private shareholder resources, this suggests that the State intends to give France Télécom financial support (a change of management could by no means be considered sufficient, as was subsequently confirmed by the content of the Ambition 2005 plan).
On the other hand, when the French authorities maintain that the measures are not financial, this suggests that they intended to act in their capacity as a public authority. (211) As to the French authorities' argument based on the Compagnie nationale Air France judgment [], according to which the remarks at issue cannot imply a firm and unconditional commitment on the part of the State as they are not sufficiently precise, this argument is based on a confusion between the question of the date of the commitment and the assessment of that commitment in the light of the prudent private investor principle.
As far as the date of the commitment is concerned, the Commission would point out that the case law does not rule out the possibility that a firm commitment may exist prior to all the precise implementing arrangements being known.
On the other hand, what the Court of First Instance of the European Communities stresses is that a private investor in general would not take an irrevocable investment decision as long as the final details of the investment have not been fixed. (212) The other relevant circumstances surrounding the said declarations confirm the clarity and firmness of the Minister's message and the will of the State to commit itself in full knowledge of all the facts.
The urgency due to the Company's financial situation confirms the existence of a firm decision by the State to support France Télécom.
During the first half of 2002, France Télécom saw its credit rating downgraded following publication of its 2001 annual accounts.
The lowest point in the downgrading of France Télécom's credit rating was reached on 24 June 2002 when Moody's downgraded the Company's rating to just above that of junk bond, thereby making it very difficult for it to refinance its debt [].
In fact, the State's intervention had the effect of preventing any downgrading of the Company's credit rating to that of junk bond status, as is, moreover, clearly stated in S %amp% P's press release of 12 July 2002, where the assurances provided by the State are hailed as being a key factor in France Télécom's not being reduced to junk bond status. (213) In conclusion, while each of these declarations taken separately might not suffice to prove the existence of a decision by the State to support France Télécom, taken together they do seem to suggest that such a decision exists (being embodied in the offer of the shareholder loan to France Télécom upfront of the State's participation in a future recapitalisation).
Such was at all events the view taken by the markets.
The firm character of that decision would be confirmed in the event of its being established that the declarations are binding under domestic law and are capable of placing the State's credibility on the line. (214) First of all, the Commission has studied the question whether, under domestic law, a private investor who has made the same declarations as the State would be obliged to keep his promises.
In view of the fact that, in the present case, the investor is the State, the study of domestic law also included administrative law. (215) The Commission commissioned an expert report on the subject and it also received several reports from third parties.
Thus, the declarations by the French Government, starting from those of July 2002, are the expression of a strategy based on the reputation of the State.
This strategy consists in entering into credible commitments in the short and the long term.
This loss of reputation will involve almost certain economic costs for the same operator when he tries to borrow again on the capital markets (assuming he still finds someone prepared to grant him a loan) or when he acts as owner or manager of a company [].
The argument to the effect that the French authorities' declarations as from July 2002 are aid is therefore innovative, but probably not without foundation. (219) Nevertheless, the Commission is not of the opinion that it can establish irrefutably the existence of aid on this basis.
It does, on the other hand, consider that it can demonstrate the presence of aid elements in a more conventional manner taking as a basis the December 2002 measures which were the subject of the notification.
In this respect, it is sufficient to establish that the prior declarations had a real impact on the perception of the markets in December, without having to characterise these prior declarations as being in themselves state aid. (220) In the present case, the market's reaction and the comments by financial analysts confirm that the market regarded these declarations as a credible strategy of commitment by the State to support France Télécom. (221) As to the market's reaction, NERA states that the event study carried out of the announcement of 12 July 2002 shows that that announcement led to an abnormal and not negligible increase in the value of France Télécom's shares and bonds.
As to the comments by financial analysts, Deutsche Bank, for example, mentioned several times in a report published on 22 July 2002 that the State's support was decisive in preventing a crisis [] and that the market was convinced, in the light of the Government's declarations, of the state support that would be provided by the Government to France Télécom [] (even if the market did query the scope and modalities of that support) [].
Similarly, S %amp% P considered the Government's declarations to be credible to the point of influencing the Company's credit rating.
The fact that the State's support, proclaimed as from July 2002, was credible to the point of enabling France Télécom's credit rating to remain at investment-grade quality is also corroborated by France Télécom itself [].
In fact, ever since S %amp% P's press release of 13 July 2002, the rating agencies were all agreed that the support shown by the State since July 2002 was decisive in maintaining France Télécom's investment-grade credit quality.
The maintenance of France Télécom's investment-grade credit quality thus enabled the Company to avoid additional financial costs [] on the funds it had already borrowed owing to the existence of step-up clauses [] in some bond issues and on future borrowings.
A downgrading of France Télécom's credit rating would have rendered any shareholder loan improbable or at the very least more costly. (223) The Commission would note that, inasmuch as they seek to show that the shareholder loan taken in isolation and disregarding the events preceding it satisfies the prudent investor test, the French authorities' comments might seem at first sight not to be altogether without foundation.
The Commission would stress that, for the reasons given below, the decision to act upfront of the capital increase operation by granting a shareholder loan cannot be analysed independently of the above-mentioned declarations. (224) In this connection, the Commission would recall that the State had declared in July 2002 that it wished to take the necessary steps to enable the Company to overcome its financing difficulties.
The Commission would point out in this connection that the State's declarations were decisive in maintaining the Company's investment-grade credit quality and that a junk bond rating would have made the shareholder loan more unlikely and certainly much more costly. (226) In this sense, the State's decision to act upfront of the Company's recapitalisation by granting a credit line ultimately constitutes a concretisation of the State's announcements. (227) The Commission would stress first of all that it is aware that the operation to recapitalise France Télécom carried out in April 2003 was a success and that the shareholder loan was never actually made.
It would point out also that, in applying the prudent private investor test, the Commission generally enquires whether a prudent private investor of a size comparable to that of the public investor would have acted in a similar manner to the public investor.
The success of the operation in March-April 2003 cannot therefore be taken into account in assessing the State's conduct in December 2002.
What is more, the application of the principle of the prudent private investor in a market economy cannot be based on the market situation in December, but must logically be based on the situation of a market uncontaminated by prior declarations and interventions. (228) It seems logical, therefore, to examine the decisions in question from the angle of the situation prior to July 2002.
If the decisions in question are thus analysed in the context of the situation prior to July 2002, it would appear that they do not satisfy the prudent private investor test.
The support announced by the French Government beginning with its July 2002 declarations was therefore in the nature of a unilateral move by the State at a time when the market was somewhat sceptical about the Company's capacity to redress its financial situation [] and when financial analysts were recommending caution over participating in a possible operation to strengthen the Company's capital base []. (229) In the light of the Company's financial situation as described in this Decision, the overall context of loss of market confidence at the time and the lack of any credible and realistic debt-reduction plan until December, the Commission considers it improbable that a private investor would, from July 2002, have made declarations similar to those made by the French Government, likely as they were, from a purely economic point of view, to seriously place his credibility and reputation on the line and, from a legal point of view, to even oblige him from that date to support the Company financially come what may.
Such a reference shareholder would in any case have needed the financial markets' help in setting the company to rights, and the markets did not at that time seem prepared to invest in or grant much in the way of credit to France Télécom.
The Commission would point out that an explicit reservation to the effect that any subsequent intervention would be notified in advance to the Commission and implemented only after it had been approved would render the declarations conditional and would thus make it possible to examine the subsequent intervention by the State on the basis of the market situation existing at the time of its adoption. (230) It follows from all of the above considerations that the test of the prudent private investor in a market economy is not satisfied.
Consequently, the advantage conferred on France Télécom by the proposal to grant a shareholder loan — examined in the light of the prior declarations and interventions of the French authorities — constitutes state aid, even if the scale of the advantage is difficult to calculate. 9.
COMPATIBILITY OF THE AID (231) As to the compatibility of the aid in question, the Commission would point out first of all that its analysis as set out in paragraphs 122 and 123 of the opening decision is still applicable in the present case.
Consequently, the aid's compatibility with the common market may be analysed in accordance with the criteria applied in the Guidelines. (232) The Commission would observe that France Télécom was a firm in difficulty within the meaning of the guidelines, as can be seen from Table 10.
Table 10 France Télécom Consolidated balance sheet Source: France Télécom Annual Reports 1999, 2002, 2003. (Amounts in EUR million) (1998 data, EUR 1 = FRF 6,55957) | | Financial year ended 31 December | LIABILITIES | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | Share capital | 4615 | 4615 | 4761 | Additional paid–in capital | 24228 | 24228 | 24750 | Reserves | 2748 | 4682 | –5434 | Group's share of net result | 3660 | –8280 | –20736 | Conversion reserve | 59 | 844 | 3315 | Own shares | –2153 | –5002 | –9977 | Shareholders' equity | 33157 | 21087 | 9951 | Minority interests | 2036 | 8101 | 9780 | Non–reimbursable funds and the like | — | — | — | Long– and medium–term debt | 30547 | 54543 | 46898 | Other long–term liabilities | 5220 | 8663 | 14978 | Total long–term liabilities | 35767 | 63206 | 61876 | Current portion of long– and medium–term debt | 7542 | 1596 | 13495 | Bank overdrafts and other short–term borrowings | 25165 | 11365 | 10490 | Trade accounts payable | 7618 | 8631 | 8503 | Accrued expenses and other payables | 7729 | 7259 | 7395 | Other current liabilities | 8113 | 2481 | 1712 | Deferred income taxes | 512 | 374 | 87 | Deferred income | 1946 | 3258 | 3200 | Total current liabilities | 58625 | 34964 | 44882 | Total liabilities | 129585 | 127358 | 106587 | (233) According to the letter of the Guidelines, which refer to the registered capital, the relevant indicators for the purposes of characterising France Télécom as a firm in difficulty do not include all the elements constituting the own capital but are limited to the share capital and the additional paid-in capital. (234) On 31 December 2001, according to this definition, the registered capital came to EUR 28,8 billion (corresponding to EUR 4,6 billion of share capital plus EUR 24,2 billion of additional paid-in capital). (235) On 31 December 2002, the registered capital came to EUR 29,5 billion (corresponding to EUR 4,8 billion of share capital plus EUR 24,7 billion of additional paid-in capital).
If account were taken of the negative reserves of EUR 8,9 billion, the result would be a loss of the entire registered capital. (236) Hence it must be concluded that France Télécom was a firm in difficulty within the meaning of the Guidelines. (237) This finding is borne out by an analysis of point 6 of the Guidelines.
They include qualitative criteria such as increasing losses, diminishing turnover, declining cash flow, mounting debt, rising interest charges and falling or nil net asset value []. (238) As to the French authorities' arguments concerning the growth in the operational elements, the Commission would point out that a company's balance sheet, operating results and future cash flow forecasts are elements forming an integral part of a company's assessment.
Thus, contrary to what the French authorities maintain, the Company's cash flow growth cannot be viewed in isolation.
The above-mentioned HSBC report states, moreover, that, even with the TOP plan, the Company's financing requirement would be for EUR 21,9 billion in 2004 and 2005; without the TOP plan, the requirement would be for EUR 33 billion over the same period.
Table 11 France Télécom Consolidated balance sheet Source: Rapports Annuels France Telecom 2001, 2002. (Amounts in EUR million) (1998 data, EUR 1 = FRF 6,55957) | | 2001 | 2002 | Turnover | 43026 | 46630 | Cost of services and products sold | (17619) | (18558) | Selling and administrative expenses | (12520) | (12579) | Research and development expenses | (567) | (576) | Operating income/loss before amortisation of fixed assets and of actuarial adjustments in the early retirement plan (EBITDA) | 12320 | 14917 | Operating income/loss (EBIT) | 5200 | 6808 | Interest expenses, net (excluding perpetual bonds redeemable for shares — TDIRA) | (3847) | (4041) | Interest expenses on TDIRA | — | — | Foreign exchange gain/loss, net | (337) | 136 | Discounting of early retirement plan | (229) | (216) | Current income/loss from integrated companies | 787 | 2687 | Other non-operating income (expense), net | (5904) | (12849) | Corporation tax | 2932 | (2499) | Employee profit-sharing | (131) | (148) | Net income/loss from integrated companies | (2316) | (12809) | Equity in net income/loss of affiliates | (890) | (367) | Goodwill amortisation | (2531) | (2352) | Exceptional goodwill amortisation | (3257) | (5378) | Net income/loss of the consolidated group | (8994) | (20906) | Minority interests | 714 | 170 | Résultat net (Part du groupe) | (8280) | (20736) | (239) Analysis of the various criteria mentioned in paragraph 237 shows that France Télécom was incurring growing losses in 2001 and 2002.
Moreover, France Télécom's net financial liabilities (see Table 12) came to EUR 63,5 billion on 31 December 2001, EUR 69,7 billion on 30 June 2002 and EUR 68,0 billion on 31 December 2002.
Table 12 Source: France Télécom annual reports and consolidated balance sheets as at 30 June 2002 (EUR billion) | | 31.12.2001 | 30.6.2002 | 31.12.2002 | Total long-term liabilities | 63,2 | 64,3 | 61,8 | Current portion of liabilities | 1,6 | 9,2 | 13,5 | Bank overdrafts and other short-term borrowings | 11,4 | 13,8 | 10,5 | Gross liabilities | 76,2 | 87,3 | 85,8 | Marketable securities | (1,1) | (0,1) | (-) | Cash | (2,9) | (2,3) | (2,8) | Other long-term liabilities | (8,7) | (15,2) | (15,0) | Net financial liabilities | 63,5 | 69,7 | 68,0 | (240) The Commission would also stress the growth in net interest expenses from EUR 2 billion in 2000 to EUR 3,8 billion in 2001 and EUR 4 billion in 2002. (241) The net asset value which corresponds to the share capital value fell from EUR 33,2 billion on 31 December 2000 to EUR 21 billion on 31 December 2001 and reached minus EUR 10 billion on 31 December 2002. (242) It follows, therefore, that, of the six criteria mentioned in point 6 of the Guidelines as being signs of a company's poor health, four are satisfied. (243) Finally, the Company's financial difficulties are confirmed by the difficulties it had in 2002 in refinancing itself on suitable terms on the capital market.
The negative outlook increases the possibility of the company becoming a fallen angel, if it is unable to solve its debt problem" []. (246) A report by JP Morgan dated 2 December 2002 also seems to confirm that, without the State's support, France Télécom would not have been capable of obtaining fresh capital on the market in order to refinance its debt.
The report states: "We continue to view FT's risk/reward profile as unattractive pending the outcome of a strategy review. … Although we see significant scope for FT to cut costs and deliver a compelling yield and even though the CEO has strong track record execution, the government role in giving FT the flexibility it requires is pivotal.
In the meantime, liquidity risk remains and in our view, a right issue is a matter of when not if. … The government's role will again be pivotal in refinancing and reducing this debt.
However it is liquidity or refinancing risk that is the near-term focus of FT and rating agencies alike, with a daunting refinancing schedule ahead in 2003. […] This would be impossible without government intervention — even FT acknowledged this in its Q3 conference call" (emphasis added). (247) Two reports by Goldman Sachs and SG Equity Research confirm that it was only after the series of declarations by the State that the capital market allowed France Télécom to refinance itself on suitable terms.
Global Equity Research stated on 20 February 2003 that: "[the] immediate liquidity issues are solved: since the government's upfront prepayment of its €15bn equity offering in the form of a €9bn standby facility, FT has been able to re-access the debt capital markets to solve its immediate liquidity challenges". (248) The financial analysts' views are borne out by statements by the Company's then CEO, Mr Bon, as reported in several press articles [], and by the French authorities themselves at the time of their December 2002 notification [].
Although the French authorities maintain that the opinion of France Télécom's former CEO is irrelevant in view of the circumstances in which it was formulated, it nevertheless remains that that opinion was borne out by the new CEO appointed in October 2002 when, at his hearing on 5 December 2002 before the Senate finance committee, he also stated that the group was in a worrying situation: "Despite being faced with huge debts, the company did not seem to have woken up to the fact that its credit rating was being downgraded, that it no longer had access to the capital markets ..." []. (249) Similarly, the documents furnished by the French authorities to illustrate France Télécom's access to the markets are unconvincing.
The exchange offer by […], which was dated July 2002 and which is said to have been made to France Télécom on the 17th of that month, thus contains only preliminary remarks on a possible exchange transaction [] and mentions only an indicative price of Euribor + 380 base points and a coupon of 8,50 % [].
The September 2002 offer by […] was not signed by the parties and contains no refinancing rate.
The syndicated loan to which the French authorities refer in their comments of 22 January 2004 dates from 14 February 2002, that is to say, from before the downgrading of France Télécom's credit rating by the rating agencies.
This situation was confirmed, moreover, by the French authorities in their comments of 22 January 2004, when they stated that recourse to the syndicated loan was less costly for France Télécom than access to the bond market. (252) In the light of all the above considerations, the Commission is of the opinion that France Télécom must be considered, during the first half of 2002, to have been a firm in difficulty within the meaning of the Guidelines []. (253) However, the measures at issue cannot be characterised as aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty as they do not fulfil the conditions for authorisation laid down in the Guidelines.
On the contrary, the French authorities have always denied that France Télécom should be characterised as a firm in difficulty and have stressed the Company's good operational health. (254) The measures at issue cannot constitute rescue aid.
Similarly, the aid must be justified by serious social reasons, but the Commission has no evidence in its possession to suggest that, in the absence of such aid, a situation of social distress would have been brought about.
Rescue aid must be repaid within 12 months of the date of the last payment; however, repayment in France Télécom shares cannot constitute repayment within the meaning of the Guidelines, being instead a mere capital injection as there is no guarantee that the shares' nominal value will correspond to the aid amount.
Inasmuch, therefore, as the credit line was opened for a period of 18 months, the period authorised has been exceeded. (255) Nor can the measures at issue constitute restructuring aid.
In response to a request made by the Commission at the time of the opening decision, the French authorities submitted the Ambition 2005 plan.
RECOVERY OF THE AID (257) In the light of the above, the shareholder loan of December 2002 constitutes state aid incompatible with the common market.
Although reference to the market situation before the July 2002 declarations makes it possible to factor in the effect on the markets of the prior declarations of the French authorities, it does not make it possible to isolate that effect from any other effects of events such as the change of France Télécom's management or the Ambition 2005 plan.
In these particular circumstances, respect for the Member State's rights of defence might constitute an obstacle to recovery pursuant to Article 14(1) of Regulation (EC) No 659/1999, according to which "the Commission shall not require recovery of the aid if this would be contrary to a general principle of Community law". (262) This conclusion also seems to follow from the principle of legitimate expectation.
In so far as the aid depends, as a result, on conduct which preceded the notification of the shareholder loan proposal, a diligent operator could have had confidence in the lawfulness of the conduct of the Member State concerned, which, for its part, had duly notified the loan proposal.
As Advocate General Darmon stated in his Opinion in Case C 5/89 [], "the doubts with which some undertakings may be assailed, when faced with "atypical" forms of aid, as to whether notification is necessary should not be made light of". (264) In conclusion, the Commission finds that France Télécom could legitimately have confidence in France's conduct not constituting state aid.
In the light of the above, the Commission considers that, in the present case, ordering the aid's recovery would be contrary to the general principles of Community law. 11.
Article 2 The aid referred to in Article 1 does not have to be recovered.
They include an economic study, a study on English law, a study on American law and a study on French law concerning the binding force of declarations by the State. [16] Containing the expert reports described in point 4.13. [17] The State still holds the majority of France Télécom's capital.
The measure gives a level of the adequacy of cash flow generation and the consequent comfort a company enjoys in meeting its interest payments" [23] NERA: "Calculations based on data supplied by France Telecom.
Figures include bond and commercial paper interest and principal (interest on commercial paper was computed from 25 July 2002 to 31 December 2003 due to data unavailability for previous dates)" [24] "Credit ratings are used by investors as indications of the likelihood of repayment in accordance with the terms on which they invested.
Thus, the use of credit ratings defines their function: "investment grade" ratings (international long-term "AAA" — "BBB" categories; short-term "F1" — "F3") indicate a relatively low probability of default, while those in the "speculative" or "non-investment grade" categories (international long-term "BB" — "D"; short-term "B" — "D") may signal a higher probability of default or that a default has already occurred" (Fitch Rating's Internet site: http://www.fitchratings.com/). [25] Moody's: "Moody's places France Telecom and Orange's long-term debt ratings on review for downgrade — Approximately EUR 60 billion of Debt Securities Affected… The France Telecom ratings under review for possible downgrade relate to the following: Convertible global bonds, Euro MTNs, Eurobonds, Floating Rate Euro MTNs, Floating Rate French Franc Bonds, French Bonds, Swiss Franc Bonds, its issuer rating and bank loan rating….
any resulting rating action should not exceed more than one notch". [26] "France Telecom's Long-Term "BBB+" Rating Placed on CreditWatch Negative; A-2 Rating Affirmed… The action follows news that the German stock-exchange regulatory authority will investigate a possible agreement between France Telecom, the main shareholder — Gerhard Schmid — of France Telecom's 28,5 % -owned German associate Mobilcom AG, and a consortium of European banks regarding the conditions for a change in control of Mobilcom". [27] "Moody's Investors Service has today placed the Prime-2 short-term rating of France Telecom (FT) on review for possible downgrade as a result of the rating agency's decision to expand the scope of the ongoing review of FT.
This indication is still valid today". [29] "… Despite expectations that FT's EBITDA will grow to around €14 billion in 2002, FT's substantial interest and capex requirements means the company is not expected to generate material free cashflow for deleveraging in the near term.
Although Moody's does not have any immediate liquidity concerns, the rating agency notes that FT faces around €15 billion of total long-term debt maturities in 2003". [30] "Standard %amp% Poor's said today that it has lowered its long- and short-term corporate credit ratings on France Telecom (FT) to triple-"B"/"A-3" from triple-"B"-plus/"A-2".
The long-term ratings on both companies remain on CreditWatch with negative implications, where they were placed on March 28, 2002, reflecting FT's challenging refinancing needs, including €15 billion of financial obligations in 2003". [31] Fitch reduced France Télécom's rating on 5 July 2002 and S %amp% P reduced it on 12 July.
Even so, on p. 25 of their letter, the French authorities estimate at EUR 15 billion the amount of outstanding bonds coming due in 2003.
See also the report by Goldman Sachs of 26.9.2002, which explained that the debt had been "amassed through a series of transactions in 2000, mainly the acquisition of Orange and the Mobilcom joint venture". [43] Above-mentioned commission of enquiry: "In the case of Orange, which contributed decisively to the explosion of the group's debt".Senate information report No 274, attached to the minutes of the sitting of 21.2.2002: "On 29 May 2000, France Télécom and the Vodafone group concluded an agreement whereby France Télécom was to acquire, from Mannesmann, all the shares comprising the capital of Orange plc, the British mobile telecommunications operator.
On the basis of this agreement, the total cost of acquiring Orange plc comes to EUR 35472 million".See also the report of the above-mentioned commission of enquiry: "The 43,2 billion purchase (reduced to EUR 35,4 billion in February 2001) was financed half in cash (EUR 21,5 billion) and half by the exchange of shares (EUR 18,1 billion).
This contribution, which initially took the form of an irrevocable guaranteed loan, was payable by France Télécom even in the event of failure to obtain the UMTS licence.In addition, as part of a cooperation agreement of which your Rapporteur has become aware, France Télécom undertook to give Mobilcom, without restriction, the financial support necessitated by participation in the bidding mechanism and the development of UMTS activity in Germany ...
The relevant part of the press release states: "Moody's have taken increased comfort from the government's statement, which once again confirmed their strong support for FT.
Whilst Moody's concerns regarding the overall level of financial risk and particularly FT's weak liquidity position remain, Moody's has grown more comfortable with expectation that the French government will act in a supportive manner, if FT started to encounter difficulties with its debt repayment schedule" (emphasis added). [50] Press release of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance of 2.10.2002, France Télécom. [51] France Télécom press release of 5.12.2002, p. 1. [52] P. 27 of the French authorities' letter of 3.12.2002. [53] Press release of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance of 4.12.2002, State support for the action plan approved by France Télécom's board of directors. [54] See also France Télécom's annual report for 2002: "On July 29, 2002, France Télécom issued a bond that is only redeemable in STMicroelectronics shares at a rate of 6,75 % and for a total amount of €442 million and maturing on August 6, 2005.
This statement follows that of 5 December: "Standard %amp% Poor's rating services said today that it has affirmed its BBB- long term and A-3 short term corporate credit ratings [on FT] … Since July 2002 Standard %amp% Poor's has indicated that expected support from FT's 56 % shareholder, the French State, is a likely factor underpinning the group's investment–grade status.
The French State's announcement today that it will immediately grant a €9 billion shareholder loan to help FT face its 2003 debt obligations is viewed by Standard %amp% Poor's as strong evidence of this support" (Standard %amp% Poor's, 5.12.2002) (emphasis added). [57] Research France Télécom, Standard %amp% poor's ratings direct, 17.12.2002: "The state's December 2002 announcement that it will grant a €9 billion shareholder loan, coupled with its commitment to subscribe to a €15 billion capital increase, underscores this support and provides significant credit protection for FT's debtholders.
While market conditions may challenge the operation, the state's commitment to subscribe to the equity injection — so as to at least maintain its stake — strongly mitigates execution risks". [58] This factor was still very important to S %amp% P on 17 December 2002.
For example, on 14 May 2003 S %amp% P wrote: "On May 14, 2003, S %amp% P raised its long and short term corporate credit ratings on … FT to BBB from BBB- ….
Chapelle Darblay. [80] Jurisclasseur commercial, redressement et liquidation judiciaires 1995, section 3110. [81] Judgment of the Court of Justice in Case C-99/98 Austria v Commission [2001] ECR I-1101.
The level and movement of spreads thus make it possible to visualise the risks which the markets associate with a given issuer. [85] LDCOM observes also that the announcement, in the TOP plan, of the introduction of a "mobility" objective with a view to promoting the movement of staff throughout the civil service may contain aid elements. [86] LDCOM proposes, among other things: the prohibiting of campaigns to reconquer customers in the voice markets, the placing of a ceiling on marketing spending in the voice and high-speed Internet services markets, and a limiting of the marketing resources placed at the disposal of Wanadoo. [87] LDCOM proposes prohibiting the temporal or price squeeze on unbundling, imposing on Wanadoo an obligation to supply third parties for Internet retailing, increasing the profitability of alternative networks by increasing the prices of incoming interconnection and reserving for competitors the benefit of public subsidies within the framework of the deployment of networks in low-profitability areas. [88] Only comments relating to the control of state aid are reproduced in this Decision. [89] Decree No 2002-1409 of 2 December 2002 amending Decree No 65-1117 of 17 December 1967 organising ERAP administratively and financially. [90] Article 80 of Law No 2002-1576 of 30 December 2002 rectifying the 2002 Finance Act. [91] The first memorandum is a study by Yves Galmot dated 7.6.2004, the second a study by Claus-Dieter Ehlermann dated 1.6.2004, and the third a study by Michel Jeol accompanied by a memorandum from Pierre Kirch dated 11.6.2004.
The economic report is a report by HSBC dated 2.6.2004. [92] The French authorities mention, among other things, bond issues, credit lines, treasury bills, short-term loans and securitisation and derivatives operations. [93] From 26.7.2002 until the presentation of the Ambition 2005 plan on 4.12.2002, France Télécom made a EUR 70 million bond issue on 26 July 2002 and issued a fungible tranche of EUR 150 million with the EUR 3,5 billion debenture loan issued in March 2001. [94] Business secret [95] See paragraph 39. [96] Judgment of the Court of Justice in Case C-482/99 France v Commission [2002] ECR I-4397. [97] Comments from the French authorities of 29.7.2003, p. 8.
p. 9. [106] OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 1.
Regulation amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [107] Judgment of the Court of First Instance in Case T-358/94 Compagnie nationale Air France v Commission [1996] ECR II-2109.
See, for example, the judgment of the Court of First Instance of 29 April 2004 in Joined Cases T-236/01, T-239/01, T-244/01, T-245/01, T-246/01, T-251/01 and T-252/01 Graphite Electrodes, not yet reported, paragraph 152.
See also the judgments of the Court of First Instance of 9 July 2003 in Cases T-220/00 Cheil Jedang Corp.
In paragraph 70 of that decision, the Commission made a general statement (unofficial translation from the original French): "It should also be added that an announcement made by the State of its intention to commit itself might — provided that that commitment is irrevocable and thereby breeds an expectation and a feeling of confidence on the part of the market as reflected in an increase in France Télécom's share price and in the positive reaction of the rating agencies — already involve the commitment of state resources".
The announcement of the State's commitment coupled with the apparent making available of the amount of the loan lead the Commission to find that the aid might be considered as having been granted even before an agreement between France Télécom and ERAP for the provision of the credit line was signed", and it pointed out in a footnote that "On this point, it will be recalled that in July and more particularly in September 2002 the market had already been reassured by the State's support for France Télécom" (footnote 40).
See also slide 42 of "France Telecom presentation to investors of December 5th, 2002", where the French state back-up facility is described as being immediately available.
See, for example, "The French State's announcement today that it will immediately grant a €9 billion shareholder loan …") (S %amp% P, 5.12.2002); The confirmation follows FT's announcements that a EUR 9 billion loan facility has been put in place via ERAP ….) (Moody's, 9.12.2002). [] According to the French authorities, the draft was sent to France Télécom on 20 December.
The State shareholder intends to act like a prudent investor.It will be for France Télécom to work out the detailed arrangements and precise timetable for the strengthening of its capital base.
The Government wants the greatest account to be taken during the operation of the situation of individual shareholders and of employees with shares in the company.To enable the company to launch a market operation at the most opportune moment, the State is prepared to make an upfront prepayment towards the strengthening of the capital base in the form of a temporary shareholder loan, remunerated at market rates, placed at France Télécom's disposal". [] See Moody's 24 June press release, referred to above. [] See Article 1181 of the French Civil Code, which provides that "An obligation contracted under a condition precedent is one which depends either on a future and uncertain event, or on an event having presently happened, but still unknown to the parties".
The second definition is clearly not relevant in the present case. [] "Nevertheless the state's indication underpins FT's investment grade credit quality".
Factiva, Reuters — 12.7.2002, "Stock exchange — FT takes off after Mer's remarks." And: "FT's short term risk has been mitigated by the French government said S %amp% P analyst Guy Deslondes in a conference call. […] Friday's rating action took into account S %amp% P's confidence that the French government will help FT refinance itself, at least for its 2003 obligations.
The stable outlook shows that the rating has bottomed out, added Deslondes". "France Telecom Avoids Liquidity Crisis Thanks To Gvt".
Factiva, Dow Jones Capital Market Report, 12.7.2002. [] Cited above.
See, for example, p. 9 of the above-mentioned report by Goldman Sachs of 22.7.2002: "If these bonds moved from the investment grade segment of the fixed income market, to "junk", i.e.
It would be very costly if its word could not be believed in these matters". [] See the report by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Industry entitled L'État actionnaire 2003: "On 31 December 2002, according to the latest available statistics, the State controlled, directly or indirectly, 1616 undertakings, including 97 blue chip companies.
These are undertakings with a registered office in France" http://www.paris-europlace.net/links/doc062197.htm. [] For more information on this point see La gestion de la dette publique en France: les objectifs, les instruments et la gestion des risques by Christian Esters, École Nationale d'Administration 2000: "The French bond market grew during the 1990s.
The share of the bond market accounted for by treasury bills increased considerably between 1989 and 1993, remaining thereafter at a level of about 50 %, except in 1995, when the other bond issues on the French market suffered their second consecutive fall with the result that, despite their numbers remaining stable in absolute terms, the share accounted for by treasury bills increased sharply that year … The long-term increase in the State's share of the bond markets is a consequence of the reform of public debt management in France starting in 1986.
Moreover the effect is strongly statistically significant: it is not the result of random fluctuations in prices … The market believed that, as a result of the statement, the French Authorities would offer more support to France Télécom than they would do in the absence of any costs of non-performance". [] Deutsche Bank France Télécom/Deutsche Telekom Debt Liquidity and possible solution 22 July 2002, pp. 1, 3, 8. [] Deutsche Bank report dated 22.7.2002 entitled France Télécom/Deutsche Telekom Debt Liquidity and possible solution: "… on July 12, 2002, S %amp% P … downgraded France Télécom's ratings to BBB- ...
The agency no longer expects France Télécom to hit the 3,5× net debt/EBITDA target by 2003, but did assign a "stable" outlook to the low triple B ratings.
It seems that the stable outlook is anchored by "the French state … [which] has clearly indicated to Standard %amp% Poor's that it will behave as an aware investor and would take appropriate steps if France Télécom were to face any difficulties." … Interestingly, S %amp% P had initially said it was not incorporating any extraordinary support from the French government into its rating when it downgraded France Télécom's ratings to BBB in June.
Since then, the agency appears to have taken an about face in stating that the conclusions of the creditwatch status follows an analysis of the company's liquidity position through the end of 2003 and a review of the French state's potential involvement in the French telecommunications market" (p. 19); "France Télécom benefited from the market's increased confidence that the French government will in one way or another support the credit" (p. 20); "we cannot ignore the fact that FT is majority owned by the French State and recent comments from the French finance Ministry have reassured investor that liquidity will be provided" (page 54) "However, as we have consistently mentioned, we expect that the company will ultimately find all the liquidity it needs via the so-called "implicit government support".
However "what is the market price for, say, 10 bn of new debt to a BBB- credit?
what is the real price for a Euro 10bn of debt to a company that is not really a BBB- credit, just treaded there because the government support? … we suspect there is no right answer to these questions, because if FT was operating in the real world, it would not be able to refinance without a debt for equity swap, in our view." (p. 33, along the same lines, see p. 54).
And again "There have been reports in the press that the French government will stand behind France Télécom, implying that it is willing to be the "lender of last resort" to the company.
In the same vein, see the Deutsche Bank study of 22.7.2002, referred to above: "If we assume a management change which would be necessary for any deal ()… With a new management the equity story could then perhaps be sold to the markets", p. 33.
However, as shown above, the Commission has concluded that the State had committed itself to supporting France Télécom well before any of these steps had been taken. [] As mentioned above, the rating agencies downgraded France Télécom's rating during the months of June and July 2002 to just above that of junk bond, stating in their press release that the rating would have been lower still had it been based solely on France Télécom's fundamentals. [] See the above-mentioned Deutsche Bank study of 22.7.2002: "In our view the risk reward balance is not currently very attractive for investors to participate in a capital increase". [] Information which was considered partial by the above-mentioned commission of enquiry.
When, in June, that one rating agency delivered its opinion and we were denied market access, I knew that, unable to borrow again, France Télécom would be in payment difficulties a year later, towards the end of the first half of 2003".See, along the same lines, the HSBC report of 12.6.2004, page 11: "all in all, FT was not a firm in difficulty inasmuch as its business was healthy, but it did suffer from an unsuitable financing structure with a lack of capital and excessively short debt-refinancing periods, coupled with a crisis of confidence on the part of the markets born of the uncertainties to which this state of affairs gave rise". [] Case 223/85 RSV v Commission [1987] ECR 4617. [] Case C-5/89 Commission v Germany [1990] ECR I-3437. --------------------------------------------------
