Services should be taken to be those within the meaning of Article 50 of that Treaty. (12) To prevent discrimination based on sex, this Directive should apply to both direct discrimination and indirect discrimination.
In order to ensure equal treatment between men and women, the use of sex as an actuarial factor should not result in differences in individuals' premiums and benefits.
The implementation of this Directive should not serve to justify any regression in relation to the situation, which already prevails in each Member State. (27) Member States should provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties in cases of breaches of the obligations under this Directive. (28) Since the objectives of this Directive, namely to ensure a common high level of protection against discrimination in all the Member States, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can, therefore, by reason of the scale and effects of the action, be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
Article 3 Scope 1.
Article 4 Principle of equal treatment 1.
Article 5 Actuarial factors 1.
Member States shall ensure that in all new contracts concluded after 21 December 2007 at the latest, the use of sex as a factor in the calculation of premiums and benefits for the purposes of insurance and related financial services shall not result in differences in individuals' premiums and benefits. 2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, Member States may decide before 21 December 2007 to permit proportionate differences in individuals' premiums and benefits where the use of sex is a determining factor in the assessment of risk based on relevant and accurate actuarial and statistical data.
These Member States shall review their decision five years after 21 December 2007, taking into account the Commission report referred to in Article 16, and shall forward the results of this review to the Commission. 3.
Article 6 Positive action With a view to ensuring full equality in practice between men and women, the principle of equal treatment shall not prevent any Member State from maintaining or adopting specific measures to prevent or compensate for disadvantages linked to sex.
Article 7 Minimum requirements 1.
Paragraphs 1 and 3 shall be without prejudice to national rules on time limits for bringing actions relating to the principle of equal treatment.
Article 9 Burden of proof 1.
Paragraph 1 shall not prevent Member States from introducing rules of evidence, which are more favourable to plaintiffs. 3.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply to criminal procedures. 4.
Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall also apply to any proceedings brought in accordance with Article 8(3). 5.
Member States need not apply paragraph 1 to proceedings in which it is for the court or other competent authority to investigate the facts of the case.
Article 10 Victimisation Member States shall introduce into their national legal systems such measures as are necessary to protect persons from any adverse treatment or adverse consequence as a reaction to a complaint or to legal proceedings aimed at enforcing compliance with the principle of equal treatment.
Article 11 Dialogue with relevant stakeholders With a view to promoting the principle of equal treatment, Member States shall encourage dialogue with relevant stakeholders which have, in accordance with national law and practice, a legitimate interest in contributing to the fight against discrimination on grounds of sex in the area of access to and supply of goods and services.
CHAPTER III BODIES FOR THE PROMOTION OF EQUAL TREATMENT Article 12 1.
CHAPTER IV FINAL PROVISIONS Article 13 Compliance Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the principle of equal treatment is respected in relation to the access to and supply of goods and services within the scope of this Directive, and in particular that: (a) any laws, regulations and administrative provisions contrary to the principle of equal treatment are abolished; (b) any contractual provisions, internal rules of undertakings, and rules governing profit-making or non-profit-making associations contrary to the principle of equal treatment are, or may be, declared null and void or are amended.
Article 14 Penalties Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are applied.
Article 15 Dissemination of information Member States shall take care that the provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive, together with the relevant provisions already in force, are brought to the attention of the persons concerned by all appropriate means throughout their territory.
Article 16 Reports 1.
The Commission shall draw up a summary report, which shall include a review of the current practices of Member States in relation to Article 5 with regard to the use of sex as a factor in the calculation of premiums and benefits.
It shall submit this report to the European Parliament and to the Council no later 21 December 2010.
Article 18 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 19 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 13 December 2004.
Bot -------------------------------------------------- [1] Opinion delivered on 30 March 2004 (not yet published in the Official Journal). [2] OJ C 241, 28.9.2004, p. 44. [3] OJ C 121, 30.4.2004, p. 27. [4] OJ L 17, 19.1.2001, p. 22. [5] OJ L 180, 19.7.2000, p. 22. [6] OJ C 321, 31.12.2003, p. 1.
