PROVISIONAL MEASURES (1) The Commission, by Regulation (EEC) No 920/93 (2), hereinafter referred to as the 'provisional Regulation', imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports into the Community of certain magnetic disks (hereinafter referred to as 3,5%quot% microdisks) originating in Japan, Taiwan and the People's Republic of China, and falling within CN code ex 8523 20 90.
Certain of these parties also presented written submissions making known their views on the findings. (3) Two importers, which had not cooperated in the investigation, made written representations to the Commission following the introduction of the provisional anti-dumping duty.
PRODUCT UNDER CONSIDERATION/LIKE PRODUCT (7) As no new arguments have been presented regarding the product under consideration and the like product, the Council adopts the findings of the Commission as set out in recitals 7 to 12 of the provisional Regulation.
INDIVIDUAL TREATMENT OF CHINESE EXPORTERS (8) Several producers in the People's Republic of China reiterated their request that the Commission make individual company findings for each of them, without, however, presenting any evidence additional to that submitted prior to the provisional findings and referred to at recital 13 of the provisional Regulation.
The Commission recalls, in this respect, that individual treatment is not a requirement of Regulation (EEC) No 2423/88.
The findings at the said recital 13 are thus maintained. (9) The Council confirms the Commission's findings.
As stated in recital 18 of the provisional Regulation, normal value in Taiwan for this producer was established in accordance with Article 2 (3) (a) and (4) of Regulation (EEC) No 2423/88, on the basis of the price actually paid in the ordinary course of trade for domestic sales of the like product, which were made in sufficient quantities to permit a proper comparison.
To make allowances for alleged differences in cost structures in a State-trading country would involve the need to rely on that country's costs of production, in particular its labour, utility and transport costs, property changes, and other inputs, which are not determined by market forces and would, therefore, not permit a proper comparison. (13) The Council confirms these findings and those set out at recitals 15 to 23 of the provisional Regulation concerning normal value. 2.
The related problem of self-inflicted injury is addressed in recital 28 below. (15) The Council confirms this view and the findings on export prices set out in recital 24 to 28 of the provisional Regulation. 3.
Comparison (16) The Chinese producer referred to in recital 31 of the provisional Regulation claimed that the adjustment to normal value made for differences in physical characteristics of the uncertified diskettes sold for export did not reflect the full value of these differences.
Dumping margins (18) On the basis of the modifications made to the calculations of normal value and export price, the definitive dumping margins calculated by the Commission, expressed as a percentage of the cif value, established in accordance with the provisions of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1224/80 of 28 May 1980 on the valuation of goods for customs purposes (4), for each of the companies concerned, are as follows: Japan Memorex Telex Japan Ltd 49,0 % Hitachi Maxell Ltd 32,8 % TDK Ltd 44,8 % Sony Ltd 60,1 % Taiwan CIS Technology Ltd 19,8 % Megamedia Ltd 32,7 % China Hanny Magnetics (Zuhai) Ltd 35,6 % Other companies 39,4 %. (19) As far as non-cooperating producers are concerned, no comments on the conclusions reached by the Commission in recital 37 of the provisional Regulation were received.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (20) Producers in Japan and the People's Republic of China challenged the Commission's finding in recitals 39 to 47 of the provisional Regulation that the five complainant producers represented a major proportion of Community production of 3,5%amp% prime;%amp% prime; microdisks, and could therefore be considered the Community industry in terms of Article 4 (5) of Regulation (EEC) No 2423/88.
They argued, in particular, that the output of the producers in the Community found to be related to the producers in the countries subject to the proceeding should have been included in total Community production, when calculating whether the output of the five complainant producers constituted a major proportion of total Community production of the product in question.
The Commission, therefore, maintains its findings at recitals 39 to 47, of the provisional Regulation, that producers in the Community related to producers in Japan should be excluded from the Community industry and that, on this basis, production of 3,5%amp% prime;%amp% prime; microdisks by the complainant producers represented around 77 % of total Community production during the investigation period. (21) The Council confirms these findings.
Prices of dumped imports (23) One Japanese producer and producers in the People's Republic of China queried the basis for the Commission's statement at recital 56 of the provisional Regulation that the prices of imported 3,5%amp% Prime; microdisks had, in many cases, decreased by more than 75 % between 1988 and the investigation period.
Prices declined substantially, varying by company and by product type, by between 23 and 79 %.
The result of the revised comparison of prices reveal an undercutting margin still within the range mentioned in recital 55 of the provisional Regulation. (25) The Council confirms these findings, and those in recital 55 of the provisional Regulation. 3.
Situation of the Community industry (26) As no new arguments or information were put forward, the Council confirms the Commission's findings as set out in recitals 56 to 61 of the provisional Regulation on the situation of the Community industry, and those related to injury at recital 62.
CAUSATION (27) Two Japanese producers, on the grounds that the market share taken by imports from Japan had fallen considerably over the period concerned, disputed the Commission's conclusion contained in recital 66 of the provisional Regulation, that the effects of imports from third countries not covered by the proceeding did not alter the fact that the dumped imports concerned from Japan, Taiwan and the People's Republic of China, taken in isolation, caused material injury to the Community industry.
The Commission, in recital 54 of the provisional Regulation, acknowledge that imports into the Community of 3,5%amp% tprime; microdisks from Japan fell between 1988 and the investigation period.
However, at 22 %, their market share remained substantial, and was almost double that of the Community industry.
The Commission, therefore, maintains the findings at the said recital 66. (28) Two Japanese producers questioned the Commission's recognition of under-utilization of capacity as an indicator of material injury at recital 57 of the provisional Regulation, while, at the same time, complainant Community producers were importing sometimes substantial quantities of the product concerned from the countries covered by the proceeding.
As pointed out in recital 43 of the provisional Regulation, imports of 3,5%amp% Prime; microdisks by all but one of the Community producers represented only a small proportion of their sales in the investigation period.
In recital 78 of the provisional Regulation, the Commission recognized that production by the Community industry is currently insufficient to meet the surge in demand that recently occurred in the Community market.
The Commission therefore maintains its findings on Community interest as set out in recitals 75 to 80 of the provisional Regulation. (31) One importer argued that the imposition of a definitive anti-dumping duty would only increase costs to users without, in any way, helping the Community industry, as producers and exporters in countries not subject to the duty would take advantage of the higher prices engendered to increase market shares at prices below those needed by the Community industry.
It is not the purpose of anti-dumping measures to protect the Community industry from the normal operation of fair competition, in conditions of which there should be unhindered market access. (32) As no other arguments were presented, the Council confirms these conclusions and those set out in recitals 75 to 85 of the provisional Regulation.
DUTY (33) In the provisional determination, the Commission established the amount of duty necessary to remove the injury on the basis of full costs of production plus a 10 % return on sales.
The complainant argued that the use of a profit margin of 10 % is insufficient to meet the needs of the Community industry for investments to increase production capacity, marketing expenditure, and research and development of new products, and that the Commission should use a profit margin between 12 and 16 % of turnover to calculate the increase in prices necessary to remove the injury. (34) The Commission maintains its argument that, in respect of the relevant costs in the period covered by the investigation, it would have been unrealistic to export profit margins for the Community industry above the 10 % considered to be the minimum required to ensure the viability of that industry. (35) One Japanese producer argued that, because of its calculation of the duty required to remove injury, the Commission had attributed to the producers in the countries concerned not only that part of any injury suffered by the Community industry caused by imports from these countries, but also the injury caused by other factors, notably by imports from countries not subject to the proceeding.
This examination covered, as pointed out in recital 66 of the provisional Regulation, imports from third countries not included in the proceeding, and it was found that, even if some of the injury could have been attributed to these imports, this did not alter the fact that the injury caused by the dumped imports from the countries subject to the proceeding was, taken in isolation, material.
It is clear, therefore, that by adopting this approach, the Commission does not remove more injury than that caused by each exporter by its dumped imports, and does not, therefore, attribute to the dumped imports any element of injury that may have been caused by other factors. (36) The difference between the prices for the Community industry, established in accordance with the method outlined in recital 81 of the provisional Regulation, and the prices of the dumped imports used to establish undercutting, as outlined in recital 55 of the provisional Regulation, as adapted by recital 27 of this Regulation, expressed on a weighted average basis and as a percentage of the free-at-Community-frontier price, established in accordance with Regulation (EEC) No 1224/80, were above the dumping margins found for all the producers in Taiwan and the People's Republic of China, and ranged from 6,1 to 40,9 % for producers in Japan.
As far as non-cooperating producers are concerned, the Commission considers that the result of its investigation forms the most appropriate basis for the establishment of the level of duty, and thus concludes that the highest level of duty determined for a producer in the same country shall be applied to the non-cooperating producers. (37) The Council confirms the above findings of the Commission and the determination of the duty to be applied, as described in recitals 81 to 85 of the provisional Regulation.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of 3,5%amp% Prime; microdisks used to record and store encoded digital computer information falling within CN code ex 8523 20 90 (Taric code 8523 20 90* 10), and originating in Japan, Taiwan and the People's Republic of China. 2.
The rate of duty applicable to the net free-at-Community-frontier price, not cleared through customs, shall be as follows: (a) 40,9 % in respect of the products specified in paragraph 1 originating in Japan (Taric additional code: 8708), with the exception of imports which are manufacted and sold for export to the Community by the following companies, which shall be subject to the rates of duty mentioned hereunder: - Memorex Telex Japan Ltd: 6,1 % (Taric additional code: 8705), - Hitachi-Maxell: 20,6 % (Taric additional code: 8706), - TDK: 26,7 % (Taric additional code: 8707); (b) 32,7 % in respect of the products specified in paragraph 1 originating in Taiwan (Taric additional code: 8710), with the exception of imports which are manufactured and sold for export to the Community by the following company, which shall be subject to the rate of duty mentioned hereunder: - CIS Technology: 19,8 % (Taric additional code: 8709); (c) 39,4 % in respect of the products specified in paragraph 1 originating in the People's Republic of China (Taric additional code: 8712), with the exception of imports which are manufactured and sold for export by the following company, which shall be subject to the rate of duty mentioned hereunder: - Hanny: Magnetics: 35,6 % (Taric additional code: 8711). 3.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 18 October 1993.
BOURGEOIS (1) OJ No L 209, 2. 8. 1988, p. 1. (2) OJ No L 95, 21. 4. 1993, p. 5. (3) OJ No L 196, 5. 8. 1993, p. 47. (4) OJ No L 134, 31. 5. 1980, p. 1.
