The Administrative Board shall adopt the protocol arrangements for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 within six months of entry into force of Conncil Regulation No 1654/2003 of 18 June 2003 amending Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 establishing a European Agency for Safety and Health at Work(8). 3.
The Administrative Board shall adopt the annual report on the Agency's activities and forward it by 15 June at the latest to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Court of Auditors, the Member States and the Advisory Committee on Safety, Hygiene and Health Protection at Work. 3.
The Agency shall forward annually to the budgetary authority any information relevant to the outcome of the evaluation procedures."; 3.
This estimate, which shall include a draft establishment plan, shall be forwarded by the Administrative Board to the Commission by 31 March at the latest. 2.
On the basis of the estimate, the Commission shall enter in the preliminary draft general budget of the European Union the estimates it deems necessary for the establishment plan and the amount of the subsidy to be charged to the general budget, which it shall place before the budgetary authority in accordance with Article 272 of the Treaty. 4.
The budgetary authority shall adopt the establishment plan for the Agency. 5.
Where a branch of the budget authority has notified its intention to deliver an opinion, it shall forward its opinion to the Administrative Board within a period of six weeks from the date of notification of the project.
By 1 March at the latest following each financial year, the Agency's accounting officer shall communicate the provisional accounts to the Commission's accounting officer together with a report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial year.
The Commission's accounting officer shall consolidate the provisional accounts of the institutions and decentralised bodies in accordance with Article 128 of the general Financial Regulation. 3.
By 31 March at the latest following each financial year, the Commission's accounting officer shall forward the Agency's provisional accounts to the Court of Auditors, together with a report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial year.
On receipt of the Court of Auditors' observations on the Agency's provisional accounts, pursuant to Article 129 of the general Financial Regulation, the Director shall draw up the Agency's final accounts under his own responsibility and submit them to the Administrative Board for an opinion. 5.
The Administrative Board shall deliver an opinion on the Agency's final accounts. 6.
The Director shall send the Court of Auditors a reply to its observations by 30 September at the latest.
He shall also send this reply to the Administrative Board. 9.
The European Parliament, on a recommendation from the Council acting by a qualified majority, shall, before 30 April of year N + 2, give a discharge to the Director in respect of the implementation of the budget for year N.
Article 15 Financial regulation The financial rules applicable to the Agency shall be adopted by the Administrative Board after the Commission has been consulted.
Done at Luxembourg, 18 June 2003.
