Article 2 The President of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the person or persons empowered to deposit, on behalf of the Community, the instrument of accession with the Secretary-General of the Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants.
Article 3 The Community will pay, on a voluntary basis, a contribution for each budgetary period, with a number of contribution units and under conditions, which are specified in the declaration contained in the Annex, and within the limits set for this purpose within the general budget of the Community.
Done at Brussels, 30 May 2005.
CHAPTER II GENERAL OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONTRACTING PARTIES Article 2 Basic obligation of the Contracting Parties Each Contracting Party shall grant and protect breeders’ rights.
Article 4 National treatment 1. (Treatment) Without prejudice to the rights specified in this Convention, nationals of a Contracting Party as well as natural persons resident and legal entities having their registered offices within the territory of a Contracting Party shall, insofar as the grant and protection of breeders’ rights are concerned, enjoy within the territory of each other Contracting Party the same treatment as is accorded or may hereafter be accorded by the laws of each such other Contracting Party to its own nationals, provided that the said nationals, natural persons or legal entities comply with the conditions and formalities imposed on the nationals of the said other Contracting Party. 2. (Nationals) For the purposes of the preceding paragraph, ‘nationals’ means, where the Contracting Party is a State, the nationals of that State and, where the Contracting Party is an intergovernmental organisation, the nationals of the States which are members of that organisation.
CHAPTER III CONDITIONS FOR THE GRANT OF THE BREEDER’S RIGHT Article 5 Conditions of protection 1. (Criteria to be satisfied) The breeder’s right shall be granted where the variety is (i) new, (ii) distinct, (iii) uniform and (iv) stable. 2. (Other conditions) The grant of the breeder’s right shall not be subject to any further or different conditions, provided that the variety is designated by a denomination in accordance with the provisions of Article 20, that the applicant complies with the formalities provided for by the law of the Contracting Party with whose authority the application has been filed and that he pays the required fees.
Article 7 Distinctness The variety shall be deemed to be distinct if it is clearly distinguishable from any other variety whose existence is a matter of common knowledge at the time of the filing of the application.
Article 8 Uniformity The variety shall be deemed to be uniform if, subject to the variation that may be expected from the particular features of its propagation, it is sufficiently uniform in its relevant characteristics.
Article 9 Stability The variety shall be deemed to be stable if its relevant characteristics remain unchanged after repeated propagation or, in the case of a particular cycle of propagation, at the end of each such cycle.
Article 12 Examination of the application Any decision to grant a breeder’s right shall require an examination for compliance with the conditions under Articles 5 to 9.
Article 13 Provisional protection Each Contracting Party shall provide measures designed to safeguard the interests of the breeder during the period between the filing or the publication of the application for the grant of a breeder’s right and the grant of that right.
Article 17 Restrictions on the exercise of the breeder’s right 1. (Public interest) Except where expressly provided in this Convention, no Contracting Party may restrict the free exercise of a breeder’s right for reasons other than of public interest. 2. (Equitable remuneration) When any such restriction has the effect of authorising a third party to perform any act for which the breeder’s authorisation is required, the Contracting Party concerned shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the breeder receives equitable remuneration.
Article 18 Measures regulating commerce The breeder’s right shall be independent of any measure taken by a Contracting Party to regulate within its territory the production, certification and marketing of material of varieties or the importing or exporting of such material.
Article 19 Duration of the breeder’s right 1. (Period of protection) The breeder’s right shall be granted for a fixed period. 2. (Minimum period) The said period shall not be shorter than 20 years from the date of the grant of the breeder’s right.
For trees and vines, the said period shall not be shorter than 25 years from the said date.
CHAPTER VII NULLITY AND CANCELLATION OF THE BREEDER’S RIGHT Article 21 Nullity of the breeder’s right 1. (Reasons of nullity) Each Contracting Party shall declare a breeder’s right granted by it null and void when it is established, (i) that the conditions laid down in Articles 6 or 7 were not complied with at the time of the grant of the breeder’s right, (ii) that, where the grant of the breeder’s right has been essentially based upon information and documents furnished by the breeder, the conditions laid down in Articles 8 or 9 were not complied with at the time of the grant of the breeder’s right, or (iii) that the breeder’s right has been granted to a person who is not entitled to it, unless it is transferred to the person who is so entitled. 2. (Exclusion of other reasons) No breeder’s right shall be declared null and void for reasons other than those referred to in paragraph 1.
CHAPTER VIII THE UNION Article 23 Members The Contracting Parties shall be members of the Union.
Article 24 Legal status and seat 1. (Legal personality) The Union has legal personality. 2. (Legal capacity) The Union enjoys, on the territory of each Contracting Party, in conformity with the laws applicable in the said territory, such legal capacity as may be necessary for the fulfilment of the objectives of the Union and for the exercise of its functions. 3. (Seat) The seat of the Union and its permanent organs are at Geneva. 4. (Headquarters agreement) The Union has a headquarters agreement with the Swiss Confederation.
Article 25 Organs The permanent organs of the Union are the Council and the Office of the Union.
Article 26 The Council 1. (Composition) The Council shall consist of the representatives of the members of the Union.
Article 27 The Office of the Union 1. (Tasks and direction of the Office) The Office of the Union shall carry out all the duties and tasks entrusted to it by the Council.
Article 28 Languages 1. (Languages of the Office) The English, French, German and Spanish languages shall be used by the Office of the Union in carrying out its duties. 2. (Languages in certain meetings) Meetings of the Council and of revision conferences shall be held in the four languages. 3. (Further languages) The Council may decide that further languages shall be used.
Article 29 Finances 1. (Income) The expenses of the Union shall be met from (i) the annual contributions of the States members of the Union, (ii) payments received for services rendered, (iii) miscellaneous receipts. 2. (Contributions: units) (a) The share of each State member of the Union, in the total amount of the annual contributions shall be determined by reference to the total expenditure to be met from the contributions of the States members of the Union and to the number of contribution units applicable to it under paragraph 3.
CHAPTER IX IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONVENTION; OTHER AGREEMENTS Article 30 Implementation of the Convention 1. (Measures of implementation) Each Contracting Party shall adopt all measures necessary for the implementation of this Convention; in particular, it shall: (i) provide for appropriate legal remedies for the effective enforcement of breeders’ rights; (ii) maintain an authority entrusted with the task of granting breeders’ rights or entrust the said task to an authority maintained by another Contracting Party; (iii) ensure that the public is informed through the regular publication of information concerning - applications for and grants of breeders’ rights, and - proposed and approved denominations. 2. (Conformity of laws) It shall be understood that, on depositing its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession, as the case may be, each State or intergovernmental organisation must be in a position, under its laws, to give effect to the provisions of this Convention.
Article 31 Relations between Contracting Parties and States bound by earlier acts 1. (Relations between States bound by this Convention) Between States members of the Union which are bound both by this Convention and any earlier Act of the Convention, only this Convention shall apply. 2. (Possible relations with States not bound by this Convention) Any State member of the Union not bound by this Convention may declare, in a notification addressed to the Secretary-General, that, in its relations with each member of the Union bound only by this Convention, it will apply the latest Act by which it is bound.
Article 32 Special agreements Members of the Union reserve the right to conclude among themselves special agreements for the protection of varieties, insofar as such agreements do not contravene the provisions of this Convention.
CHAPTER X FINAL PROVISIONS Article 33 Signature This Convention shall be open for signature by any State which is a member of the Union at the date of its adoption.
It shall remain open for signature until 31 March 1992.
Article 38 Revision of the Convention 1. (Conference) This Convention may be revised by a conference of the members of the Union.
Article 39 Denunciation 1. (Notifications) Any Contracting Party may denounce this Convention by notification addressed to the Secretary-General.
Article 40 Preservation of existing rights This Convention shall not limit existing breeders’ rights under the laws of Contracting Parties or by reason of any earlier Act or any agreement other than this Convention concluded between members of the Union.
Article 41 Original and official texts of the Convention 1. (Original) This Convention shall be signed in a single original in the English, French and German languages, the French text prevailing in case of any discrepancy among the various texts.
Article 42 Depositary functions 1. (Transmittal of copies) The Secretary-General shall transmit certified copies of this Convention to all States and intergovernmental organizations which were represented in the Diplomatic Conference that adopted this Convention and, on request, to any other State or intergovernmental organisation. 2. (Registration) The Secretary-General shall register this Convention with the Secretariat of the United Nations.
