To facilitate cross-border offers, where the prospectus is drawn up in a language that is customary in the sphere of international finance, the host or home Member State should only be entitled to require a summary in its official language(s). (36) The competent authority of the host Member State should be entitled to receive a certificate from the competent authority of the home Member State which states that the prospectus has been drawn up in accordance with this Directive.
The Commission should accordingly be empowered to adopt implementing measures, provided that these do not modify the essential elements of this Directive and provided that the Commission acts in accordance with the principles set out in this Directive, after consulting the European Securities Committee established by Commission Decision 2001/528/EC(10). (41) In exercising its implementing powers in accordance with this Directive, the Commission should respect the following principles: - the need to ensure confidence in financial markets among small investors and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) by promoting high standards of transparency in financial markets, - the need to provide investors with a wide range of competing investment opportunities and a level of disclosure and protection tailored to their circumstances, - the need to ensure that independent regulatory authorities enforce the rules consistently, especially as regards the fight against white-collar crime, - the need for a high level of transparency and consultation with all market participants and with the European Parliament and the Council, - the need to encourage innovation in financial markets if they are to be dynamic and efficient, - the need to ensure systemic stability of the financial system by close and reactive monitoring of financial innovation, - the importance of reducing the cost of, and increasing access to, capital, - the need to balance, on a long-term basis, the costs and benefits to market participants (including SMEs and small investors) of any implementing measures, - the need to foster the international competitiveness of the Community's financial markets without prejudice to a much-needed extension of international cooperation, - the need to achieve a level playing field for all market participants by establishing Community legislation every time it is appropriate, - the need to respect differences in national financial markets where these do not unduly impinge on the coherence of the single market, - the need to ensure coherence with other Community legislation in this area, as imbalances in information and a lack of transparency may jeopardise the operation of the markets and above all harm consumers and small investors. (42) The European Parliament should be given a period of three months from the first transmission of draft implementing measures to allow it to examine them and to give its opinion.
This Directive shall not apply to: (a) units issued by collective investment undertakings other than the closed-end type; (b) non-equity securities issued by a Member State or by one of a Member State's regional or local authorities, by public international bodies of which one or more Member States are members, by the European Central Bank or by the central banks of the Member States; (c) shares in the capital of central banks of the Member States; (d) securities unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by a Member State or by one of a Member State's regional or local authorities; (e) securities issued by associations with legal status or non-profit-making bodies, recognised by a Member State, with a view to their obtaining the means necessary to achieve their non-profit-making objectives; (f) non-equity securities issued in a continuous or repeated manner by credit institutions provided that these securities: (i) are not subordinated, convertible or exchangeable; (ii) do not give a right to subscribe to or acquire other types of securities and that they are not linked to a derivative instrument; (iii) materialise reception of repayable deposits; (iv) are covered by a deposit guarantee scheme under Directive 94/19/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on deposit-guarantee schemes(12); (g) non-fungible shares of capital whose main purpose is to provide the holder with a right to occupy an apartment, or other form of immovable property or a part thereof and where the shares cannot be sold on without this right being given up; (h) securities included in an offer where the total consideration of the offer is less than EUR 2500000, which limit shall be calculated over a period of 12 months; (i) %quot%bostadsobligationer%quot% issued repeatedly by credit institutions in Sweden whose main purpose is to grant mortgage loans, provided that (i) the %quot%bostadsobligationer%quot% issued are of the same series; (ii) the %quot%bostadsobligationer%quot% are issued on tap during a specified issuing period; (iii) the terms and conditions of the %quot%bostadsobligationer%quot% are not changed during the issuing period; (iv) the sums deriving from the issue of the said %quot%bostadsobligationer%quot%, in accordance with the articles of association of the issuer, are placed in assets which provide sufficient coverage for the liability deriving from securities; (j) non-equity securities issued in a continuous or repeated manner by credit institutions where the total consideration of the offer is less than EUR 50000000, which limit shall be calculated over a period of 12 months, provided that these securities: (i) are not subordinated, convertible or exchangeable; (ii) do not give a right to subscribe to or acquire other types of securities and that they are not linked to a derivative instrument. 3.
Article 2 Definitions 1.
The same regime shall be applicable to non-equity securities in a currency other than euro, provided that the value of such minimum denomination is nearly equivalent to EUR 1000; (iii) for all issuers of securities incorporated in a third country, which are not mentioned in (ii), the Member State where the securities are intended to be offered to the public for the first time after the date of entry into force of this Directive or where the first application for admission to trading on a regulated market is made, at the choice of the issuer, the offeror or the person asking for admission, as the case may be, subject to a subsequent election by issuers incorporated in a third country if the home Member State was not determined by their choice; (n) %quot%host Member State%quot% means the State where an offer to the public is made or admission to trading is sought, when different from the home Member State; (o) %quot%collective investment undertaking other than the closed-end type%quot% means unit trusts and investment companies: (i) the object of which is the collective investment of capital provided by the public, and which operate on the principle of risk-spreading; (ii) the units of which are, at the holder's request, repurchased or redeemed, directly or indirectly, out of the assets of these undertakings; (p) %quot%units of a collective investment undertaking%quot% mean securities issued by a collective investment undertaking as representing the rights of the participants in such an undertaking over its assets; (q) %quot%approval%quot% means the positive act at the outcome of the scrutiny of the completeness of the prospectus by the home Member State's competent authority including the consistency of the information given and its comprehensibility; (r) %quot%base prospectus%quot% means a prospectus containing all relevant information as specified in Articles 5, 7 and 16 in case there is a supplement, concerning the issuer and the securities to be offered to the public or admitted to trading, and, at the choice of the issuer, the final terms of the offering. 2.
In order to take account of technical developments on financial markets and to ensure uniform application of this Directive, the Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 24(2), adopt implementing measures concerning the definitions referred to in paragraph 1, including adjustment of the figures used for the definition of SMEs, taking into account Community legislation and recommendations as well as economic developments and disclosure measures relating to the registration of individual qualified investors.
Article 3 Obligation to publish a prospectus 1.
Member States shall not allow any offer of securities to be made to the public within their territories without prior publication of a prospectus. 2.
Article 4 Exemptions from the obligation to publish a prospectus 1.
In order to take account of technical developments on financial markets and to ensure uniform application of this Directive, the Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2), adopt implementing measures concerning paragraphs 1(b), 1(c), 2(c) and 2(d), notably in relation to the meaning of equivalence.
CHAPTER II DRAWING UP OF THE PROSPECTUS Article 5 The prospectus 1.
Subject to paragraph 4, the issuer, offeror or person asking for the admission to trading on a regulated market may draw up the prospectus as a single document or separate documents.
Member States shall ensure that their laws, regulation and administrative provisions on civil liability apply to those persons responsible for the information given in a prospectus.
Detailed implementing measures regarding the specific information which must be included in a prospectus, avoiding duplication of information when a prospectus is composed of separate documents, shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2).
The first set of implementing measures shall be adopted by 1 July 2004. 2.
Article 8 Omission of information 1.
In order to take account of technical developments on financial markets and to ensure uniform application of this Directive, the Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2), adopt implementing measures concerning paragraph 2.
Article 9 Validity of a prospectus, base prospectus and registration document 1.
In the case of an offering programme, the base prospectus, previously filed, shall be valid for a period of up to 12 months. 3.
Article 10 Information 1.
In order to take account of technical developments on financial markets and to ensure uniform application of this Directive, the Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2), adopt implementing measures concerning paragraph 1.
The first set of implementing measures shall be adopted by 1 July 2004.
Member States shall allow information to be incorporated in the prospectus by reference to one or more previously or simultaneously published documents that have been approved by the competent authority of the home Member State or filed with it in accordance with this Directive, in particular pursuant to Article 10, or with Titles IV and V of Directive 2001/34/EC.
In order to take account of technical developments on financial markets and to ensure uniform application of this Directive, the Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2), adopt implementing measures concerning the information to be incorporated by reference.
The first set of implementing measures shall be adopted by 1 July 2004.
Article 12 Prospectuses consisting of separate documents 1.
CHAPTER III ARRANGEMENTS FOR APPROVAL AND PUBLICATION OF THE PROSPECTUS Article 13 Approval of the prospectus 1.
Member States shall ensure that their national provisions on the liability of competent authorities apply only to approvals of prospectuses by their competent authority or authorities. 7.
In order to take account of technical developments on financial markets and to ensure uniform application of this Directive, the Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2), adopt implementing measures concerning the conditions in accordance with which time limits may be adjusted.
Article 14 Publication of the prospectus 1.
Once approved, the prospectus shall be filed with the competent authority of the home Member State and shall be made available to the public by the issuer, offeror or person asking for admission to trading on a regulated market as soon as practicable and in any case, at a reasonable time in advance of, and at the latest at the beginning of, the offer to the public or the admission to trading of the securities involved.
A home Member State may require issuers which publish their prospectus in accordance with (a) or (b) also to publish their prospectus in an electronic form in accordance with (c). 3.
The competent authority of the home Member State shall publish on its website over a period of 12 months, at its choice, all the prospectuses approved, or at least the list of prospectuses approved in accordance with Article 13, including, if applicable, a hyperlink to the prospectus published on the website of the issuer, or on the website of the regulated market. 5.
In order to take account of technical developments on financial markets and to ensure uniform application of the Directive, the Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2), adopt implementing measures concerning paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4.
The first set of implementing measures shall be adopted by 1 July 2004.
Any type of advertisements relating either to an offer to the public of securities or to an admission to trading on a regulated market shall observe the principles contained in paragraphs 2 to 5.
Article 16 Supplements to the prospectus 1.
CHAPTER IV CROSS-BORDER OFFERS AND ADMISSION TO TRADING Article 17 Community scope of approvals of prospectuses 1.
CHAPTER V USE OF LANGUAGES AND ISSUERS INCORPORATED IN THIRD COUNTRIES Article 19 Use of languages 1.
Where an offer to the public is made or admission to trading on a regulated market is sought only in the home Member State, the prospectus shall be drawn up in a language accepted by the competent authority of the home Member State. 2.
Where an offer to the public is made or admission to trading on a regulated market is sought in one or more Member States excluding the home Member State, the prospectus shall be drawn up either in a language accepted by the competent authorities of those Member States or in a language customary in the sphere of international finance, at the choice of the issuer, offeror or person asking for admission, as the case may be.
For the purpose of the scrutiny by the competent authority of the home Member State, the prospectus shall be drawn up either in a language accepted by this authority or in a language customary in the sphere of international finance, at the choice of the issuer, offeror or person asking for admission to trading, as the case may be. 3.
Where an offer to the public is made or admission to trading on a regulated market is sought in more than one Member State including the home Member State, the prospectus shall be drawn up in a language accepted by the competent authority of the home Member State and shall also be made available either in a language accepted by the competent authorities of each host Member State or in a language customary in the sphere of international finance, at the choice of the issuer, offeror, or person asking for admission to trading, as the case may be.
Where admission to trading on a regulated market of non-equity securities whose denomination per unit amounts to at least EUR 50000 is sought in one or more Member States, the prospectus shall be drawn up either in a language accepted by the competent authorities of the home and host Member States or in a language customary in the sphere of international finance, at the choice of the issuer, offeror or person asking for admission to trading, as the case may be.
The competent authority of the home Member State of issuers having their registered office in a third country may approve a prospectus for an offer to the public or for admission to trading on a regulated market, drawn up in accordance with the legislation of a third country, provided that: (a) the prospectus has been drawn up in accordance with international standards set by international securities commission organisations, including the IOSCO disclosure standards; (b) the information requirements, including information of a financial nature, are equivalent to the requirements under this Directive. 2.
In the case of an offer to the public or admission to trading on a regulated market of securities, issued by an issuer incorporated in a third country, in a Member State other than the home Member State, the requirements set out in Articles 17, 18 and 19 shall apply. 3.
CHAPTER VI COMPETENT AUTHORITIES Article 21 Powers 1.
Each competent authority shall also, once the securities have been admitted to trading on a regulated market, be empowered to: (a) require the issuer to disclose all material information which may have an effect on the assessment of the securities admitted to trading on regulated markets in order to ensure investor protection or the smooth operation of the market; (b) suspend or ask the relevant regulated market to suspend the securities from trading if, in its opinion, the issuer's situation is such that trading would be detrimental to investors' interests; (c) ensure that issuers whose securities are traded on regulated markets comply with the obligations provided for in Articles 102 and 103 of Directive 2001/34/EC and that equivalent information is provided to investors and equivalent treatment is granted by the issuer to all securities holders who are in the same position, in all Member States where the offer to the public is made or the securities are admitted to trading; (d) carry out on-site inspections in its territory in accordance with national law, in order to verify compliance with the provisions of this Directive and its implementing measures.
Where necessary under national law, the competent authority or authorities may use this power by applying to the relevant judicial authority and/or in cooperation with other authorities. 5.
Article 22 Professional secrecy and cooperation between authorities 1.
Without prejudice to Article 21, the competent authorities of Member States may consult with operators of regulated markets as necessary and, in particular, when deciding to suspend, or to ask a regulated market to suspend or prohibit trading. 3.
Article 23 Precautionary measures 1.
CHAPTER VII IMPLEMENTING MEASURES Article 24 Committee procedure 1.
On a proposal from the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council may renew the provisions concerned in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty and, to that end, shall review them prior to the expiry of the four-year period.
Member States shall ensure that these measures are effective, proportionate and dissuasive. 2.
Article 26 Right of appeal Member States shall ensure that decisions taken pursuant to laws, regulations and administrative provisions adopted in accordance with this Directive are subject to the right to appeal to the courts.
Annex I shall be deleted.
Article 30 Transitional provision 1.
Issuers which are incorporated in a third country and whose securities have already been admitted to trading on a regulated market shall choose their competent authority in accordance with Article 2(1)(m)(iii) and notify their decision to the competent authority of their chosen home Member State by 31 December 2005. 2.
By way of derogation from Article 3, Member States which have used the exemption in Article 5(a) of Directive 89/298/EEC may continue to allow credit institutions or other financial institutions equivalent to credit institutions which are not covered by Article 1(2)(j) of this Directive to offer debt securities or other transferable securities equivalent to debt securities issued in a continuous or repeated manner within their territory for five years following the date of entry into force of this Directive. 3.
By way of derogation from Article 29, the Federal Republic of Germany shall comply with Article 21(1) by 31 December 2008.
Article 31 Review Five years after the date of entry into force of this Directive, the Commission shall make an assessment of the application of this Directive and present a report to the European Parliament and the Council, accompanied where appropriate by proposals for its review.
Article 32 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 33 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 4 November 2003.
Cox For the Council The President G.
Alemanno (1) OJ C 240 E, 28.8.2001, p. 272 and OJ C 20 E, 28.1.2003, p. 122. (2) OJ C 80, 3.4.2002, p. 52. (3) OJ C 344, 6.12.2001, p. 4. (4) Opinion of the European Parliament of 14 March 2002 (OJ C 47 E, 27.2.2003, p. 417), Council Common Position of 24 March 2003 (OJ C 125 E, 27.5.2003, p. 21) and Position of the European Parliament of 2 July 2003 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
information concerning the issuer - history and development of the issuer - business overview E.
major shareholders and related-party transactions H.
financial information - consolidated statement and other financial information - significant changes I.
additional information - share capital - memorandum and articles of association - documents on display II.
Selected financial data B.
Capitalisation and indebtedness C.
Business overview C.
Organisational structure D.
Operating results B.
Liquidity and capital resources C.
Remuneration C.
Major shareholders and related-party transactions The purpose is to provide information regarding the major shareholders and others that may control or have an influence on the company.
Major shareholders B.
Related-party transactions C.
Plan for distribution C.
Additional information The purpose is to provide information, most of which is of a statutory nature, that is not covered elsewhere in the prospectus.
Material contracts D.
Exchange controls E.
Key information about the issuer The purpose is to summarise key information about the company's financial condition, capitalisation and risk factors.
Selected financial data B.
Capitalisation and indebtedness C.
Business overview C.
Organisational structure D.
Operating results B.
Liquidity and capital resources C.
Remuneration C.
Major shareholders and related-party transactions The purpose is to provide information regarding the major shareholders and others that may control or have an influence on the company.
Major shareholders B.
Related-party transactions C.
Additional information The purpose is to provide information, most of which is of a statutory nature, that is not covered elsewhere in the prospectus.
Material contracts D.
Key information about the issuer The purpose is to summarise key information about the company's financial condition, capitalisation and risk factors.
Capitalisation and indebtedness B.
Interests of experts The purpose is to provide information regarding transactions the company has entered into with experts or advisers employed on a contingent basis.
Plan for distribution C.
Additional information The purpose is to provide information, most of which is of a statutory nature, that is not covered elsewhere in the prospectus.
Exchange controls B.
