Directive 2002/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 2003 on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) - Joint declaration of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission relating to Article 9 Directive 2002/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 2003 on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 175(1) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission(1), Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee(2), Having regard to the Opinion of the Committee of Regions(3), Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty in the light of the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee on 8 November 2002(4), Whereas: (1) The objectives of the Community's environment policy are, in particular, to preserve, protect and improve the quality of the environment, protect human health and utilise natural resources prudently and rationally.
It mentions waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) as one of the target areas to be regulated, in view of the application of the principles of prevention, recovery and safe disposal of waste. (3) The Commission Communication of 30 July 1996 on review of the Community strategy for waste management states that, where the generation of waste cannot be avoided, it should be reused or recovered for its material or energy. (4) The Council in its Resolution of 24 February 1997 on a Community strategy for waste management(6) insisted on the need for promoting waste recovery with a view to reducing the quantity of waste for disposal and saving natural resources, in particular by reuse, recycling, composting and recovering energy from waste and recognised that the choice of options in any particular case must have regard to environmental and economic effects but that until scientific and technological progress is made and life-cycle analyses are further developed, reuse and material recovery should be considered preferable where and in so far as they are the best environmental options.
The Council also invited the Commission to develop, as soon as possible, an appropriate follow-up to the projects of the priority waste streams programme, including WEEE. (5) The European Parliament, in its Resolution of 14 November 1996(7), asked the Commission to present proposals for Directives on a number of priority waste streams, including electrical and electronic waste, and to base such proposals on the principle of producer responsibility.
Article 2 Scope 1.
Article 4 Product design Member States shall encourage the design and production of electrical and electronic equipment which take into account and facilitate dismantling and recovery, in particular the reuse and recycling of WEEE, their components and materials.
Article 5 Separate collection 1.
Member States shall ensure that the envisaged reuse does not lead to a circumvention of this Directive, in particular as regards Articles 6 and 7.
Without prejudice to paragraph 1, Member States shall ensure that by 31 December 2006 at the latest a rate of separate collection of at least four kilograms on average per inhabitant per year of WEEE from private households is achieved.
Article 6 Treatment 1.
To ensure compliance with Article 4 of Directive 75/442/EEC, the treatment shall, as a minimum, include the removal of all fluids and a selective treatment in accordance with Annex II to this Directive.
Member States shall ensure that any establishment or undertaking carrying out treatment operations obtains a permit from the competent authorities, in compliance with Articles 9 and 10 of Directive 75/442/EEC.
Article 7 Recovery 1.
Until the date referred to in paragraph 4, such appliances shall not be taken into account for the calculation of the targets set out in paragraph 2. 2.
Regarding WEEE sent for treatment in accordance with Article 6, Member States shall ensure that, by 31 December 2006, producers meet the following targets: (a) for WEEE falling under categories 1 and 10 of Annex IA, - the rate of recovery shall be increased to a minimum of 80 % by an average weight per appliance, and - component, material and substance reuse and recycling shall be increased to a minimum of 75 % by an average weight per appliance; (b) for WEEE falling under categories 3 and 4 of Annex IA, - the rate of recovery shall be increased to a minimum of 75 % by an average weight per appliance, and - component, material and substance reuse and recycling shall be increased to a minimum of 65 % by an average weight per appliance; (c) for WEEE falling under categories 2, 5, 6, 7 and 9 of Annex IA, - the rate of recovery shall be increased to a minimum of 70 % by an average weight per appliance, and - component, material and substance reuse and recycling shall be increased to a minimum of 50 % by an average weight per appliance; (d) for gas discharge lamps, the rate of component, material and substance reuse and recycling shall reach a minimum of 80 % by weight of the lamps. 3.
The Commission shall submit this measure by 13 August 2004. 4.
Article 8 Financing in respect of WEEE from private households 1.
Member States shall ensure that, by 13 August 2005, producers provide at least for the financing of the collection, treatment, recovery and environmentally sound disposal of WEEE from private households deposited at collection facilities, set up under Article 5(2). 2.
For products put on the market later than 13 August 2005, each producer shall be responsible for financing the operations referred to in paragraph 1 relating to the waste from his own products.
Article 9 Financing in respect of WEEE from users other than private households Member States shall ensure that, by 13 August 2005, the financing of the costs for the collection, treatment, recovery and environmentally sound disposal of WEEE from users other than private households from products put on the market after 13 August 2005 is to be provided for by producers.
For WEEE from products put on the market before 13 August 2005 (historical waste), the financing of the costs of management shall be provided for by producers.
Article 10 Information for users 1.
Article 11 Information for treatment facilities 1.
The information shall be provided in a format which shall be established within one year after the entry into force of this Directive in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2) with a view to establishing databases on WEEE and its treatment.
Member States shall provide for adequate information exchange in order to comply with this paragraph, in particular for treatment operations as referred to in Article 6(5). 2.
Article 14 Committee 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Committee set up by Article 18 of Directive 75/442/EEC. 2.
Article 15 Penalties Member States shall determine penalties applicable to breaches of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive.
Article 16 Inspection and monitoring Member States shall ensure that inspection and monitoring enable the proper implementation of this Directive to be verified.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 13 August 2004.
Article 18 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 19 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 27 January 2003.
Cox For the Council The President G.
Large household appliances 2.
Lighting equipment 6.
Monitoring and control instruments 10.
Should these concerns prove to be founded the Commission states its intention to make a proposal to amend Article 9 of the Directive.
