Commission Directive 2002/35/EC of 25 April 2002 amending Council Directive 97/70/EC setting up a harmonised safety regime for fishing vessels of 24 metres in length and over (Text with EEA relevance) Commission Directive 2002/35/EC of 25 April 2002 amending Council Directive 97/70/EC setting up a harmonised safety regime for fishing vessels of 24 metres in length and over (Text with EEA relevance) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Directive 97/70/EC of 11 December 1997 setting up a harmonised safety regime for vessels of 24 metres in length and over(1), as amended by Commission Directive 1999/19/EC(2), and in particular Article 8 thereof, Whereas: (1) The Torremolinos Protocol relating to the Torremolinos International Convention for the Safety of Fishing Vessels, 1977, hereinafter referred to as the %quot%Torremolinos Protocol%quot% was adopted on 2 April 1993. (2) Directive 97/70/EC establishes a harmonised safety regime for certain fishing vessels, applying the Torremolinos Protocol to them. (3) In order to ensure consistency in the application of the provisions of the Annex to the Torremolinos Protocol for the application of Article 3(1) of Directive 97/70/EC, it appears necessary to harmonise the interpretations left to the discretion of the administrations of the Member States of certain of those provisions.
Done at Brussels, 25 April 2002.
For the Commission Loyola De Palacio Vice-President (1) OJ L 34, 9.2.1998, p. 1. (2) OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 48. (3) OJ L 247, 5.10.1993, p. 19. (4) OJ L 276, 13.10.1998, p. 7.
CHAPTER II: CONSTRUCTION, WATERTIGHT INTEGRITY AND EQUIPMENT Regulation 1: Construction Paragraph (1) Strength and construction of hull, superstructures, deckhouses, machinery casings, companionways and any other structures and vessel's equipment shall be sufficient to withstand all foreseeable conditions of the intended service and shall be in accordance with the rules of a recognised organisation.
Regulation 2: Watertight doors Subparagraph (3)(a) In vessels of 45 m in length and over, watertight doors shall be of the sliding type in: spaces where it is intended to open them at sea and if located with their sills below the deepest operating waterline, unless the Administration considers it to be impracticable or unnecessary taking into account the type and operation of the vessel.
Regulation 5: Hatchways Paragraph (3) Arrangements for securing wood hatchway covers weathertight shall be provided in accordance with the standards as given in regulations 14 and 15 of Annex I to the International Convention on Load Lines 1966(1).
In vessels of less than 45 m in length the height of these coamings shall be 760 mm and 450 mm respectively.
CHAPTER III: STABILITY AND ASSOCIATED SEAWORTHINESS Regulation 1: General Vessels shall be so designed and constructed that the requirements of this chapter will be satisfied in the operating conditions referred to in regulation 7.
Subparagraph (1)(d) The initial metacentric height GM shall not be less than 350 mm for single deck vessels.
In vessels with complete superstructure the metacentric height may be reduced to the satisfaction of the Administration but in no case shall be less than 150 mm.
Vessels engaged in beam trawling shall comply with the following increased stability criteria: (a) the criteria for the area's under the righting lever and for the righting levers as given in regulation 2(1)(a) and (b) shall be increased by 20 %; (b) the metacentric height shall not be less than 500 mm; (c) the criteria as given under (a) shall be applicable only to vessels with an installed propulsion power not exceeding the value in kilowatts as given in the following formulas: - N = 0,6 Ls2 for vessels with a length of 35 m or less, and - N = 0,7 Ls2 for vessels with a length of 37 m and over, - at intermediate length of the vessel the coefficient for Ls has to be obtained by interpolation in between 0,6 and 0,7, - Ls is the overall length according to the Tonnage Certificate.
For the calculation of the stability, the beams shall be assumed to be hoisted up to an angle of 45 degrees with the horizontal.
The relevant calculations shall be carried out in accordance with the IMO Code on Intact Stability for all Types of Ships.
Regulation 14: Subdivision and damage stability Vessels of 100 m in length and over, where the total number of persons carried is 100 or more, shall be capable, of remaining afloat with positive stability, after flooding of any compartment assumed damaged, having regard to the type of vessel, the intended service and area of operation(5).
Paragraph (7) The Administration shall be satisfied that regulations 16 to 18 are uniformly implemented and applied in accordance with the rules of a recognised organisation(6).
Regulation 8: Wheelhouse control Subparagraph (1)(b) Where remote control of propulsion machinery is provided from the wheelhouse, the following shall apply: the remote control referred to in subparagraph (a) shall be performed by means of a control device complying with the rules of a recognised organisation with, where necessary, means of preventing overload of the propulsion machinery.
Regulation 13: Steering gear Paragraph (1) Vessels shall be provided with a main steering gear and an auxiliary means of actuating the rudder in compliance with the rules of a recognised organisation.
CHAPTER V: FIRE PROTECTION, FIRE DETECTION, FIRE EXTINCTION AND FIRE FIGHTING Regulation 1: General Subparagraph (c) Method IIIF: The fitting of an automatic fire alarm and detection system in all spaces in which a fire might be expected to originate, generally with no restriction on the type of internal divisional bulkheads, except that in no case shall the area of any accommodation space or spaces bounded by an %quot%A%quot% or %quot%B%quot% class division exceed 50 m2.
However, the Administration may increase this area for public spaces up to 75 m2.
Regulation 4: Bulkheads within the accommodation and service spaces Paragraph (4) Method IIIF: There shall be no restriction on the construction of bulkheads not required by this or other regulations of this part to be %quot%A%quot% or %quot%B%quot% class divisions.
In no case shall the area of any accommodation space or spaces bounded by a continuous %quot%A%quot% or %quot%B%quot% class division exceed 50 m2, except in individual cases where %quot%C%quot% class bulkheads are required in accordance with table 1 in regulation 7.
However, the Administration may increase this area for public spaces up to 75 m2.
Regulation 8: Details of construction Paragraph (3), Methods IF, IIF and IIIF (a) Except in cargo spaces or refrigerated compartments of service spaces insulating materials shall be non-combustible.
Regulation 11: Miscellaneous items Paragraph (2) Paints, varnishes and other finishes used on exposed interior surfaces shall not be capable of producing excessive quantities of smoke or toxic gases or vapours, to be determined in accordance with the IMO Fire Test Procedures Code.
Stairways and corridors used as means for escape shall be not less than 700 mm in clear width and shall have a handrail on at least one side.
Doorways which give access to a stairway shall be not less than 700 mm in clear width.
At the discretion of the Administration the permissible temperature of operation may be increased to 30 °C above the maximum deckhead temperature in drying rooms and similar places of normally high ambient temperature.
In vessels of 75 m in length and over this alternative means shall be a fixed emergency fire pump independently driven.
Regulation 20: Fire extinguishers Paragraph (2) 1.
For each type of fire extinguisher carried, capable of being recharged on board, 100 % spare charges for the first 10 extinguishers shall be provided and 50 % for the remaining extinguishers but not more than 60. 2.
For fire extinguishers which cannot be recharged on board, at least 50 % additional fire extinguishers of same type and capacity shall be provided in lieu of spare charges. 3.
All containers of permanently pressurised fire extinguishers and propellant bottles of non-pressurised extinguishers shall be hydraulic pressure tested every 10 years.
Regulation 21: Portable fire extinguishers in control stations and accommodations and service spaces Paragraph (2) 1.
For fire extinguishers, capable of being recharged on board, 100 % spare charges for the first 10 extinguishers shall be provided and 50 % for the remaining extinguishers but not more than 60. 2.
For fire extinguishers which cannot be recharged on board at least 50 % additional fire extinguishers of same type and capacity shall be provided in lieu of spare charges. 3.
The firefighter's outfits shall be in accordance with the IMO Fire Safety Systems Code, Chapter III, regulations 2.1, 2.1.1 and 2.1.2.
Regulation 28: Structural fire protection Subparagraph (2)(a) In vessels, the hull of which is constructed of non-combustible materials, the decks and bulkheads separating machinery spaces of category A from accommodation spaces, service spaces or control stations shall be constructed to %quot%A-60%quot% class standard where the machinery space of category A is not provided with a fixed fire extinguishing system and to %quot%A-30%quot% class standard where such a system is fitted.
Paragraph (3) Paints, varnishes and other finishes used on exposed interior surfaces shall not be capable of producing excessive quantities of smoke or toxic gases or vapours, this being determined in accordance with the IMO Fire Test Procedures Code.
Regulation 38: Fire extinguishers Paragraph (2) 1.
Except in the cases mentioned under 2 (below) for each type of fire extinguishers carried, capable of being recharged on board, 100 % spare charges for the first 10 extinguishers shall be provided and 50 % for the remaining extinguishers, but not more than 60. 2.
For vessels with a length of less than 45 m and for fire extinguishers which cannot be recharged on board, at least 50 % additional fire extinguishers of same type and capacity shall be provided in lieu of spare charges. 3.
All containers of permanently pressurised fire extinguishers and propellant bottles of non-pressurised extinguishers shall be hydraulic pressure tested every 10 years.
Regulation 39: Portable fire extinguishers in control stations and accommodations and service spaces Paragraph (2) 1.
Except in the cases mentioned under 2 (below) for each type of fire extinguisher carried, capable of being recharged on board, at least 100 % spare charges for the first 10 extinguishers shall be provided and 50 % for the remaining extinguishers but not more than 60. 2.
For vessels with a length of less than 45 m and for fire extinguishers, which cannot be recharged on board, at least 50 % additional fire extinguishers of same type and capacity shall be provided in lieu of spare charges. 3.
The firefighter's outfits shall be in accordance with the IMO Fire Safety Systems Code, Chapter III, regulations 2.1, 2.1.1 and 2.1.2.
In vessels with a length of less than 45 m, the Administration may dispense with this requirement.
The freeboard measured amidships from the edge of the working deck from which fishing is undertaken, shall not be less than 300 mm or not less than the freeboard corresponding with the maximum permissible draught, whichever is the greater.
Regulation 6: Availability and stowage of survival craft and rescue boats Subparagraph (4)(a) Each survival craft shall be stowed: - so that neither the survival craft nor its stowage arrangements will interfere with the operation of any other survival craft or rescue boat at any other launching location, - as near to the water surface as is safe and practicable and, in the case of a survival craft other than a liferaft intended for throw over board launching, in such a position that the survival craft in the embarkation position is not less than 2 m above the waterline with the vessel in fully loaded condition under unfavourable conditions of trim of up to 10 ° and listed up to 20 ° either way, or to the angle at which the ship's weatherdeck edge becomes submerged, whichever is less, - in a state of continuous readiness so that the crew members can carry out preparations for embarkation and launching in less than 5 min., - fully equipped as required by this chapter.
No part of a seating position shall be on the gunwale, transom, or on inflated buoyancy at the sides of the boat. (1) The International Convention on Load Lines 1966, as established by the International Conference on Load Lines on 5 April 1966 and adopted by the International Maritime Organisation by its Resolution A.133(V) on 25 October 1967. (2) The Code on Intact Stability for All Types of Ships Covered by IMO Instruments adopted by the International Maritime Organisation by resolution A.749(18) on 4 November 1993, as amended by resolution MSC.75(69). (3) The stability criteria for offshore supply vessels in paragraph 4.5.6.2.1 to 4.5.6.2.4 in the IMO Code on Intact Stability for All Types of Ships) may be considered as equivalent to the stability criteria in regulation 2(1)(a) to (c).
This equivalence can only be applied, subject to satisfaction of the Administration, for fishing vessels with a hull form which is similar to that of offshore supply vessels. (4) For sea areas where ice accretion may occur and modifications of the icing allowance are suggested, see Guidance relating to Ice Accretion contained in recommendation 2 of attachment 3 to the final Act of the Torremolinos Conference. (5) See the guidance on subdivision and damage stability calculations contained in recommendation 5 of attachment 3 to the Final Act of the Torremolinos Conference. (6) See also the recommendation, published by the International Electrotechnical Commission and, in particular, Publication 92, %quot%Electric installations in ships%quot%. (7) The Code on Noise Levels on Board Ships as adopted by the International Maritime Organisation by its resolution A.468(XII) on 19 November 1981. (8) The International Code for Application of Fire Test Procedures (FTP Code), as adopted by the Maritime Safety Committee of the International Maritime Organisation by resolution MSC. 61(67). (9) OJ L 46, 17.2.1997, p. 25.%quot%
