Within its sphere of competence, the Community participated in the negotiation and concluded the Convention on behalf of the Community by means of Council Decision 90/611/EEC [1]. (2) Article 12 of the United Nations Convention concerns trade in substances frequently used in the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
As provisions on trade in drug precursors affect Community rules in customs matters, it is appropriate to lay down Community rules on trade between the Community and third countries. (3) Article 12 of the United Nations Convention requires a system to monitor international trade in drug precursors, taking account of the fact that, in principle, trade in these substances is lawful.
Article 4 The documentation referred to in Article 3 shall be kept by the operators for a period of three years from the end of the calendar year in which the operation took place.
Article 5 Operators shall ensure that labels are affixed on any packaging containing scheduled substances indicating their name as stated in the Annex, or, in the case of a mixture or a natural product, its name and the name of any scheduled substance, as stated in the Annex, contained in the mixture or in the natural product.
SECTION 2 Licensing and registration of operators Article 6 1.
This obligation shall be carried out with the competent authority in the Member State in which the operator is established. 2.
SECTION 3 Provision of information Article 9 1.
SECTION 4 Pre-export notification Article 11 1.
The country of destination shall be allowed a period of 15 working days to reply, at the end of which the export operation may be authorised by the competent authorities of the Member State of export, if no advice from the competent authorities of the country of destination is received indicating that this export operation might be intended for the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances. 2.
SECTION 5 Export authorisation Article 12 1.
Exports of scheduled substances that require a customs declaration, including exports of scheduled substances leaving the customs territory from the Community following their storage in a free zone of control type I or free warehouse for a period of at least 10 days, shall be subject to an export authorisation.
However, exports of scheduled substances listed in Category 3 of the Annex shall only be subject to an export authorisation where pre-export notifications are required, or where these substances are exported to certain countries of destination to be determined in accordance with the committee procedure in order to ensure an appropriate level of control. 2.
The application for export authorisations referred to in Article 12 shall contain at least the following: (a) the names and addresses of the exporter, the importer in the third country, any other operator involved in the export operation or shipment, and the ultimate consignee; (b) the name of the scheduled substance as stated in the Annex or, in the case of a mixture or a natural product, its name and eight-digit CN code and the name of any scheduled substance, as stated in the Annex, contained in the mixture or in the natural product; (c) the quantity and weight of the scheduled substance and, in the case of a mixture or a natural product, the quantity, weight, and, if available, the percentage of any scheduled substance contained therein; (d) details of the transport arrangements, such as the expected date of dispatch, method of transport, name of the customs office where the customs declaration is to be made and, where available at this stage, identification of the means of transport, itinerary, expected point of exit from Community customs territory and the point of entry into the importing country; (e) in the cases referred to in Article 17, a copy of the import authorisation issued by the country of destination; and (f) the number of the licence or registration referred to in Articles 6 and 7. 2.
The export authorisation shall be presented to the customs office when the customs declaration is made, or in the absence of a customs declaration, at the customs office of exit or other competent authorities at the point of exit from the Community customs territory.
Article 16 The competent authorities may suspend or revoke an export authorisation whenever there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the substances are intended for the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances.
Article 17 Whenever, under an agreement between the Community and a third country, exports are not to be authorised unless an import authorisation has been issued by the competent authorities of that third country for the substances in question, the Commission shall communicate to the competent authorities of the Member States the name and address of the competent authority of the third country, together with any operational information obtained from it.
Article 18 The period of validity of the export authorisation within which the goods must have left the Community Customs territory shall not exceed six months from the date of issue of the export authorisation.
Article 19 Simplified procedures to grant an export authorisation may be applied by the competent authorities where they are satisfied that this will not result in any risk of diversion of scheduled substances.
Article 22 The import authorisation shall accompany the consignment from the point of entry into the Community customs territory to the premises of the importer or ultimate consignee.
Article 24 The competent authorities may suspend or revoke the import authorisation whenever there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that the substances are intended for the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances.
Article 25 The period of validity of the import authorisation within which the scheduled substances must have been entered into the customs territory of the Community shall not exceed six months from the date of issue of the import authorisation.
CHAPTER III POWERS OF COMPETENT AUTHORITIES Article 26 1.
CHAPTER IV ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION Article 27 For the purposes of applying this Regulation and without prejudice to Article 30, the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 515/97 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
CHAPTER V IMPLEMENTING MEASURES AND AMENDMENTS Article 28 In addition to the implementing measures referred to in this Regulation, the Committee shall lay down, where necessary, detailed rules to ensure the effective monitoring of trade between the Community and third countries in drug precursors for the purpose of preventing the diversion of such substances, in particular with regard to the design and use of export and import authorisation forms.
Article 29 The committee procedure shall be used to adapt the Annex to this Regulation, to take account of any amendments to the Annex to the United Nations Convention.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
CHAPTER VI FINAL PROVISIONS Article 31 Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
Article 32 The competent authorities in each Member State shall, at least once each year, communicate to the Commission all relevant information on the implementation of the monitoring measures laid down in this Regulation, and on scheduled substances used for the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances and methods of diversion and illicit manufacture, and their licit trade, uses and needs.
Article 33 The Commission is hereby authorised to adopt a position, on behalf of the Community, in favour of amendments to tables I and II of the Annex to the United Nations Convention which conform to the Annex to this Regulation.
Article 34 Regulation (EEC) No 3677/90 is repealed with effect from 18 August 2005.
Article 35 This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It shall apply from 18 August 2005.
Such measures shall enter into force at the earliest on 18 August 2005.
Veerman -------------------------------------------------- [1] OJ L 326, 24.11.1990, p. 56. [2] OJ L 357, 20.12.1990, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1232/2002 (OJ L 180, 10.7.2002, p. 5). [3] OJ L 82, 22.3.1997, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 807/2003 (OJ L 122, 16.5.2003, p. 36). [4] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [5] OJ L 311, 28.11.2001, p. 67.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2004/27/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 136, 30.4.2004, p. 34). [6] OJ L 302, 19.10.1992, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. -------------------------------------------------- +++++ ANNEX 1 +++++&lt;/br&gt;
