The sheet on which the mark is reproduced shall not exceed DIN A4 size (29,7 cm high, 21 cm wide) and the space used for the reproduction (type-area) shall not be larger than 26,2 cm Ă&#x2014; 17 cm.
Rule 7 Exhibition priority (1) Where the exhibition priority pursuant to Article 33 of the Regulation has been claimed in the application, the applicant shall, within three months from the filing date, file a certificate issued at the exhibition by the authority responsible for the protection of industrial property at the exhibition.
TITLE IV RENEWAL Rule 29 Notification of expiry At least six months before expiry of the registration the Office shall inform the proprietor of the Community trade mark, and any person having a registered right, including a licence, in respect of the Community trade mark, that the registration is approaching expiry.
TITLE VIII COMMUNITY COLLECTIVE MARKS Rule 42 Application of provisions The provisions of these Rules shall apply to Community collective marks, subject to Rule 43.
Rule 47 Transmission to central industrial property offices of the Member States Where the application for conversion complies with the requirements of the Regulation and these Rules, the Office shall transmit without delay the application for conversion to the central industrial property offices of the Member States specified therein, including the Benelux Trade Mark Office.
Rule 51 Reimbursement of appeal fees The reimbursement of appeal fees shall be ordered in the event of interlocutory revision or where the Board of Appeal deems an appeal to be allowable, if such reimbursement is equitable by reason of a substantial procedural violation.
Rule 53 Correction of errors in decisions In decisions of the Office, only linguistic errors, errors of transcription and obvious mistakes my be corrected.
Copies of documents emanating from the parties themselves shall not require such certification. (2) Notifications shall be made (a) by post in accordance with Rule 62; (b) by hand delivery in accordance with Rule 63; (c) by deposit in a post box at the Office in accordance with Rule 64; (d) by telecopier and other technical means in accordance with Rule 65; (e) by public notification in accordance with Rule 66.
Rule 63 Notification by hand delivery Notification may be effected on the premises of the Office by hand delivery of the document to the addressee, who shall on delivery acknowledge its receipt.
Rule 64 Notification by deposit in a post box at the Office Notification may also be effected to addressees who have been provided with a post box at the Office, by depositing the document therein.
Rule 69 Notification of documents in the case of several parties Documents emanating from parties which contain substantive proposals, or a declaration of withdrawal of a substantive proposal, shall be notified to the other parties as a matter of course.
Part F Waiving of enforced recovery procedures Rule 74 Waiving of enforced recovery procedures The President of the Office may waive action for the enforced recovery of any sum due where the sum to be recovered is minimal or where such recovery is too uncertain.
Rule 77 Representation Any notification or other communication addressed by the Office to the duly authorized representative shall have the same effect as if it had been addressed to the represented person.
Rule 90 Communication of information contained in the files Subject to the restrictions provided for in Article 84 of the Regulation and Rule 88, the Office may, upon request, communicate information from any file of a Community trade mark applied for or of a registered Community trade mark, subject to payment of a fee.
Such communications shall not be subject to the restrictions provided for in Article 84 of the Regulation. (2) Communications between the Office and the courts or authorities of the Member States which arise out of the application of the Regulation or these Rules shall be effected directly between these authorities.
Such inspection shall be subject to Article 84 of the Regulation.
Rule 96 Written proceedings (1) Without prejudice to Article 115 (4) and (7) of the Regulation, and unless otherwise provided for in these Rules, in written proceedings before the Office any party may use any language of the Office.
Where the certificate relates to the translation of a previous application pursuant to Article 30 of the Regulation, such period shall not be less than three months after the date of filing of the application.
Rule 99 Legal authenticity of translations In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the Office may assume that a translation corresponds to the relevant original text.
Done at Brussels, 13 December 1995.
