Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2290/83 of 29 July 1983 laying down provisions for the implementation of Articles 50 to 59 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 918/83 setting up a Community system of reliefs from customs duty ***** COMMISSION REGULATION (EEC) No 2290/83 of 29 July 1983 laying down provisions for the implementation of Articles 50 to 59 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 918/83 setting up a Community system of reliefs from customs duty THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 918/83 of 28 March 1983 setting up a Community system of reliefs from customs duty (1), and in particular Article 143 thereof, Whereas Regulation (EEC) No 918/83 replaced, by its Articles 50 to 59, Council Regulation (EEC) No 1798/75 of 10 July 1975 on the importation free of Common Customs Tariff duties of educational, scientific and cultural materials (2); whereas it is therefore necessary to replace Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2784/79 of 12 December 1979 laying down provisions for the implementation of Regulation (EEC) No 1798/75 (3) by a new Regulation laying down provisions for the implementation of Articles 50 to 59 of Regulation (EEC) No 918/83; Whereas the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee on Duty-Free Arrangements, HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 1 This Regulation lays down provisions for the implementation of Articles 50 to 59 of Regulation (EEC) No 918/83, hereinafter referred to as the 'basic Regulation'.
The admission free of import duties of educational, scientific and cultural materials referred to in Articles 51, 52 (1), 53 and 56 of the basic Regulation, hereinafter referred to as 'goods', shall entail the following obligations on the part of the establishment or organization to which the goods are consigned: - to dispatch the goods in question directly to the declared place of destination, - to account for them in its inventory, - to use them exclusively for non-commercial purposes within the meaning of the second indent of Article 54 of the basic Regulation, - to facilitate any verification which the competent authorities consider necessary in order to ensure that the conditions for granting admission free of import duties are satisfied, or remain satisfied. 2.
Where the provisions of the first subparagraph of Article 57 (2) of the basic Regulation are applied, the establishment or organization to which goods are lent, hired out or transferred shall, from the date of receipt of the goods, comply with the same obligations as those set out in Article 2. 2.
Implementation of Article 57 (2) of Regulation (EEC) No 918/83', - 'Importafgiftsfrit indfoerte varrer (Unesco).
Anvendelse af artikel 57, stk. 2, i forordning (EOEF) nr. 918/83', - 'Abgabenfreie Ware (Unesco).
Anwendung von Artikel 57 Absatz 2 der Verordnung (EWG) Nr. 918/83', - 'Objet en franchise des droits à l'importation (Unesco).
Application de l'article 57 paragraphe 2, du règlement (CEE) no 918/83', - 'Eídi eisagómena atelós apó toys eisagogikoýs dasmoýs ( UNESCO).
Applicazione dell'articolo 57, paragrafo 2, del regolamento (CEE) n. 918/83', - 'Voorwerp met vrijstelling van rechten bij invoer (Unesco).
Toepassing van artikel 57, lid 2, van Verordening (EEG) nr. 918/83'. 3.
The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the loan, hire or transfer of spare parts, components or specific accessories for scientific instruments or apparatus, and to tools for the maintenance, control, calibration or repair of scientific instruments or apparatus, which have been admitted free of import duties under Article 53 of the basic Regulation.
TITLE II SPECIFIC PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE ADMISSION FREE OF IMPORT DUTIES OF EDUCATIONAL, SCIENTIFIC OR CULTURAL MATERIALS IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 51 OF THE BASIC REGULATION Article 4 In order to obtain admission free of import duties of goods in accordance with Article 51 of the basic Regulation, the head of the establishment or organization to which the goods are consigned, or his authorized representative, must submit an application to the competent authority of the Member State in which the establishment or organization is situated.
TITLE III SPECIFIC PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE IMPORTATION FREE OF IMPORT DUTIES OF SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS UNDER ARTICLES 52, 54 AND 55 OF THE BASIC REGULATION Article 5 1.
For the purposes of the first indent of Article 54 of the basic Regulation, the objective technical characteristics of a scientific instrument or apparatus shall be understood to mean those characteristics resulting from the construction of that instrument or apparatus or from adjustments to a standard instrument or apparatus which make it possible to obtain high-level performances above those normally required for industrial or commercial use.
In making the comparison provided for in the third indent of Article 54 of the basic Regulation, only such technical characteristics as have a decisive influence on the outcome of the specific work planned may be regarded as 'essential'.
In order to obtain admission free of import duties of a scientific instrument or apparatus under the provisions of Article 52 (1) of the basic Regulation, the head of the establishment or organization to which the goods are consigned, or his authorized representative, must submit an application to the competent authority of the Member State in which the establishment or organization is situated. 2.
The competent authority of the Member State in which is situated the establishment or organization to which the goods are consigned shall take a direct decision on applications under Article 6 in all cases where the information at its disposal, if necessary after consultation with the trade circles concerned, enables it to assess whether or not the instrument or apparatus is scientific and whether or not there exist instruments or apparatus of equivalent scientific value which are currently manufactured in the Community. 2.
Where the examination undertaken in accordance with paragraph 5 shows that the instrument or apparatus for which admission free of import duties has been requested must be regarded as being scientific and that instruments or apparatus of equivalent scientific value are currently not manufactured in the Community, the Commission shall adopt a decision declaring that the said instrument or apparatus fulfils the conditions required for admission free of import duties.
Article 8 Authorizations for admission free of import duties shall be valid for a period of six months.
TITLE IV SPECIFIC PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE ADMISSION FREE OF IMPORT DUTIES OF SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS OR APPARATUS UNDER ARTICLE 56 OF THE BASIC REGULATION Article 9 1.
In order to obtain admission free of import duties of scientific instruments or apparatus under the provisions of Article 56 of the basic Regulation, the head of the establishment or organization to which the goods are consigned or his authorized representative, must submit an application to the competent authority of the Member State in which the establishment or organization is situated. 2.
Article 11 The provisions of Articles 9 and 10 shall apply mutatis mutandis to tools for the maintenance, control, calibration and repair of scientific instruments or apparatus which have been admitted free of import duties under Article 56 of the basic Regulation.
TITLE V SPECIFIC PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE ADMISSION FREE OF IMPORT DUTIES OF SPARE PARTS, COMPONENTS, SPECIFIC ACCESSORIES AND TOOLS UNDER ARTICLE 53 OF THE BASIC REGULATION Article 12 For the purpose of Article 53 (a) of the basic Regulation specific accessories means those articles specially designed for use with a specific scientific instrument or apparatus for the purpose of improving its performance and scope.
Article 13 In order to obtain admission free of import duties under Article 53 of the basic Regulation, either of spare parts, components or specific accessories, or of tools, the head of the establishment or organization to which the goods are consigned, or his authorized representative, must submit an application to the competent authority of the Member State in which the establishment or organization is situated.
This application must be accompanied by all data deemed necessary by the competent authority for the purpose of determining whether the conditions laid down in Article 53 of the basic Regulation are fulfilled.
The procedure set out in Article 7 (2) to (7) shall apply mutatis mutandis in cases where the competent authority of the Member State in which is situated the establishment or organization to which the goods are consigned is unable to determine whether or not: - the instrument or apparatus for which are intended the spare parts, components, specific accessories or tools forming the subject of an application as referred to in Article 13 would qualify for admission free of import duties if it were itself currently imported into the Community, - tools equivalent to those for which admission free of import duties is requested are currently manufactured within the Community.
Article 15 The provisions of Article 8 shall apply to authorizations for admission free of import duties issued under Article 53 of the basic Regulation.
TITLE VI COMMUNICATION OF INFORMATION TO THE COMMISSION AND THE MEMBER STATES Article 16 1.
Each Member State shall send the Commission a list of the instruments, apparatus, spare parts, components, accessories and tools of which the price or the value for customs purposes exceeds 3 000 ECU and for which it has authorized admission free of import duties under Article 7 (1) or 14 (1).
Article 18 The lists referred to in Articles 16 and 17 shall be examined periodically by the Committee on Duty-Free Arrangements.
TITLE VII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 19 Regulation (EEC) No 2784/79 is hereby repealed.
For the Commission Karl-Heinz NARJES Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 105, 23. 4. 1983, p. 1. (2) OJ No L 184, 15. 7. 1975, p. 1. (3) OJ No L 318, 13. 12. 1979, p. 32.
