SECTION II NEGOTIATING PROCEDURE Article 3 Creation of a special negotiating body 1.
However, should the result of the negotiations lead to a reduction of participation rights, the majority required for a decision to approve such an agreement shall be the votes of two thirds of the members of the special negotiating body representing at least two thirds of the employees, including the votes of members representing employees employed in at least two Member States, - in the case of an SE to be established by way of merger, if participation covers at least 25 % of the overall number of employees of the participating companies, or - in the case of an SE to be established by way of creating a holding company or forming a subsidiary, if participation covers at least 50 % of the overall number of employees of the participating companies.
The special negotiating body shall be reconvened on the written request of at least 10 % of the employees of the SE, its subsidiaries and establishments, or their representatives, at the earliest two years after the abovementioned decision, unless the parties agree to negotiations being reopened sooner.
Article 4 Content of the agreement 1.
Article 5 Duration of negotiations 1.
Article 6 Legislation applicable to the negotiation procedure Except where otherwise provided in this Directive, the legislation applicable to the negotiation procedure provided for in Articles 3 to 5 shall be the legislation of the Member State in which the registered office of the SE is to be situated.
Article 7 Standard rules 1.
Member States may provide that the reference provisions in part 3 of the Annex shall not apply in the case provided for in point (b) of paragraph 2.
SECTION III MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Article 8 Reservation and confidentiality 1.
In applying paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, Member States shall make provision for administrative or judicial appeal procedures which the employees' representatives may initiate when the supervisory or administrative organ of an SE or participating company demands confidentiality or does not give information.
Article 9 Operation of the representative body and procedure for the information and consultation of employees The competent organ of the SE and the representative body shall work together in a spirit of cooperation with due regard for their reciprocal rights and obligations.
Article 10 Protection of employees' representatives The members of the special negotiating body, the members of the representative body, any employees' representatives exercising functions under the information and consultation procedure and any employees' representatives in the supervisory or administrative organ of an SE who are employees of the SE, its subsidiaries or establishments or of a participating company shall, in the exercise of their functions, enjoy the same protection and guarantees provided for employees' representatives by the national legislation and/or practice in force in their country of employment.
Article 11 Misuse of procedures Member States shall take appropriate measures in conformity with Community law with a view to preventing the misuse of an SE for the purpose of depriving employees of rights to employee involvement or withholding such rights.
Article 12 Compliance with this Directive 1.
Article 13 Link between this Directive and other provisions 1.
Article 14 Final provisions 1.
Article 15 Review by the Commission No later than 8 October 2007, the Commission shall, in consultation with the Member States and with management and labour at Community level, review the procedures for applying this Directive, with a view to proposing suitable amendments to the Council where necessary.
Article 16 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 17 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 8 October 2001.
Onkelinx (1) OJ C 138, 29.5.1991, p. 8. (2) OJ C 342, 20.12.1993, p. 15. (3) OJ C 124, 21.5.1990, p. 34. (4) See page 1 of this Official Journal. (5) OJ L 254, 30.9.1994, p. 64.
Directive as last amended by Directive 97/74/EC (OJ L 10, 16.1.1998, p. 22). (6) OJ L 10, 16.1.1998, p. 22.
