For the purposes of this Regulation: (a) aromatized wine shall mean: a drink: - obtained from wines defined in points 12 to 18 of Annex I to Regulation (EEC) No 822/87 (11), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1325/90 (12), with the exception of retsina table wine, and possibly with added grape must, grape must in fermentation and/or fresh grape must with fermentation arrested by the addition of alcohol, as defined by Community legislation, - to which alcohol has been added as defined in Article 3 (d), and - which has been flavoured with the aid of: - natural flavouring substances and/or natural flavouring preparations as defined in Article 1 (2) (b) (i) and (c) of Directive 88/388/EEC.
Without prejudice to the more restrictive provisions in paragraph 2, the use of substances and preparations identical to natural substances and preparations, as defined in Article 1 (2) (b) (ii) of that Directive, may be authorized in certain cases and under certain conditions, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14, and/or - aromatic herbs and/or spices and/or flavouring foodstuffs, - which has generally been sweetened and, subject to the exceptions provided for in paragraph 2, has possibly been coloured with caramel, - which has a minimum actual alcoholic strength by volume of 14,5 % vol or more and a maximum actual alcoholic strength by volume of less than 22 % vol and a minimum total alcoholic strength by volume of 17,5 % vol or more; however, for those products which, pursuant to paragraph 5, bear the description 'dry' or 'extra dry', the minimum total alcoholic strength by volume shall be set at 16 % vol and 15 % vol respectively.
The term 'cremovo' may accompany the term 'egg-based aromatized wine' where such wine contains Marsala wine in a proportion of not less than 80 %.
The term 'cremovo zabaione' may accompany the term 'egg-based aromatized wine' where such wine contains Marsala wine in a proportion of not less than 80 % and has an egg yolk content of not less than 60 grams per litre. 3.
Definitions of the various categories of aromatized wine-based drinks the description of which may: - replace the description 'aromatized wine-based drink' in the Member State of production, - be used to supplement 'aromatized wine-based drink' in the other Member States: (a) Sangria: a drink obtained from wine, aromatized with the addition of natural citrus-fruit extracts or essences, with or without the juice of such fruit and with the possible addition of spices, sweetened and with CO2 added, having an acquired alcoholic strength by volume of less than 12 % vol.
The actual alcoholic strength by volume must be 8 % vol or more and less than 10,5 % vol.
The descriptions referred to in paragraphs 1 (a) and (b), 2 and 3 may also include the following particulars, with the sugar content indicated in each respective subparagraph being expressed as invert sugar: (a) 'extra-dry': in the case of products with a sugar content of less than 80 grams per litre; (b) 'dry': in the case of products with a sugar content of less than 50 grams per litre; (c) 'semi-dry': in the case of products with a sugar content of between 50 and 90 grams per litre; (d) 'semi-sweet': in the case of products with a sugar content of between 90 and 130 grams per litre; (e) 'sweet': in the case of products with a sugar content of more than 130 grams per litre.
Where the sales description of aromatized wine-based drinks includes the term 'sparkling', the quantity of sparkling wine used must be not less than 95 %. 7.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 14.
Processes for finished products and raw materials other than those referred to in paragraph 1 may be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14.
The sales descriptions referred to in paragraph 1 may not be supplemented by geographical ascriptions allowed for wine products. 4.
The descriptions referred to in Article 2 may be supplemented by a reference to the main flavouring used. 4.
Without prejudice to Article 11, in the case of drinks originating in the Community and intended for export, the particulars provided for in this Regulation may be repeated in another language; this does not apply to the designations referred to in paragraph 5. 9.
For drinks listed in Annex II which are exported, a system of authentication documents to eliminate fraudulent practices and counterfeits may be established in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13.
Detailed rules for the communication and dissemination of such information shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13.
The first subparagraph shall be implemented by agreements to be negotiated and concluded with the third countries concerned under the procedure laid down in Article 113 of the Treaty.
The implementing rules and the list of products referred to in the first subparagraph shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14.
Article 11 Other than in the case of exceptions to be decided in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13, aromatized wines, aromatized wine-based drinks and aromatized wine-product cocktails intended for export must comply with the provisions of this Regulation.
Within the Committee the votes of Member States shall be weighted in accordance with Article 148 (2) of the Treaty.
Where the procedure laid down in this Article is to be followed, the chairman shall refer the matter to the Committee either on his own initiative or at the request of the representative of a Member State. 2.
An opinion shall be adopted by a majority of 54 votes.
Where the procedure laid down in this Article is to be followed, the chairman shall refer the matter to the Committee either on his own initiative or at the request of the representative of a Member State. 2.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
Article 15 The Committee may consider any other question referred to it by its chairman, either on his own initiative or at the request of the representative of a Member State.
In order to facilitate the changeover from the present arrangements to those introduced by this Regulation, transitional measures shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13. 2.
Article 17 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 10 June 1991.
ANNEX I Characteristics of ethyl alcohol as referred to in Article 3 (d) 1.
