Regulation (EC) No%nbsp%562/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15%nbsp%March 2006 establishing a Community Code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders%nbsp%(Schengen Borders Code) Regulation (EC) No 562/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006 establishing a Community Code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (Schengen Borders Code) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Articles 62(1) and (2)(a) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty [1], Whereas: (1) The adoption of measures under Article 62(1) of the Treaty with a view to ensuring the absence of any controls on persons crossing internal borders forms part of the Union's objective of establishing an area without internal borders in which the free movement of persons is ensured, as set out in Article 14 of the Treaty. (2) In accordance with Article 61 of the Treaty, the creation of an area in which persons may move freely is to be flanked by other measures.
The common policy on the crossing of external borders, as provided for by Article 62(2) of the Treaty, is such a measure. (3) The adoption of common measures on the crossing of internal borders by persons and border control at external borders should reflect the Schengen acquis incorporated in the European Union framework, and in particular the relevant provisions of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 between the Governments of the States of the Benelux Economic Union, the Federal Republic of Germany and the French Republic on the gradual abolition of checks at their common borders [2] and the Common Manual [3]. (4) As regards border control at external borders, the establishment of a "common corpus" of legislation, particularly via consolidation and development of the acquis, is one of the fundamental components of the common policy on the management of the external borders, as defined in the Commission Communication of 7 May 2002 "Towards integrated management of the external borders of the Member States of the European Union".
This objective was included in the "Plan for the management of the external borders of the Member States of the European Union", approved by the Council on 13 June 2002 and endorsed by the Seville European Council on 21 and 22 June 2002 and by the Thessaloniki European Council on 19 and 20 June 2003. (5) The definition of common rules on the movement of persons across borders neither calls into question nor affects the rights of free movement enjoyed by Union citizens and members of their families and by third-country nationals and members of their families who, under agreements between the Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and those third countries, on the other hand, enjoy rights of free movement equivalent to those of Union citizens. (6) Border control is in the interest not only of the Member State at whose external borders it is carried out but of all Member States which have abolished internal border control.
Stamping makes it possible to establish, with certainty, the date on which, and where, the border was crossed, without establishing in all cases that all required travel document control measures have been carried out. (10) In order to reduce the waiting times of persons enjoying the Community right of free movement, separate lanes, indicated by uniform signs in all Member States, should, where circumstances allow, be provided at border crossing points.
The scope and duration of any temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders should be restricted to the bare minimum needed to respond to that threat. (16) In an area where persons may move freely, the reintroduction of border control at internal borders should remain an exception.
Border control should not be carried out or formalities imposed solely because such a border is crossed. (17) Provision should be made for a procedure enabling the Commission to adapt certain detailed practical rules governing border control.
It should be applied in accordance with the Member States' obligations as regards international protection and non-refoulement. (21) By way of derogation from Article 299 of the Treaty, the only territories of France and the Netherlands to which this Regulation applies are those in Europe.
It does not affect the specific arrangements applied in Ceuta and Melilla, as defined in the Agreement on the Accession of the Kingdom of Spain to the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 [7]. (22) In accordance with Articles 1 and 2 of the Protocol on the Position of Denmark annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Denmark is not taking part in the adoption of this Regulation and is not bound by it or subject to its application.
Given that this Regulation builds upon the Schengen acquis under the provisions of Title IV of Part Three of the Treaty establishing the European Community, Denmark should, in accordance with Article 5 of the said Protocol, decide within a period of six months after the date of adoption of this Regulation whether it will implement it in its national law or not. (23) As regards Iceland and Norway, this Regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis within the meaning of the Agreement concluded by the Council of the European Union and the Republic of Iceland and the Kingdom of Norway concerning the latters' association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis [8] which fall within the area referred to in Article 1, point A, of Council Decision 1999/437/EC [9] on certain arrangements for the application of that Agreement. (24) An arrangement has to be made to allow representatives of Iceland and Norway to be associated with the work of committees assisting the Commission in the exercise of its implementing powers.
The United Kingdom is therefore not taking part in its adoption and is not bound by it or subject to its application. (28) This Regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis in which Ireland does not take part, in accordance with Council Decision 2002/192/EC of 28 February 2002 concerning Ireland's request to take part in some of the provisions of the Schengen acquis [14].
Article 3 Scope This Regulation shall apply to any person crossing the internal or external borders of Member States, without prejudice to: (a) the rights of persons enjoying the Community right of free movement; (b) the rights of refugees and persons requesting international protection, in particular as regards non-refoulement.
TITLE II EXTERNAL BORDERS CHAPTER I Crossing of external borders and conditions for entry Article 4 Crossing of external borders 1.
The opening hours shall be clearly indicated at border crossing points which are not open 24 hours a day.
Member States shall notify the list of their border crossing points to the Commission in accordance with Article 34. 2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, exceptions to the obligation to cross external borders only at border crossing points and during the fixed opening hours may be allowed: (a) in connection with pleasure boating or coastal fishing; (b) for seamen going ashore to stay in the area of the port where their ships call or in the adjacent municipalities; (c) for individuals or groups of persons, where there is a requirement of a special nature, provided that they are in possession of the permits required by national law and that there is no conflict with the interests of public policy and the internal security of the Member States; (d) for individuals or groups of persons in the event of an unforeseen emergency situation. 3.
Without prejudice to the exceptions provided for in paragraph 2 or to their international protection obligations, Member States shall introduce penalties, in accordance with their national law, for the unauthorised crossing of external borders at places other than border crossing points or at times other than the fixed opening hours.
Article 5 Entry conditions for third-country nationals 1.
For stays not exceeding three months per six-month period, the entry conditions for third-country nationals shall be the following: (a) they are in possession of a valid travel document or documents authorising them to cross the border; (b) they are in possession of a valid visa, if required pursuant to Council Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement [17], except where they hold a valid residence permit; (c) they justify the purpose and conditions of the intended stay, and they have sufficient means of subsistence, both for the duration of the intended stay and for the return to their country of origin or transit to a third country into which they are certain to be admitted, or are in a position to acquire such means lawfully; (d) they are not persons for whom an alert has been issued in the SIS for the purposes of refusing entry; (e) they are not considered to be a threat to public policy, internal security, public health or the international relations of any of the Member States, in particular where no alert has been issued in Member States' national data bases for the purposes of refusing entry on the same grounds. 2.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1: (a) third-country nationals who do not fulfil all the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 but hold a residence permit or a re-entry visa issued by one of the Member States or, where required, both documents, shall be authorised to enter the territories of the other Member States for transit purposes so that they may reach the territory of the Member State which issued the residence permit or re-entry visa, unless their names are on the national list of alerts of the Member State whose external borders they are seeking to cross and the alert is accompanied by instructions to refuse entry or transit; (b) third-country nationals who fulfil the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, except for that laid down in point (b), and who present themselves at the border may be authorised to enter the territories of the Member States, if a visa is issued at the border in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 415/2003 of 27 February 2003 on the issue of visas at the border, including the issue of such visas to seamen in transit [18].
CHAPTER II Control of external borders and refusal of entry Article 6 Conduct of border checks 1.
However, on a non-systematic basis, when carrying out minimum checks on persons enjoying the Community right of free movement, border guards may consult national and European databases in order to ensure that such persons do not represent a genuine, present and sufficiently serious threat to the internal security, public policy, international relations of the Member States or a threat to the public health.
Detailed rules governing the information to be registered are laid down in Annex II.
Article 8 Relaxation of border checks 1.
Even in the event that checks are relaxed, the border guard shall stamp the travel documents of third-country nationals both on entry and exit, in accordance with Article 10. 4.
Such lanes shall be differentiated by means of the signs bearing the indications set out in the Annex III.
The adaptation of existing signs to the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall be completed by 31 May 2009.
Article 10 Stamping of the travel documents of third-country nationals 1.
The travel documents of nationals of third countries who are members of the family of a Union citizen to whom Directive 2004/38/EC applies, but who do not present the residence card provided for in Article 10 of that Directive, shall be stamped on entry or exit.
The travel documents of nationals of third countries who are members of the family of nationals of third countries enjoying the Community right of free movement, but who do not present the residence card provided for in Article 10 of Directive 2004/38/EC, shall be stamped on entry or exit. 3.
The practical arrangements for stamping are set out in Annex IV. 5.
Article 11 Presumption as regards fulfilment of conditions of duration of stay 1.
In such a case: (a) where the third-country national is found on the territory of a Member State applying the Schengen acquis in full, the competent authorities shall indicate, in accordance with national law and practice, in his or her travel document the date on which, and the place where, he or she crossed the external border of one of the Member States applying the Schengen acquis in full; (b) where the third-country national is found on the territory of a Member State in respect of which the decision contemplated in Article 3(2) of the 2003 Act of Accession has not been taken, the competent authorities shall indicate, in accordance with national law and practice, in his or her travel document the date on which, and the place where, he or she crossed the external border of such a Member State.
Article 12 Border surveillance 1.
Article 13 Refusal of entry 1.
The substantiated decision stating the precise reasons for the refusal shall be given by means of a standard form, as set out in Annex V, Part B, filled in by the authority empowered by national law to refuse entry.
CHAPTER III Staff and resources for border control and cooperation between Member States Article 14 Staff and resources for border control Member States shall deploy appropriate staff and resources in sufficient numbers to carry out border control at the external borders, in accordance with Articles 6 to 13, in such a way as to ensure an efficient, high and uniform level of control at their external borders.
Article 15 Implementation of controls 1.
Member States shall encourage border guards to learn languages, in particular those necessary for the carrying-out of their tasks. 2.
Member States shall notify to the Commission the list of national services responsible for border control under their national law in accordance with Article 34. 3.
Article 16 Cooperation between Member States 1.
The Member States shall assist each other and shall maintain close and constant cooperation with a view to the effective implementation of border control, in accordance with Articles 6 to 15.
Operational cooperation between Member States in the field of management of external borders shall be coordinated by the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) established by Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004. 3.
Article 17 Joint control 1.
Member States which do not apply Article 20 to their common land borders may, up to the date of application of that Article, jointly control those common borders, in which case a person may be stopped only once for the purpose of carrying out entry and exit checks, without prejudice to the individual responsibility of Member States arising from Articles 6 to 13.
To that end, Member States may conclude bilateral arrangements between themselves. 2.
Member States shall inform the Commission of any arrangements concluded in accordance with paragraph 1.
CHAPTER IV Specific rules for border checks Article 18 Specific rules for the various types of border and the various means of transport used for crossing the external borders The specific rules set out in Annex VI shall apply to the checks carried out at the various types of border and on the various means of transport used for crossing border crossing points.
Those specific rules may contain derogations from Articles 5 and 7 to 13.
Article 19 Specific rules for checks on certain categories of persons 1.
Those specific rules may contain derogations from Articles 5 and 7 to 13. 2.
TITLE III INTERNAL BORDERS CHAPTER I Abolition of border control at internal borders Article 20 Crossing internal borders Internal borders may be crossed at any point without a border check on persons, irrespective of their nationality, being carried out.
Article 21 Checks within the territory The abolition of border control at internal borders shall not affect: (a) the exercise of police powers by the competent authorities of the Member States under national law, insofar as the exercise of those powers does not have an effect equivalent to border checks; that shall also apply in border areas.
Within the meaning of the first sentence, the exercise of police powers may not, in particular, be considered equivalent to the exercise of border checks when the police measures: (i) do not have border control as an objective, (ii) are based on general police information and experience regarding possible threats to public security and aim, in particular, to combat cross-border crime, (iii) are devised and executed in a manner clearly distinct from systematic checks on persons at the external borders, (iv) are carried out on the basis of spot-checks; (b) security checks on persons carried out at ports and airports by the competent authorities under the law of each Member State, by port or airport officials or carriers, provided that such checks are also carried out on persons travelling within a Member State; (c) the possibility for a Member State to provide by law for an obligation to hold or carry papers and documents; (d) the obligation on third-country nationals to report their presence on the territory of any Member State pursuant to the provisions of Article 22 of the Schengen Convention.
Article 22 Removal of obstacles to traffic at road crossing-points at internal borders Member States shall remove all obstacles to fluid traffic flow at road crossing-points at internal borders, in particular any speed limits not exclusively based on road-safety considerations.
CHAPTER II Temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders Article 23 Temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders 1.
Where there is a serious threat to public policy or internal security, a Member State may exceptionally reintroduce border control at its internal borders for a limited period of no more than 30 days or for the foreseeable duration of the serious threat if its duration exceeds the period of 30 days, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24 or, in urgent cases, with that laid down in Article 25.
If the serious threat to public policy or internal security persists beyond the period provided for in paragraph 1, the Member State may prolong border control on the same grounds as those referred to in paragraph 1 and, taking into account any new elements, for renewable periods of up to 30 days, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 26.
Article 24 Procedure for foreseeable events 1.
The consultation referred to in paragraph 3 shall take place at least fifteen days before the date planned for the reintroduction of border control.
Article 25 Procedure for cases requiring urgent action 1.
Article 26 Procedure for prolonging border control at internal borders 1.
Article 27 Informing the European Parliament The Member State concerned or, where appropriate, the Council shall inform the European Parliament as soon as possible of the measures taken under Articles 24, 25 and 26.
Article 28 Provisions to be applied where border control is reintroduce at internal borders Where border control at internal borders is reintroduced, the relevant provisions of Title II shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Article 29 Report on the reintroduction of border control at internal borders The Member State which has reintroduced border control at internal borders under Article 23 shall confirm the date on which that control is lifted and, at the same time or soon afterwards, present a report to the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on the reintroduction of border control at internal borders, outlining, in particular, the operation of the checks and the effectiveness of the reintroduction of border control.
Article 30 Informing the public The decision to reintroduce border control at internal borders shall be taken in a transparent manner and the public informed in full thereof, unless there are overriding security reasons for not doing so.
Article 31 Confidentiality At the request of the Member State concerned, the other Member States, the European Parliament and the Commission shall respect the confidentiality of information supplied in connection with the reintroduction and prolongation of border control and the report drawn up under Article 29.
TITLE IV FINAL PROVISIONS Article 32 Amendments to the Annexes Annexes III, IV and VIII shall be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2).
Article 33 Committee 1.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof and provided that the implementing measures adopted in accordance with this procedure do not modify the essential provisions of this Regulation.
Without prejudice to the implementing measures already adopted, the application of the provisions of this Regulation concerning the adoption of technical rules and decisions in accordance with the procedure referred in paragraph 2 shall be suspended four years after the entry into force of this Regulation.
On a proposal from the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council may renew the provisions concerned in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty and, to that end, shall review them prior to the expiry of the four-year period.
Article 34 Notifications 1.
Article 35 Local border traffic This Regulation shall be without prejudice to Community rules on local border traffic and to existing bilateral agreements on local border traffic.
Article 36 Ceuta and Melilla The provisions of this Regulation shall not affect the special rules applying to the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, as defined in the Declaration by the Kingdom of Spain on the cities of Ceuta and Melilla in the Final Act to the Agreement on the Accession of the Kingdom of Spain to the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 [20].
Article 37 Notification of information by the Member States By 26 October 2006, the Member States shall notify the Commission of national provisions relating to Article 21(c) and (d), the penalties as referred to in Article 4(3) and the bilateral arrangements concluded in accordance with Article 17(1).
Article 38 Report on the application of Title III The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council by 13 October 2009 a report on the application of Title III.
Article 39 Repeals 1.
Articles 2 to 8 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 shall be repealed with effect from 13 October 2006. 2.
The following shall be repealed with effect from the date referred to in paragraph 1: (a) the Common Manual, including its annexes; (b) the decisions of the Schengen Executive Committee of 26 April 1994 (SCH/Com-ex (94) 1, rev 2), 22 December 1994 (SCH/Com-ex (94)17, rev. 4) and 20 December 1995 (SCH/Com-ex (95) 20, rev. 2); (c) Annex 7 to the Common Consular Instructions; (d) Council Regulation (EC) No 790/2001 of 24 April 2001 reserving to the Council implementing powers with regard to certain detailed provisions and practical procedures for carrying out border checks and surveillance [21]; (e) Council Decision 2004/581/EC of 29 April 2004 determining the minimum indications to be used on signs at external border crossing points [22]; (f) Council Decision 2004/574/EC of 29 April 2004 amending the Common Manual [23]; (g) Council Regulation (EC) No 2133/2004 of 13 December 2004 on the requirement for the competent authorities of the Member States to stamp systematically the travel documents of third country nationals when they cross the external borders of the Member States and amending the provisions of the Convention implementing the Schengen agreement and the Common Manual to this end [24]. 3.
Article 40 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on 13 October 2006.
However, Article 34 shall enter into force on the day after its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Strasbourg, 15 March 2006.
Borrell Fontelles For the Council The President H.
Winkler [1] Opinion of the European Parliament of 23 June 2005 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and Council Decision of 21 February 2006. [2] OJ L 239, 22.9.2000, p. 19.
Convention as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1160/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 191, 22.7.2005, p. 18). [3] OJ C 313, 16.12.2002, p. 97.
Common Manual as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 2133/2004 (OJ L 369, 16.12.2004, p. 5). [4] Council Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 of 26 October 2004 establishing a European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (OJ L 349, 25.11.2004, p. 1). [5] OJ L 374, 31.12.1991, p. 4.
Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). [6] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [7] OJ L 239, 22.9.2000, p. 69. [8] OJ L 176, 10.7.1999, p. 36. [9] OJ L 176, 10.7.1999, p. 31. [10] OJ L 176, 10.7.1999, p. 53. [11] Council Decision 2004/849/EC of 25 October 2004 on the signing, on behalf of the European Union, and on the provisional application of certain provisions of the Agreement between the European Union, the European Community and the Swiss Confederation concerning the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis (OJ L 368, 15.12.2004, p. 26). [12] Council Decision 2004/860/EC of 25 October 2004 on the signing, on behalf of the European Community, and on the provisional application of certain provisions of the Agreement between the European Union, the European Community and the Swiss Confederation, concerning the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis (OJ L 370, 17.12.2004, p. 78). [13] OJ L 131, 1.6.2000, p. 43. [14] OJ L 64, 7.3.2002, p. 20. [15] OJ L 158, 30.4.2004, p. 77. [16] OJ L 157, 15.6.2002, p. 1. [17] OJ L 81, 21.3.2001, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 851/2005 (OJ L 141, 4.6.2005, p. 3). [18] OJ L 64, 7.3.2003, p. 1. [19] OJ L 53, 23.2.2002, p. 4. [20] OJ L 239, 22.9.2000, p. 73. [21] OJ L 116, 26.4.2001, p. 5.
The information to be registered shall include in particular: (a) the names of the border guard responsible locally for border checks and of the other officers in each team; (b) relaxation of checks on persons applied in accordance with Article 8; (c) the issuing, at the border, of documents in place of passports and of visas; (d) persons apprehended and complaints (criminal offences and administrative breaches); (e) persons refused entry in accordance with Article 13 (grounds for refusal and nationalities); (f) the security codes of entry and exit stamps, the identity of border guards to whom a given stamp is assigned at any given time or shift and the information relating to lost and stolen stamps; (g) complaints from persons subject to checks; (h) other particularly important police or judicial measures; (i) particular occurrences. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX III Model signs indicating lanes at border crossing points PART A +++++ TIFF +++++ EUEEACHCITIZENS [1] PART B +++++ TIFF +++++ ALLPASSPORTS PART C +++++ TIFF +++++ EUEEACHCARS [2] +++++ TIFF +++++ EUEEACHLORRIES [3] +++++ TIFF +++++ EUEEACHBUSES [4] +++++ TIFF +++++ ALLPASSPORTSCARS +++++ TIFF +++++ ALLPASSPORTSBUSES +++++ TIFF +++++ ALLPASSPORTSLORRIES [1] No logo is required for Norway and Iceland. [2] No logo is required for Norway and Iceland. [3] No logo is required for Norway and Iceland. [4] No logo is required for Norway and Iceland. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX IV Affixing stamps 1.
Those contact points shall have access without delay to information regarding common entry and exit stamps used at the external border of the Member State concerned, and in particular to information on the following: (a) the border crossing point to which a given stamp is assigned; (b) the identity of the border guard to whom a given stamp is assigned at any given time; (c) the security code of a given stamp at any given time.
The national contact points shall also forward immediately to the other contact points, the General Secretariat of the Council and the Commission information regarding a change in the contact points as well as lost and stolen stamps. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX V PART A Procedures for refusing entry at the border 1.
The visa shall be cancelled in the following cases: (a) if the holder of the visa is the subject of an alert in the SIS for the purposes of being refused entry unless he or she holds a visa or re-entry visa issued by one of the Member States and wishes to enter for transit purposes in order to reach the territory of the Member State which issued the document; (b) if there are serious grounds to believe that the visa was obtained in a fraudulent way.
If a third-country national who has been refused entry is brought to the border by a carrier, the authority responsible locally shall: (a) order the carrier to take charge of the third-country national and transport him or her without delay to the third country from which he or she was brought, to the third country which issued the document authorising him or her to cross the border, or to any other third country where he or she is guaranteed admittance, or to find means of onward transportation in accordance with Article 26 of the Schengen Convention and Council Directive 2001/51/EC of 28 June 2001 supplementing the provisions of Article 26 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 [1]; (b) pending onward transportation, take appropriate measures, in compliance with national law and having regard to local circumstances, to prevent third-country nationals who have been refused entry from entering illegally. 4.
PART B Standard form for refusal of entry at the border +++++ TIFF +++++ [1] OJ L 187, 10.7.2001, p. 45. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX VI Specific rules for the various types of border and the various means of transport used for crossing the Member States' external borders 1.
Land borders 1.1.
Member States may cooperate with neighbouring countries with a view to the installation of separate lanes at external border crossing points. 1.1.3.
In the interests of staff safety, checks will be carried out, where possible, by two border guards. 1.2.
Those checks shall be carried out in either one of the following two ways: - on the platform, in the first station of arrival or departure on the territory of a Member State, - on board the train, during transit.
They shall inform the Commission thereof pursuant to Article 37. 1.2.2.
The place where border checks are carried out shall be determined in accordance with the following procedure: (a) passengers on a flight from a third country who board an internal flight shall be subject to an entry check at the airport of arrival of the flight from a third country.
In order to ensure that, at the airports designated as border crossing points, persons are checked in accordance with the rules set out in Articles 6 to 13, Member States shall ensure that the airport authorities take the requisite measures to channel passenger traffic to facilities reserved for checks.
The same shall apply where an aircraft on a flight from a third country lands without permission.
In any event, Articles 6 to 13 shall apply to checks on persons on those aircraft. 2.2.
Procedures for checks in aerodromes 2.2.1.
By way of derogation from point 2.1.1 it shall not be necessary to make appropriate arrangements in aerodromes to ensure that inflows of passengers from internal and other flights are physically separated, without prejudice to Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation security [1].
In the case of private flights from or to third countries the captain shall transmit to the border guards of the Member State of destination and, where appropriate, of the Member State of first entry, prior to take-off, a general declaration comprising inter alia a flight plan in accordance with Annex 2 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation and information concerning the passengers' identity. 2.3.2.
Where private flights coming from a third country and bound for a Member State make stop-overs in the territory of other Member States, the competent authorities of the Member State of entry shall carry out border checks and affix an entry stamp to the general declaration referred to in point 2.3.1. 2.3.3.
Sea borders 3.1.
General checking procedures on maritime traffic 3.1.1.
If, for reasons of force majeure, the list or lists cannot be sent to the border guards, a copy will be sent to the appropriate border post or shipping authority, which shall forward it without delay to the border guards. 3.1.3.
The cruise ship's captain or, failing that, the shipowner's agent shall transmit to the respective border guards the itinerary and the programme of the cruise, at least 24 hours before leaving the port of departure and before the arrival at each port in the territory of the Member States. 3.2.2.
If the itinerary of a cruise ship comprises exclusively ports situated in the territory of the Member States, by way of derogation from Articles 4 and 7, no border checks shall be carried out and the cruise ship may dock at ports which are not border crossing points.
If the itinerary of a cruise ship comprises both ports situated in the territory of the Member States and ports situated in third countries, by way of derogation from Article 7, border checks shall be carried out as follows: (a) where the cruise ship comes from a port situated in a third country and calls for the first time at a port situated in the territory of a Member State, crew and passengers shall be subject to entry checks on the basis of the nominal lists of crew and passengers, as referred to in point 3.2.4.
Passengers going ashore shall be subject to entry checks in accordance with Article 7 unless an assessment of the risks related to internal security and illegal immigration shows that there is no need to carry out such checks; (c) where the cruise ship comes from a port situated in a Member State and calls at such a port, passengers going ashore shall be subject to entry checks in accordance with Article 7 if an assessment of the risks related to internal security and illegal immigration so requires; (d) where a cruise ship departs from a port situated in a Member State to a port in a third country, crew and passengers shall be subject to exit checks on the basis of the nominal lists of crew and passengers.
The cruise ship's captain or, failing that, the shipowner's agent shall transmit to the respective border guards the nominal lists at least 24 hours before the arrival at each port in the territory of the Member States or, where the journey to this port lasts less than 24 hours, immediately after the boarding is completed in the previous port.
Pleasure boating 3.2.5.
By way of derogation from Articles 4 and 7, persons on board a pleasure boat coming from or departing to a port situated in a Member State shall not be subject to border checks and may enter a port which is not a border crossing point.
By way of derogation from Article 4, a pleasure boat coming from a third country may, exceptionally, enter a port which is not a border crossing point.
The port authorities shall contact the authorities in the nearest port designated as a border crossing point in order to report the vessel's arrival.
Likewise, if for reasons of force majeure the pleasure boat coming from a third country has to dock in a port other than a border crossing point, the port authorities shall contact the authorities in the nearest port designated as a border crossing point in order to report the vessel's presence. 3.2.7.
Coastal fishing 3.2.8.
By way of derogation from Articles 4 and 7, the crews of coastal fisheries vessels which return every day or within 36 hours to the port of registration or to any other port situated in the territory of the Member States without docking in a port situated in the territory of a third country shall not be systematically checked.
Ferry connections 3.2.10.
The relevant provisions of points 3.1 to 3.2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to checks on inland waterways shipping. [1] OJ L 355, 30.12.2002, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC) No 849/2004 (OJ L 158, 30.4.2004, p. 1). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX VII Special rules for certain categories of persons 1.
Heads of State By way of derogation from Article 5 and Articles 7 to 13, Heads of State and the members of their delegation, whose arrival and departure have been officially announced through diplomatic channels to the border guards, may not be subject to border checks. 2.
By way of derogation from Article 5 the holders of a pilot's licence or a crew member certificate as provided for in Annex 9 to the Civil Aviation Convention of 7 December 1944 may, in the course of their duties and on the basis of those documents: (a) embark and disembark in the stop-over airport or the airport of arrival situated in the territory of a Member State; (b) enter the territory of the municipality of the stop-over airport or the airport of arrival situated in the territory of a Member State; (c) go, by any means of transport, to an airport situated in the territory of a Member State in order to embark on an aircraft departing from that same airport.
Articles 6 to 13 shall apply to checks on aircraft crew members.
By way of derogation from Article 7, crews known to staff responsible for border controls in the performance of their duties may be subject to random checks only. 3.
By way of derogation from Articles 4 and 7, Member States may authorise seamen holding a seafarer's identity document issued in accordance with the Geneva Convention of 19 June 2003 (No 185), the London Convention of 9 April 1965 and the relevant national law, to enter into the territory of the Member States by going ashore to stay in the area of the port where their ships call or in the adjacent municipalities without presenting themselves at a border crossing point, on condition that they appear on the crew list, which has previously been submitted for checking by the competent authorities, of the ship to which they belong.
However, according to the assessment of the risks of internal security and illegal immigration, seamen shall be subject to a check in accordance with Article 7 by the border guards before they go ashore.
The documents issued by the international organisations for the purposes specified in point 4.1 are in particular the following: - United Nations laissez-passer issued to staff of the United Nations and subordinate agencies under the Convention on Privileges and Immunities of Specialised Agencies adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 21 November 1947 in New York, - European Community (EC) laissez-passer, - European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) laissez-passer, - legitimacy certificate issued by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, - documents issued pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article III of the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty regarding the Status of their Force (military ID cards accompanied by a travel order, travel warrant, or an individual or collective movement order) as well as documents issued in the framework of the Partnership for Peace. 5.
Cross-border workers 5.1.
The procedures for checking cross-border workers are governed by the general rules on border control, in particular Articles 7 and 13. 5.2.
By way of derogation from Article 7, cross-border workers who are well known to the border guards owing to their frequent crossing of the border at the same border crossing point and who have not been revealed by an initial check to be the subject of an alert in the SIS or in a national data file shall be subject only to random checks to ensure that they hold a valid document authorising them to cross the border and fulfil the necessary entry conditions.
Minors crossing an external border shall be subject to the same checks on entry and exit as adults, as provided for in this Regulation. 6.2.
In the case of minors travelling unaccompanied, border guards shall ensure, by means of thorough checks on travel documents and supporting documents, that the minors do not leave the territory against the wishes of the person(s) having parental care over them. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX VIII +++++ TIFF +++++ --------------------------------------------------
