Article 2 As regards quantitative limits for year 2002, Annexes I, III, V, VII and IX to Regulation (EEC) No 3030/93 are amended in accordance with the Annex to this Regulation.
It shall apply with effect from 1 January 2002.
Done at Brussels, 28 December 2001.
For the Commission Pascal Lamy Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 275, 8.11.1993, p. 3. (2) OJ L 252, 20.9.2001, p. 1. (3) OJ L 286, 11.11.2000, p. 1.
ANNEX (1) Annex I is replaced by the following: %quot%ANNEX I TEXTILE PRODUCTS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 1(1) 1.
This applies to the following countries: Argentina, Bangladesh, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Cambodia, China (MFA Agreement), Croatia, Egypt, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Laos, Macao, Malaysia, Nepal, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam. 3.
GROUP IA %gt%TABLE%gt% (1) N.B.: Covers only categories 1 to 114, with the exception of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Cambodia, China (non-MFA Agreement), Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Laos, Moldova, Mongolia, Nepal, Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan and Vietnam, for which categories 1 to 161 are covered and of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Taiwan for which categories 1 to 123 are covered.
In the case of Taiwan categories 115 to 123 are included in Group III B.
GROUP I %gt%TABLE%gt%%quot%. (2) Annex III is amended as follows: (a) In Article 28, paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: %quot%6.
Appendix C to Annex V COMMUNITY QUANTITATIVE LIMITS (The complete description of the goods is shown in Annex IB) %gt%TABLE%gt%%quot% (4) Annex VII is replaced by the following: %quot%ANNEX VII REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 5 Outward processing traffic Article 1 Re-imports into the Community of textile products listed in column 2 of the table attached to this Annex, effected in accordance with the Regulations on economic outward processing in force in the Community, shall not be subject to the quantitative limits referred to in Article 2 of the Regulation where they are subject to specific quantitative limits given in column 4 of the table and have been re-imported after processing in the corresponding third country listed in column 1 for each of the quantitative limits specified.
Article 2 Re-imports not covered by this Annex may be subject to specific quantitative limits in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17 of the Regulation, provided that the products concerned are subject to the quantitative limits laid down in Article 2 of this Regulation.
Transfers between categories and advance use or carry-over of portions of specific quantitative limits from one year to another may be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17 of the Regulation. 2.
However, automatic transfers in accordance with paragraph 1 may be carried out within the following limits: - transfer between categories for up to 20 % of the quantitative limit established for the category to which the transfer is made, - carry-over of a specific quantitative limit from one year to another for up to 10,5 % of the quantitative limit established for the actual year of utilisation, - advance use of a specific quantitative limit for up to 7,5 % of the quantitative limit established for the actual year of utilisation. 3.
Where there is a need for additional imports the specific quantitative limits may be adjusted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17 of the Regulation. 4.
Article 5 The certificate of origin shall be issued by the competent governmental authorities in the supplier country concerned, in accordance with the Community legislation in force and the provisions of Annex III for all products covered by this Annex.
