In the interests of efficiency it is therefore desirable to establish a single legal framework for this assistance, as requested by the European Council at its meeting in Helsinki on 10 and 11 December 1999.
The strategic framework, the multiannual indicative programmes and the annual action programmes referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10(2).
The Governing Board of the Agency shall be consulted on the implementation of the annual action programme, as laid down in Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000. 2.
Community assistance shall also be subject to the conditions defined by the Council in its Conclusions of 29 April 1997, in particular as regards the recipients' undertaking to carry out democratic, economic and institutional reforms.
Community financing may cover the grant part of ad hoc exceptional financial assistance decisions which are taken by the Council on the basis of Article 308 of the Treaty. 5.
Participation by countries which are recipients under the TACIS and MEDA programmes shall also be authorised by the Commission on a case-by-case basis. 4.
Measures taken by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10(2) shall provide for adequate protection of the financial interests of the Community as required by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95.
Financing decisions not covered by multiannual indicative programmes and annual action programmes shall be individually adopted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10(2). 2.
Decisions amending Decisions referred to in Article 10(1) shall be adopted by the Commission where they do not comprise substantial changes to the nature of the programmes referred to in the said paragraph and, as regards the financial element, where they do not exceed 20 % of the total amount allocated for the programme in question, subject to a limit of EUR 4 million.
The CARDS Committee referred to in Article 10 shall be notified of all revised decisions.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Article 12 Every year the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council a progress report on the Community assistance.
Article 15 Regulations (EEC) No 3906/89 and (EC) No 1628/96 shall nevertheless remain applicable to projects and programmes for which the procedures leading to the Commission financing decision have been started but have not yet been completed at the time of entry into force of this Regulation.
It shall apply until 31 December 2006.
Done at Brussels, 5 December 2000.
Those specific details shall be released on the Internet. 3.
