For the purposes of this Directive, the following definitions shall apply: (a) 'medical device` means any instrument, apparatus, appliance, material or other article, whether used alone or in combination, including the software necessary for its proper application, intended by the manufacturer to be used for human beings for the purpose of: - diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of disease, - diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, alleviation or compensation for an injury or handicap, - investigation, replacement or modification of the anatomy or of a physiological process, - control of conception, and which does not achieve its principal intended action in or on the human body by pharmacological, immunological or metabolic means, but which may be assisted in its function by such means; (b) 'in vitro diagnostic medical device` means any medical device which is a reagent, reagent product, calibrator, control material, kit, instrument, apparatus, equipment, or system, whether used alone or in combination, intended by the manufacturer to be used in vitro for the examination of specimens, including blood and tissue donations, derived from the human body, solely or principally for the purpose of providing information: - concerning a physiological or pathological state, or - concerning a congenital abnormality, or - to determine the safety and compatibility with potential recipients, or - to monitor therapeutic measures.
Products for general laboratory use are not in vitro diagnostic medical devices unless such products, in view of their characteristics, are specifically intended by their manufacturer to be used for in vitro diagnostic examination; (c) 'accessory` means an article which, whilst not being an in vitro diagnostic medical device, is intended specifically by its manufacturer to be used together with a device to enable that device to be used in accordance with its intended purpose.
Article 4 Free movement 1.
Member States shall not create any obstacle to the placing on the market or the putting into service within their territory of devices bearing the CE marking provided for in Article 16 if these devices have undergone conformity assessment in accordance with Article 9. 2.
Member States shall not create any obstacle to devices intended for performance evaluation being made available for that purpose to the laboratories or other institutions listed in the statement referred to in Annex VIII if they meet the conditions laid down in Article 9(4) and Annex VIII. 3.
Member States may require the information to be supplied pursuant to Annex I, part B, section 8 to be in their official language(s) when a device reaches the final user.
In this case, the particulars of these directives, as published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, must be given in the documents, notices or instructions required by the directives and accompanying such devices.
If a Member State or the Commission considers that the harmonised standards do not entirely meet the essential requirements referred to in Article 3, the measures to be taken by the Member States with regard to these standards and the publication referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be adopted by the procedure defined in Article 6(2). 3.
The common technical specifications shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure mentioned in Article 7(2) and be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 6 Committee on Standards and Technical Regulations 1.
Article 7 Committee on Medical Devices 1.
The committee referred to in paragraph 1 may examine any question connected with the implementation of this Directive.
Article 8 Safeguard clause 1.
The Member State shall immediately inform the Commission of any such measures, indicating the reasons for its decision and, in particular, whether non-compliance with this Directive is due to: (a) failure to meet the essential requirements referred to in Article 3; (b) incorrect application of the standards referred to in Article 5, insofar as it is claimed that the standards have been applied; (c) shortcomings in the standards themselves. 2.
Article 9 Conformity assessment procedures 1.
For all devices for self-testing other than those covered by Annex II and devices for performance evaluation, the manufacturer shall, prior to the drawing up of the aforementioned declaration of conformity, fulfil the supplementary requirements set out in Annex III, point 6.
Instead of applying this procedure, the manufacturer may follow the procedure referred to in paragraphs 2 or 3. 2.
For all devices referred to in List A in Annex II other than those intended for performance evaluation, the manufacturer shall, in order to affix the CE marking either: (a) follow the procedure relating to the EC declaration of conformity set out in Annex IV (full quality assurance), or (b) follow the procedure relating to EC type-examination set out in Annex V coupled with the procedure relating to the EC declaration of conformity set out in Annex VII (production quality assurance). 3.
For all devices referred to in List B in Annex II other than those intended for performance evaluation, the manufacturer shall for the purposes of affixing the CE marking, follow either: (a) the procedure relating to the EC declaration of conformity set out in Annex IV (full quality assurance) or (b) the procedure relating to EC type-examination set out in Annex V couplet with: (i) the procedure relating to EC verification set out in Annex VI, or (ii) the procedure relating to the EC declaration of conformity set out in Annex VII (production quality assurance). 4.
The manufacturer may instruct his authorised representative to initiate the procedures provided for in Annexes III, V, VI and VIII. 7.
The records and correspondence relating to the procedures referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 shall be in an official language of the Member State in which the procedures are carried out and/or in another Community language acceptable to the notified body. 12.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 to 4, the competent authorities may authorise, on duly justified request, the placing on the market and putting into service, within the territory of the Member State concerned, of individual devices for which the procedures referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 have not been carried out and the use of which is in the interest of protection of health. 13.
Article 10 Registration of manufacturers and devices 1.
The authorised representative shall notify the competent authorities of the Member State in which he has his registered place of business of all particulars as referred to in paragraph 1. 4.
The procedures for implementing this Article and in particular those referring to the notification and the concept of significant change shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7. 6.
Article 11 Vigilance procedure 1.
Member States shall take the necessary steps to ensure that any information brought to their knowledge, in accordance with the provisions of this Directive, regarding the incidents mentioned below involving devices bearing the CE marking is recorded and evaluated centrally: (a) any malfunction, failure or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in the labelling or the instructions for use which, directly or indirectly, might lead to or might have led to the death of a patient, or user or of other persons or to a serious deterioration in their state of health; (b) any technical or medical reason in relation to the characteristics or performance of a device for the reasons referred to in subparagraph (a), leading to systematic recall of devices of the same type by the manufacturer. 2.
The Member States shall on request inform the other Member States of the details referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4.
The procedures implementing this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7(2).
The databank shall contain the following: (a) data relating to registration of manufacturers and devices in accordance with Article 10; (b) data relating to certificates issued, modified, supplemented, suspended, withdrawn or refused according to the procedure as laid down in Annexes III to VII; (c) data obtained in accordance with the vigilance procedure as defined in Article 11. 2.
The procedures implementing this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 7(2).
Article 14 Amendments to Annex II, and derogation clause 1.
The measures shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 7(2). 2.
Article 15 Notified bodies 1.
Member States shall notify the Commission and other Member States of the bodies which they have designated for carrying out the tasks pertaining to the procedures referred to in Article 9 and the specific tasks for which the bodies have been designated.
The notified body and the manufacturer, or his authorised representative established in the Community, shall lay down, by common accord, the time limits for completion of the assessment and verification operations referred to in Annexes III to VII. 5.
Article 16 CE marking 1.
The CE marking of conformity, as shown in Annex X, must appear in a visible, legible and indelible form on the device, where practicable and appropriate, and on the instructions for use.
The CE marking shall be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for implementation of the procedures set out in Annexes III, IV, VI and VII. 3.
Article 17 Wrongly affixed CE marking 1.
Article 18 Decisions in respect of refusal or restriction 1.
Article 19 Confidentiality Without prejudice to national law and practice on medical secrecy, Member States shall ensure that all the parties involved in the application of this Directive are bound to observe confidentiality with regard to information obtained in carrying out their tasks.
Article 20 Cooperation between Member States Member States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that competent authorities charged with the implementation of this Directive cooperate with each other and convey to each other the information necessary to ensure application in compliance with this Directive.
Article 21 Amendment of directives 1.
In Directive 89/392/EEC, the second indent of Article 1(3), 'machinery for medical use, used in direct contact with patients` shall be replaced by the following: '- medical devices,`. 2.
Directive 93/42/EEC is hereby amended as follows: (a) in Article 1(2): - point (c) shall be replaced by the following: '(c) %quot%in vitro diagnostic medical device%quot% means any medical device which is a reagent, reagent product, calibrator, control material, kit, instrument, apparatus, equipment or system, whether used alone or in combination, intended by the manufacturer to be used in vitro for the examination of specimens, including blood and tissue donations, derived from the human body, solely or principally for the purpose of providing information: - concerning a physiological or pathological state, or - concerning a congenital abnormality, or - to determine the safety and compatibility with potential recipients, or - to monitor therapeutic measures.
The databank shall contain the following: (a) data relating to registration of manufacturers and devices in accordance with Article 14; (b) data relating to certificates issued, modified, supplemented, suspended, withdrawn or refused according to the procedures, as laid down in Annexes II to VII; (c) data obtained in accordance with the vigilance procedure as defined in Article 10; 2.
The procedures implementing this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 7(2).
Member States shall adopt and publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than 7 December 1999.
Member States shall apply these provisions with effect from 7 June 2000.
The Committee referred to in Article 7 may undertake its tasks from the date of entry into force of this Directive.
The Member States may take the measures referred to in Article 15 as from the entry force of this Directive. 4.
Article 23 This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 24 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 27 October 1998.
GIL-ROBLES For the Council The President E.
ANNEX I ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS A.
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 1.
The devices must be designed and manufactured in such a way as to achieve the characteristics and performances referred to in section A on the 'General requirements`.
Devices must be designed and manufactured in such a way as to reduce as far as possible the risks linked to their use in conjunction with materials, substances and gases with which they may come into contact during normal conditions of use. 3.3.
Devices must be designed and manufactured in such a way as to remove or reduce as far as possible: - the risk of injury linked to their physical features (in particular aspects of volume x pressure, dimension and, where appropriate, ergonomic features), - risks linked to reasonably foreseeable external influences, such as magnetic fields, external electrical effects, electrostatic discharge, pressure, humidity, temperature or variations in pressure or acceleration or accidental penetration of substances into the device.
Devices must be designed and manufactured in such a way as to reduce as far as possible the risks of fire or explosion during normal use and in single fault condition.
Protection against radiation 5.1.
Terminals and connectors to electricity, gas or hydraulic and pneumatic energy supplies which the user has to handle must be designed and manufactured in such a way as to minimise all possible risks. 6.4.5.
The manufacturer must affix the CE marking in accordance with Article 16. 2.
The manufacturer must prepare the technical documentation described in section 3 and ensure that the manufacturing process follows the principles of quality assurance as set out in section 4. 3.
It must include in particular: - a general description of the product, including any variants planned, - the documentation of the quality system, - design information, including the determination of the characteristics of the basic materials, characteristics and limitation of the performance of the devices, methods of manufacture and, in the case of instruments, design drawings, diagrams of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - in the case of devices containing tissues of human origin or substances derived from such tissue, information on the origin of such material and on the conditions in which it was collected, - the descriptions and explanations necessary to understand the abovementioned characteristics, drawings and diagrams and the operation of the product, - the results of the risk analysis and, where appropriate, a list of the standards referred to in Article 5, applied in full or in part, and descriptions of the solutions adopted to meet the essential requirements of the Directive if the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied in full, - in the case of sterile products or products with a special microbiological state or state of cleanliness, a description of the procedures used, - the results of the design calculations and of the inspections carried out, etc., - if the device is to be combined with other device(s) in order to operate as intended, proof must be provided that it conforms to the essential requirements when combined with any such device(s) having the characteristics specified by the manufacturer, - the test reports, - adequate performance evaluation data showing the performances claimed by the manufacturer and supported by a reference measurement system (when available), with information on the reference methods, the reference materials, the known reference values, the accuracy and measurement units used; such data should originate from studies in a clinical or other appropriate environment or result from relevant biographical references, - the labels and instructions for use, - the results of stability studies. 4.
The system shall address: - the organisational structure and responsibilities, - the manufacturing processes and systematic quality control of production, - the means to monitor the performance of the quality system. 5.
He shall notify the competent authorities of the following incidents immediately on learning of them: (i) any malfunction, failure or deterioration in the characteristics and/or performance of a device, as well as any inadequacy in the labelling or the instructions for use which, directly or indirectly, might lead to, or might have led to, the death of a patient or user or other persons or to a serious deterioration in his or their state of health; (ii) any technical or medical reason connected with the characteristics or the performance of a device for the reasons referred to in subparagraph (i) leading to systematic recall of devices of the same type by the manufacturer. 6.
It shall include: - test reports including, where appropriate, results of studies carried out with lay persons, - data showing the handling suitability of the device in view of its intended purpose for self-testing, - the information to be provided with the device on its label and its instructions for use. 6.2.
ANNEX IV EC DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY (FULL QUALITY ASSURANCE SYSTEM) 1.
The manufacturer must ensure application of the quality system approved for the design, manufacture and final inspection of the devices concerned, as specified in section 3, and is subject to audit as laid down in section 3.3 and to the surveillance as specified in section 5.
In addition, the manufacturer must follow, for devices covered by Annex II, List A, the procedures laid down in sections 4 and 6. 2.
The declaration of conformity is the procedure whereby the manufacturer who fulfils the obligations imposed by section 1 ensures and declares that the devices concerned meet the provisions of this Directive which apply to them.
The manufacturer shall affix the CE marking in accordance with Article 16 and shall draw up a declaration of conformity covering the devices concerned. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - the name and address of the manufacturer and any additional manufacturing site covered by the quality system, - adequate information on the device or device category covered by the procedure, - a written declaration that no such application has been lodged with any other notified body for the same device-related quality system, - the documentation on the quality system, - an undertaking by the manufacturer to fulfil the obligations imposed by the quality system approved, - an undertaking by the manufacturer to keep the approved quality system adequate and efficacious, - an undertaking by the manufacturer to institute and keep up to date a systematic procedure to review experience gained from devices in the post-production phase and to implement appropriate means to apply any necessary corrective action and notification as referred to in Annex III, section 5. 3.2.
It shall include in particular an adequate description of: (a) the manufacturer's quality objectives; (b) the organisation of the business and in particular: - the organisational structures, the responsibilities of the managerial staff and their organisational authority where quality of design and manufacture of the devices is concerned, - the methods of monitoring the efficient operation of the quality system and in particular its ability to achieve the desired quality of design and of product, including control of devices which fail to conform; (c) the procedures for monitoring and verifying the design of the devices and in particular: - a general description of the device, including any variants planned, - all documentation referred to in Annex III, section 3, indents 3 to 13, - in the case of devices for self-testing, the information referred to in Annex III, section 6.1, - the techniques used to control and verify the design and the processes and systematic measures which will be used when the devices are being designed; (d) the inspection and quality assurance techniques at the manufacturing stage and in particular: - the processes and procedures which will be used, particularly as regards sterilisation, - the procedures in relation to purchasing, - the product identification procedures drawn up and kept up to date from drawings, specifications or other relevant documents at every stage of manufacture; (e) the appropriate tests and trials which will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, the frequency with which they will take place, and the test equipment used; it must be possible to trace back the calibration.
The notified body must audit the quality system to determine whether it meets the requirements referred to in section 3.2.
For devices covered by Annex II, List A, in addition to the obligations imposed by section 3, the manufacturer must lodge with the notified body an application for examination of the design dossier relating to the device which he plans to manufacture and which falls into the category referred to in section 3.1. 4.2.
ANNEX V EC TYPE-EXAMINATION 1.
The application for EC type-examination shall be lodged by the manufacturer or by his authorised representative with a notified body.
The documentation shall contain the following items in particular: - a general description of the type, including any variants planned, - all documentation referred to in Annex III, section 3, indents 3 to 13, - in the case of devices for self testing, the information referred to in Annex III, section 6.1. 4.
The notified body shall: 4.1.
carry out or ask for the appropriate examinations and the tests necessary to verify whether, if the manufacturer has chosen to apply the relevant standards, these have actually been applied; 4.4.
ANNEX VI EC VERIFICATION 1.
EC verification is the procedure whereby the manufacturer or his authorised representative ensures and declares that the products which have been subject to the procedure set out in section 4 conform to the type described in the EC type-examination certificate and meet the requirements of this Directive which apply to them. 2.1.
The manufacturer must undertake to institute and keep up to date a systematic procedure to review experience gained from devices in the post-production phase and to implement appropriate means to apply any necessary corrective and notification action as referred to in Annex III, section 5. 4.
The notified body must carry out the appropriate examinations and tests taking account of section 2.2 in order to verify the conformity of the product with the requirements of the Directive either by examining and testing every product as specified in section 5 or by examining and testing products on a statistical basis as specified in section 6, as the manufacturer decides.
Every product is examined individually and the appropriate tests defined in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5 or equivalent tests must be carried out in order to verify the conformity of the products with the EC type described in the type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the Directive which apply to them. 5.2.
The notified body must affix, or have affixed, its identification number to each approved product and must draw up a written certificate of conformity relating to the tests carried out. 6.
Statistical verification 6.1.
The manufacturer must present the manufactured products in the form of homogeneous batches. 6.2.
If the batch is accepted, the notified body affixes, or has affixed its identification number to each product and draws up a written certificate of conformity relating to the tests carried out.
ANNEX VII EC DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY (PRODUCTION QUALITY ASSURANCE) 1.
The manufacturer must ensure application of the quality system approved for the manufacture of the devices concerned and carry out the final inspection, as specified in section 3, and is subject to the surveillance referred to in section 4. 2.
The declaration of conformity is the part of the procedure whereby the manufacturer who fulfils the obligations imposed by section 1 ensures and declares that the products concerned conform to the type described in the EC type-examination certificate and meet the provisions of this Directive which apply to them.
The manufacturer must affix the CE marking in accordance with Article 16 and draw up a declaration of conformity covering the devices concerned. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all documentation and undertakings referred to in Annex IV, section 3.1, and - the technical documentation on the types approved and a copy of the EC type-examination certificates. 3.2.
The notified body must audit the quality system to determine whether it meets the requirements referred to in section 3.2.
ANNEX VIII STATEMENT AND PROCEDURES CONCERNING DEVICES FOR PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 1.
