Article 3 Importation of live equidae Member States shall authorise the importation into the Community of live equidae from the third countries or parts of the territories of those third countries listed in columns 2 and 4 of the Annex in accordance with the indications set out in Annex I, as follows: - the temporary admission of registered horses as indicated in column 6, - the re-entry after temporary export of registered horses for racing, competition and cultural events as indicated in column 7, - the import of registered horses as indicated in column 8, - the import of equidae for slaughter as indicated in column 9, - the import of registered equidae and equidae for breeding and production as indicated in column 10.
Article 4 Imports of semen of the equine species Member States shall authorise imports of semen of the equine species from third countries or parts of the territory of third countries listed in columns 2 and 4 of Annex I respectively from which permanent imports of registered horses, registered equidae or equidae for breeding and production are also authorised.
Article 5 Imports of ova and embryos of the equine species Member States shall authorise imports of ova and embryos of the equine species from third countries or parts of the territory of third countries listed in columns 2 and 4 of Annex I respectively from which permanent imports of registered equidae and equidae for breeding and production are also authorised.
Article 7 Conditions for imports of equine semen from third countries Imports into the Community of semen of the equine species shall only be allowed, if such semen is collected in a semen collection centre approved in accordance with Directive 92/65/EEC and listed in Decision 2000/284/EC and fulfils the conditions laid down in the animal health certificate provided for in Commission Decision 96/539/EC.
Article 8 Conditions for imports of ova and embryos of the equine species from third countries Imports into the Community of ova and embryos of the equine species shall only be allowed if such ova and/or embryos fulfil the conditions laid down in the animal health certificate provided for in Commission Decision 96/540/EC.
Article 9 Amendments 1.
Annex I and II of Decision 93/195/EEC are amended in accordance with Annex II to this Decision. 2.
Article 10 Repeals Decisions 92/160/EEC and 95/461/EC are repealed.
Article 11 Application date This Decision shall apply from the 1 May 2004.
Article 12 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 6 January 2004.
