The Institute's output shall be distributed as widely as possible, except as regards confidential information, for which the Council security regulations as set out in Decision 2001/264/EC(1) shall apply.
Article 3 Political supervision The Political and Security Committee shall, in accordance with its responsibilities for CFSP, and in particular the ESDP, exercise political supervision over the activities of the Institute, without impinging on the intellectual independence of the Institute in carrying out research and seminar activities.
Article 4 Legal personality The Institute shall have the legal personality necessary to perform its functions and attain its objectives.
Article 6 Director 1.
The Board shall appoint the Director of the Institute from among Member States' nationals.
The Director shall be appointed for three years, with the possible extension of one two-year term. 2.
The Director shall be responsible for recruiting all other staff of the Institute.
The Director shall also be responsible for: - drafting the Institute's annual work programme as well as the annual report on the Institute's activities; - preparing the work of the Board, in particular the Institute's draft annual work programme; - the day-to-day administration of the Institute; - all personnel matters; - preparing the statement of income and expenditure and implementing the Institute's budget; - informing the Political and Security Committee on the annual work programme; - ensuring contacts and close collaboration with Community, national and international institutions in related fields. 4.
The Director shall prepare an annual report on the Institute's activities by 31 March the following year.
Article 7 Staff 1.
Article 8 Provisions applicable to staff The provisions relating to the staff of the Institute shall be laid down by the Council acting on a recommendation from the Director.
Article 9 Intellectual independence The Director and the researchers shall enjoy intellectual independence in carrying out the Institute's research and seminar activities.
Article 10 Work programme No later than 30 November each year, the Board shall, on the basis of a draft submitted by the Director of the Institute, adopt the Institute's annual work programme for the following year.
All items of income and expenditure of the Institute shall be included in estimates to be drawn up for each financial year, which shall correspond to the calendar year, and shall be shown in the budget of the Institute, which shall include a list of the staff. 2.
Article 12 Budgetary procedure 1.
The Director shall establish by 30 June of each year a draft budget for the Institute covering administrative expenditure, operational expenditure and expected revenue for the following financial year and shall submit it to the Board.
The Director shall send the draft budget to the Council for information. 2.
The Board shall adopt the budget of the Institute by unanimity of the representatives of Member States by 15 December of each year, adjusting it to the various contributions granted to the Institute and to its other resources.
Article 13 Control of the budget 1.
By 31 March of each year, the Director shall submit to the Council and the Board the detailed accounts of all revenue and expenditure from the previous financial year, including a report on the Institute's activities. 3.
Article 14 Financial rules The Board, with the assent of the Council, shall draw up, on a proposal from the Director, detailed financial rules specifying in particular the procedure to be followed for establishing and implementing the budget of the Institute.
Article 15 Privileges and immunities Privileges and immunities necessary for the performance of the duties of the Institute, the Director of the Institute and its staff, shall be provided for in an agreement between the Member States.
Article 16 Legal liability 1.
Article 17 Visiting researchers Visiting researchers may for limited time periods be seconded to the Institute by Member States and Third States, after agreement by the Director, to participate in the activities of the Institute in accordance with Article 2.
Article 19 Review The SG/HR shall present, no later than five years from its entry into force, a report to the Council on the implementation of this Joint Action with a view to its possible review.
Article 20 Transitional provisions 1.
The designated Director shall present a draft budget for the year 2002 by 15 September 2001.
The Board shall adopt the budget by 15 November 2001. 3.
The Institute shall be substituted for the WEU as the employer of the staff serving on 31 December 2001.
Article 21 This Joint Action shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
Done at Brussels, 20 July 2001.
Vande Lanotte (1) OJ L 101, 11.4.2001, p. 1. (2) OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43.
