The amendments are intended to ensure that issuers of financial guarantee contracts include the resulting liabilities in their balance sheet. (6) On 1 September 2005 the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) published IFRIC Interpretation 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market — Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, hereinafter "IFRIC 6".
IFRIC 6 clarifies the accounting for liabilities for waste management costs. (7) The consultation with technical experts in the field confirm that IFRS 1, IFRS 4, IFRS 7, IAS 1, IAS 39 and IFRIC 6 meet the technical criteria for adoption set out in Article 3(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002. (8) The adoption of IFRS 7 implies, by way of consequence, amendments to other international accounting standards in order to ensure consistency between international accounting standards.
Article 2 (1) Each company shall apply the Amendment to IFRS 1 and the Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 as set out in the Annex to this Regulation as from the commencement date of its 2006 financial year at the latest. (2) Each company shall apply IFRS 7 and the Amendment to IAS 1 as set out in the Annex to this Regulation as from the commencement date of its 2007 financial year at the latest. (3) Each company shall apply IFRIC 6 as set out in the Annex to this Regulation as from the commencement date of its 2006 financial year at the latest.
However, companies with a December commencement date shall apply IFRIC 6 as from the commencement date of its 2005 financial year at the latest.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 11 January 2006.
For the Commission Charlie McCreevy Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 243, 11.9.2002, p. 1. [2] OJ L 261, 13.10.2003, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2106/2005 (OJ L 337, 22.12.2005, p. 16). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX [1] INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS IFRS 1 Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRSs and the Basis for Conclusions of IFRS 6 Exploration for and evaluation of mineral resources IFRS 7 IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosure IAS 1 Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements — Capital Disclosures IAS 39IFRS 4 Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts — Financial Guarantee Contracts IFRIC 6 IFRIC Interpretation 6 Liabilities arising from Participating in a Specific Market — Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment [1] Reproduction allowed within the European Economic Area.
Further information can be obtained from the IASB at www.iasb.org -------------------------------------------------- Amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards This document sets out amendments to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
The amendments finalise proposals that were contained in an Exposure Draft of Proposed Amendments to this IFRS that was published on 29 April 2005.
However, in some cases, IAS 27, IAS 28 or IAS 31 permits an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture using IAS 39; in those cases, entities shall apply the disclosure requirements in IAS 27, IAS 28 or IAS 31 in addition to those in this IFRS.
Entities shall also apply this IFRS to all derivatives linked to interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures unless the derivative meets the definition of an equity instrument in IAS 32. (b) employers’ rights and obligations arising from employee benefit plans, to which IAS 19 Employee Benefits applies. (c) contracts for contingent consideration in a business combination (see IFRS 3 Business Combinations).
If the entity has designated a loan or receivable (or group of loans or receivables) as at fair value through profit or loss, it shall disclose: (a) the maximum exposure to credit risk (see paragraph 36(a)) of the loan or receivable (or group of loans or receivables) at the reporting date. (b) the amount by which any related credit derivatives or similar instruments mitigate that maximum exposure to credit risk. (c) the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in the fair value of the loan or receivable (or group of loans or receivables) that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the financial asset determined either: (i) as the amount of change in its fair value that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk; or (ii) using an alternative method the entity believes more faithfully represents the amount of change in its fair value that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the asset.
interest rate risk The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
market risk The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
CLASSES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND LEVEL OF DISCLOSURE (PARAGRAPH 6) B1 Paragraph 6 requires an entity to group financial instruments into classes that are appropriate to the nature of the information disclosed and that take into account the characteristics of those financial instruments.
SIGNIFICANCE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (paragraphs 10 and 11) B4 If an entity designates a financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss, paragraph 10(a) requires it to disclose the amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the liability’s credit risk.
Other disclosure — accounting policies (paragraph 21) B5 Paragraph 21 requires disclosure of the measurement basis (or bases) used in preparing the financial statements and the other accounting policies used that are relevant to an understanding of the financial statements.
For financial instruments, such disclosure may include: (a) for financial assets or financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profit or loss: (i) the nature of the financial assets or financial liabilities the entity has designated as at fair value through profit or loss; (ii) the criteria for so designating such financial assets or financial liabilities on initial recognition; and (iii) how the entity has satisfied the conditions in paragraph 9, 11A or 12 of IAS 39 for such designation.
For instruments designated in accordance with paragraph (b)(ii) of the definition of a financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or loss in IAS 39, that disclosure includes a narrative description of how designation at fair value through profit or loss is consistent with the entity’s documented risk management or investment strategy. (b) the criteria for designating financial assets as available for sale. (c) whether regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date or at settlement date (see paragraph 38 of IAS 39). (d) when an allowance account is used to reduce the carrying amount of financial assets impaired by credit losses: (i) the criteria for determining when the carrying amount of impaired financial assets is reduced directly (or, in the case of a reversal of a write-down, increased directly) and when the allowance account is used; and (ii) the criteria for writing off amounts charged to the allowance account against the carrying amount of impaired financial assets (see paragraph 16). (e) how net gains or net losses on each category of financial instrument are determined (see paragraph 20(a)), for example, whether the net gains or net losses on items at fair value through profit or loss include interest or dividend income. (f) the criteria the entity uses to determine that there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has occurred (see paragraph 20(e)). (g) when the terms of financial assets that would otherwise be past due or impaired have been renegotiated, the accounting policy for financial assets that are the subject of renegotiated terms (see paragraph 36(d)).
In this case, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the maximum amount the entity could have to pay if the guarantee is called on, which may be significantly greater than the amount recognised as a liability. (d) making a loan commitment that is irrevocable over the life of the facility or is revocable only in response to a material adverse change.
B14 The amounts disclosed in the maturity analysis are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, for example: (a) gross finance lease obligations (before deducting finance charges); (b) prices specified in forward agreements to purchase financial assets for cash; (c) net amounts for pay-floating/receive-fixed interest rate swaps for which net cash flows are exchanged; (d) contractual amounts to be exchanged in a derivative financial instrument (eg a currency swap) for which gross cash flows are exchanged; and (e) gross loan commitments.
Market risk — sensitivity analysis (paragraphs 40 and 41) B17 Paragraph 40(a) requires a sensitivity analysis for each type of market risk to which the entity is exposed.
For example, if an entity has a floating rate liability at the end of the year, the entity would disclose the effect on profit or loss (ie interest expense) for the current year if interest rates had varied by reasonably possible amounts. (b) entities are not required to disclose the effect on profit or loss and equity for each change within a range of reasonably possible changes of the relevant risk variable.
B19 In determining what a reasonably possible change in the relevant risk variable is, an entity should consider: (a) the economic environments in which it operates.
Moreover, if the rate of change in the underlying risk variable is stable, the entity need not alter the chosen reasonably possible change in the risk variable.
For example, assume that interest rates are 5 per cent and an entity determines that a fluctuation in interest rates of ±50 basis points is reasonably possible.
The entity would disclose the effect on profit or loss and equity if interest rates were to change to 5 per cent or 6 per cent.
B20 Paragraph 41 permits an entity to use a sensitivity analysis that reflects interdependencies between risk variables, such as a value-at-risk methodology, if it uses this analysis to manage its exposure to financial risks.
Interest rate risk B22 Interest rate risk arises on interest-bearing financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet (eg loans and receivables and debt instruments issued) and on some financial instruments not recognised in the balance sheet (eg some loan commitments).
Accordingly, no sensitivity analysis is required. -------------------------------------------------- APPENDIX C Amendments to other IFRSs The amendments in this appendix shall be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
C2 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation (as revised in 2003) is amended as described below.
The title is amended to "IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation".
However, in some cases, IAS 27, IAS 28 or IAS 31 permits an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture using IAS 39; in those cases, entities shall apply the disclosure requirements in IAS 27, IAS 28 or IAS 31 in addition to those in this Standard.
The second sentence of paragraph 40 is amended as follows: 40. … In addition to the requirements of this Standard, disclosure of interest and dividends is subject to the requirements of IAS 1 and IFRS 7.
The last sentence of paragraph 47 is amended as follows: 47. … When an entity has a right of set-off, but does not intend to settle net or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously, the effect of the right on the entity’s credit risk exposure is disclosed in accordance with paragraph 36 of IFRS 7.
The last sentence of paragraph 50 is amended as follows: 50. … When financial assets and financial liabilities subject to a master netting arrangement are not offset, the effect of the arrangement on an entity’s exposure to credit risk is disclosed in accordance with paragraph 36 of IFRS 7.
Paragraph 98 is footnoted as follows: In August 2005 the IASB relocated all disclosures relating to financial instruments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
In paragraph 56, "IAS 32" is replaced by "IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures", and in paragraphs 105(d)(ii) and 124, "IAS 32" is replaced by "IFRS 7".
The last sentence of paragraph 71(b) is amended as follows: 71(b) … For example, a financial institution may amend the above descriptions to provide information that is relevant to the operations of a financial institution.
The fourth sentence of paragraph 84 is amended as follows: 84. … For example, a financial institution may amend the descriptions to provide information that is relevant to the operations of a financial institution.
C6 In paragraph 72 of IAS 33 Earnings per Share, "IAS 32" is replaced by "IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures".
C7 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (as amended in April 2005) is amended as described below.
In paragraph 45, "IAS 32" is replaced by "IFRS 7".
C8 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (as amended in June 2005) is amended as described below.
An entity that chooses to present comparative information that does not comply with IAS 32, IAS 39 or IFRS 4 in its first year of transition shall: (a) apply the recognition and measurement requirements of its previous GAAP in the comparative information for financial instruments within the scope of IAS 32 and IAS 39 and for insurance contracts within the scope of IFRS 4; … In the case of an entity that chooses to present comparative information that does not comply with IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4, references to the "date of transition to IFRSs" shall mean, in the case of those Standards only, the beginning of the first IFRS reporting period.
Exemption from the requirement to provide comparative disclosures for IFRS 7 36C An entity that adopts IFRSs before 1 January 2006 and chooses to adopt IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures in its first IFRS financial statements need not present the comparative disclosures required by IFRS 7 in those financial statements.
C10 IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts is amended as described below.
Paragraph 2(b) is amended as follows: (b) financial instruments that it issues with a discretionary participation feature (see paragraph 35).
This may take the form of an analysis, by estimated timing, of the amounts recognised in the balance sheet. (ii) if an insurer uses an alternative method to manage sensitivity to market conditions, such as an embedded value analysis, it may use that sensitivity analysis to meet the requirement in paragraph 40(a) of IFRS 7.
Such an insurer shall also provide the disclosures required by paragraph 41 of IFRS 7. (e) information about exposures to market risk arising from embedded derivatives contained in a host insurance contract if the insurer is not required to, and does not, measure the embedded derivatives at fair value. 39A To comply with paragraph 39(b)(i), an insurer shall disclose either (a) or (b) as follows: (a) a sensitivity analysis that shows how profit or loss and equity would have been affected had changes in the relevant risk variable that were reasonably possible at the balance sheet date occurred; the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis; and any changes from the previous period in the methods and assumptions used.
However, if an insurer uses an alternative method to manage sensitivity to market conditions, such as an embedded value analysis, it may meet this requirement by disclosing that alternative sensitivity analysis and the disclosures required by paragraph 41 of IFRS 7. (b) qualitative information about sensitivity, and information about those terms and conditions of insurance contracts that have a material effect on the amount, timing and uncertainty of the insurer’s future cash flows. -------------------------------------------------- APPENDIX D Amendments to IFRS 7 if the Amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement — The Fair Value Option have not been applied In June 2005 the Board issued Amendments to IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement — The Fair Value Option, to be applied for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
If an entity applies IFRS 7 for annual periods beginning before 1 January 2006 and it does not apply these amendments to IAS 39, it shall amend IFRS 7 for that period, as follows.
Paragraph B5(a) is amended as follows: (a) the criteria for designating, on initial recognition, financial assets or financial liabilities as at fair value through profit or loss. -------------------------------------------------- Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements This document sets out amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The amendments finalise some of the proposals that were contained in Exposure Draft 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (ED 7) published in July 2004.
The remaining proposals in ED 7 were finalised in IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Entities shall apply the amendments in this document for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007.
The amendments result from proposals that were contained in an Exposure Draft of Proposed Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 — Financial Guarantee Contracts and Credit Insurance published in July 2004.
In paragraph 9, the definition of a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss is amended, and a new definition is added immediately after the definition of available-for-sale financial assets.
However, this Standard applies to a derivative that is embedded in a contract within the scope of IFRS 4 if the derivative is not itself a contract within the scope of IFRS 4 (see paragraphs 10-13 and Appendix A paragraphs AG27-AG33).
The issuer may make that election contract by contract, but the election for each contract is irrevocable. … (h) loan commitments other than those loan commitments described in paragraph 4.
An entity that has a past practice of selling the assets resulting from its loan commitments shortly after origination shall apply this Standard to all its loan commitments in the same class. (b) loan commitments that can be settled net in cash or by delivering or issuing another financial instrument.
Paragraphs 29 and 31 apply to the measurement of such financial liabilities. (c) financial guarantee contracts as defined in paragraph 9.
After initial recognition, an issuer of such a contract shall (unless paragraph 47(a) or (b) applies) measure it at the higher of: (i) the amount determined in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets; and (ii) the amount initially recognised (see paragraph 43) less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue. (d) commitments to provide a loan at a below-market interest rate.
After initial recognition, an issuer of such a commitment shall (unless paragraph 47(a) applies) measure it at the higher of: (i) the amount determined in accordance with IAS 37; and (ii) the amount initially recognised (see paragraph 43) less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with IAS 18.
Nevertheless, if the issuer has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, the issuer may elect to apply either this Standard or IFRS 4 to such financial guarantee contracts.
If this Standard applies, paragraph 43 requires the issuer to recognise a financial guarantee contract initially at fair value.
Subsequently, unless the financial guarantee contract was designated at inception as at fair value through profit or loss or unless paragraphs 29-37 and AG47-AG52 apply (when a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition or the continuing involvement approach applies), the issuer measures it at the higher of: (i) the amount determined in accordance with IAS 37; and (ii) the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with IAS 18 (see paragraph 47(c)). (b) Some credit-related guarantees do not, as a precondition for payment, require that the holder is exposed to, and has incurred a loss on, the failure of the debtor to make payments on the guaranteed asset when due.
Such guarantees are not financial guarantee contracts, as defined in this Standard, and are not insurance contracts, as defined in IFRS 4.
Such guarantees are derivatives and the issuer applies this Standard to them. (c) If a financial guarantee contract was issued in connection with the sale of goods, the issuer applies IAS 18 in determining when it recognises the revenue from the guarantee and from the sale of goods.
In such cases, an issuer’s financial statements typically include a statement that the issuer has used those accounting requirements. 103B Financial Guarantee Contracts (Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4), issued in August 2005, amended paragraphs 2(e) and (h), 4, 47 and AG4, added paragraph AG4A, added a new definition of financial guarantee contracts in paragraph 9, and deleted paragraph 3.
AMENDMENTS TO IFRS 4 Paragraphs 4(d), B18(g) and B19(f) are amended, paragraph 41A is inserted and a definition of a financial guarantee contract is inserted in Appendix A after the definition of fair value and before the definition of financial risk, as follows. 4 An entity shall not apply this IFRS to: … (d) financial guarantee contracts unless the issuer has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, in which case the issuer may elect to apply either IAS 39 and IAS 32 or this Standard to such financial guarantee contracts.
The issuer may make that election contract by contract, but the election for each contract is irrevocable. 41A Financial Guarantee Contracts (Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4), issued in August 2005, amended paragraphs 4(d), B18(g) and B19(f).
Moreover, an issuer shall apply this IFRS to financial guarantee contracts if the issuer applies IAS 39 in recognising and measuring the contracts, but shall apply IFRS 4 if the issuer elects, in accordance with paragraph 4(d) of IFRS 4, to apply IFRS 4 in recognising and measuring them.
New waste relates to products sold after 13 August 2005.
However, if, in national legislation, new waste from private households is treated in a similar manner to historical waste from private households, the principles of the Interpretation apply by reference to the hierarchy in paragraphs 10–12 of IAS 8.
If an entity applies the Interpretation for a period beginning before 1 December 2005, it shall disclose that fact.
Changes in accounting policies shall be accounted for in accordance with IAS 8. --------------------------------------------------
