The Commission undertook to take into account the remarks entered in the budget in the context of implementation. (12) The European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, when adopting the Financial Regulation, undertook to achieve the objective of ensuring that this basic act comes into force as from the financial year 2004. (13) It is necessary to ensure appropriate funding stability and continuity, within the framework of the Financial Regulation, for institutions to which the European Community has granted financial support over previous years. (14) Transitional arrangements are deemed necessary for the years 2004 and 2005 to allow grants to be awarded under part 2 of this Community programme.
The programme shall start on 1 January 2004 and shall end on 31 December 2006.
Article 2 Access to the programme To be eligible for a grant, a body must satisfy the requirements of Annex I and have the following characteristics: (a) it must be an independent and non-profit-making legal person primarily active in the field of culture, with an objective aimed at the public good; (b) it must have been legally established for more than two years and have had its annual statement of accounts for the two preceding years certified by a registered auditor; (c) its activities must be in accordance with the principles underlying Community action in the field of culture and take account of the priorities set out in Annex I.
Article 4 Award of the grant Grants under the different actions of the programme shall be awarded in compliance with the provisions set out in the relevant part of Annex I.
Article 5 Financial provisions 1.
The financial framework for the implementation of the programme for the period specified in Article 1(3) is hereby set at EUR 19 million. 2.
Article 6 Implementing measures 1.
Article 7 Committee procedures 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Committee provided for in Decision No 508/2000/EC [9]. 2.
Article 8 Monitoring and evaluation The Commission shall present to the European Parliament and the Council: (a) not later than 31 December 2005, a report on the implementation of the programme, on the achievement of its objectives and on a possible future programme to replace the present programme.
Article 9 Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Strasbourg, 21 April 2004.
Cox For the Council The President D.
This support takes the form of one of two types of grant: - either an operating grant to co-finance expenditure associated with the permanent work programme of a body which pursues an aim of general European interest in the field of culture or an objective forming part of the European Union's policy in this area (parts 1 and 2), - or a grant to co-finance a specific action in this area (part 3).
However, in 2004 and 2005, in derogation to paragraph 1, grants may be awarded to the organisations mentioned in Annex II. 3.
The grant to the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages and the Mercator network centres shall not fund all their eligible expenditure in the calendar year for which it is awarded: at least 20 per cent of the bodies' budgets must be co-financed from non-Community sources.
An operating grant under part 2 of this Annex shall not fund all the body's eligible expenditure in the calendar year for which it is awarded.
In this case, the grant agreement should be signed by 30 June 2004 at the latest. 6.
Where necessary, investigations shall be conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and these shall be governed by Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2]. [1] OJ L 292, 15.11.1996, p. 2. [2] OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 1. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX II Organisations referred in Annex I, section 3, part 2, paragraph 2 - the European Union Youth Orchestra, - the European Union Baroque Orchestra (EUBO), - Philharmony of the Nations, - the European Choral Academy, - la Fédération européenne des choeurs de l'Union, - Les Choeurs de l'Union européenne, - Europa Cantat (European Federation of Young Choirs), - the European Opera Centre (Manchester), - the European Union Jazz Youth Orchestra (Swinging Europe), - the International Yehudi Menuhin Foundation, - the European Chamber Orchestra, - Association Européene des Conservatoires, Académies de Musique et Musikhochschulen (AEC), - Yuste Academy Foundation, - European Council of Artists (ECA), - European Forum for the Arts and Heritage (EFAH), - Informal European Theatre Meeting (IETM), - Convention théâtrale européenne, - Union des théâtres de l'Europe, - Prix Europe pour le théâtre, - Prix Europa (prize given to the best television and radio programme), - Europa Nostra, - European Writers' Congress (EWC), - European Network of Arts Organisations for Children and Young People (EU-NET ART), - Fédération européene des villages d'artistes (Euro Art), - European Network of Cultural Administration Training Centres (ENCATC), - European League of Institutes of the Arts (ELIA), - Network of European Museums Organisations (NEMO), - Momentum Europa, - Pan-European Public Children's Network, - Les Rencontres: Association of European Cities and Regions for Culture, - Europalia, - Euroballet, - International Festivals and Events Association Europe, - Pegasus Foundation, - Hors-les-Murs, - Huis Doorn (Netherlands), - European Music Festival, - Tuning Educational Structures in Europe, - St Boniface Memorial Foundation 2004, - European Community of Historic Armed Guilds. --------------------------------------------------
