Article 3 Implementing rules for interoperability 1.
Implementing rules for interoperability shall be established in accordance with the procedure under Article 8 of the framework Regulation.
Article 4 Community specifications 1.
The references to Eurocontrol specifications referred to in paragraph 1(b), shall be published by the Commission in the Official Journal of the European Union in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 5(2) of the framework Regulation. 5.
CHAPTER III VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE Article 5 EC declaration of conformity or suitability for use of constituents 1.
The manufacturer, or its authorised representative established in the Community, shall ensure and declare, by means of the EC declaration of conformity or suitability for use, that he has applied the provisions laid down in the essential requirements and in the relevant implementing rules for interoperability. 3.
Article 6 EC declaration of verification of systems 1.
The elements of this declaration and of the technical file are set out in Annex IV.
Article 7 Safeguards 1.
Where the Commission establishes that non-compliance with the essential requirements is due to incorrect application of the implementing rules for interoperability and/or the Community specifications, the Member State concerned shall take appropriate measures against the originator of the declaration of conformity or suitability for use or the EC declaration of verification and shall inform the Commission and the other Member States thereof. 6.
Article 8 Notified bodies 1.
Without prejudice to the requirements referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, Member States may decide to appoint organisations recognised in conformity with Article 3 of the service provision Regulation as notified bodies.
CHAPTER IV FINAL PROVISIONS Article 9 Revision of Annexes In case of any technical or operational developments, adjustments may be made to Annexes I and II in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 5(3) of the framework Regulation.
Compliance with the essential requirements shall be required for all systems and constituents of the EATMN currently in operation by 20 April 2011, if not otherwise specified by the relevant implementing rules for interoperability. 3.
Article 11 Repeal Directives 93/65/EEC and 97/15/EC and Regulations (EC) Nos 2082/2000 and 980/2002 shall be repealed on 20 October 2005.
Article 12 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Strasbourg, 10 March 2004.
Cox For the Council The President D.
Roche (1) OJ C 103 E, 30.4.2002, p. 41. (2) OJ C 241, 7.10.2002, p. 24. (3) OJ C 278, 14.11.2002, p. 13. (4) Opinion of the European Parliament of 3 September 2002 (OJ C 272 E, 13.11.2003, p. 325), Council Common Position of 18 March 2003 (OJ C 129 E, 3.6.2003, p. 26) and position of the European Parliament of 3 July 2003 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
Systems and procedures for air traffic flow management. 3.
Navigation systems and procedures. 6.
Surveillance systems and procedures. 7.
ANNEX II ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS Part A: General requirements These are network-wide requirements that are generally applicable to each one of the systems identified in Annex I. 1.
Systems and procedures for air traffic flow management 2.1.
Support for new concepts of operation Flight data processing systems shall accommodate the progressive implementation of advanced, agreed and validated concepts of operation for all phases of flight.
Surveillance data processing systems 3.2.1.
Support for new concepts of operation Surveillance data processing systems shall accommodate the progressive availability of new sources of surveillance information in such a way as to improve the overall quality of service. 3.3.
Human-machine interface systems 3.3.1.
Support for new concepts of operation Human-machine interface systems shall accommodate the progressive introduction of new, agreed and validated concepts of operation and increased automation, in such a way as to ensure that the tasks assigned to the control staff remain compatible with human capabilities, in both the normal and degraded modes of operation. 4.
Support for new concepts of operation Communication systems shall support the implementation of advanced, agreed and validated concepts of operation for all phases of flight. 5.
Navigation systems and procedures 5.1.
Surveillance systems and procedures 6.1.
Systems and procedures for aeronautical information services 7.1.
Support for new concepts of operation Increasingly accurate, complete and up-to-date aeronautical information shall be made available and used in a timely manner in order to support continuous improvement of the efficiency of airspace and airport use. 8.
ANNEX III CONSTITUENTS EC declaration - of conformity - of suitability for use 1.
Constituents The constituents will be identified in the implementing rules for interoperability in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 of this Regulation. 2.
ANNEX IV SYSTEMS EC declaration of verification of systems Verification procedure for systems 1.
That declaration must be written in the same language as the technical file and must contain the following: - the Regulation references, - name and address of the air navigation service provider (trade name and full address), - a brief description of the system, - description of the procedure followed in order to declare conformity of the system (Article 6 of this Regulation), - name and address of the notified body which carried out tasks pertaining to the verification procedure, if applicable, - the references of the documents contained in the technical file, - where appropriate, reference to the Community specifications, - all the relevant temporary or definitive provisions to be complied with by the systems and in particular, where appropriate, any operating restrictions or conditions, - if temporary: duration of validity of the EC declaration, - identification of the signatory. 2.
ANNEX V NOTIFIED BODIES 1.
