Article 2 For the purposes of this Directive, the definitions laid down in Article 2 of Directive 91/67/EEC shall apply as necessary.
Article 4 Member States shall ensure that it is compulsory for the suspected presence of any of the list I and list II diseases to be notified as soon as possible to the official service.
CHAPTER II Control measures for list I diseases Article 5 1.
The measures referred to in paragraph 2 shall not be withdrawn until the suspicion of disease has been officially ruled out.
Where necessary, appropriate additional measures shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19.
Article 7 Where fish from the wild and not belonging to any farm or fish in lakes, ponds or other installations intended for angling or holding ornamental fish are infected or suspected of being infected, Member States shall ensure that appropriate measures are taken.
The general rules concerning national crisis units and the Community crisis units shall be laid down by the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission. 5.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission drawn up on the basis of the opinion of the Scientific Veterinary Committee to take account, in particular, of scientific and technological developments, shall review the provisions of this Article before 31 December 1996.
CHAPTER III Control measures for list II diseases Article 9 1.
Where a list II disease is suspected and/or confirmed in an approved zone or on an approved farm situated in a non-approved zone, an epizootic investigation shall be carried out in accordance with Article 8.
These programmes, which will be set up on the basis of general criteria to be determined before the date specified in Article 20 in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19, will be submitted to the Commission for scrutiny, and approved and where necessary amended in accordance with that same procedure.
By 31 December 1996, the Commission shall submit to the Council a report, drawn up after obtaining the opinion of the Scientific Veterinary Committee, taking into account experience gained and scientific and technical developments and accompanied, where appropriate, by proposals for a review of the provision of this Article, in particular with regard to the placing on the market of infected live fish, and their eggs or gametes, intended for farming or fattening, and with regard to the carrying out of an epizootiological investigation in non-approved zones where a disease is suspected on a non-approved farm.
Any detailed rules for implementing paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be adopted by the Commission, as and when required, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19.
CHAPTER IV Final provisions Article 11 1.
Sampling and laboratory testing for the presence of list I and list II diseases shall be carried out using the methods established in accordance with Article 15 of Directive 91/67/EEC. 2.
The national laboratories designated for the diseases in question shall be responsible for coordinating diagnostic standards and methods, and for the use of reagents. 3.
However, by way of derogation from paragraph 1, Member States which do not have a national laboratory competent as regards the disease in question may use the services of a national laboratory with competence in the matter in another Member State. 5.
The list of national reference laboratories for fish diseases is set out in Annex A. 6.
The detailed rules for implementing this Article shall be adopted by the Commission under the procedure laid down in Article 19.
The Community reference laboratory for fish diseases is indicated in Annex B. 2.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall by 30 June 1996, review the provisions of this Article, in particular with regard to laying down specific conditions for the use of vaccines and to take account of developments in scientific and technological research into vaccination.
The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19, amend or supplement those criteria, taking into account the specific nature of the disease. 3.
The Commission shall approve the plans, amended if necessary, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19.
Article 16 Commission experts may, in collaboration with the competent authorities, and in so far as is necessary to ensure uniform application of this Directive, make on-the-spot checks.
The detailed rules for implementing this Article shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19.
Article 17 The conditions governing the Community's financial contribution to the measures connected with the application of this Directive are laid down in Decision 90/424/EEC.
Article 18 Annexes B, C and D shall be amended, as and when required, by the Council acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, in particular in order to take into account developments in research and in diagnostic procedures.
Annex A may be amended as and when required in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The Council shall act by a qualified majority.
Article 21 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 24 June 1993.
For the Council The President B.
