Revised rules of procedure of the governing board of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Approved by the Council on 24 July 2006 ) Revised rules of procedure of the governing board of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Approved by the Council on 24 July 2006) (2006/C 182/02) THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING, Set up by Article 4 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 of 10 February 1975 establishing a European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training [1], (hereinafter %quot%the founding Regulation%quot%), Having regard to the first paragraph of Article 5 thereof, HAS ADOPTED THE FOLLOWING RULES OF PROCEDURE: Appointment of the Chair and Vice-Chairs Article 1 The Chairperson and the three Vice-Chairpersons shall be appointed by the Governing Board in such a way that each belongs to one of the four categories mentioned in Article 4(2) of the founding Regulation.
Without prejudice to the responsibilities of the Director set out in Article 7 and 8 of the Founding Regulation, the Bureau shall take decisions which are urgent or necessary for governing the Centre between meetings of the Governing Board and shall, as delegated by the Governing Board, monitor the implementation of the decisions of the Governing Board. 3.
Article 5 As a general rule, meetings of the Governing Board shall be held at the seat of the Centre.
Agenda Article 6 1.
Attendance at meetings Article 7 1.
Article 8 Any member of the Governing Board who is unable to attend a meeting shall notify the Director of the Centre.
If the Chairperson or any member disputes the admissibility of a motion proposed by a member during the proceedings, the matter shall be put to vote.
Adoption of decisions Article 10 1.
Motions that the Governing Board should not express an opinion on a question or that consideration of a question should be postponed shall be voted on before any motion dealing with the substance of the question. 3.
The final vote shall be taken on the text resulting from previous voting.
Method of voting Article 12 1.
If the result of a vote by show of hands is disputed, the Chairperson shall proceed to a vote by roll call. 3.
The Chairperson shall declare the results immediately. 5.
Voting by proxy Article 13 1.
Closure of debates Article 14 1.
Any member asking to speak on closure shall be given precedence. 3.
Minutes of meetings Article 16 1.
These minutes shall include: (a) The list of those present and proxy votes, (b) A record of the proceedings, (c) The decisions adopted by the Governing Board with an indication of the voting figures for each vote taken. 3.
The minutes shall be submitted to the Governing Board by written procedure and shall be adopted by the Bureau. 5.
Secretariat Article 17 1.
Revision of the Rules of Procedure Article 18 1.
The Governing Board shall decide on the revision of its rules of procedure by an absolute majority of its members. 2.
The revision shall enter into force after the Council of the European Union has received an opinion from the Commission and has given its approval. [1] OJ L 39, 13.2.1975, as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 2051/2004 of 25 October 2004, OJ L 355 of 1.12.2004, p. 1. --------------------------------------------------
