tourist campsites 2.2.
holiday dwellings 2.3.
Article 3 Information collection characteristics 1.
Article 4 Accuracy of statistical information 1.
Article 5 Collection of statistical information 1.
Member States may, where appropriate, base the collection of the statistical information referred to in Article 3 on existing data, sources and systems. 2.
For the characteristics with annual periodicity, the first reference period shall begin on 1 January 1996.
For the characteristics relating to the columns on monthly and quarterly data appearing in sections B and C respectively of the Annex, the first reference period shall begin on 1 January 1997.
Article 6 Processing of data Member States shall process the information collected under Article 3 in accordance with the accuracy requirements stipulated in Article 4 and the detailed rules adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 12.
Article 7 Transmission of data 1.
Article 8 Reports 1.
Article 9 Dissemination of the results The arrangements for the dissemination of the data by the Commission shall be determined pursuant to the procedure laid down in Article 12.
Article 10 Transition period 1.
Article 11 Committee As regards the procedures for implementing this Directive, and any measures for adjustment to economic and technical developments, concerning in particular: - the definitions to be applied to the information collection characteristics and any adjustments to the list of data collection characteristics (Article 3), in so far as these adjustments do not make the collection process more onerous, - accuracy requirements and the harmonized processing of systematic biases (Article 4), - processing of data (Article 6), data transmission procedures (Article 7) and dissemination of the results (Article 9), - the derogations from the provisions of this Directive during the transition period (Article 10), the Commission shall be assisted, in accordance with the provisions laid down in Article 12, by the Statistical Programme Committee established by Decision 89/382/EEC, Euratom (2), hereinafter referred to as the 'Committee`.
Article 12 Procedure 1.
Article 13 Implementation of the Directive Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before 23 November 1996.
Article 14 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 15 Final provision This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 23 November 1995.
