In carrying out ante mortem and post mortem inspections and supervising the hygiene conditions laid down in Chapters II and IV of Annex I, to be satisfied by slaughterhouses, the official veterinarian may be helped by assistants working under his supervision and responsibility. 2.
Assistants shall help the official veterinarian in carrying out the following operations only: - supervising application of the hygiene rules laid down in Chapters II and IV of Annex I; - checking that at the time of the ante mortem health inspection none of the symptoms mentioned in Chapter III (12) of Annex I is present; - checking that at the time of the post mortem health inspection the conditions listed in Chapter VI (28) of Annex I are not present.
Article 7 This Directive shall not affect the appeals open under current legislation in the Member States and provided for in this Directive for the purpose of contesting decisions of the competent authorities.
TITLE III Provisions concerning only intra-Community trade Article 8 Each Member State shall ensure that fresh poultrymeat sent to another Member State is accompanied during transportation to the country of destination by a health certificate conforming to the requirements of Chapter VIII of Annex I.
Without prejudice to the powers arising under the second sentence of the second subparagraph of Article 5 (3), a Member State may prohibit the marketing in its territory of fresh poultrymeat coming from another Member State if at the time of the health inspection carried out in the country of destination it is found that: (a) such meat is unfit for human consumption, or that (b) the provisions of Articles 3, 8 or 14 have not been complied with. 2.
Article 10 Each Member State shall grant to consignors whose fresh poultrymeat cannot, pursuant to Article 9 (1), be marketed in its territory the right to obtain the opinion of a veterinary expert.
Each Member State shall ensure that, before the competent authorities take any other measures such as destroying the meat, the veterinary experts have an opportunity of determining whether the conditions of Article 9 (1) are fulfilled.
Measures taken by the Member States under paragraph 2, and any repeal of such measures, must be communicated forthwith to the other Member States and to the Commission together with the reasons therefor.
Within the Committee, the votes of Member States shall be weighted as provided in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty.
The Committee shall deliver its opinion on such measures within two days.
The Council shall adopt the measures by a qualified majority.
The Member States shall prohibit the %quot%Spinchiller%quot% poultry chilling process currently in use.
TITLE I V Final provision Article 15 Until the entry into force of Community provisions concerning imports of fresh poultrymeat from third countries, Member States shall apply to such imports provisions which are at least equivalent to those of this Directive.
CHAPTER II HYGIENE REQUIREMENTS FOR SLAUGHTERHOUSE STAFF, PREMISES, EQUIPMENT AND INSTRUMENTS 2.
CHAPTER III ANTE MORTEM HEALTH INSPECTION 9.
Poultry for slaughter must undergo ante mortem inspection within 24 hours of arrival at the slaughterhouse.
Ante mortem inspection may be restricted to detecting injuries received in transport if the poultry has been inspected at the farm of origin within the last 24 hours and found to be healthy.
The poultry referred to in paragraph 12, 13 or 14 must be slaughtered separately and after slaughter of all other poultry.
CHAPTER IV SLAUGHTER HYGIENE REQUIREMENTS 16.
CHAPTER V POST MORTEM HEALTH INSPECTION 25.
CHAPTER VI DECISION OF THE OFFICIAL VETERINARIAN AT THE POST MORTEM INSPECTION 28. 1.
Poultry shall be declared totally unfit for human consumption where the inspection reveals the following: - death resulting from a cause other than slaughter, - general contamination, - major lesions and ecchymosis, - abnormal smell, colour, taste, - putrefaction, - abnormal consistency, - cachexia, - oedema, - ascites, - jaundice, - infectious disease, - aspergillosis, - toxoplasmosis, - extensive subcutaneous or muscular parasitism, - malignant or multiple tumors, - leucosis, - poisoning. 2.
CHAPTER VII HEALTH MARKING 30.
The stamp must be an oval ink stamp 6 75 cm wide and 4 75 cm high.
The following information must appear on it in perfectly legible characters: - on the upper part, the name of the exporting country in capitals, - in the centre, the veterinary approval number of the slaughterhouse, - on the lower part, one of the following sets of initials : CEE, EEG or EWG.
CHAPTER VIII HEALTH CERTIFICATE 32.
CHAPTER IX STORAGE 33.
CHAPTER X PACKAGING 34.
Such packagings must be transparent and colourless and meet the requirements of paragraph 34 (a) ; they may not be reused for packing meat.
CHAPTER XI TRANSPORT 36.
