2006/598/EC: Commission Decision of 16 March 2005 concerning State aid that Italy (Regione Lazio) intends to grant for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (notified under document number C(2005) 587) (Text with EEA relevance) Commission Decision of 16 March 2005 concerning State aid that Italy (Regione Lazio) intends to grant for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (notified under document number C(2005) 587) (Only the Italian text is authentic) (Text with EEA relevance) (2006/598/EC) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard of the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 88, paragraph 2, first indent, Having regard of the agreement on the European Economic Area, and in particular Article 62, paragraph 1, point (a), After having invited the interested parties to present their observation according to these Articles [1], and having regard of these observations, Whereas: I.
THE PROCEDURE (1) With its decision of 13 May 2003, notified to Italy by means of letter of the same day, the Commission decided to open the investigation procedure based on Article 88(2) on the case mentioned in the subject and invited Italy and all interested parties to submit comments [2]. (2) Italy wrote on 23 July 2003. (3) ACEA S.p.A. (%quot%ACEA%quot%), beneficiary of the aid, wrote on 8 September 2003.
The letter was sent to Italy for comments, together with a number of other demands, on 15 September 2003.
The demands concerned: - a demand for a copy of the Memorandum of Understanding between ACEA and Electrabel for the constitution of AEP; - the conditions of transfer of ACEA’s activities to AEP, in particular if the measure under consideration had been taken into account; - on which of the activities of ACEA the recovery would impinge. (4) Italy responded on 18 March 2004, and again on 29 April 2004.
DESCRIPTION OF THE CASE (5) The case originally concerned two energy saving projects supported by the Region Lazio, a district heating project and a windpower plant.
The measure is financed through the funds collected with the %quot%carbon tax%quot% introduced by Article 8 of the budgetary law (%quot%finanziaria%quot%) approved on 23 December 1998 (legge n. 448/98).
After a series of reorganisations which involved a number of other undertakings, notably Electrabel, the beneficiary is now a different one, AceaElectrabel Produzione (AEP).
AEP is controlled at 50 % by Electrabel Italia, and at 50 % by AceaElectrabel.
The first is controlled at 100 % by Electrabel (Belgium).
The second is controlled at 40,59 % by Electrabel Italia, and at 59,41 % by ACEA S.p.A.
Note: Chart of the ACEA Group; the figures between brackets indicate the level of control by the parent company; the rest belongs to Electrabel Italia, Italian subsidiary of the Belgian group Electrabel. +++++ TIFF +++++ AceaAceaElectrabel (59,41)AE Energia (100) AE Elettricità (100) AEP (50) AE Trading (84,17) IV.
Nevertheless, the Commission expressed doubts and decided to open the investigation procedure, as it considered that the principles and criteria endorsed in the Court jurisprudence (%quot%Deggendorf%quot%) are applicable. (10) It appeared that the intended recipient, ACEA S.p.A., is one of the former %quot%aziende municipalizzate%quot% (public utilities owned by local public administrative bodies) in the energy sector which has benefited of the aid schemes assessed in the Commission Decision 2003/193/EC of 5 June 2002 on State aid granted by Italy in the form of tax exemptions and subsidised loans to public utilities with a majority public capital holding [5] (State aid C 27/99, ex NN 69/98).
ACEA has challenged that decision before the Court of First Instance [6] and, in that context it has submitted that it had benefited from the relevant scheme.
Financial reports by ACEA explicitly refer to the risk of recovery, for instance the semi-annual report of September 2004 [7]. (12) Following two reminders of the Commission addressed to the Italian authorities concerning their obligation to recover those amounts, the Italian authorities have informed the Commission that, after more than two years from the adoption of the decision in case 2003/193/EC, they are still in the process of fulfilling their recovery obligation by adopting and implementing the appropriate administrative measures.
Comments from Italy (15) The arguments of the Italian authorities are the following (recitals 16 to 27): (16) Italy raises the issue of the identity of the beneficiary, which has changed since the decision of the Commission.
It notes that a possible consequence would be that Member States would stop notifying. (23) Italy points out two other features of the project under examination which would not favour the application of the Deggendorf jurisprudence: (a) the energy saving objectives of the project are in line with Commission and EU policies; (b) ACEA would be penalised compared to other municipalizzate, and the Commission would be exercising pressure towards a single subject, through illegitimate means. (24) In reply to the Commission’s questions, Italy points out that (recitals 25 to 27): (25) The Memorandum of Understanding shows that AEP is subject to double control of AEA and Electrabel. (26) In the Joint Venture Agreement the project under consideration was not taken into account, nor was the recovery decision. (27) ACEA has various activities, and that it is not possible to determine on which of these the recovery of the aid will impinge. 1.2.
ASSESSMENT (32) The assessment of the case will look first at whether the measure under consideration is an aid, and whether it can be considered compatible according to the Treaty. (33) Secondly, the assessment will look at the identity of the beneficiary and the application of the Deggendorf jurisprudence. 1.1.
Impact on trade and distortion stemming from the measure are thus confirmed, and are consistent with the findings of the Commission in other cases [10]. (41) All the four conditions for the existence of an aid are thus respected, and the Commission confirms its finding that the project under examination should be considered as such. 1.2.
They are, therefore, eligible for investment aid at the basic rate of 40 % of eligible costs%quot%. (44) Within the project under consideration, only investment concerning district heating, consisting in pipelines for the distribution of heat and its accessories, is eligible to aid.
Therefore, point 30 of the Guidelines applies. (45) Point 37 of the Guidelines stipulates that %quot%eligible costs must be confined strictly to the extra investment costs necessary to meet the environmental objectives%quot%. (46) In view of the fact that the reference investment is nil as the alternative is individual heating of households, the Commission accepted that the full investment cost is eligible.
The aid granted corresponds to a maximum gross intensity of 40 %. (47) Therefore, in terms of eligible investment costs and aid intensity, the district heating project, taken in isolation, appears to be in line with points 30 and 37 of the Guidelines. (48) Based on this analysis the Commission would be able to declare the project, taken in isolation, as compatible to the rules concerning state aid.
As it is indicated in point 4 of the Environmental Guidelines %quot%taking long-term environmental requirements into account does not mean that all aid must be authorised%quot%. (49) Accepting the point of view of Italy, that since the project intended to reach environmental objectives the Commission should then have approved it, would ignore the fact that what matters most for competition rules is the modality through which the objectives are met.
The fact that ACEA exercises control on AEP jointly with Electrabel and not alone is not relevant. (57) AEP is mentioned in the accounts of ACEA: in page 35 of the report for the first half of 2004, it is written that %quot%having regard of the possibility allowed by Article 37 of the legislative decree 127/91, are also included within the consolidation boundaries the following undertakings over which the holding exercise the control jointly with other partners and on the basis of agreements with them%quot%.
However, it is clear that AEP inherited the project and became the intended beneficiary of the aid as a result of a restructuring within the ACEA group and that it pursues some of the activities that were previously performed by ACEA itself.
Furthermore, Article 4 of the agreement to confer the branch to AEP (named at that time GEN.CO) says that any dispute concerning that branch would be left out from the agreement itself, and that the conferred undertaking would not be subject to any dispute that may arise, even if they would originate after December 1, 2002 (date of entering into effect of the agreement) but would be based on facts preceding that date. (59) An agreement between two parties cannot lead to an exemption from the obligation to reimburse the illegal and incompatible aid.
The obligations imposed on ACEA were therefore well known, so that a circumvention of the State aid recovery obligation cannot be excluded. (60) Therefore we conclude that ACEA and AEP are to be considered as a single entity and that, notwithstanding the reorganisation that has taken place within the ACEA group, the group itself, including ACEA, must be considered as beneficiary of the aid.
The Deggendorf Jurisprudence (61) After more than two years from the Decision 2003/193/EC, Italy has yet to define the amounts which the municipalizzate have to reimburse, let alone recover the aid which had been declared illegal and incompatible.
Therefore, the ACEA group, including AEP, is still in receipt of illegal and incompatible aid which still has to be reimbursed and the distortion of competition is still in place. (63) Under such circumstances, and even if the exact amount of the first aid is not known, the cumulative effect of the two aids accruing to ACEA and its distortionary impact on the common market render the grant of the notified aid incompatible with the common market. 1.5.
Application of the Deggendorf jurisprudence to the case (64) Italy and ACEA put forward a number of arguments on the application of the Deggendorf jurisprudence to this case. (65) To recall, the Deggendorf jurisprudence established by the Court [15] states that the Commission, when examining the compatibility of an aid, should take into account all the relevant elements and in particular the cumulative effect of the new aid and of aid which has been declared incompatible and has not yet been reimbursed.
Proof is that the measure was notified by Italy, and that Italy is the addressee of the decision, according to Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty.
Hence this argument does not hold. (68) The Deggendorf jurisprudence applies whenever a beneficiary of an aid has not paid back what the Commission decided, irrespective of the fact that the case is individual or concerns a scheme [17].
The Commission must consider that ACEA was among the beneficiaries of the aid to the municipalizzate, since at least part of that aid was given to all undertakings falling into that category, hence also to ACEA. (69) Furthermore, ACEA presented observations in the course of that procedure in its quality of third interested party arguing for the compatibility of those schemes.
The Commission approved (Decision on case N 614/02 mentioned in paragraph 38) a number of projects in the Region Piemonte.
Two of the projects approved were to be carried out by AEM, the municipalizzata from Torino, and by ASM, the municipalizzata from Settimo Torinese.
It would be too easy for a company to escape to a recovery decision simply by not specifying on which part of its activities or on which branch the recovery would fall. (78) To the contrary, it can be argued that, since part of the aid that was declared illegal and incompatible concerned a fiscal measure, all branches of ACEA have benefited from it in the past.
The illegal and incompatible aid covered thus the entire economic activity of ACEA, including the branch that was then transferred to AEP.
Article 2 Italy informs the Commission, within a deadline of two months starting from the date of the notification of this Decision, of the measures taken to comply with it.
Article 3 This Decision is addressed to Italy.
Done at Brussels, 16 March 2005.
For the Commission Neelie Kroes Member of the Commission [1] OJ C 188, 8.8.2003, p. 8. [2] See footnote 1. [3] Judgement of the Court of 15 May 1997 in the case C-355/95 P (Textilwerke Deggendorf GmbH v Commission of the European Communities and Federal Republic of Germany), Rec. 1997, p.
I-2549. [4] Point 3.4 of the decision to open the procedure, C(2003) 1468 fin of 13.5.2003, on case N 90/2002. [5] OJ L 77, 24.3.2003, p. 21. [6] Case T-297/02 (OJ C 289, 23.11.2002, p. 37). [7] Available on the Internet site of ACEA: www.aceaspa.it [8] OJ L 205, 22.7.1998, p. 68. [9] OJ C 6, 10.1.2004, p. 21. [10] In the case N 707/02 — The Netherlands — MEP — Diffusion of renewable energy, approved by the Commission on 19.3.2003 it is written that the scheme will only favour the producers of renewable electricity and producers of CHP electricity who are feeding that electricity into the grid.
