2006/54/EC: Council Decision of 30 January 2006 on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the European Partnership with Albania and repealing Decision 2004/519/EC Council Decision of 30 January 2006 on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the European Partnership with Albania and repealing Decision 2004/519/EC (2006/54/EC) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 533/2004 of 22 March 2004 on the establishment of European Partnerships in the framework of the stabilisation and association process [1] and in particular to Article 2 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Whereas: (1) The Thessaloniki European Council of 19 and 20 June 2003endorsed the introduction of the European Partnerships as a means to materialise the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries within the framework of the stabilisation and association process. (2) Regulation (EC) No 533/2004 provides that the Council is to decide on the principles, priorities and conditions to be contained in the European Partnerships, as well as any subsequent adjustments. (3) The Council adopted on 14 June 2004 a first European Partnership with Albania [2].
Article 2 The implementation of the European Partnership shall be examined through the mechanisms established under the stabilisation and association process, notably the annual Progress Reports presented by the Commission.
Article 3 Decision 2004/519/EC shall be repealed.
Article 4 This Decision shall take effect on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Plassnik [1] OJ L 86, 24.3.2004, p. 1. [2] Council Decision 2004/519/EC of 14 June 2004 on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the European Partnership with Albania (OJ L 223, 24.6.2004, p. 20). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX ALBANIA 2005 EUROPEAN PARTNERSHIP 1.
The first European Partnership with Albania was adopted by the Council on 14 June 2004.
It is appropriate to update this first partnership on the basis of the findings of the 2005 Progress Report on Albania.
The main priorities identified for Albania relate to its capacity to meet the criteria defined by the Copenhagen European Council of 1993 and the conditions set for the stabilisation and association process, notably the conditions defined by the Council in its conclusions of 29 April 1997 and 21 and 22 June 1999, the content of the final declaration of the Zagreb Summit of 24 November 2000 and the Thessaloniki Agenda. 3.
Human rights and the protection of minorities Observance of international human rights law - Ensure that all law enforcement bodies are fully aware of their human rights obligations, and that they implement them in accordance with international conventions ratified by Albania, in particular the European Convention on Human Rights. - Address cases of ill-treatment by law enforcement bodies through appropriate prosecution of perpetrators. - Ensure the compliance of the Albanian Criminal Code with the UN Convention against Torture. - Implement the 2004 master plan to improve conditions for detainees and prisoners on remand. - Ensure that the code of ethics for the prisons system is rigorously observed.
Sectoral policies Industry and SME - Improve the financial sustainability of the SME Agency and implement the national training programme for SMEs. - Implement the European Charter for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. - Implement the Action Plan for the Removal of Administrative Barriers to Investment and ensure proper, non-discretionary, non-discriminatory implementation of business-related legislation, rules and procedures. - Make company registration cheaper, easier and possible throughout the country. - Improve procedures for obtaining licenses, permits and certificates. - Reform the pre-paid tax system to make it less unfavourable for start-up companies. - Implement the April 2005 action plan to address the informal economy. - Set up procedures to assess the business impact of planned regulatory measures. - Adopt improved commercial legislation. - Ensure effective launch of the loan guarantee fund and ensure professional and independent management of the scheme. - Adopt the e-signature law.
Agriculture and fisheries - Strengthen the food safety system and related control systems. - Clarify competences and reinforce staffing in the veterinary service. - Upgrade the laboratories of the Veterinary Research Institute. - Improve phytosanitary and veterinary conditions in compliance with EU requirements, particularly for products with a strong export potential. - Step up efforts in aligning the legislation with the EU veterinary and phytosanitary acquis and align the system of animal identification and registration for bovines with EU requirements. - Reinforce the collection and processing of agricultural statistics in line with EU standards and methodology.
Justice, freedom and security Visa, border control, asylum and migration - Issue travel documents in accordance with international standards and establish a centralised IT network for the administration of visas. - Adopt amendments to the Law on Foreigners to bring visa legislation closer to EU standards. - Implement Albania's Ohrid commitments on border security and management, in particular establishing an integrated border management strategy in accordance with EU guidelines. - Focus increased financial and human resources on addressing human trafficking and illegal migration. - Ensure that border management at Tirana International Airport, and at Durres and Vlora ports complies with international standards. - Foster inter-agency cooperation at the border between customs and the border police. - Ensure signature of and alignment with the 1977 European Convention on the Legal status of Migrant Workers. - Implement the EC/Albania readmission agreement and negotiate readmission agreements with the countries of origin of transiting migrants. - Focus sufficient administrative and financial capacity on implementing legislation on asylum and migration and in particular implementing the related national strategies and action plans.
Anti-corruption policy - Implement European Conventions on Corruption in criminal and civil matters ratified by Albania as well as the relevant UN Conventions. - Achieve significant results in the fight against corruption, at all levels and in all fields, through enforcement of adequate legislation.
Economic requirements - Maintain sustainable macroeconomic policies, continuing with fiscal adjustments and consolidation, and, in particular, enhancing the sustainability of the trade/current account deficits by enhancing export competitiveness. - Continue with a prudent monetary and exchange rate policy stance. - Further strengthen external audit, financial control management and internal audit. - Establish effective procedures for the detection, treatment and follow-up of cases of (suspected) fraud and other irregularities affecting national and international funds. - Continue privatisation, in particular in the financial and energy sectors. - Ensure that provisions in relation to land classification and the use of land are respected. - Develop and adopt legislation for the taxation of land and real estate. - Step up efforts to improve the education system, including primary education, and to create a modern vocational education and training system.
European standards Internal market Free movement of goods - Ensure administrative capacity to implement SAA requirements in this area. - Make further progress in adopting European standards and speed up efforts to become a full member of the European Committee for Standardisation, of the European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardisation and of the European Telecommunications Standards Institute. - Progress in transposing new and global approach and old approach directives. - Fully establish a market surveillance system required by the acquis on free movement of goods. - Ensure improved functioning, taking into account EC best practices, of the bodies responsible for standardisation, accreditation and certification as well as those responsible for metrology and calibration. - Ensure Albania's membership of the European Cooperation for Accreditation.
Free movement of capital - Ensure progress on the full liberalisation of the movement of capital in order to be able to fulfil Albania's 2010 WTO deadline.
Failure to respect these conditions could lead the Council to take appropriate measures on the basis of Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 2666/2000.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2112/2005 (OJ L 344, 27.12.2005, p. 23). --------------------------------------------------
