Decision No 2367/2002/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the Community statistical programme 2003 to 2007 (Text with EEA relevance) Decision No 2367/2002/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the Community statistical programme 2003 to 2007 (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 285 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission(1), Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee(2), Following consultation of the Committee of the Regions, Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty(3), Whereas: (1) In accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 322/97 of 17 February 1997 on Community statistics(4), a Community statistical programme should be established. (2) Council Regulation (EC) No 322/97 establishes the principles for the production of Community statistics and applies to this Decision. (3) Economic and monetary union is imposing substantial demands on the supply of monetary, balance of payments and financial statistics for the Community. (4) In accordance with Regulation (EC) No 322/97, the Community must have timely access to statistical information comparable between the Member States which is up to date, reliable, pertinent and produced as efficiently as possible for the formulation, application, monitoring and assessment of its policies. (5) The availability of up-to-date comparable statistics of good quality is often a necessary condition for implementing Community policies. (6) In order to ensure the consistency and comparability of statistical information in the Community, there is a need to establish a five-year Community statistical programme which identifies the approaches, the main fields and the objectives of the actions envisaged in respect of these priorities. (7) To this effect, the Community authorities should ensure comparable and high quality statistics. (8) The specific method of drawing up Community statistics requires particularly close cooperation within a developing Community statistical system via the Statistical Programme Committee, set up by Council Decision 89/382/EEC, Euratom(5), as regards the adaptation of the system, notably via the introduction of legal instruments necessary to establish the said Community statistics.
Article 2 Objectives and policy priorities Taking account of the available resources of the national authorities and the Commission, this programme shall be guided by the principal Community policy priorities of: - economic and monetary union, - European Union enlargement, - competitivity, sustainable development and the social agenda.
It shall also ensure the continuation of existing statistical support for decisions in current policy areas and the additional requirements arising from new Community policy initiatives.
EUR 41773000 shall be for 2007.
That report is to be completed by the end of 2008 and subsequently submitted to the European Parliament and the Council.
Article 5 Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 6 Addressees This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 16 December 2002.
Cox For the Council The President M.
ANNEX I FIVE-YEAR STATISTICAL PROGRAMME: APPROACHES INTRODUCTION 1.
Implementation strategies (a) Objectives The objectives laid down in the Eurostat Corporate Plan will underpin the execution of the work programme, which shall be carried out taking into account the principle of cost-effectiveness established in Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 322/97.
The resources will be used: - for the production of statistics as defined in Regulation (EC) No 322/97, including the development and maintenance of statistical information systems and associated necessary infrastructure, - for grants made to partners in the ESS (Eurostat envisages concluding framework agreements with such partners), - for technical and administrative assistance as well as other support measures. 3.
Summary During the five-year period work will concentrate on: - consolidating the collection of harmonised data for negotiations and internal EU purposes, - continuing assistance to candidate countries and new members to improve their statistical systems to meet Community requirements, including early information about any new Community legislation.
TITLE I Free movement of goods Statistical implications The entry into force of the Single Market in 1993 led to the introduction of a system for the statistical measurement of trade in goods between Member States (Intrastat), a lessening of the burden on information providers and thus a more appropriate response to the needs of economic and monetary union.
In line with the strategic plan approved in 1999 by Eurostat and the Member States, new adaptations of the system will be examined and tested prior to any reform of the legislation.
The Technical Action Plan for Agricultural Statistics (Tapas) management framework provides a collective and transparent approach to steadily improving use of available national and Community resources for producing agricultural statistics.
Forestry In this area, particular attention has to be given to the maintenance and improvement of work with international organisations above all for the development of better quality forestry statistics, including specific criteria and indicators required for environmental management and sustainable forest management.
Summary During the programme period the Commission will strive to: - apply the TAPAS scheme for progressive improvements to the existing set of agricultural statistics, mainly as far as quality, comparability, efficiency savings, simplification and timeliness are concerned, - plan the development of agricultural statistics with the aim of meeting the future needs of the CAP, - provide indicators for better integration of environmental considerations into the CAP and information on the consumer/welfare aspects of agriculture, - assist in the development of comparable data in candidate countries for accession to the EU, - consolidate, improve and extend (indicators) forestry statistics, - consolidate and improve the quality of fishery statistics.
Policy needs and Eurostat outputs %gt%TABLE%gt% TITLE III Free movement of persons, services and capital Statistical implications EU balance of payment statistics provide fairly detailed information on trade in services and direct investments.
Summary During the five-year period the Commission will strive to: - develop a stable and flexible set of indicators on globalisation, - develop a stable and flexible set of indicators on information society, including audiovisual services, - progress in the development of satellite accounts in the field of tourism.
Summary During the five-year programme period the Commission will: - develop a more standardised nomenclature in the areas of migration and asylum in liaison with the national authorities, - enhance the range and quality of statistics in this field to meet the initial requirements contained in the Commission communications on the subject.
Policy needs and Eurostat outputs %gt%TABLE%gt% TITLE V Transport Statistical implications Community transport statistics are required to support the common transport policy (Articles 70 to 80) and the transport component of the Trans-European networks (TENs) (Articles 154 to 156).
Transport is also an important part of Community regional and environmental policies (see Titles XVII and XIX) and particular attention will need to be accorded to sustainable development indicators.
Community statistics should constitute a comprehensive transport information system, including data on flows of goods and passengers, as well as on infrastructure, equipment, traffic flows, personal mobility, safety, energy consumption and environmental impact, as well as data on transport costs and prices, and on transport enterprises.
Statistical information for this title is derived as needed from data and indicators generated for other titles in the programme.
Policy needs and Eurostat outputs %gt%TABLE%gt% TITLE VII Economic and monetary policy Statistical implications The implementation of Economic and Monetary Union requires very close statistical monitoring to support macroeconomic policy coordination and the monetary policy functions of the European System of Central Banks.
The Stability and Growth Pact presents new statistical requirements.
One administrative use, own resources based on gross national income, will represent 60 % of the EU budget.
Monitoring of the budgetary situation and of the stock of government debt (Article 104 of the Treaty and the Stability and Growth Pact agreed upon in Dublin) will be based on the accounts of general government drawn up using the ESA 95 methodology approved by Council Regulation (EC) No 2223/96 of 25 June 1996 on the European system of national and regional accounts in the Community(5).
The monitoring of the economic development in the Member States as provided for in Article 99 of the Treaty strengthens the need to implement fully the existing data transmission programme on national accounts according to the ESA 95 Regulation, especially as far as timeliness and coverage are concerned, and to extend it progressively to new areas through revision and extension of the legislation in force.
By fixing new employment rate objectives to be reached in 2005 and 2010, the European Council has reinforced the need to monitor the implementation of the European employment strategy and in particular the yearly implementation of the employment guidelines.
Summary - implementation of a continuous LFS providing quarterly results in all Member States, - harmonisation of part of the questionnaires, - collection/analysis of the results of the 2002 structure of earnings survey, - implementation of the 2004 labour cost survey covering NACE M-N-O, - full implementation of the Council Regulation on labour cost index, - implementation of the 2006 structure of earnings survey, - designing a target system for European labour cost statistics.
Policy needs and Eurostat outputs %gt%TABLE%gt% TITLE IX Common commercial policy Statistical implications Article 133 of the Treaty gives responsibility to the European Commission for conducting negotiations on commercial agreements with third countries.
Summary By the end of the five-year programme the Commission will have: - progressively integrated the candidate countries' data, - adapted and improved the data collection and production systems, - improved and further developed the methodological framework taking into account the international recommendations, new information requirements and the development of the economic and customs environment, - enhanced the use of existing data and analysis on global sustainable development.
Statistical information for this title is derived as needed from data and indicators generated for other titles in the programme.
In addition to the continuation of the statistical work on the three priorities defined for 2002 (basis skills, information and communication technologies, mathematical sciences and technology), the implementation of other objectives will require new work.
In the context of Article 13 of the Treaty and the action to combat discrimination, a methodology will be set up to provide regular statistics on the integration of disabled people into society.
Policy needs and Eurostat outputs %gt%TABLE%gt% TITLE XII Culture Statistical implications Community action in the cultural field is based on Article 151 of the Treaty.
Policy needs and Eurostat outputs %gt%TABLE%gt% TITLE XIII Public health Statistical implications According to Article 152 of the Treaty, Community action in the area of public health covers health information.
The general emphasis will be on reinforcement of the infrastructure for the basic system on public health statistics (at Member State and EU level), on harmonisation and improvement of the comparability of existing data in cooperation with international organisations competent in the field of public health (WHO and OECD).
Summary During the five year programme period the Commission will: - further develop the set of health statistics in order to respond to the specific requirements that may result from the action programme on public health, - reinforce the infrastructure for the basic system on public health statistics.
Policy needs and Eurostat outputs %gt%TABLE%gt% TITLE XIV Consumer protection Statistical implications Consumer policy has achieved a much higher profile within the EC institutions during recent years (Article 153 of the Treaty).
Policy needs and Eurostat outputs %gt%TABLE%gt% TITLE XV Trans-European networks No direct statistical programme is required.
Statistical information for this title is derived as needed from data and indicators generated for other titles in the programme.
Policy needs and Eurostat outputs %gt%TABLE%gt% TITLE XVI Industry Statistical implications Statistical work in the field of industry in the broad sense of the term (including, in particular, construction, services, energy and agri-foodstuffs) will be centred on support for the policies decided on the basis of the Treaty of Amsterdam, and at various summits held subsequently (in particular, the Lisbon Summit of March 2000).
Summary During the five-year programme period work will progress in the following areas: - improve the system for developing structural business statistics, based on political needs and with a capacity of quick reaction to changing factors such as environment, policies and users, - strive for maintaining the infrastructure needed such as Business Registers and Classifications, - focus on the quality assessment and improvement of the data produced.
The Communications issued by the Commission in 1997 (Towards an urban agenda in the European Union) and 1998 (Sustainable urban development in the European Union: a framework for action) highlighted in particular this need for more comparable information.
The initiatives on a European spatial data infrastructure will lead to new challenges in this area.
Summary During the five-years work will progress in the following areas: - implement the statistical indicators required for the next phase of the structural funds, - provide the necessary data for the cohesion report and to support Commission proposals for the structural funds after 2006, - further integrate the use of Geographical Information systems for policy management.
Summary During the next five years, main efforts will be undertaken to: - improve the quality of existing indicators and continue the conceptual work leading to the production and further development of new indicators to benchmark national Research and Innovation policies, and in particular, to measure human resources and their mobility in research and development, - develop further statistics on RTD and innovation in the context of the European Research Area and, in particular, to develop a theoretical framework for more frequent RTD and innovation statistics, - develop a general framework for the measurement of the knowledge society, - measure the technological trends with harmonised statistics on patents, - associate the candidate countries in the overall framework of the development of harmonised and comparable RTD and innovation statistics.
The increased use of statistics for political decision-making in the late 1990s has led to the demand for more accurate and comparable statistics, in particular for short-term indicators to monitor the evolution of the Single European Market and the Monetary Union.
Summary During the next five years, efforts will be concentrated on: - the development of new tools and methods for official statistics, - the better conceptualisation and development of statistics to measure new emerging socioeconomic phenomena, - the transfer of technology and know-how within the European Statistical System, - the improvement of the quality of the statistical production process and the statistical output.
Policy needs and Eurostat outputs %gt%TABLE%gt% TITLE XIX Environment Statistical implications The main objective of environment statistics is to serve as an efficient tool for implementation and evaluation of the environmental policy of the European Union.
The European Council at Gothenburg in June 2001 adopted an EU strategy for sustainable development.
The implementation of the Regulation for waste statistics will be an essential task.
Summary The main effort in the next five years will be to: - improve core environmental statistics, mainly waste, water and environmental expenditure statistics, with a focus on statistics needed for environmental indicators and to put in place the necessary legislation for such statistics, - produce easily understandable environmental and sustainability indicators in cooperation with other Commission services and the European Environment Agency, - continue work to produce an environmental component to socioeconomic statistics, with the aim of responding to needs relating to indicators for integration of environmental and sustainability concerns into other policies, - continue work to add an environmental domain to national accounts, through regular production of a set of environmental accounts and to adapt them to the priority sustainability issues, - participate in reviewing reporting obligations and to continue the close cooperation with the European Environment Agency with coordinated actions and by making data collection by the two institutions complementary, - enhance data collection and analysis on global sustainable development.
Policy needs and Eurostat outputs %gt%TABLE%gt% TITLE XX Development Cooperation (and other external actions) Statistical implications The overall objective is to support the EU external relations policies by providing appropriate and focused statistical technical assistance in order to strengthen statistical capacity in countries benefiting from EU aid.
As such, it will play an active part in the PARIS 21 initiative and in the Balkans.
Summary During the five-year period work will concentrate on: - providing statistical technical assistance in order to strengthen statistical capacity in countries benefiting from EU aid, - increasing focus on strengthening the measurement and monitoring of poverty, - developing approaches and methods for the measurement and monitoring of human rights and good governance.
