Developments in the framework of the International Civil Aviation Organisation should also be taken into account. (16) Since the objective of the proposed action, namely the improvement of air safety, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States because reporting systems operated by Member States in isolation are less efficient than a coordinated network with exchange of information enabling an earlier identification of possible safety problems, and can, therefore, be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
Article 3 Scope 1.
Article 4 Mandatory reporting 1.
Article 5 Collection and storage of information 1.
The following authorities, working with impartiality, may be entrusted with that responsibility: (a) the national civil aviation authority; and/or (b) the investigating body or entity established under Article 6 of Directive 94/56/EC; and/or (c) any other independent body or entity entrusted with this function.
Article 6 Exchange of information 1.
The databases shall be compatible with the software described in paragraph 3. 2.
Article 7 Dissemination of information 1.
Article 8 Protection of information 1.
Article 9 Voluntary reporting 1.
In addition to the system of mandatory reporting established under Articles 4 and 5, Member States may designate one or more bodies or entities to put in place a system of voluntary reporting to collect and analyse information on observed deficiencies in aviation which are not required to be reported under the system of mandatory reporting, but which are perceived by the reporter as an actual or potential hazard. 2.
Article 10 Committee 1.
Article 11 Implementation 1.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before 4 July 2005.
Article 12 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 13 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 13 June 2003.
Cox For the Council The President V.
Note 4: Occurrences to be reported are those where the safety of operation was or could have been endangered or which could have led to an unsafe condition.
Oxygen for pressurised aircraft (a) loss of oxygen supply in the cockpit (b) loss of oxygen supply to a significant number of passengers (more than 10 %), including when found during maintenance or training or test purposes. 15.
