The concept of 'plant variety` is defined by Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 2100/94.
Article 7 The Commission's European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies evaluates all ethical aspects of biotechnology.
CHAPTER II Scope of protection Article 8 1.
Article 9 The protection conferred by a patent on a product containing or consisting of genetic information shall extend to all material, save as provided in Article 5(1), in which the product in incorporated and in which the genetic information is contained and performs its function.
Article 10 The protection referred to in Articles 8 and 9 shall not extend to biological material obtained from the propagation or multiplication of biological material placed on the market in the territory of a Member State by the holder of the patent or with his consent, where the multiplication or propagation necessarily results from the application for which the biological material was marketed, provided that the material obtained is not subsequently used for other propagation or multiplication.
By way of derogation from Articles 8 and 9, the sale or other form of commercialisation of plant propagating material to a farmer by the holder of the patent or with his consent for agricultural use implies authorisation for the farmer to use the product of his harvest for propagation or multiplication by him on his own farm, the extent and conditions of this derogation corresponding to those under Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2100/94. 2.
By way of derogation from Articles 8 and 9, the sale or any other form of commercialisation of breeding stock or other animal reproductive material to a farmer by the holder of the patent or with his consent implies authorisation for the farmer to use the protected livestock for an agricultural purpose.
The extent and the conditions of the derogation provided for in paragraph 2 shall be determined by national laws, regulations and practices.
CHAPTER III Compulsory cross-licensing Article 12 1.
Where a licence for a plant variety can be granted only by the Community Plant Variety Office, Article 29 of Regulation (EC) No 2100/94 shall apply.
If the biological material deposited in accordance with Article 13 ceases to be available from the recognised depositary institution, a new deposit of the material shall be permitted on the same terms as those laid down in the Budapest Treaty. 2.
CHAPTER V Final provisions Article 15 1.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than 30 July 2000.
Article 17 This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 18 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 6 July 1998.
GIL-ROBLES For the Council The President R.
