The following definitions shall also apply: (a) infected poultry shall mean any poultry: - in which the presence of avian influenza, within the meaning of Annex I, has been officially confirmed following an examination by an approved laboratory, or - in the case of second and subsequent outbreaks, in which clinical signs or post-mortem lesions consistent with avian influenza are present; (b) poultry suspected of being infected shall mean any poultry showing clinical signs or post-mortem lesions which are such that the presence of avian influenza may reasonably be suspected or any poultry in which the presence of influenza A virus of subtype H5 or H7 has been demonstrated; (c) poultry suspected of being contaminated shall mean any poultry which may have been directly or indirectly exposed to the avian influenza virus, or influenza A virus of H5 subtype or H7 subtype; (d) competent authority shall mean the competent authority within the meaning of Article 2 (6) of Directive 90/425/EEC (6); (e) official veterinarian shall mean the veterinarian designated by the competent authority.
The competent authority may apply any of the measures provided for in paragraph 2 to other holdings should their location, their configuration or contacts with the holding where the disesase is suspected give reason to suspect possible contamination. 5.
Article 6 In the case of holdings which consist of two or more separate flocks, the competent authority may, in accordance with criteria set by the Commission under the procedure laid down in Article 21, grant a derogation from the requirements of Article 5 (1), for healthy flocks of a holding which is infected, provided that the official veterinarian has confirmed that the operations carried out there are such that the flocks are completely separate as regards housing, keeping and feeding, so that the virus cannot spread from one flock to another.
The purpose of the official control shall be to detect immediately any suspicion of avian influenza, count the poultry and monitor their movements and, where appropriate, to take the action provided for in paragraph 3. 3.
Once the diagnosis of avian influenza has been officially confirmed, the Member States shall ensure that the competent authority establishes around the infected holding a protection zone based on a minimum radius of three kilometres, itself contained in a surveillance zone based on a minimum radius of 10 kilometres.
The special health mark provided for in Article 5 (1) of Directive 91/494/EEC (8) must be applied to this poultrymeat; (ii) of day-old chicks or ready-to-lay pullets to a holding within the surveillance zone at which there are no other poultry.
The measures applied in the protection zone shall be maintained for at least 21 days after the carrying out of preliminary cleaning and disinfection operations on the infected holding in accordance with Article 11.
The measures applied in the surveillance zone shall be maintained for at least 30 days after the carrying out of preliminary cleaning and disinfection operations on the infected holding in accordance with Article 11. 6.
Article 10 Member States shall ensure that: (a) the competent authority determines the arrangements allowing them to trace the movement of eggs and poultry; (b) the owner or keeper of poultry is required to supply the competent authority, in response to any request by that authority, with information concerning poultry and eggs entering or leaving his holding; (c) all persons engaged in the transport or marketing of poultry and eggs are able to supply the competent authority with information concerning the movements of poultry and eggs which they have transported or marketed and to furnish all the details concerning such information.
Article 11 Member States shall ensure that: (a) the disinfectants to be used and their concentrations are officially approved by the competent authority; (b) the cleaning and disinfection operations are carried out under official supervision, in accordance with: (i) instructions given by the official veterinarian, (ii) the procedure for cleaning and disinfecting an infected holding, as laid down in Annex II.
Article 12 Collection of samples and laboratory testing to detect the presence of avian influenza virus shall be carried out in accordance with Annex III.
Article 13 Member States shall ensure that the competent authority takes all the necessary measures for persons established in the protection and surveillance zones to be informed of the restrictions in force and make all necessary arrangements for the appropriate implementation of the measures in question.
Article 15 The Community reference laboratory for avian influenza is mentioned in Annex V.
Plans drawn up in accordance with the criteria listed in Annex VI shall be submitted to the Commission not later than six months after this Directive is brought into application. 4.
Article 19 The detailed conditions governing the Community's financial contribution to the measures connected with the application of this Directive are laid down in Decision 90/424/EEC.
Article 20 The Annexes shall be amended, as and when required, by the Council acting by a qualified majority acting on a proposal from the Commission in particular in order to take into account developments in research and in diagnostic procedures.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
Article 22 Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before 1 January 1993.
Article 23 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 19 May 1992.
High concentrations of antibiotics are required for faeces samples and a typical mixture is: 10 000 units/ml penicillin, 10 mg/ml streptomycin, 0,25 mg/ml gentamycin and 5 000 units/ml mycostatin in phosphate buffered saline.
For control of Chlamydia organisms 50 mg/ml oxytetracycline may be added.
If bacteria are present the fluids may be passed through a 450 nm membrane filter, further antibiotics added and inoculated into embryonated eggs as above.
CHAPTER 3 Differential diagnosis 1.
The haemagglutinating fluids should be used in a haemagglutination inhibition test as described in Chapters 5 and 6.
However, each national laboratory should: (i) confirm that the isolate is an influenza A virus using an immunodoublediffusion test to detect group antigens as described in Chapter 9 (immunofluorescence or ELISA techniques to detect group antigens may be used if preferred by the national laboratory); (ii) determine whether or not the isolate is of H5 or H7 subtype; (iii) carry out an intravenous pathogenicity index test in six-week-old chickens as described in Chapter 7.
National laboratories should immediately submit all avian influenza and all H5 and H7 isolates to the Community Reference laboratory for full characterization. 3.
During eradication programmes where the H subtype of the virus responsible is already known, or by using the homologous virus as antigen, serological monitoring for evidence of infection may be done using haemagglutination inhibition tests as described in Chapters 5 and 6.
The blood should be allowed to clot and serum removed for testing. (b) Examination for antibodies Individual serum samples should be tested for their ability to inhibit influenza virus haemagglutinating antigen in standard haemagglutination inhibition tests as defined in Chapter 6.
CHAPTER 5 Haemagglutination (HA) test Reagents 1.
Isotonic saline buffered with phosphate (0,05M) to pH 7,0-7,4. 2.
For the other test a 1 % suspension (packed cell v/v) in PBS is recommended. 3.
Dispense 0,025 ml PBS into each well of a plastic microtitre plate (V-bottomed wells should be used). 2.
Dispense a further 0,025 ml of PBS to each well. 5.
Add 0,025 ml of 1 % red blood cells to each well. 6.
A more accurate method for determining the HA titre is to do HA tests on virus from a close range of initial dilutions i.e. 1:3, 1:4, 1:5, 1:6, etc.
CHAPTER 6 Haemagglutination inhibition (Hl) test Reagents 1.
Virus containing allantoic fluid diluted with PBS to contain 4 or 8 HAU per 0,025 ml. 3. 1 % chicken RBCs. 4.
Dispense 0,025 ml PBS into all wells of a plastic microtitre plate (with V-bottomed wells). 2.
Place 0,025 ml of serum into first well of plate. 3.
Add 0,025 ml of diluted allantoic fluid containing 4 or 8 HAU. 5.
Mix by tapping and place plate at 4o C for a minimum of 60 minutes or room temperature for a minimum of 30 minutes. 6.
Add 0,025 ml 1 % RBCs to all wells. 7.
This is done by tilting and observing the presence or absence of tear-shaped streaming at the same rate as control wells containing RBCs (0,025 ml and PBS (0,05 ml) only. 9.
CHAPTER 7 Intravenous Pathogenicity Index (IVPI) 1.
Record results and calculate index as shown in this example: Clinical Signs Day after inoculation 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Total Score Normal 10 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 12 × 0 = 0 Sick 0 4 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 × 1 = 6 Severely sick (*) 0 2 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 6 × 2 = 12 Dead 0 2 6 8 10 10 10 10 10 10 76 × 3 = 228 Total = 246 Index = mean score per bird per observation = 246 100 = 2,46 (*) This has to be a subjective clinical judgment but normally this would involve birds showing more than one of the following signs: respiratory involvement, depression, diarrhoea, cyanosis of exposed skin or wattles, oedema of face and/or head, nervous signs.
CHAPTER 8 Assessment of plaque-forming ability 1.
Ten-fold dilutions up to 10-%amp% {È)}; in PBS should be sufficient. 2.
They are best seen by removing the agar overlay and staining the cell monolayer with crystal violet (0,5 % w/v) in 25 % v/v ethanol. 6.
CHAPTER 9 Immunodoublediffusion The preferred method to show the presence of influenza A virus is to demonstrate the possession of the nucleocapsid or matrix antigens which are shared by all influenza A virus.
Either of these two antigens may be used in immunodoublediffusion tests using 1 % agarose, or agar, gels containing 8,0 % sodium chloride made up to 0.1M phosphate buffer pH 7,2.
