Article 3 Countervailable subsidies 1.
Subsidies shall be subject to countervailing measures only if they are specific, as defined in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. 2.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 2 and 3, the following subsidies shall be deemed to be specific: (a) subsidies contingent, in law or in fact, whether solely or as one of several other conditions, upon export performance, including those illustrated in Annex I.
Article 4 Non-countervailable subsidies 1.
The following subsidies shall not be subjected to countervailing measures: (a) subsidies which are not specific within the meaning of Article 3 (2) and (3); (b) subsidies which are specific, within the meaning of Article 3 (2) and (3), but which meet the conditions provided for in paragraphs 2, 3 or 4 of this Article; (c) the element of subsidy which may exist in any of the measures listed in Annex IV. 2.
Subsidies to promote adaptation of existing facilities to new environmental requirements imposed by law and/or regulation which result in greater constraints and financial burden on firms shall not be subject to countervailing measures, provided that the subsidy: (a) is a one-off non-recurring measure; and (b) is limited to 20 % of the cost of adaptation; and (c) does not cover the cost of replacing and operating the subsidized investment, which must be fully borne by the firms; and (d) is directly linked to and proportionate to a firm's planned reduction of nuisances and pollution, and does not cover any manufacturing cost savings which may be achieved; and (e) is available to all firms which can adopt the new equipment and/or production processes.
Article 7 General provisions on calculation 1.
Where a subsidy cannot be linked to the acquisition of fixed assets, the amount of the benefit received during the investigation period shall in principle be attributed to this period, and allocated as described in paragraph 2, unless special circumstances arise justifying attribution over a different period.
Article 8 Determination of injury 1.
Where imports of a product from more than one country are simultaneously subject to countervailing duty investigations, the effects of such imports shall be cumulatively assessed only if it is determined that: (a) the amount of countervailable subsidies established in relation to the imports from each country is more than de minimis as defined in Article 14 (5) and that the volume of imports from each country is not negligible; and (b) a cumulative assessment of the effects of the imports is appropriate in light of the conditions of competition between imported products and the conditions of competition between the imported products and the like Community product. 5.
Article 9 Definition of Community industry 1.
For the purposes of this Regulation, the term 'Community industry' shall be interpreted as referring to the Community producers as a whole of the like products or to those of them whose collective output of the products constitutes a major proportion, as defined in Article 10 (8), of the total Community production of those products, except that: (a) when producers are related to the exporters or importers or are themselves importers of the allegedly subsidized product, the term 'Community industry' may be interpreted as referring to the rest of the producers; (b) in exceptional circumstances the territory of the Community may, for the production in question, be divided into two or more competitive markets and the producers within each market may be regarded as a separate industry if: (i) the producers within such a market sell all or almost all of their production of the product in question in that market, and (ii) the demand in that market is not to any substantial degree met by producers of the product in question located elsewhere in the Community.
Where the Community industry has been interpreted as referring to the producers in a certain region, the exporters or the government granting countervailable subsidies shall be given an opportunity to offer undertakings pursuant to Article 13 in respect of the region concerned.
Article 10 Initiation of proceedings 1.
An investigation may be initiated in order to determine whether or not the alleged subsidies are 'specific' within the meaning of Article 3 (2) and (3). 5.
An investigation may also be initiated in respect of subsidies which are non-countervailable according to Article 4 (2), (3) or (4), in order to determine whether or not the conditions laid down in those paragraphs have been met. 6.
If a subsidy is granted pursuant to a subsidy programme which has been notified in advance of its implementation to the WTO Committee on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures in accordance with Article 8 of the Subsidies Agreement, and in respect of which the Committee has failed to determine that the relevant conditions laid down in Article 8 of the Subsidies Agreement have not been met, an investigation shall not be initiated in respect of a subsidy granted pursuant to such a programme, unless an infringement of Article 8 of the Subsidies Agreement has been ascertained by the competent WTO Dispute Settlement Body or through arbitration as provided in Article 8 (5) of the Subsidies Agreement. 7.
The complaint shall be considered to have been made by or on behalf of the Community industry if it is supported by those Community producers whose collective output constitutes more than 50 % of the total production of the like product produced by that portion of the Community industry expressing either support for or opposition to the complaint.
However, no investigation shall be initiated when Community producers expressly supporting the complaint account for less than 25 % of total production of the like product produced by the Community industry. 9.
Proceedings shall not be initiated against countries whose imports represent a market share of below 1 %, unless such countries collectively account for 3 % or more of Community consumption. 12.
For the purpose of a representative finding, an investigation period shall be selected which, in the case of subsidization shall, normally, cover the investigation period provided for in Article 5.
Article 12 Provisional measures 1.
The Commission shall forthwith inform the Council and the Member States of any decision taken under paragraphs 1 to 4.
Article 13 Undertakings 1.
Where undertakings are accepted from certain exporters during the course of an investigation, they shall, for the purpose of Articles 18, 19, 20 and 22, be deemed to take effect from the date on which the investigation is concluded for the country of origin and/or export. 9.
Article 14 Termination without measures 1.
Article 15 Imposition of definitive duties 1.
When the Commission has limited its examination in accordance with Article 27, any countervailing duty applied to imports from exporters or producers which have made themselves known in accordance with Article 27 but were not included in the examination shall not exceed the weighted average amount of countervailable subsidies established for the parties in the sample.
Article 16 Retroactivity 1.
In all other cases involving such threat or retardation, any provisional amounts shall be released and definitive duties can only be imposed from the date on which a final determination of threat or material retardation is made. 3.
Where a final determination is negative, the provisional duty shall not be confirmed. 4.
A definitive countervailing duty may be levied on products which were entered for consumption not more than 90 days prior to the date of application of provisional measures but not prior to the initiation of the investigation, provided that the imports have been registered in accordance with Article 24 (5), the importers concerned have been given an opportunity to comment by the Commission, and: (a) there are critical circumstances where for the subsidized product in question injury which is difficult to repair is caused by massive imports in a relatively short period of a product benefiting from countervailable subsidies under the terms of this Regulation; and, (b) it is deemed necessary, in order to preclude the recurrence of such injury, to assess countervailing duties retroactively on those imports. 5.
Article 17 Duration A countervailing measure shall remain in force only as long as, and to the extent that, it is necessary to counteract the countervailable subsidies which are causing injury.
Article 18 Expiry reviews 1.
Article 19 Interim reviews 1.
Article 20 Accelerated reviews Any exporter whose exports are subject to a definitive countervailing duty but who was not individually investigated during the original investigation for reasons other than a refusal to cooperate with the Commission, shall be entitled, upon request, to an accelerated review in order that the Commission may promptly establish an individual countervailing duty rate for that exporter.
Article 21 Refunds 1.
Article 22 General provisions on reviews and refunds 1.
The relevant provisions of Articles 10 and 11, excluding those relating to time limits, shall apply to any review carried out pursuant to Articles 18, 19 and 20.
Reviews pursuant to Articles 18, 19 and 20 shall be initiated by the Commission after consultation of the Advisory Committee.
In all review or refund investigations carried out pursuant to Articles 18 to 21, the Commission shall, provided that circumstances have not changed, apply the same methodology as in the investigation which led to the duty, with due account being taken of Articles 5, 6, 7 and 27.
Article 23 Circumvention 1.
When the facts as finally ascertained justify the extension of measures, this shall be done by the Council, acting by simple majority and on a proposal from the Commission, from the date on which registration was imposed pursuant to Article 24 (5) or on which guarantees were requested.
Products shall not be subject to registration pursuant to Article 24 (5) or measures where they are accompanied by a customs certificate declaring that the importation of the goods does not constitute circumvention.
Article 24 General provisions 1.
The provisions of this paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to reviews. 3.
The suspension may be extended for a further period, not exceeding one year, if the Council so decides, acting by simple majority on a proposal from the Commission.
Article 28 Non-cooperation 1.
Article 29 Confidentiality 1.
Article 30 Disclosure 1.
The parties mentioned in paragraph 1 may request final disclosure of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it is intended to recommend the imposition of definitive measures, or the termination of an investigation or proceedings without the imposition of measures, particular attention being paid to the disclosure of any facts or considerations which are different from those used for any provisional measures. 3.
Requests for final disclosure shall be addressed to the Commission in writing and be received, in cases where a provisional duty has been applied, not later than one month after publication of the imposition of that duty.
Where a provisional duty has not been imposed, parties shall be provided with an opportunity to request final disclosure within time limits set by the Commission. 4.
It shall be made, due regard being had to the protection of confidential information, as soon as possible and, normally, not later than one month prior to a definitive decision or the submission by the Commission of any proposal for final action pursuant to Articles 14 and 15.
Article 31 Community interest 1.
The balance of views expressed in the Committee shall be taken into account by the Commission in any proposal made pursuant to Articles 14 and 15. 6.
Article 32 Relationships between countervailing duty measures and multilateral remedies If an imported product is made subject to any countermeasures imposed following recourse to the dispute settlement procedures of the Subsidies Agreement, and such measures are appropriate to remove the injury caused by the countervailable subsidies, any countervailing duty imposed with regard to that product shall immediately be suspended, or repealed, as appropriate.
Article 34 Repeal of existing legislation and transitional measures Regulation (EC) No 3284/94 is hereby repealed.
Article 35 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 6 October 1997.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 82/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 17, 21. 1. 1997, p. 1). (6) OJ L 318, 20. 12. 1993, p. 18. (7) OJ L 281, 1. 11. 1975, p. 20.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 2931/95 (OJ L 307, 20. 12. 1995, p. 10). (8) OJ L 282, 1. 11. 1975, p. 104.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 2916/95 (OJ L 305, 19. 12. 1995, p. 49).
ANNEX II GUIDELINES ON CONSUMPTION OF INPUTS IN THE PRODUCTION PROCESS (1) I 1.
Pursuant to paragraph (i), drawback schemes can constitute an export subsidy to the extent that they result in a remission or drawback of import charges in excess of those actually levied on inputs that are consumed in the production of the exported product.
If the Commission deems it necessary, a further examination may be carried out in accordance with paragraph 4. 6.
In determining the amount of a particular input that is consumed in the production of the exported product, a 'normal allowance for waste` must normally be taken into account, and such waste must normally be treated as consumed in the production of the exported product.
The Commission must bear in mind that an important question is whether the authorities in the exporting country have reasonably calculated the amount of waste, when such an amount is intended to be included in the tax or duty rebate or remission. (1) Inputs consumed in the production process are inputs physically incorporated, energy, fuels and oil used in the production process and catalysts which are consumed in the course of their use to obtain the exported product.
paragraph (i) of Annex I stipulates that home market inputs may be substituted for imported inputs in the production of a product for export provided such inputs are equal in quantity to, and have same quality and characteristics as, the imported inputs being substituted.
If the Commission deems it necessary, a further examination mat be carried out in accordance with point 2; 4.
Direct payments to producers Support provided through direct payments (or revenue foregone, including payments in kind) to producers for which exemption from reduction commitments as claimed shall meet the basic criteria set out in paragraph 1, plus specific criteria applying to individual types of direct payment as set out in paragraphs 6 to 13.
Where exemption from reduction is claimed for any existing or new type of direct payment other than those specified in paragraphs 6 to 13, it shall conform to criteria (b) to (e) in paragraph 6, in addition to the general criteria set out in paragraph 1. 6.
Payments under regional assistance programmes (a) Eligibility for such payments shall be limited to producers in disadvantaged regions.
