This Regulation takes full account of the resulting mandate report of 30 December 2004 issued by Eurocontrol. (3) This Regulation does not cover military operations and training as referred to in Article 1(2) of Regulation (EC) No 549/2004. (4) The Member States undertook, in a Statement on Military Issues related to the Single European Sky [3], to cooperate with each other, taking into account national military requirements, in order to ensure that the concept of flexible use of airspace is fully and uniformly applied in all Member States by all users of airspace. (5) The report issued jointly by the Eurocontrol Performance Review Unit and the Eurocontrol agency in October 2001 states that there is a significant scope for improving the current application of the flexible use of airspace within Europe.
Article 2 Definitions 1.
Article 4 Strategic airspace management (level 1) 1.
In those Member States where both civil and military authorities are responsible for or involved in airspace management, the tasks set out in paragraph 1 shall be performed through a joint civil-military process. 3.
Article 6 Tactical airspace management (level 3) 1.
Article 7 Safety assessment Member States shall, in order to maintain or enhance existing safety levels, ensure that, within the context of a safety management process, a safety assessment, including hazard identification, risk assessment and mitigation, is conducted, before they introduce any changes to the operations of the flexible use of airspace.
Article 9 Compliance monitoring Member States shall monitor compliance with this Regulation by means of inspections, surveys and safety audits.
Article 10 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 23 December 2005.
For the Commission Jacques Barrot Vice-President [1] OJ L 96, 31.3.2004, p. 20. [2] OJ L 96, 31.3.2004, p. 1. [3] OJ L 96, 31.3.2004, p. 9. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX LIST OF ELEMENTS REQUIRED FOR THE ANNUAL REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE FLEXIBLE USE OF AIRSPACE - General description of the national organisation and responsibilities at level 1, level 2 and level 3 of the flexible use of airspace concept. - Evaluation of the functioning of agreements, procedures and supporting systems established at the strategic, pre-tactical and tactical levels of airspace management.
