Commission Regulation (EC) No 1239/95 of 31 May 1995 establishing implementing rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 2100/94 as regards proceedings before the Community Plant Variety Office COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) No 1239/95 of 31 May 1995 establishing implementing rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 2100/94 as regards proceedings before the Community Plant Variety Office THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 2100/94 of 27 July 1994 on Community plant variety rights (1), and in particular Article 114 thereof, Whereas Regulation (EC) No 2100/94 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Basic Regulation`) creates a new Community system of plant variety rights, whereby a plant variety right is valid throughout the Community; Whereas such a system should be carried out in an effective manner as soon as possible by the Community Plant Variety Office, which is assisted by Examination Offices in conducting the technical examination of the plant varieties concerned and which may avail itself of the services of designated national agencies or one of its own sub-offices established for that purpose; whereas, in that regard, it is indispensable to define the relationship between the Office and its own sub-offices, the Examination Offices and national agencies; Whereas decisions of the Office may be appealed against before its Board of Appeal which should be established and provisions on its procedure should be adopted; whereas further Boards of Appeal may be established, if necessary, by the Administrative Council; Whereas certain provisions of Articles 23, 29, 34, 35, 36, 42, 45, 46, 49, 50, 58, 81, 85, 87, 88 and 100 of the Basic Regulation already explicitly provide that detailed rules shall or may be drawn up for their implementation; whereas other detailed rules should be drawn up for the same purpose if clarification is required; Whereas the entry into effect of a transfer of a Community plant variety right or a transfer of an entitlement thereto should be defined in the rules relating to the entries to the Registers; Whereas the Administrative Council of the Community Plant Variety Office has been consulted; Whereas the rules provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plant Variety Rights, HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: TITLE I PARTIES TO PROCEEDINGS, OFFICE AND EXAMINATION OFFICES CHAPTER I PARTIES TO PROCEEDINGS Article 1 Parties to proceedings 1.
The following persons may be party to proceedings before the Community Plant Variety Office, hereinafter referred to as 'the Office`: (a) the applicant for a Community plant variety right; (b) the objector referred to in Article 59 (2) of the Basic Regulation; (c) the holder or holders of the Community plant variety right, hereinafter referred to as 'the holder`; (d) any person whose application or request is a prerequisite for a decision to be taken by the Office. 2.
Any natural or legal person as well as any body qualifying as a legal person under the law applicable to that body shall be considered a person within the meaning of paragraphs 1 and 2.
The provisions of paragraph 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to such natural person.
The Office may permit derogations from the provisions of the first sentence of the first subparagraph. 5.
Article 3 Languages of parties to proceedings 1.
The Office may permit derogations from this requirement. 3.
Article 4 Languages in oral proceedings and in the taking of evidence 1.
Any party to proceedings and any witness or expert who gives evidence in oral proceedings may use any of the official languages of the European Community. 2.
Should the taking of evidence referred to in paragraph 1 be allowed at the request of a party to proceedings, then, should a party to proceedings, a witness or expert be unable to express himself adequately in any of the official languages of the European Communities, he may be heard only if the party who made the request makes provision for interpretation into the languages used jointly by all parties to proceedings or, in the absence thereof, by the members of the staff of the Office.
The Office may permit derogations from the first subparagraph. 3.
Article 5 Translation of documents of parties to proceedings 1.
CHAPTER II THE OFFICE Section 1 Committees of the Office Article 6 Qualification of members of the Committees 1.
Article 7 Decisions of the Committee 1.
A Committee shall, besides taking the decisions referred to in Article 35 (2) of the Regulation, deal with: - the non-suspension of a decision pursuant to Article 67 (2) of the Basic Regulation, - interlocutory revision pursuant to Article 70 of that Regulation, - the restitutio in integrum pursuant to Article 80 of that Regulation, and - the award of costs pursuant to Article 85 (2) of that Regulation and Article 75 of this Regulation. 2.
Article 8 Power of individual members of the Committees 1.
Article 9 Role A the President The President of the Office shall ensure the consistency of decisions taken under his authority.
He shall in particular lay down the conditions under which decisions on objections lodged pursuant to Article 59 of the Basic Regulation, and also decisions pursuant to Articles 61, 62, 63 or 66 of that Regulation, are taken.
Article 10 Consultations Members of the staff of the Office may use, free of charge, the premises of national agencies designated pursuant to Article 30 (4) of the Basic Regulation, and those of Examination Offices, for holding periodical consultation days with parties to proceedings and third persons.
Section 2 Boards of Appeal Article 11 Boards of Appeal 1.
For the purpose of deciding on appeals from the decisions referred to in Article 67 of the Basic Regulation, a Board of Appeal is hereby established.
The chairman shall be a legally qualified number. 3.
Article 12 Registry attached to a Board of Appeal 1.
Paragraph 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to material of the plant variety which has been made available to the Examination Office by the applicant. 4.
The Office shall monitor compliance with paragraphs 2 and 3 and shall decide on the exclusion of or objections raised to members of the staff of Examination Offices in accordance with Article 81 (2) of the Basic Regulation.
Article 14 Designation of an Examination Office referred to in Article 55 (2) of the Basic Regulation 1.
Article 13 (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the members of the staff of the agency referred to in paragraph 1.
The designation of an Examination Office shall be effected by a written agreement between the Office and the Examination Office providing for the performance of the technical examination of plant varieties by the Examination Office and for the payment of the fee referred to in Article 58 of the Basic Regulation.
Where the Examination Office intends to avail itself of the services of other technically qualified bodies in accordance with Article 56 (3) of the Basic Regulation, such bodies shall be named in the written agreement with the Office.
Article 81 (2) of the Basic Regulation and Article 13 (2) and (3) of this Regulation shall apply mutatis mutandis to the staff members concerned, who shall sign a written undertaking to observe confidentiality. 4.
Payment of the fee by the Office to the Examination Office shall be within the scales to be inserted later in this Regulation, by 31 December 1999, on the basis of the requirements laid down in Article 93 (1) hereof.
The scales, once adopted, may be amended only subject to amendment of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1238/95 (1) (fees). 5.
In the circumstances set out in paragraph 3, a separate auditing report of the bodies shall be submitted to the Office by the Examination Office. 6.
The application for a Community plant variety right shall be filed in duplicate at the Office, or in triplicate at the national agencies or sub-offices established pursuant to Article 30 (4) of the Basic Regulation. 2.
The 'information` sent to the Office under indent (b) of Article 49 (1) of the Basic Regulation shall contain: - particulars for identifying the applicant and, where appropriate, his procedural representative, - the national agency or sub-office at which the application for a Community plant variety right was filed, and - the provisional designation of the variety concerned. 3.
Article 17 Receipt of the application 1.
Where a national agency designated pursuant to Article 30 (4) of the Basic Regulation or a sub-office established thereunder, receives an application, it shall forward to the Office, together with the application to be forwarded in accordance with Article 49 (2) of the Basic Regulation, a confirmation of receipt.
The receipt shall include the file number of the Office, the number of documents received, the date of receipt at the Office and the date of application within the meaning of Article 51 of the Basic Regulation.
A copy of the receipt shall be issued to the national agency or sub-office via which the Office has received the application. 3.
If the Office receives an application via a sub-office or national agency more than one month after its filing by the applicant, the 'date of application` within the meaning of Article 51 of the Basic Regulation may not be earlier than the date of receipt at the Office, unless the Office establishes on the basis of sufficient documentary evidence that the applicant has forwarded an information to it in accordance with indent (b) of Article 49 (1) of the Basic Regulation and Article 16 (2) of this Regulation.
Article 18 Conditions referred to in Article 50 (1) of the Basic Regulation 1.
If the Office finds that the application does not comply with the conditions in Article 50 (1) of the Basic Regulation, it shall notify to the applicant the deficiencies it has found, stating that only such date as sufficient information remedying those deficiencies is received shall be treated as the date of application for the purposes of Article 51 of the Regulation. 2.
An application complies with the condition in indent (j) of Article 50 (1) of the Basic Regulation only if the date and the country given in any earlier application for the variety are, to the best of the applicant's knowledge, indicated in respect of: - an application for a property right in respect of the variety, and - an application for official acceptance of the variety for certification and marketing where official acceptance includes an official description of the variety, in a Member State or as a Member of the International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants.
Article 19 Conditions referred to in Article 50 (2) of the Basic Regulation 1.
If the Office finds that the application does not comply with the provisions of paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Article or with Article 16 of this Regulation, it shall apply Article 17 (2) hereof, but shall require the applicant to remedy the deficiencies it has found within such time limit as it may specify.
Where those deficiencies are not remedied in good time the Office shall without delay refuse the application, pursuant to Article 61 (1) (a) of the Basic Regulation. 2.
The application shall contain the following details: (a) the nationality of the applicant, if he is a natural person, and his designation as party to proceedings referred to in Article 2 of this Regulation and, if he is not the breeder, the name and address of the breeder; (b) the Latin name of the genus, species or sub-species to which the variety belongs, and the common name; (c) the characteristics of the variety which, in the applicant's opinion, are clearly distinguishable from other varieties, such other varieties being named (if appropriate) as reference varieties for testing; (d) breeding, maintenance and propagation of the variety, including information on: - the characteristics, the variety denomination or, in the absence thereof, the provisional designation, and the cultivation of any other variety or varieties the material of which has to be used repeatedly for the production of the variety, or - characteristics which have been genetically modified, where the variety concerned represents a genetically modified organism within the meaning of Article 2 (2) of Council Directive 90/220/EEC (1); (e) the region and the country in which the variety was bred or discovered and developed; (f) date and country of any first disposal of varietal constituents or harvested material of the variety, for the purposes of assessing novelty in accordance with Article 10 of the Basic Regulation, or a declaration that such disposal has not yet occurred; (g) the designation of the authority applied to and the file number of the applications referred to in Article 18 (3); (h) existing national plant variety rights or any patent for the variety operating within the Community. 3.
The Office may call for any necessary information and documentation, and, if necessary, sufficient drawings or photographs for the conduct of the technical examination within such time limit as it shall specify. 4.
Article 20 Claiming priority If the applicant claims a right of priority for an applications within the meaning of Article 52 (2) of the Basic Regulation, which is not the earliest of those to be indicated pursuant to the first indent of Article 18 (3), the Office shall state that a priority date can only be given to such earlier application.
Article 21 Entitlement to a Community plant variety right during proceedings 1.
Section 2 Conduct of the technical examination Article 22 Decision on test guidelines 1.
Upon proposal of the President of the Office, the Administrative Council shall take a decision as to the test guidelines.
Article 23 Powers vested in the President of the Office 1.
Where the President of the Office makes use of the power in paragraph 1, Article 22 (2) of this Regulation shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Article 24 Notification by the Office of the Examination Office In accordance with Article 55 (3) of the Basic Regulation, the Office shall transmit copies of the following documents relating to the variety to the Examination Office: (a) the application form, the technical questionnaire and each additional document submitted by the applicant containing information needed for the conduct of the technical examination; (b) the forms filled out by the applicant pursuant to Article 86 of this Regulation; (c) documents relating to an objection based on the contention that the conditions laid down in Articles 7 to 9 of the Basic Regulation have not been met.
The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis to any interim reports to be submitted to the Office.
Article 27 Other examination reports 1.
An examination report on the results of any technical examination without has been carried out or is in the process of being carried out for official purposes in a Member State by one of the offices responsible for the species concerned pursuant to Article 55 (1) of the Basic Regulation may be considered by the Office to constitute a sufficient basis for decision, provided that: - the material submitted for the technical examination has complied, in quantity and quality, with any standards that may have been laid down pursuant to Article 55 (4) of the Basic Regulation, - the technical examination has been carried out in a manner consistent with the designations by the Administrative Council pursuant to Article 55 (1) of the Basic Regulation, and has been conducted in accordance with the test guidelines issued, on general instructions given, pursuant to Article 56 (2) of that Regulation and Articles 22 and 23 of this Regulation, - the Office has had the opportunity to monitor the conduct of the technical examination concerned, and - where the final report is not immediately available, the interim reports on each growing period are submitted to the Office prior to the examination report. 2.
Section 3 Variety denomination Article 28 Proposal for a variety denomination The proposal for a variety denomination shall be signed and shall be filed in duplicate at the Office, or, if the proposal accompanies the application for a Community plant variety right filed at the national agency designated, or sub-office established, pursuant to Article 30 (4) of the Regulation, in triplicate.
Article 29 Examination of a proposal 1.
Where the proposal does not accompany the application for a Community plant variety right or where a proposed variety denomination cannot be approved by the Office, the Office shall without delay communicate this to the applicant, shall require him to submit a proposal or a new proposal and shall indicate the consequences of failure. 2.
Where the Office establishes at the time of receipt of the results of the technical examination pursuant to Article 57 (1) of the Regulation that the applicant has not submitted any proposal for a variety denomination, it shall without delay refuse the application for a Community plant variety right in accordance with Article 61 (1) (c) of the Regulation.
Article 30 Guidelines for variety denomination The Administrative Council shall adopt guidelines establishing uniform and definitive criteria for determining impediments to the generic designation of a variety denomination referred to in Article 63 (3) and (4) of the Basic Regulation.
Article 32 Rejection of objections 1.
CHAPTER III MAINTENANCE OF COMMUNITY PLANT VARIETY RIGHTS Article 33 Obligations of the holder under Article 64 (3) of the Basic Regulation 1.
The holder shall be required to keep written records in order to facilitate verification of appropriate measures referred to in Article 64 (3) of the Regulation.
Articles 22 and 24 to 27 of this Regulation shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Office, the Examination Office and to the holder.
Article 35 Other material to be used for a technical verification When the holder has submitted material of the variety in accordance with Article 64 (3) of the Basic Regulation, the Examination Office may, with the consent of the Office, verify the submitted material by inspecting other material which has been taken from holdings where material is produced by the holder, or with his consent, or taken from material being marketed by him, or with his consent, or taken by official bodies in a Member State by virtue of their powers.
Article 36 Amendments of the variety denominations 1.
Where the variety denomination has to be amended in accordance with Article 66 of the Regulation, the Office shall communicate the grounds thereof to the holder, shall set up a time limit within which the holder must submit a suitable proposal for an amended variety denomination, and shall state that, should he fail to do so, the Community plant variety right may be cancelled pursuant to Article 21 of the Regulation.
Where the proposal for an amended variety denomination cannot be approved by the Office, the Office shall without delay inform the holder, shall again set a time limit within which the holder must submit a suitable proposal, and shall state that, should he fail to comply, the Community plant variety right may be cancelled pursuant to Article 21 of the Regulation. 3.
Articles 31 and 32 of this Regulation shall apply mutatis mutandis to an objection lodged pursuant to Article 66 (3) of the Basic Regulation.
The application for a compulsory exploitation right shall contain: (a) the designation of the applicant and the opposing holder of the variety concerned as parties to proceedings; (b) the variety denomination and the plant species of the variety or varieties concerned; (c) a proposal for the type of acts to be covered by the compulsory exploitation right; (d) a statement setting out the public interest concerned, including details of facts, items of evidence and arguments presented in support of the public interest claimed; (e) in the case of an application referred to in Article 29 (2) of the Basic Regulation, a proposal for the category of persons to which the compulsory exploitation right shall be granted, including, as the case may be, the specific requirements related to that category of persons. 2.
The application referred to in Article 29 (1) or (5) shall be accompanied by documents evidencing his unsuccessful request for a contractual exploitation right from the opposing holder. 3.
The application referred to in Article 29 (2) of the Regulation shall be accompanied by documents evidencing the unsuccessful requests of persons for a contractual exploitation right from the opposing holder.
A request for a contractual exploitation right shall be considered unsuccessful within the meaning of paragraphs 2 and 3 if: (a) the opposing holder has not given a final reply to the person seeking such right within a reasonable period; or (b) the opposing holder has refused to grant a contractual exploitation right to the person seeking it; or (c) the opposing holder has offered a contractual exploitation right to the person seeking it, on obviously unreasonable fundamental terms including those relating to the royalty to be paid, or on terms which, seen as a whole, are obviously unreasonable.
Article 39 Tenure of a Community plant variety right during the proceedings 1.
If a transfer of the Community plant variety right is binding on the Office, the new holder shall enter the proceedings as party thereto, upon request of the applicant, if that applicant has unsuccessfully requested the new holder to grant him a contractual exploitation right within two months of receipt of communication from the Office that the name of the new holder has been entered in the Register of Community Plant Variety Rights.
In the case of an application referred to in Article 29 (2) of the Regulation, the new holder shall enter the proceedings as party thereto.
Article 41 Grant of a compulsory exploitation right 1.
Compliance with the conditions pertaining to the compulsory exploitation right and laid down in the decision thereupon shall be considered a 'circumstance` under Article 29 (4) of the Basic Regulation. 3.
The Office shall provide that the person to whom a compulsory exploitation right is granted may not bring a legal action for infringement of a Community plant variety right unless the holder has refused or neglected to do so within two months after being so requested.
Article 43 Category of persons satisfying specific requirements 1.
Any person intending to make use of a compulsory exploitation right who comes under the category of person satisfying specific requirements referred to in Article 29 (2) of the Basic Regulation shall declare his intention to the Office and to the holder by registered letter with advice of delivery.
The declaration shall include: (a) the name and address of that person as laid down for parties to proceedings pursuant to Article 2 of this Regulation; (b) a statement on the facts meeting the specific requirements; (c) a statement setting out the acts to be effected; and (d) an assurance that that person disposes of appropriate financial resources as well as information about the technical capacity for making use of the compulsory exploitation right. 2.
Article 42 (3) of this Regulation shall apply mutatis mutandis to a person entered pursuant to paragraph 2.
Section 2 Exploitation rights pursuant to Article 100 (2) of the Basic Regulation Article 44 Exploitation rights pursuant to Article 100 (2) of the Basic Regulation 1.
A request for a contractual non-exclusive exploitation right from a new holder, as referred to in Article 100 (2) of the Basic Regulation, shall be made, in the case of the former holder within two months, or in the case of a person having enjoyed an exploitation right within four months, of receipt of notification from the Office that the name of the new holder has been entered in the Register of Community Plant Variety Rights. 2.
The parties to proceedings referred to in paragraph 1 may intervene as parties to the appeal proceedings within two months of transmission of a copy of the notice of appeal.
Article 48 Role of the Office 1.
The body of the Office referred to in Article 70 (1) of the Basic Regulation and the chairman of the Board of Appeal shall ensure by internal preparatory measures that the Board of Appeal can examine the case immediately after its remittal; the chairman shall in particular select the two other members in accordance with Article 46 (2) of that Regulation and shall designate a rapporteur, prior to the remittal of the case. 2.
Prior to the remittal of the case, the body of the Office referred to in Article 70 (1) of the Basic Regulation shall promptly transmit a copy of the documents received by a party to the appeal proceedings to the other parties to the appeal proceedings. 3.
The President of the Office shall provide for the publication of the information referred to in Article 89 of this Regulation, prior to the remittal of the case.
Article 49 Rejection of the appeal as inadmissible 1.
Where an appeal is lodged against a decision of the Office against which an action under Article 74 of the Basic Regulation is likewise lodged, the Board of Appeal shall forthwith submit the appeal as an action to the Court of Justice of the European Communities, with the consent of the appellant; if the appellant does not consent, it shall reject the appeal as inadmissible.
Article 50 Oral proceedings 1.
Article 51 Examination of appeals Unless otherwise provided, the provisions relating to proceedings before the Office shall apply to appeal proceedings mutatis mutandis; parties to proceedings shall in that regard be treated as parties to appeal proceedings.
Article 52 Decision on the appeal 1.
TITLE IV GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO PROCEEDINGS CHAPTER I DECISIONS, COMMUNICATIONS AND DOCUMENTS Article 53 Decisions 1.
Article 54 Certificate for a Community plant variety right 1.
Article 55 Communications Unless otherwise provided, any communication by the Office or an Examination Office shall include the name of the competent member of the staff.
Article 56 Right of audience 1.
Article 57 Documents filed by parties to proceedings 1.
If a document has not duly been signed or has been allowed to be filed in accordance with paragraph 3, the party to proceedings shall be required to supply the original of the document signed pursuant to the provision of paragraph 2 within a time limit of one month.
If such document is supplied within such time limit, the date of receipt of the former document shall be maintained; otherwise, it shall be deemed not to have been received. 5.
Such documents as must be communicated to other parties to proceedings as well as to the Examination Office concerned, or documents relating to two or more applications for a Community plant variety right or an exploitation right, must be filed in a sufficient number of copies.
Article 58 Documentary evidence 1.
CHAPTER II ORAL PROCEEDINGS AND TAKING OF EVIDENCE Article 59 Summons to oral proceedings 1.
The parties to proceedings shall be summoned to oral proceedings provided for in Article 77 of the Basic Regulation and their attention shall be drawn to paragraph 2 hereof.
If a party to proceedings who has duly been summoned to oral proceedings before the Office does not appear as summoned, the proceedings may continue without him.
Article 60 Taking of evidence by the Office 1.
The summons shall contain: (a) an extract from the decision referred to in paragraph 1, indicating in particular the date, time and place of the investigation ordered and setting out the facts regarding which parties to proceedings, witnesses and experts are to be heard; (b) the names of the parties to proceedings and particulars of the rights which the witnesses or experts may invoke under the provisions of Article 62 (2) to (4) of this Regulation; (c) a statement that the party to proceedings, witness or expert may ask to the heard by the competent judicial or other authority in his country of domicile and a request that he inform the Office within a time limit to be fixed by the Office whether he is prepared to appear before it. 3.
Article 61 Commissioning of experts 1.
The parties to proceedings may object to an expert.
Article 13 (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the expert appointed by the Office.
Article 62 Costs of taking evidence 1.
Article 63 Minutes of oral proceedings and of taking of evidence 1.
The minutes shall be signed by the employee who drew them up and by the employee who conducted the oral proceedings or the taking of evidence. 4.
CHAPTER III SERVICE Article 64 General provisions on service 1.
In proceedings before the Office, any service of documents to be made on a party to proceedings shall take the form of the original document, in the case of the certificate, or of a copy of the original document certified by the Office.
If a procedural representative has been appointed by one or more parties to proceedings, service shall be made on him in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1. 3.
Service shall be made: (a) by post in accordance with Article 65 of this Regulation; (b) by delivery by hand in accordance with Article 66 hereof; (c) by public notice in accordance with Article 67 hereof.
Article 65 Service by post 1.
Service on addressees not having their domicile or their seat or establishment within the Community and who have not appointed a procedural representative in accordance with Article 82 of the Basic Regulation shall be effected by posting the documents to be served by ordinary letter to the addressee's last address known to the Office.
Service by registered letter, whether or not with advice of delivery, shall be deemed to have been effected even if the addressee refuses to accept the letter or to acknowledge receipt thereof. 5.
Article 66 Service by hand delivery On the premises of the Office, service of a document may be effected by delivery by hand to the addressee, who shall on delivery acknowledge its receipt.
Article 67 Public notice If the address of the addressee cannot be established, or if service in accordance with Article 65 (1) has proved to be impossible even after a second attempt by the Office, service shall be effected by public notice, to be issued in the periodical publication referred to in Article 89 of the Basic Regulation.
Article 68 Irregularities in service If the Office is unable to prove that a document which has reached the addressee has been duly served, or if provisions relating to its service have not been observed, the document shall be deemed to have been served on the date established by the Office as the date of receipt.
CHAPTER IV TIME LIMITS AND INTERRUPTION OF PROCEEDINGS Article 69 Computation of time limits 1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, the time limits shall run from the 15th day following the day of publication of a relevant action, where the action is either the public notice referred to in Article 67 of this Regulation, a decision of the Office unless served to the relevant person, or any action of a party to proceedings to be published. 4.
When a time limit is expressed as one year or a certain number of years, it shall expire in the relevant subsequent year in the month having the same name and on the day having the same number as the month and the day on which the said event occurred; where the relevant subsequent month has no day bearing the same number the time limit shall expire on the last day of that month. 5.
When a time limit is expressed as one month or a certain number of months, it shall expire in the relevant subsequent month on the day which has the same number as the day on which the said event occurred; where the relevant subsequent month has no day bearing the same number the period shall expire on the last day of that month. 6.
Article 70 Duration of time limits Where either the Basic Regulation or this Regulation specifies a time limit to be determined by the Office, such a time limit shall be not less than one month and not more than three months.
Article 71 Extension of time limits 1.
If a time limit expires on a day on which there is a general interruption or a subsequent dislocation in the delivery of mail in a Member State or between a Member State and the Office, the time limit shall extend until the first day following the end of the period of interruption or dislocation for parties to proceedings having their domicile or seat or establishment in the State concerned or having appointed procedural representatives with a seat in that State.
Should the Member State concerned be the State in which the Office is located, this provision shall apply to all parties to proceedings.
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the national agencies, or the sub-offices designated, pursuant to Article 30 (4) of the Regulation as well as to the Examination Offices.
Article 72 Interruption of proceedings 1.
Proceedings before the Office shall be interrupted: (a) in the event of the death or legal incapacity of the applicant for, or holder of, a Community plant variety right or of the applicant for an exploitation right to be granted by the Office or of the person entitled to enjoy such exploitation right, or of the procedural representative of any of those parties; or (b) in the event of a supervening legal impediment to such person's continuation of proceedings before the Office, due to some action taken against his property. 2.
When the necessary particulars in respect of the identity of the person authorized to continue proceedings as party thereto or procedural representative have been entered in the relevant register, the Office shall inform such person and the other parties that the proceedings shall be resumed as from the date to be determined by the Office. 3.
The time limits in force shall begin afresh as from the day on which proceedings are resumed. 4.
CHAPTER V PROCEDURAL REPRESENTATIVES Article 73 Designation of a procedural representative 1.
Any designation of a procedural representative shall be communicated to the Office.
Without prejudice to Article 2 (4), the communication referred to in paragraph 1 shall also identify as such employee of the party to proceedings.
An employee may not be designated as procedural representative within the meaning of Article 82 of the Basic Regulation. 3.
If there are two or more parties to proceedings acting in common, which have not notified a procedural representative to the Office, the party to proceedings first named in an application for a Community plan variety right or for an exploitation right to be granted by the Office or in an objection shall be deemed to be designated as the procedural representative of the other party or parties to proceedings.
Article 74 Credentials of procedural representatives 1.
CHAPTER VI APPORTIONMENT AND DETERMINATION OF COSTS Article 75 Awards of costs 1.
In the case of an award of costs pursuant to Article 85 (1) of the Regulation, the Office shall set out that award in the statement of the grounds of the decision on the revocation or cancellation of a Community plant variety right, or the decision on the appeal.
Article 76 Determination of costs 1.
Article 77 Settlement of costs In the event of a settlement of costs referred to in Article 85 (4) of the Basic Regulation, the Office shall confirm such settlement in a communication to the parties to the proceedings.
TITLE V INFORMATION GIVEN TO THE PUBLIC CHAPTER I REGISTERS, PUBLIC INSPECTION AND PUBLICATIONS Section 1 The Registers Article 78 Entries related to proceedings and to Community plant variety rights, to be entered in the Registers 1.
The following 'other particulars` referred to in Article 87 (3) of the Regulation shall be entered in the Register of Community Plant Variety Rights, upon request: (a) the giving of a Community plant variety right as a security or as the object of any other rights in rem; or (b) any institution of actions on claims referred to in Articles 98 (1) and (2) and 99 of the Regulation and relating to the Community plant variety right, and the final decision in, or of any other termination of, such institution. 3.
Article 79 Entry of transfer of a Community plant variety right 1.
Article 80 Conditions for entries in the Registers Without prejudice to other provisions of the Basic Regulation or of this Regulation, a request for an entry or a deletion of an entry in the Registers may be made by any interested person.
Article 81 Conditions for specific entries in the Registers 1.
Paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the institution of actions on claims referred to in Artcile 98 and 99 of the Regulation and the final decision in, or of any other termination of, such institution. 3.
In the event of a request from only one party to proceedings, the request shall be accompanied by sufficient documentary evidence of the actions referred to in Article 87 (2) (h) of the Regulation to replace the request of the other party. 4.
Article 82 Public inspection of the Registers 1.
Extracts from the Registers shall be delivered at the request of any person on receipt of payment of an administrative fee. 3.
The President of the Office may provide for public inspection on the premises of national agencies, or sub-offices designated, pursuant to Article 30 (4) of the Regulation.
Section 2 Keeping of documents, public inspection of documents and varieties grown Article 83 Keeping of the files 1.
Documents relating to proceedings shall be kept in files, a file number being attached to such proceedings, except for those documents relating to the exclusion of, or objection to, members of the Board of Appeal, or to the staff of the Office or the Examination Office concerned, which shall be kept separately. 2.
Article 84 Inspection of documents 1.
A written request for the inspection of documents shall be addressed to the Office. 2.
Inspection of documents shall take place on the premises of the Office.
However, on request, inspection of documents may take place on the premises of the national agencies or sub-offices designated pursuant to Article 30 (4) of the Regulation on the territory of the Member State in which the person making the request is resident or has his seat or establishment. 3.
Article 85 Inspection of the growing of the varieties 1.
A request for inspection of the growing of the varieties shall be addressed in writing to the Office.
Without prejudice to Article 88 (3) of the Basic Regulation, general access to the test plot by visitors shall not be affected by the provisions of this Regulation, provided that all grown varieties are coded, that appropriate measures against any removal of material are taken by the Examination Office entrusted and are approved by the Office, and that all necessary steps are taken to safeguard the rights of the applicant for, or holder of, a Community plant variety right. 3.
Article 86 Confidential information For the purpose of keeping information confidential, the Office shall make available, free of charge, forms to be used by the applicant for a Community plant variety right in order to request the withholding of all data relating to components as referred to in Article 88 (3) of the Regulation.
Section 3 Publications Article 87 Official Gazette 1.
Article 88 Publication of applications for exploitation rights to be granted by the Office and decisions thereupon The date of receipt of an application for an exploitation right to be granted by the Office and of delivery of the decision on such application, the names and addresses of the parties to proceedings and the form of order sought, or decided upon, shall be published in the Official Gazette.
Article 89 Publication of appeals and decisions thereupon The date of receipt of a notice of appeal and of delivery of the decision on such appeal, the names and addresses of the parties to the appeal proceedings and the form of order sought, or decided upon, shall be published in the Official Gazette.
CHAPTER II ADMINISTRATIVE AND LEGAL COOPERATION Article 90 Communication of information 1.
Information to be exchanged in accordance with Article 90 of the Basic Regulation shall be communicated direct between the authorities referred to in that provision. 2.
Communication of information referred to in Article 91 (1) of the Regulation by or to the Office may be effected through the competent plant variety offices of the Member States, free of charge. 3.
Paragraph 2, shall apply mutatis mutandis to communication of information under Article 91 (1) of the Regulation effected to or by the Examination Office.
Article 91 Inspection by or via courts or public proscutors' offices of the Member States 1.
The Office shall, at the time of transmission of the files to the courts or public prosecutor's offices of the Member States, indicate the restrictions to which the inspection of documents relating to applications for, or to grants of Community plant variety rights is subject pursuant to Article 88 of the Basic Regulation.
Article 92 Procedure for letters rogatory 1.
Each Member State shall designate a central authority which will undertake to receive letters rogatory issued by the Office and to transmit them to the court or authority competent to execute them. 2.
In particular, it shall apply suitable coercive measures in accordance with its law. 4.
TITLE VI FINAL PROVISIONS Article 93 Transitional provisions 1.
In accordance with Article 15 (4) of this Regulation, the Office shall pay the Examination Office a fee for the conduct of the technical examination, on the basis of full recovery of costs incurred.
The Administrative Council shall take a decision by 27 October 1996 on the test guidelines referred to in Article 22 of this Regulation; the President of the Office shall submit a proposal for such test guidelines by 27 April 1996, taking into account those examination reports which form part of the findings referred to in Article 116 (3) of the Basic Regulation. 3.
The applicant for a Community plant variety right pursuant to Article 116 (1) or (2) of the Basic Regulation shall provide a certified copy of the findings referred to in Article 116 (3) of that Regulation by 30 November 1995.
Where such certified copy is not provided in good time, Article 55 of the Basic Regulation shall apply.
Article 94 Derogations Notwithstanding Article 27 (1) of this Regulation, the Office may consider examination reports on the results of a technical examination on that variety for official purposes in a Member State provided that examination has begun by 27 April 1996 unless a decision by the Administrative Council on the test guidelines concerned has been taken prior to that date.
Article 95 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 27 shall apply until 30 June 1998.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 31 May 1995.
For the Commission Franz FISCHLER Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 117, 8. 5. 1990, p. 15. (1) OJ No L 227, 1. 9. 1994, p. 1. (1) See page 31 of this Official Journal. (1) OJ No L 117, 8. 5. 1990, p. 15. (1) OJ No L 227, 1. 9. 1994, p. 1. (1) See page 31 of this Official Journal. (1) OJ No L 117, 8. 5. 1990, p. 15. (1) OJ No L 227, 1. 9. 1994, p. 1. (1) See page 31 of this Official Journal. (1) OJ No L 117, 8. 5. 1990, p. 15.
Travel expenses: For the outward and return journey between the domicile or seat and the place where oral proceedings are held or where evidence is taken: (a) the cost of the first-class rail transport including usual transport supplements shall be paid where the total distance by the shortest rail route does not exceed 800 km; (b) the cost of the tourist-class air transport shall be paid where the total distance by the shortest rail route exceeds 800 km or the shortest route requires a sea-crossing. 1.2.
Subsistence expenses shall be paid equal to the daily subsistence allowance of officials in grades A4 to A8 as laid down in Article 13 of Annex VII of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities. 1.3.
The fees payable to experts provided for in Article 62 (3) shall be determined, case by case, taking into account a proposal by the expert concerned.
