Article 2 The criteria for the selection of the diseases and special health issues to be covered by epidemiological surveillance within the Community network are listed in Annex II.
Article 3 For the purpose of the technical implementation of this Decision, the Community network shall initially operate by using the Health Surveillance System for Communicable Diseases within the European Public Health Information Network (Euphin-HSSCD).
Article 4 The Community network shall be put in place by modifying and integrating as appropriate existing Community-supported surveillance networks and by building up new networks for diseases not yet covered by surveillance networks.
Article 5 Case definitions, the nature and type of data for collection and transmission as well as the appropriate epidemiological and microbiological surveillance methods shall be determined for each specific surveillance network integrated into or created for the Community network.
Article 6 Member States shall disseminate in the Community network relevant information in their possession detected in their national surveillance system on communicable diseases or special health issues selected for epidemiological surveillance not yet covered by dedicated Community surveillance network arrangements.
Article 9 The competent authorities in the Member States shall communicate to the Commission other diseases and special health issues for which epidemiological surveillance at Community level shall be progressively developed on the basis of the criteria listed in Annex II.
Article 10 This Decision shall take effect on 1 January 2000.
Article 11 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 22 December 1999.
For the Commission David BYRNE Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 268, 3.10.1998, p. 1. (2) OJ L 62, 15.3.1993, p. 38. (3) OJ L 210, 10.8.1999, p. 12.
Sexually transmitted diseases Chlamydia infections Gonococcal infections HIV-infection Syphilis 2.3.
Viral hepatitis Hepatitis A Hepatitis B Hepatitis C 2.4.
Other diseases 2.5.1.
Air-borne diseases Legionellosis Meningococcal disease Pneumococcal infections Tuberculosis 2.5.3.
Serious imported diseases Cholera Malaria Plague Viral haemorrhagic fevers 3.
Nosocomial infections 3.2.
