Article 2 Member States shall apply the procedure as set out in section 1 of the Annex to this Decision to determine the acceptability of waste at landfills.
This Decision shall take effect on 16 July 2004. 2.
Member States shall apply the criteria set out in section 2 of the Annex to this Decision by 16 July 2005.
Article 8 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 19 December 2002.
In accordance with Article 176 of the Treaty, Member States are not prevented from maintaining or introducing more stringent protective measures than those established in this Annex, provided that such measures are compatible with the Treaty.
Section 1 of this Annex lays down the procedure to determine the acceptability of waste at landfills.
Section 2 of this Annex lays down the acceptance criteria for each landfill class.
Appendix A defines the safety assessment to be carried out for underground storage.
PROCEDURE FOR THE ACCEPTANCE OF WASTE AT LANDFILLS 1.1.
If the basic characterisation of waste shows that the waste fulfils the criteria for a landfill class as laid down in section 2 of this Annex, the waste is deemed to be acceptable at this landfill class.
This must be taken into consideration in the basic characterisation.
Cases where testing is not required Testing for basic characterisation can be dispensed with in the following cases: (a) the waste is on a list of wastes not requiring testing as laid down in section 2 of this Annex; (b) all the necessary information, for the basic characterisation, is known and duly justified to the full satisfaction of the competent authority; (c) certain waste types where testing is impractical or where appropriate testing procedures and acceptance criteria are unavailable.
WASTE ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA This section sets out the criteria for the acceptance of waste at each landfill class, including criteria for underground storage.
Member States shall define criteria for compliance with the limit values set out in this section. 2.1.
Criteria for landfills for inert waste 2.1.1.
List of wastes acceptable at landfills for inert waste without testing Wastes on the following short list are assumed to fulfil the criteria as set out in the definition of inert waste in Article 2(e) of the Landfill Directive and the criteria listed in section 2.1.2.
Limit values for waste acceptable at landfills for inert waste 2.1.2.1.
Member States shall determine which of the test methods (see section 3) and corresponding limit values in the table should be used. %gt%TABLE%gt% 2.1.2.2.
Limit values for total content of organic parameters In addition to the leaching limit values under section 2.1.2.1, inert wastes must meet the following additional limit values: %gt%TABLE%gt% 2.2.
Wastes acceptable at landfills for non-hazardous waste without testing Municipal waste as defined in Article 2(b) of the Landfill Directive that is classified as non-hazardous in Chapter 20 of the European waste list, separately collected non-hazardous fractions of household wastes and the same non-hazardous materials from other origins can be admitted without testing at landfills for non-hazardous waste.
They may not be accepted in cells, where stable, non-reactive hazardous waste is accepted pursuant to Article 6(c)(iii) of the Landfill Directive. 2.2.2.
Limit values for non-hazardous waste The following limit values apply to granular non-hazardous waste accepted in the same cell as stable, non-reactive hazardous waste, calculated at L/S = 2 and 10 l/kg for total release and directly expressed in mg/l for C0 (in the first eluate of percolation test at L/S = 0,1 l/kg).
Member States shall determine which of the test methods (see section 3) and corresponding limit values in the table should be used. %gt%TABLE%gt% Member States shall set criteria for monolithic waste to provide the same level of environmental protection given by the above limit values. 2.2.3.
Gypsum waste Non-hazardous gypsum-based materials should be disposed of only in landfills for non-hazardous waste in cells where no biodegradable waste is accepted.
Granular wastes include all wastes that are not monolithic.
Asbestos waste Construction materials containing asbestos and other suitable asbestos waste may be landfilled at landfills for non-hazardous waste in accordance with Article 6(c)(iii) of the Landfill Directive without testing.
Granular wastes include all wastes that are not monolithic.
Member States shall determine which of the test methods and corresponding limit values in the table should be used. %gt%TABLE%gt% Member States shall set criteria for monolithic waste to provide the same level of environmental protection given by the above limit values. 2.4.2.
Criteria for underground storage For the acceptance of waste in underground storage sites, a site-specific safety assessment as defined in Annex A must be carried out.
At underground storage sites for inert waste, only waste that fulfils the criteria set out in section 2.1 may be accepted.
At underground storage sites for non-hazardous waste, only waste that fulfils the criteria set out in section 2.2 or in section 2.3 may be accepted.
At underground storage sites for hazardous waste, waste may be accepted only if it is compatible with the site-specific safety assessment.
In this case, the criteria set out in section 2.4 do not apply.
However, the waste must be subject to the acceptance procedure as set out in section 1. 3.
Sampling For the sampling of waste - for basic characterisation, compliance testing and on-site verification testing - a sampling plan shall be developed according to part 1 of the sampling standard currently developed by CEN.
Appendix A SAFETY ASSESSMENT FOR ACCEPTANCE OF WASTE IN UNDERGROUND STORAGE 1.
The geochemical and geohydrological conditions such as groundwater flow (see sections 1.2.3 and 1.2.4), barrier efficiency, natural attenuation as well as leaching of the deposited wastes should be taken into consideration.
This particularly refers to wastes that: - cause toxic gas concentrations due to the partial pressures of their components, - form concentrations when saturated within a container, which are higher than 10 % of the concentration which corresponds to the lower explosive limit; (f) wastes with insufficient stability to correspond to the geomechanical conditions; (g) wastes that are auto-flammable or liable to spontaneous combustion under the storage conditions, gaseous products, volatile wastes, wastes coming from collections in the form of unidentified mixtures; (h) wastes that contain, or could generate, pathogenic germs of communicable diseases (already provided for by Article 5(3)(c) of the Landfill Directive). 2.2.
Member States may define subcategories of landfills for non-hazardous waste in accordance with their national waste management strategies as long as the requirements of the Landfill Directive are met.
Three major subcategories of non-hazardous waste landfills are shown in figure 1: landfill for inorganic waste with low organic/biodegradable content (B1), landfill for organic waste (B2), and landfill for mixed non-hazardous waste with substantial contents of both organic/biodegradable and inorganic materials.
Category B1 sites can be subdivided further into sites for wastes that do not meet the criteria set out in section 2.2.2 for inorganic non-hazardous wastes that may be co-disposed with stable, non reactive hazardous wastes (B1a) and sites for wastes that do meet those criteria (B1b).
Hazardous waste landfill If the hazardous waste does not meet the criteria for placement in a class B1b landfill or cell for non-hazardous waste, the next question could be whether or not it meets the criteria for acceptance at a landfill for hazardous waste (class C).
If the criteria are met, the waste may go to an underground storage facility for hazardous waste (landfill class DHAZ).
Although underground storage is likely to be reserved for special hazardous wastes, this subcategory may in principle be used also for inert waste (class DINERT) and non-hazardous waste (class DNON-HAZ).
