The text of Article 3 of Regulation (EEC) No 805/68 shall be replaced by the following: %quot%Article 3 1.
The guide price shall be fixed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty.%quot% 2.
Article 3 The text of Title II of Regulation (EEC) No 805/68 shall be replaced by the following: %quot%TITLE II Trade with third countries Article 9 1.
If it is found that the price of adult bovine animals on the representative markets of the Community exceeds the guide price, the levy applicable shall equal the following percentage of the basic levy: (a) 75 % where the price of adult bovine animals is less than or equal to 102 % of the guide price; (b) 50 % where the price of adult bovine animals is more than 102 % and less than or equal to 104 % of the guide price; (c) 25 % where the price of adult bovine animals is more than 104 % and less than or equal to 106 % of the guide price; (d) 0 % where the price of adult bovine animals is more than 106 % of the guide price. 2.
If it is found that the price of adult bovine animals on the representative markets of the Community is equal to or less than the guide price, the levy applicable shall equal the following percentage of the basic levy: (a) 100 % where the price of adult bovine animals is more than or equal to 98 % of the guide price; (b) 105 % where the price of adult bovine animals is less than 98 % and more than or equal to 96 % of the guide price; (c) 110 % where the price of adult bovine animals is less than 96 % and more than or equal to 90 % of the guide price; (d) 114 % where the price of adult bovine animals is less than 90 % of the guide price. 3.
The price of adult bovine animals on the representative markets of the Community shall be derived from the prices recorded over a period to be determined on the representative market or markets of each Member State for the various categories of adult bovine animals or of the meat of such animals, after taking into account the size of each of such categories and the relative size of the bovine stock of each Member State. 7.
The levy which was to be applied to young male bovine animals intended for fattening, of a live weight of 300 kilograms or less, may be totally or partially suspended under the conditions laid down in this Article, taking into account the supply situation for the young bovine animals in question and the foreseeable trend of market prices for bovine animals in the Community. 2.
This estimate shall take account, on the one hand, of expected Community supplies of young bovine animals intended for fattening and, on the other, of the needs of Community breeders.
The following shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27: (a) each quarter, the quantity which may be imported and the rate of suspension of the levy, where necessary separately for each of the following categories: - animals of a live weight of less than 80 kilograms, - animals of a live weight of 80 kilograms or more but less than 220 kilograms, - animals of a live weight of 220 kilograms or more. (b) detailed rules for the application of this Article and, particularly, those concerning checks to ensure that the period prescribed for fattening is respected.
Before 1 December each year, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall draw up an estimate of meat which may be imported under the arrangements laid down in this Article.
For meat of the types referred to in paragraph 1: (a) importation under total or partial suspension of the levy shall be made conditional on production of an import licence issued for a quantity falling within the limits laid down each quarter; (b) importation under total suspension of the levy may be made conditional, as far as necessary, on production of a purchase contract for frozen meat held by an intervention agency. 4.
Article 17 This Regulation shall be applied with due regard to the obligations under international agreements by which the Community is bound.
Article 19 To the extent necessary for the proper working of the common organization of the market in beef and veal, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, may prohibit, in whole or in part, the use of inward or outward processing arrangements in respect of products listed in Article 1.
Article 7 Should transitional measures be necessary to facilitate the implementation of this Regulation, in particular if such implementation on the date provided for were to give rise to substantial difficulties in respect of certain products, such measures shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27.
Article 8 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
