The methodology will be assessed by the Commission in accordance with the Notice on the application of Article 87 and 88 of the EC treaty to State aid in the Forms of Guarantees [5].
Notifications of non-transparent regional aid schemes will be assessed by the Commission in particular in the light of the criteria set out in the Guidelines on national regional aid for 2007 to 2013. (6) This Regulation should also apply to ad hoc aid, that is to say, individual aid that is not awarded on the basis of an aid scheme, if the ad hoc aid is used to supplement aid granted on the basis of a transparent regional investment aid scheme and the ad hoc component does not exceed 50 % of the total aid to be granted for the investment.
It should be recalled that individual aid to small and medium-sized enterprises granted outside of any aid scheme in accordance with Article 3(1) of Regulation (EC) No 70/2001 is compatible with the common market within the meaning of Article 87(3) of the Treaty and is exempted from the notification requirement of Article 88(3) of the Treaty. (7) Any aid that meets all the requirements of this Regulation should be exempted from the notification requirement.
Regional aid schemes exempted under this Regulation should contain an express reference to this Regulation. (8) This Regulation should not apply to certain sectors in which special rules apply.
In the agricultural sector, this Regulation should not apply to activities linked to the primary production of agricultural products listed in Annex I to the Treaty.
This Regulation should ensure that the aid intensities in favour of undertakings processing and marketing agricultural products set out in Article 28(3) of Council Regulation (EC) No 1698/2005 of 20 September 2005 on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) [7] can always be attained. (9) The Commission has a consistently less favourable view of aid targeted at particular sectors.
Accordingly, aid amounts exceeding a certain threshold granted to a single undertaking or establishment on the basis of an existing aid scheme should be excluded from the exemption provided for in this Regulation and remain subject to the notification requirements of Article 88(3) of the Treaty.
Regional investment aid exempted under this Regulation should not be cumulated with de minimis support within the meaning of Commission Regulation (EC) No 69/2001 of 12 January 2001 on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty to de minimis aid [8] in respect of the same eligible expenditure, if such cumulation would result in an aid intensity exceeding that fixed by this Regulation. (18) This Regulation should not apply to aid to export-related activities towards third countries or Member States, namely aid directly linked to the quantities exported, to the establishment and operation of a distribution network or to other current expenditure linked to export activities and aid contingent upon the use of domestic over imported goods. (19) In order to ensure transparency and effective monitoring in accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 994/98, it is appropriate to establish a standard format to be used by Member States to provide the Commission with summary information whenever, in accordance with this Regulation, an aid scheme is implemented, or an ad hoc aid is granted, with a view to publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
This Regulation shall apply to transparent regional investment aid schemes which constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty.
It shall also apply to ad hoc aid which constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty if the ad hoc aid is used to supplement aid granted on the basis of a transparent regional investment aid scheme, and the ad hoc component does not exceed 50 % of the total aid to be granted for the investment. 2.
Article 2 Definitions 1.
Article 3 Conditions for exemption 1.
Aid up to the amount determined in accordance with Article 7(e) awarded on the basis of schemes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be compatible with the common market within the meaning of Article 87(3) of the Treaty and shall be exempt from the notification requirement of Article 88(3) of the Treaty provided that the aid awarded directly fulfils all the conditions of this Regulation. 3.
Ad hoc aid which is only used to supplement aid granted on the basis of transparent regional investment aid schemes and which does not exceed 50 % of the total aid to be granted for the investment, shall be compatible with the common market within the meaning of Article 87(3) of the Treaty and shall be exempt from the notification requirement of Article 88(3) of the Treaty provided that the ad hoc aid awarded directly fulfils all the conditions of this Regulation.
Article 4 Aid for initial investment 1.
In addition to the general conditions for exemption laid down in this Regulation, aid for initial investment shall satisfy the following specific conditions: (a) the investment must be maintained in the recipient region for at least five years, or three years in the case of SMEs, after the whole investment has been completed; (b) to be eligible, immaterial assets must: (i) be used exclusively in the establishment receiving the regional aid; (ii) be regarded as amortizable assets; (iii) be purchased from third parties under market conditions; (iv) be included in the assets of the firm and remain in the establishment receiving the regional aid for at least five years or three years in the case of SMEs; (c) where the aid is calculated on the basis of material or immaterial investment costs, or of acquisition costs in case of takeovers, the beneficiary must provide a financial contribution of at least 25 % of the eligible costs, either through its own resources or by external financing, in a form which is free of any public support.
However, where the maximum aid intensity approved under the national regional aid map for the Member State concerned, increased in accordance with the second subparagraph of paragraph 1, if appropriate, exceeds 75 %, the financial contribution of the beneficiary is reduced accordingly.
The ceilings fixed in paragraph 1 shall apply to the intensity of the aid calculated either as a percentage of the investment's eligible material and immaterial costs or as a percentage of the estimated wage costs of the person hired, calculated over a period of two years, for jobs directly created by the investment project, or a combination thereof, provided the aid does not exceed the most favourable amount resulting from the application of either calculation. 4.
For large undertakings, such costs are eligible only up to a limit of 50 % of the total eligible investment expenditure for the project. 9.
Article 5 Necessity for the aid 1.
This Regulation shall only exempt aid awarded under regional investment aid schemes if, before the start of work on the project, the beneficiary has submitted an application to the national or regional authorities for aid and, in respect of applications submitted from 1 January 2007, the authority responsible for administering the scheme has confirmed in writing that, subject to the final outcome of a detailed verification, the project meets the conditions of eligibility laid down by the scheme.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply to aid schemes where a tax exemption or reduction is granted automatically to eligible expenditure without any discretion on the part of the authorities.
Article 6 Cumulation 1.
The aid ceilings fixed in Article 4 shall apply to the total amount of public support for the aided project regardless of whether that support is financed from local, regional, national or Community sources. 2.
Regional investment aid exempted by this Regulation shall not be cumulated with de minimis support within the meaning of Regulation (EC) No 69/2001 in respect of the same eligible expenditure, if such cumulation would result in an aid intensity exceeding that fixed by this Regulation.
Article 7 Aid subject to prior notification to the Commission The following aid shall not be exempted from notification under this Regulation and shall remain subject to the notification requirement of Article 88(3) of the Treaty: (a) non-transparent regional investment aid schemes; (b) regional aid schemes targeted at specific sectors of economic activity within manufacturing or services.
Regional investment aid schemes aimed at tourism activities are not considered as targeted at specific sectors; (c) regional aid schemes which provide for operating aid; (d) regional aid schemes which provide for aid other than investment or consultancy aid to newly created small undertakings; (e) regional aid awarded in favour of large investment projects on the basis of existing aid schemes if the total amount of aid from all sources exceeds 75 % of the maximum amount of aid an investment with eligible expenditure of EUR 100 million could receive, applying the standard aid ceiling in force for large undertakings in the approved regional aid map on the date the aid is to be granted; (f) ad hoc regional aid, other than that exempted pursuant to Article 3(1) of Regulation (EC) No 70/2001 and Article 3(3) of this Regulation; (g) investment aid in favour of a beneficiary which is subject to an outstanding recovery order following a previous Commission decision declaring the aid illegal and incompatible with the common market.
Article 8 Transparency and monitoring 1.
On implementation of an aid scheme or grant of ad hoc aid exempted by this Regulation, Member States shall, within 20 working days, forward to the Commission, with a view to its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, a summary of the information regarding such aid in the form laid down in Annex I.
Whenever regional aid is granted on the basis of an existing aid scheme for large investment projects which fall below the threshold for individual notification laid down by Article 7(e), the Member States shall, within 20 working days starting from the day on which the aid is granted by the competent authority, provide the Commission with the information requested in the standard form laid down in Annex II, electronically in computerised form.
Member States shall submit a report to the Commission on the application of this Regulation in respect of each whole or part calendar year during which this Regulation applies, in the form laid down in Chapter III of Commission Regulation (EC) No 794/2004 [13]. 5.
Article 9 Entry into force and period of validity 1.
It shall apply to aid schemes which enter into force, or are put into effect, after 31 December 2006.
It shall remain in force until 31 December 2013. 2.
Done at Brussels, 24 October 2006.
For the Commission Neelie Kroes Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 142, 14.5.1998, p. 1. [2] OJ C 120, 20.5.2006, p. 2. [3] OJ C 54, 4.3.2006, p. 13. [4] OJ L 10, 13.1.2001, p. 33.
Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1040/2006 (OJ L 187, 8.7.2006, p. 8). [5] OJ C 71, 11.3.2000, p. 14. [6] OJ L 182, 3.7.1987, p. 36.
Regulation as last amended by 1994 Act of Accession. [7] OJ L 277, 21.10.2005, p. 1. [8] OJ L 10, 13.1.2001, p. 30. [9] OJ C 244, 1.10.2004, p. 2. [10] OJ L 17, 21.1.2000, p. 22. [11] Classification of Economic Activities in the European Community. [12] OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 36. [13] OJ L 140, 30.4.2004, p. 1. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX I Information communicated by Member States regarding state aid granted under Commission Regulation (EC) No 1628/2006 on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the Treaty to national regional investment aid (to be provided in computerised form, by electronic mail, to stateaidgreffe@ec.europa.eu) +++++ TIFF +++++ +++++ TIFF +++++ -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX II Form for the provision of summary information for aid for large investments projects where the aid does not exceed the thresholds referred to in Article 7(e) 1.
Municipality (previously NUTS 5 level, now LAU 2) where the investment takes place. 7.
Products manufactured or services provided on the basis of the investment project (with PRODCOM/NACE nomenclature or CPA nomenclature for projects in the service sectors). 9.
Discounted eligible cost of investment project (in EUR). 11.
Aid intensity (% in GGE). 13.
