Council Regulation (EC) No 1796/1999 of 12 August 1999 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty, and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed, on imports of steel ropes and cables originating in the People's Republic of China, Hungary, India, Mexico, Poland, South Africa and Ukraine and terminating the anti-dumping proceeding in respect of imports originating in the Republic of Korea COUNCIL REGULATION (EC) No 1796/1999 of 12 August 1999 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty, and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed, on imports of steel ropes and cables originating in the People's Republic of China, Hungary, India, Mexico, Poland, South Africa and Ukraine and terminating the anti-dumping proceeding in respect of imports originating in the Republic of Korea THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community(1), and in particular Articles 9 and 10(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
Like product (9) It is to be recalled that in recital 8 of the provisional Regulation, the Commission found that the imported SWR from the countries concerned and the SWR produced and sold in the Community by the Community industry were alike in their basic physical and technical characteristics.
Normal Value 1.1.
Determination of the normal value (13) One Indian exporting producer claimed that the costs of production for the investigation period (1 January 1997 to 31 March 1998, hereinafter referred to as the %quot%IP%quot%), should be established on the basis of data relating to the period preceding the IP.
In this context, sales below cost of a particular product type can only be taken into account for the determination of the profit margin if the volume of non-profitable sales of such type is not higher than 20 % of all sales of this type in question or if the weighted average selling price is not below the weighted average unit cost.
Choice of analogue country for non-market economy countries (21) Chinese and Ukrainian exporting producers contested the choice of India as analogue country and asked that the provisional choice of analogue country be reviewed.
However, in the absence of any new evidence on the effect of the above factors on price comparability as required by Article 2(10)(k) of the basic Regulation, the claim was not accepted. (28) The same Polish exporting producer and one Hungarian exporting producer reiterated their request for adjustments to the normal value for differences in level of trade.
In view of the new evidence submitted, the claims were reconsidered and accepted as it was proved that the export price and the normal value were at a different level of trade and this difference affected price comparability. (29) One Indian exporting producer submitted a request for an adjustment for differences in the level of trade on the grounds that export sales were made exclusively at wholesaler level, while domestic sales were made at both wholesaler and end-user levels.
Dumping margins 4.1.
Secondly, the export sales taken into consideration for the determination of a dumping margin accounted for 80 % of all export resales to the Community made by the exporting producer during the IP.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY 1.
Community production (40) In the absence of any new information, the provisional findings as described in recitals 34 to 36 of the provisional Regulation are therefore confirmed. 2.
Community industry (41) Following comments received by interested parties the Community industry is as follows. (42) The following 16 complainant Community producers and four Community producers supporting the complaint and which cooperated in the investigation, made up the %quot%Community industry%quot% in the meaning of Article 4 of the basic Regulation, i.e.: - Bremer Drahtseilerei L체ling GmbH (Germany), - Bridon International Limited (UK), - BTS Drahtseile GmbH (Germany), - Cables Y Alambres Especiales SA (Spain), - Casar Drahtseilwerk Saar GmbH (Germany), - Cordoaria Oliveira SA (Portugal), - Drahtseilerei Gustav Kocks GmbH (Germany), - Holding FICADI (France), - Iscar Funi Metalliche (Italy), - D.
Koronakis SA (Greece), - Metalcalvi Wire Ropes (Italy), - Midland Wire Cordage Co.
Ltd (UK), - Randers Rebslaareri (Denmark), - Redaelli Tecnacordati SpA (Italy), - Trefileurope (France), - Trenzas Y Cables SL (Spain), - Vereinigte Drahtseilwerke GmbH (Germany), - Voest-Alpine Austria Draht GmbH (Austria), - Vornb채umen-Stahlseile GmbH (Germany), - Wadra GmbH (Germany). 3.
Imports made by the Community industry has in this manner been established as representing 4,4 % of consumption in the investigation period. (45) The analysis in the provisional Regulation that the principal activity of the Community industry remained the production of SWR given the low level of its imports is confirmed.
It has also been argued that the situation of the Community industry has remained stable from 1995 to the IP.
As a result, it was requested to start the injury investigation period in 1995. (47) The purpose of the investigation is to evaluate the effect of the dumped imports on the economic situation of the Community industry during the IP.
It is therefore irrelevant whether 1994 or 1995 has been taken as a starting point for the purpose of establishing trends. (48) In any event it is to be noted that: - although the biggest part of the imports from the countries concerned took place between 1994 and 1995, contrary to what has been alleged, these imports have continued to increase after 1995 (+ 12 % between 1995 and the IP), - prices of these imports remained significantly below those of the Community industry throughout the whole period, - the impact of these imports on the situation of the Community industry resulted in a significant decrease in profitability between 1994 and 1995 (from 1,3 % to - 0,3 %), coinciding with a loss of market share (- 10 percentage points).
As explained in the provisional Regulation, the Community industry attempted to regain market share by decreasing prices between 1995 and 1996, only to incur further losses (-0,3 % to - 0,7 %).
However, no new arguments were presented supporting the decumulation of imports from Hungary.
Prices of the dumped imports 3.1.
Situation of the Community industry (61) Certain exporting producers have alleged that the Community industry had not suffered material injury in the sense of Article 3 of the basic Regulation, on the basis that the Community industry's production, capacity, prices, investments and productivity remained stable or improved between 1994 and the IP. 4.1.
Production (62) Production levels were found to have remained stable over the period examined (+ 1 %), this should be seen in conjunction with the increasing levels of stocks (+ 30 %) and the decrease in sales volume (- 9 %), as outlined in recitals 58 to 60 of the provisional Regulation.
It is also recalled that consumption increased by 5 % over the period. 4.2.
Capacity and investments (63) The finding that the increase in capacity noted in the provisional Regulation (+ 11 %) resulted from investments made in higher performance replacement machinery, as outlined in recitals 59 and 65 of the provisional Regulation, is confirmed. 4.3.
The profitability of the Community industry therefore went from + 1,3 % in 1994 to - 0,3 % in 1997. 4.4.
Conclusion on injury (73) The conclusion that the Community industry has suffered material injury as set out in recital 68 of the provisional Regulation is confirmed.
CAUSATION (74) In the absence of any new information the provisional findings as described in recitals 69 to 85 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed.
COMMUNITY INTEREST (75) Certain parties have raised queries concerning the assessment of the impact of anti-dumping measures on user industries. (76) It is to be recalled that no replies were received to the Commission services' questionnaires from the user industries concerned by this proceeding (recital 87 of the provisional Regulation).
It is also confirmed that a number of alternative sources of supply of SWR exist that are not subject to anti-dumping measures (recital 105 of the provisional Regulation). (79) Given the above, it is concluded that the imposition of definitive measures would not have a significant negative impact on the economic operators in the Community.
ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
Termination of the proceeding in respect of South Korea (80) In view of the conclusions set out in recitals 24 et seqs/.
It is to be noted that as the profitability of the Community industry has been recalculated to be - 3 % in 1997 (see Point 4.3 %quot%Profitability%quot% in Section F), the element for profit shortfall in the underselling calculation has been amended accordingly.
Otherwise the methodology used for establishing the injury margin as described in recital 110 of the provisional Regulation is confirmed. 3.
Furthermore in the case of India and South Africa the exporting producers submitted revised offers of price undertakings, - as concerns the PRC, given that none of the companies in these countries were granted individual treatment and that no guarantees were contained in the offers on the part of the Chinese authorities to allow for adequate monitoring, the offers of undertakings were not considered to be acceptable, - as concerns India (Usha Martin Industries %amp% Usha Beltron Ltd), Mexico, South Africa and the Ukraine, the exporting producers concerned offered price undertakings which are considered acceptable. (83) It will be recalled from recital 112 et seg.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of steel ropes and cables, currently classifiable within CN codes ex 7312 10 82 (TARIC code 7312 10 82*10), ex 7312 10 84 (TARIC code 7312 10 84*10), ex 7312 10 86 (TARIC code 7312 10 86*10), ex 7312 10 88 (TARIC code 7312 10 88*10) and ex 7312 10 99 (TARIC code 7312 10 99*10) and originating in the People's Republic of China, Hungary, India, Mexico, Poland, South Africa, Ukraine. 2.
Notwithstanding Article 1, the definitive duty shall not apply to imports of the product described in Article 1(1) above produced and directly exported and invoiced to an importing company in the Community by the companies listed in paragraph 3, from which price undertakings have been accepted by the Commission under Decision 1999/572/EC of 13 August 1999 accepting undertakings offered in connection with the anti-dumping proceedings concerning imports of steel ropes and cables originating in the People's Republic of China, Hungary, India, Republic of Korea, Mexico, Poland, South Africa and Ukraine(4). 2.
Imports made within the context of the undertakings offered and accepted shall be declared under the following TARIC additional codes: %gt%TABLE%gt% Article 3 As regards imports of the product described in Article 1(1) originating in the PRC, Hungary, India, Mexico, Poland, South Africa and Ukraine, the amounts secured by way of the provisional anti-dumping duty imposed by the provisional Regulation shall be collected at the rate of the duty definitively imposed.
Article 4 The proceeding concerning imports of the product described in Article 1(1) originating in the Republic of Korea is hereby terminated.
Article 5 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 12 August 1999.
The invoice number. 4.
The export licence number and issue date. 5.
