Article 3 Where national authorities decide, in response to a request for administrative assistance or a communication based on this Regulation, to take action involving measures which may be implemented only with the authorization or at the demand of a judicial authority: - any information thus obtained concerning the application of customs and agricultural legislation, or at least - that part of the file required to put a stop to a fraudulent practice, shall be communicated as part of the administrative cooperation provided for by this Regulation.
TITLE I ASSISTANCE ON REQUEST Article 4 1.
Article 5 At the request of the applicant authority, the requested authority shall supply it with any attestation, document or certified true copy of a document in its possession or obtained in the manner referred to in Article 4 (2) which relates to operations covered by customs or agricultural legislation.
Article 7 At the request of the applicant authority, the requested authority shall as far as possible keep a special watch or arrange for a special watch to be kept within its operational area: (a) on persons, and more particularly their movements, where there are reasonable grounds for believing that they are breaching customs or agricultural legislation; (b) on places where goods are stored in a way that gives grounds to suspect that they are intended to supply operations contrary to customs or agricultural legislation; (c) on the movements of goods indicated as being the object of potential breaches of customs or agricultural legislation; (d) on means of transport, where there are reasonable grounds for believing that they are being used to carry out operations in breach of customs or agricultural legislation.
Article 10 By agreement between the applicant authority and the requested authority and in accordance with the arrangements laid down by the latter, officials duly authorized by the applicant authority may obtain, from the offices where the administrative authorities of the Member State in which the requested authority is based exercise their functions, information concerning the application of the law on customs and agricultural matters which is needed by the applicant authority and which is derived from documentation to which the staff of those offices have access.
Article 11 Staff of the applicant authority present in another Member State in accordance with Articles 9 and 10 must at all times be able to produce written authority stating their identity and their official functions.
Article 12 Findings, certificates, information, documents, certified true copies and any intelligence obtained by the staff of the requested authority and communicated to the applicant authority in the course of the assistance provided for in Articles 4 to 11 may be invoked as evidence by the competent bodies of the Member States of the applicant authority.
TITLE II SPONTANEOUS ASSISTANCE Article 13 The competent authorities of each Member State shall, as laid down in Articles 14 and 15, provide assistance to the competent authorities of the other Member States without prior request.
Article 14 Where they consider it useful for ensuring compliance with customs or agricultural legislation, each Member State's competent authorities shall: (a) as far as is possible keep, or have kept, the special watch described in Article 7; (b) communicate to the competent authorities of the other Member States concerned all information in their possession, and in particular reports and other documents or certified true copies or extracts thereof, concerning operations which constitute, or appear to them to constitute, breaches of customs or agricultural legislation.
Article 15 The competent authorities of each Member State shall immediately send to the competent authorities of the other Member States concerned all relevant information concerning operations which constitute, or appear to them to constitute, breaches of customs or agricultural legislation, and in particular concerning the goods involved and new ways and means of carrying out such operations.
Article 16 Information obtained by staff of one Member State and communicated to another Member State in the course of the assistance provided for in Articles 13 to 15 may be invoked as evidence by the competent bodies of the Member State receiving the information.
TITLE III RELATIONS WITH THE COMMISSION Article 17 1.
The competent authorities of each Member State shall communicate to the Commission as soon as it is available to them: (a) any information they consider relevant concerning: - goods which have been or are suspected of having been the object of breaches of customs or agricultural legislation, - methods or practices used or suspected of having been used to breach customs or agricultural legislation, - requests for assistance, action taken and information exchanged in application of Articles 4 to 16 which are capable of revealing fraudulent tendencies in the field of customs and agriculture; (b) any information on shortcomings or gaps in customs and agricultural legislation that become apparent or may be deduced from the application of that legislation. 2.
Where a Member State's competent authorities become aware of operations which constitute, or appear to constitute, breaches of customs or agricultural legislation that are of particular relevance at Community level, and especially: - where they have, or might have, ramifications in other Member States, or - where it appears likely to the above authorities that similar operations have also been carried out in other Member States, they shall communicate to the Commission as soon as possible, either on their own initiative or in response to a reasoned request from the Commission, any relevant information, be it in the form of documents or copies or extracts thereof, needed to determine the facts so that the Commission may coordinate the steps taken by the Member States.
Where a Member State's competent authorities invoke paragraph 1, they need not communicate information as provided in Articles 14 (b) and 15 to the competent authorities of the other member States concerned. 3.
In response to a reasoned request from the Commission, the Member State's competent authorities shall act in the manner laid down in Articles 4 to 8. 4.
Officials of the Commission may collect the information specified in Article 10 under conditions laid down in that Article by common accord. 6.
TITLE IV RELATIONS WITH THIRD COUNTRIES Article 19 Provided the third country concerned has given a legal undertaking to provide the assistance required to gather proof of the irregular nature of operations which appear to constitute breaches of customs or agricultural legislation or to determine the scope of operations which have been found to constitute breaches of that legislation, information obtained under this Regulation may be communicated to that third country as part of a concerted action, subject to the agreement of the competent authorities supplying the information, in accordance with their internal provisions concerning the communication of personal data to third countries.
The findings and information obtained in the course of the Community missions referred to in Article 20 of this Regulation, and in particular documents passed on by the competent authorities of the third countries concerned, shall be handled in accordance with Article 45 of this Regulation. 2.
Article 12 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the findings and information referred to in paragraph 1. 3.
TITLE V CUSTOMS INFORMATION SYSTEM Chapter 1 Establishment of a Customs Information System Article 23 1.
Those operations in connection with the application of agricultural regulations which require the introduction of information into the CIS shall be determined by the Commission in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 43 (2). 5.
The exchange of information provided for under Articles 17 and 18 is not covered by the provisions of this Title. 6.
Chapter 2 Operation and use of the CIS Article 24 The CIS shall consist of a central database facility and it shall be accessible via terminals in each Member State and at the Commission.
Article 25 The items to be included in the CIS relating to each of categories (a) to (f) in Article 24 shall be determined in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 43 (2) to the extent that this is necessary to achieve the aim of the System.
Article 26 The following principles must be observed in the implementation of the CIS where personal data are concerned: (a) collection and any other operation for processing personal data must be carried out fairly and lawfully; (b) data must be collected for the purposes defined in Article 23 (2) and not subsequently processed in a manner incompatible with those purposes; (c) data must be adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are processed; (d) data must be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; (e) data must be kept in a form which permits identification of data subjects for no longer than is necessary for the purposes in view.
Data in categories (a) to (d) of Article 24 shall be included in the CIS only for the purpose of sighting and reporting, discreet surveillance or specific checks. 2.
For the purposes of the actions referred to in paragraph 1, personal data within any of categories (a) to (d) of Article 24 may be included in the CIS only if, especially on the basis of prior illegal activities, there is evidence to suggest that the person concerned has committed, is committing or will commit actions which are in breach of customs or agricultural legislation and which are of particular relevance at Community level.
The Commission shall inform the other Member States accordingly.
The list of national authorities and Commission departments thus designated shall be published for information by the Commission in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 3.
Such other use shall be in accordance with the laws, regulations and procedures of the Member State which seeks to use it and, where appropriate, the corresponding provisions applicable to the Commission in this connection and should take into account the principles set out in the Annex. 2.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 1 and 4 of this Article and Article 29 (3), data obtained from the CIS shall be used only by national authorities or departments in each Member State and by departments designated by the Commission competent, in accordance with the laws, regulations and procedures applicable to them, to act in order to achieve the aim stated in Article 23 (2). 3.
Each Member State shall send the Commission a list of the authorities or departments referred to in paragraph 2.
The Commission shall inform the other Member States accordingly.
The list of the authorities or departments thus designated shall be published for information by the Commission in the Official Journal of the European Communities. 4.
Data obtained from the CIS may, with the prior authorization of, and subject to any conditions imposed by, the Member State which included them in the System, be communicated for use by national authorities other than those referred to in paragraph 2, third countries and international or regional organizations wishing to make use of them.
The provisions referred to in the first subparagraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to the Commission where it has entered the data in the System.
The inclusion of data in the CIS shall be governed by the laws, regulations and procedures of the supplying Member State and, where appropriate, the corresponding provisions applicable to the Commission in this connection, unless this Regulation lays down more stringent provisions. 2.
The processing of data obtained from the CIS, including their use or performance of any action under Article 27 (1) suggested by the supplying CIS partner, shall be governed by the laws, regulations and procedures of the Member State processing or using such data and the corresponding provisions applicable to the Commission in this connection, unless this Regulation lays down more stringent provisions.
Chapter 3 Amendment of data Article 32 1.
The supplying CIS partner shall advise the other partners of any correction or deletion affected. 4.
Chapter 4 Retention of data Article 33 1.
Without prejudice to Article 36, if there is no decision to retain data they shall automatically be transferred to that part of the CIS to which access shall be limited in accordance with paragraph 4. 3.
Data transferred under paragraph 2 shall continue to be retained for one year within the CIS but, without prejudice to Article 36, shall be accessible only to a representative of the Committee referred to in Article 43 in connection with the application of the seventh, eighth and ninth indents of paragraph 4 thereof, and paragraph 5 thereof, or to the supervisory authorities referred to in Article 37.
Chapter 5 Personal-data protection Article 34 1.
The internal rules applicable to the Commission, as referred to in paragraph 1, shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
The rights of persons with regard to the personal data in the CIS, in particular their right of access, shall be put into effect: - in accordance with the laws, regulations and procedures of the Member State in which such rights are invoked, - in accordance with the internal rules applicable to the Commission referred to in Article 34 (1).
If laid down in the laws, regulations and procedures of the Member State concerned, the national supervisory authority provided for in Article 37 shall decide whether information is to be communicated and the procedure for doing so. 2.
If the personal data for which an application for access has been made have been supplied by another CIS partner, access shall be permitted only if the supplying partner has been given the opportunity to state its position. 4.
Any person may, in accordance with the laws, regulations and procedures of each Member State or with the internal rules applicable to the Commission, have personal data relating to himself corrected or deleted by each CIS partner if those data are factually inaccurate, or were included or are stored in the CIS contrary to the aim stated in Article 23 (2) or if the principles of Article 26 have not been observed. 5.
In the territory of each Member State, any person may, in accordance with the laws, regulations and procedures of the Member State in question, bring an action or, if appropriate, a complaint before the courts or the authority designated for the purpose, in accordance with those laws, regulations and procedures, in connection with personal data relating to himself in the CIS, in order to: (a) correct or delete factually inaccurate personal data; (b) correct or delete personal data included or stored in the CIS contrary to this Regulation; (c) obtain access to personal data; (d) obtain compensation under Article 40 (2).
With regard to data included by the Commission, an action may be brought before the Court of Justice in accordance with Article 173 of the Treaty.
Chapter 6 Personal-data protection supervision Article 37 1.
If the data have been included by another Member State or the Commission, the check shall be carried out in close coordination with that Member State's national supervisory authority or with the authority provided for in paragraph 4. 3.
Chapter 7 Security of the CIS Article 38 1.
In particular, the Member States, the Commission and the Committee referred to in Article 43 shall take measures: (a) to prevent any unauthorized person from having access to installations used for the processing of data; (b) to prevent data and data media from being read, copied, modified or deleted by unauthorized persons; (c) to prevent the unauthorized entry of data and any unauthorized consultation, modification or deletion of data; (d) to prevent data in the CIS from being accessed by unauthorized persons by means of data-transmission equipment; (e) to guarantee that, with respect to the use of the CIS, authorized persons have right of access only to data for which they have competence; (f) to guarantee that it is possible to check and establish to which authorities data may be transmitted by data-transmission equipment; (g) to guarantee that it is possible to check and establish ex post facto what data have been introduced into the CIS, when and by whom, and to monitor interrogation; (h) to prevent the unauthorized reading, copying, modification or deletion of data during the transmission of data and the transport of data media. 3.
Each of the Member States shall designate a department which shall be responsible for the security measures set out in Article 38, in relation to the terminals located in its territory, the review functions set out in Article 33 (1) and (2), and, in general, for the proper implementation of this Regulation insofar as is necessary under its laws, regulations and procedures. 2.
Chapter 8 Responsibilities and publication Article 40 1.
Each CIS partner shall be liable, in accordance with national laws, regulations and procedures or the equivalent Community provisions, for injury caused to a person through the use of the CIS in the Member State concerned or at the Commission.
Article 41 The Commission shall publish a communication in the Official Journal of the European Communities concerning the implementation of the CIS.
TITLE VI PROTECTION OF DATA DURING THE NON-AUTOMATIC EXCHANGE OF DATA Article 42 The provisions applying to the automatic exchange and processing of data shall apply mutatis mutandis to non-automatic exchange and processing of data.
TITLE VII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 43 1.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The Commission shall adopt the measures envisaged if they are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee.
The procedure laid down in paragraph 2 shall apply in particular to: (a) decisions on items to be included in the CIS as provided for in Article 25; (b) determination of operations concerning the application of agricultural legislation in respect of which information is to be entered in the CIS, as provided for in Article 23 (4). 4.
The committee shall meet in its ad hoc formation at least once a year. 6.
Article 44 Without prejudice to the provisions in Title V on the CIS, the documents provided for in this Regulation may be replaced by computerized information produced in any form for the same purpose.
Article 47 Member States may decide by common accord whether procedures are needed to ensure the smooth operation of the mutual-assistance arrangements provided for in this Regulation, in particular in order to avoid any interruption of surveillance of persons or goods where this might be prejudicial to the detection of operations in breach of customs and agricultural legislation.
Article 49 Without prejudice to the Commission's right to be notified under other regulations in force, Member States shall transmit to the Commission administrative or legal decisions or the main elements thereof relating to the application of penalties for breaches of customs or agricultural legislation in cases which have been the subject of communications under Articles 17 or 18.
Article 50 Without prejudice to the expenses associated with the implementation of the CIS or damages under Article 40, Member States and the Commission shall waive all claims for the reimbursement of expenses incurred under this Regulation save, where appropriate, in respect of fees paid to experts.
Article 51 This Regulation shall not affect the application in the Member States of rules on criminal procedure and mutual assistance in criminal matters, including those on secrecy of judicial inquiries.
It shall apply from 13 March 1998. 2.
Done at Brussels, 13 March 1997.
PATIJN (1) OJ No L 94, 28. 4. 1970, p. 13.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2048/88 (OJ No L 185, 15. 7. 1988, p. 1). (2) OJ No C 56, 26. 2. 1993, p. 1; OJ No C 262, 28. 9. 1993, p. 8, and OJ No C 80, 17. 3. 1994, p. 12. (3) OJ No C 20, 24. 1. 1994, p. 85, and Opinion of 16 January 1997 (OJ No C 33, 3. 2. 1997). (4) OJ No C 161, 14. 6. 1993, p. 15. (5) OJ No L 144, 2. 6. 1981, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 945/87 (OJ No L 90, 2. 4. 1987, p. 3). (6) Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 1552/89 of 29 May 1989 implementing Decision 88/376/EEC, Euratom on the system of the Communities' own resources (OJ No L 155, 7. 6. 1989, p. 1).
Regulation last amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2729/94 (OJ No L 293, 12. 11. 1994, p. 5). (7) Council Regulation (EEC) No 595/91 of 4 March 1991 concerning irregularities and the recovery of money wrongly paid in connection with the financing of the common agricultural policy and the organization of an information system in this field and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 283/72 (OJ No L 67, 14. 3. 1991, p. 11). (8) OJ No L 281, 23. 11. 1995, p. 31.
Communication is exceptionally permissible if, in a particular case: (a) communication is undoubtedly in the interest of the data subject and the data subject has consented or if circumstances are such as to allow a clear presumption of such consent; or (b) communication is necessary so as to prevent a serious and imminent danger. 2.
Communication to private individuals The communication of data to private individuals should be permissible only if, in a particular case, there is a clear legal obligation or authorization, or with the authorization of the supervisory authority.
Communication to private individuals is exceptionally permissible if, in a particular case: (a) communication is undoubtedly in the interest of the data subject and the data subject has consented or circumstances are such as to allow a clear presumption of such consent; or (b) communication is necessary so as to prevent a serious and imminent danger. 3.
