Council Regulation (EC) No%nbsp%428/2005 of 10 March 2005 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of polyester staple fibres originating in the People's Republic of China and Saudi Arabia, amending Regulation (EC) No%nbsp%2852/2000 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of polyester staple fibres originating in the Republic of Korea and terminating the anti-dumping proceeding in respect of such imports originating in Taiwan Council Regulation (EC) No 428/2005 of 10 March 2005 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of polyester staple fibres originating in the People's Republic of China and Saudi Arabia, amending Regulation (EC) No 2852/2000 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of polyester staple fibres originating in the Republic of Korea and terminating the anti-dumping proceeding in respect of such imports originating in Taiwan THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community [1] ("Basic Regulation"), and in particular Articles 9 and 11(3) thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
MEASURES IN FORCE (1) In July 1999, by Regulation (EC) No 1728/1999 [2], the Council imposed definitive anti-dumping duties on imports of polyester staple fibres ("PSF") originating in Taiwan. (2) In December 2000, by Regulation (EC) No 2852/2000 [3], the Council imposed definitive anti-dumping duties on imports of polyester staple fibres originating, inter alia, in the Republic of Korea. (3) The level of the definitive anti-dumping duties established for the exporting producers in the Republic of Korea and Taiwan subject to the above mentioned investigations, expressed as a percentage of the CIF frontier value, was as follows: Taiwan Far Eastern Textile Ltd. 6,8 % Nan Ya Plastics Corporation 5,9 % Shingkong Synthetic Fibres Co. 13,0 % All other companies 13,0 % Republic of Korea Daehan Synthetic Fibre Co.
Ltd. 0 % All other companies 20,2 % 2.
PRESENT INVESTIGATIONS (4) On 19 December 2003, the Commission announced by a notice ("notice of initiation") published in the Official Journal of the European Union [4], the initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding with regard to imports into the Community of polyester staple fibres originating in the People's Republic of China ("PRC") and Saudi Arabia. (5) On the same day, pursuant to Article 11(3) of the Basic Regulation, the Commission announced by a notice published in the Official Journal of the European Union [5] the initiation of an interim review of the definitive anti-dumping duties imposed by Council Regulations (EC) No 1728/1999 and (EC) No 2852/2000 on imports of PSF originating in the Republic of Korea and Taiwan. (6) The anti-dumping investigations were initiated following a complaint and a request lodged on 10 November 2003 by the Comité International de la Rayonne et des Fibres Synthétiques ("CIRFS" or "the complainant") on behalf of producers representing a major proportion, in this case more than 40 %, of the Community production of PSF.
INVESTIGATIONS CONCERNING OTHER COUNTRIES AND MEASURES IN FORCE (7) There are definitive anti-dumping measures currently in force on imports of PSF originating in (i) Australia, Indonesia and Thailand imposed by Regulation (EC) No 1522/2000 [6]; (ii) India imposed by Regulation (EC) No 2852/2000; as well as (iii) Belarus imposed by Regulation (EC) No 1799/2002 [7]. 4.
PARTIES CONCERNED BY THE PROCEEDING (8) The Commission officially advised the known exporting producers in the PRC, in Saudi Arabia, in Korea and in Taiwan, importers/traders and their associations, suppliers and users known to be concerned, the representatives of the exporting countries concerned and the complainant and other known Community producers of the initiation of the proceeding.
Interested parties were given the opportunity to make their views known in writing and to request a hearing within the time limit set in the notices of initiation. (9) In view of the large number of Chinese, Taiwanese and Korean exporting producers, listed in the complaint and in the request, and the large number of Community importers of the product concerned, sampling was envisaged in both notices of initiation for the determination of dumping and injury, in accordance with Article 17 of the Basic Regulation. (10) In order to enable the Commission to decide whether sampling would be necessary and, if so, to select a sample, all exporting producers in the countries mentioned in recital (9), and Community importers were asked to make themselves known to the Commission and to provide, as specified in the notices of initiation, basic information on their activities related to the product concerned during the period 1 January 2003 to 30 November 2003 ("sampling period"). (11) After examination of the information submitted by Chinese exporting producers and due to the low number of replies to the sampling questions, it was decided that sampling was not necessary in respect of Chinese exporting producers. (12) In the case of Korea, nine exporting producers replied to the sampling questions.
However, one of the companies selected withdrew its cooperation subsequently, and was therefore replaced by the fourth largest company in terms of export quantity.
The final sample represented more than 80 % of the reported exports of the product concerned to the Community during the sampling period and consisted of the following companies: - Huvis Corporation - Sung Lim Co.
Ltd. - Saehan Industries Inc. (13) In the case of Taiwan, five companies replied to the sampling questions and reported export sales of the product concerned to the Community during the sampling period.
The sample consisted therefore of the following companies: - Far Eastern Textile Ltd. - Nan Ya Plastics Corporation (14) As far as importers into the European Community are concerned, five companies unrelated to the exporting producers were initially selected for the sample, based on their volume of imports from the countries concerned.
The remaining four sampled companies cover 14,6 % of total imports concerned.
The final sample consisted of the following companies: - S.I.M.P., SpA, Italy - Highams Group Ltd., United Kingdom - Tob Herman Industries, N.V., Belgium - Marubeni Europe plc Hamburg Branch, Germany (15) The Commission sent market economy treatment ("MET") or individual treatment ("IT") claim forms to the Chinese exporting producers known to be concerned.
Claims for MET, or for IT in case the investigation establishes that the exporting producers do not meet the conditions for MET, were received from five exporting producers plus two related companies. (16) The Commission sent questionnaires to all parties known to be concerned and to all the other companies that made themselves known within the deadlines set out in the notices of initiation.
Replies were received from five Chinese exporting producers, from two Saudi Arabian exporting producers, from three Korean exporting producers included in the sample, from two Taiwanese exporting producers included in the sample, five importers in the Community related to a Saudi exporter, one importer in the Community importing the product concerned from Korea, two unrelated importers included in the sample, six Community industry producers, two non complainant producers, two suppliers of raw materials, ten users and one producer in the analogue country, the United States of America ("USA"). (17) The Commission sought and verified all the information it deemed necessary for the purpose of a determination of dumping, resulting injury and Community interest.
SpA, Italy - Highams Group Ltd., United Kingdom - Tob Herman Industries, N.V., Belgium - Marubeni Europe plc Hamburg Branch, Germany (18) In view of the need to establish a normal value for exporting producers in the PRC to which MET might not be granted, a verification visit to establish normal value on the basis of data from an analogue country, the USA, took place at the premises of the following company: - Wellman Inc., United States of America 5.
INVESTIGATION PERIOD (19) The investigation of dumping and injury covered the period from 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2003 ("investigation period" or "IP").
The examination of trends in the context of the injury analysis covered the period from 1 January 2000 to the end of the IP ("period under consideration"). 6.
PRODUCT CONCERNED (22) The definition of the product concerned corresponds to the one that was used in the investigations mentioned under recitals (1) and (2). (23) The product concerned is synthetic staple fibres of polyester, not carded, combed or otherwise processed for spinning and is currently classifiable within CN code 55032000.
With regard to the examination on a product type basis, and as indicated in recital (27), the Commission considered domestically sold and exported product types, which had similar origin, denier, composition, cross-section, lustre, colour, silicon treatment, quality and use, as being directly comparable. (31) For each type sold by the exporting producers on their domestic markets and found to be directly comparable with the type of PSF sold for export to the Community, it was established whether domestic sales were sufficiently representative for the purposes of Article 2(2) of the Basic Regulation.
Domestic sales of a particular type of PSF were considered sufficiently representative when the total domestic sales volume of that type during the IP represented 5 % or more of the total sales volume of the comparable type of PSF exported to the Community. (32) The Commission subsequently examined whether the domestic sales of each type of PSF, sold domestically in representative quantities could be regarded as having been made in the ordinary course of trade in accordance with Article 2(4) of the Basic Regulation, by establishing the proportion of profitable sales to independent customers of the PSF type in question.
In cases where the sales volume of the PSF type, sold at a net sales price equal to or above the calculated cost of production, represented more than 80 % of the total sales volume of that type, and where the weighted average price of that type was equal to or above the cost of production, normal value was based on the actual domestic price, calculated as a weighted average of the prices of all domestic sales of that type made during the IP, irrespective of whether these sales were profitable or not.
In cases where the volume of profitable sales of the PSF type represented 80 % or less of the total sales volume of that type, or where the weighted average price of that type was below the cost of production, normal value was based on the actual domestic price, calculated as a weighted average of profitable sales of that type only, provided that these sales represented 10 % or more of the total sales volume of that type. (33) In cases where the volume of profitable sales of any product type represented less than 10 % of the total sales volume of that type, it was considered that this particular type was sold in insufficient quantities for the domestic price to provide an appropriate basis for the establishment of the normal value.
Wherever domestic prices of a particular product type sold by an exporting producer could not be used in order to establish normal value, another method had to be applied. (34) It was examined whether normal value could be established on the basis of the domestic prices of other producers in accordance with Article 2(1) of the Basic Regulation.
Since no reliable domestic prices of other producers were available constructed normal value was used, in accordance with Article 2(3) of the Basic Regulation. (35) In accordance with Article 2(3) of the Basic Regulation, normal value was constructed on the basis of each exporting producer's own cost of manufacturing plus a reasonable amount for selling, general and administrative ("SG%amp%A") expenses and for profit. (36) Therefore, the Commission examined whether the SG%amp%A incurred and the profit realised by each of the exporting producers concerned on the domestic market constituted reliable data. (37) Actual domestic SG%amp%A expenses were considered reliable where the domestic sales volume of the company concerned could be regarded as representative as defined in Article 2(2) of the Basic Regulation.
The domestic profit margin was determined on the basis of domestic sales made in the ordinary course of trade. (38) In all cases where these conditions were not met, the Commission examined whether data of other exporters or producers in the domestic market of the country of origin could be used in accordance with Article 2(6)(a) of the Basic Regulation.
Where reliable data were only available for one exporting producer, no average as set out in Article 2(6)(a) of the Basic Regulation could be established and it was examined whether the conditions of Article 2(6)(b) were fulfilled, i.e.
For the purpose of ensuring a fair comparison between the normal value and the export price, due allowance in the form of adjustments was made for differences affecting prices and price comparability in accordance with Article 2(10) of the Basic Regulation.
DUMPING MARGIN FOR THE COMPANIES INVESTIGATED (43) According to Article 2(11) of the Basic Regulation, and except for the cases described in recital (45) below, the dumping margin for each exporting producer was established on the basis of a comparison between the weighted average normal value with the weighted average export price per product type. (44) In one case it had to be examined whether a transaction-to-transaction method would be possible, because the average-to-average method did not reflect the full degree of dumping practiced (see recitals (133) to (135)).
Furthermore, no domestic transactions coinciding in time with export transactions could be found. (45) In cases where the pattern of export prices differed significantly among time periods, and the method described in recitals (43) and (44) did not reflect the full degree of dumping taking place, the weighted average normal value was compared to prices of all individual export transactions, in accordance with Article 2(11) of the Basic Regulation. (46) For those exporting producers found to be related companies, an average dumping margin was calculated in accordance with the standard practice of the Commission for related exporting producers. 6.
RESIDUAL DUMPING MARGIN (47) For non-cooperating companies, a "residual" dumping margin was determined in accordance with Article 18 of the Basic Regulation, on the basis of the facts available. (48) In order to determine the residual dumping margin, the level of cooperation was first established.
The level of cooperation was considered to be high when the volume of exports by the cooperating exporting producers was close to that provided by Eurostat for the country concerned and there was no reason to believe that any exporting producer abstained from cooperating.
This exporting producer in the PRC which was granted MET is: - Far Eastern Industries (Shanghai) Ltd. (54) The remaining four claims had to be rejected.
Company | Criteria | Article 2(7)(c) indent 1 | Article 2(7)(c) indent 2 | Article 2(7)(c) indent 3 | Article 2(7)(c) indent 4 | Article 2(7)(c) indent 5 | 1 | Not met | Not met | Not met | Met | Met | 2 | Met | Not met | Not met | Met | Met | 3 | Not met | Not met | Not met | Met | Met | 4 | Not met | Not met | Not met | Met | Met | (55) The companies concerned were given an opportunity to comment on the above findings.
Consequently, decisions regarding costs and inputs were not considered to be made in response to market signals. (57) In addition, the company tried to hide possible State interference.
Therefore, it had to be concluded that the accounting records of all four companies concerned were not audited in line with international accounting standards as required by Article 2(7)(c) second indent of the Basic Regulation and the claims were rejected. (59) Regarding the third criterion, three companies submitted that contrary to the Commission's findings, there were no significant distortions carried over from the former non-market economy system.
In one case, this claim had to be rejected because it was found that the company concerned received an interest-free loan from the government and several other subsidies.
Therefore, it was concluded that this company was subject to a significant distortion carried over from the non-market economy system and its costs, in particular in relation to depreciation of assets, were significantly distorted.
It was consequently concluded that the companies concerned did not fulfil the conditions set out in Article 2(7)(c) third indent of the Basic Regulation and their claims had therefore to be rejected. (60) One company argued that the Commission had made a determination regarding its application for MET beyond the three month period mentioned under Article 2(7)(c) of the Basic Regulation, and that this determination was therefore not valid. (61) In this respect it is noted that the Commission granted several extensions to the deadline to the Chinese exporting producers concerned, including the above mentioned company, which had major difficulties to fill in the MET claim forms within the deadline set in the notice of initiation. (62) It is also noted that most MET claims received were deficient and required a number of substantial clarifications and additional information which delayed the investigation.
As already mentioned in recital (54), all companies met the fifth criterion set out in Article 2(7)(c) of the Basic Regulation that all exchange rate conversions are carried out at market rates.
Normal value 7.3.1.
This reply was verified at the premises of the company concerned. (71) As far as the determination of normal value is concerned, the Commission followed the same methodology as the one explained in recitals (29) to (38). 7.3.2.
Determination of normal value for all exporting producers not granted MET (i) Analogue country (72) Pursuant to Article 2(7)(a) of the Basic Regulation, normal value for the exporting producers not granted market economy treatment has to be established on the basis of the prices or constructed value in a market economy third country ("analogue country"). (73) In the notice of initiation, the USA was envisaged as an appropriate market economy third country for the purpose of establishing normal value for the PRC and interested parties were invited to comment on this.
Three exporting producers contested this choice within the deadlines and one proposed the choice of an exporting country involved in the current proceeding with the lowest normal value found as analogue country.
It was argued that the level of economic development of the USA is different from that of PRC and that costs, including prices of raw materials, are relatively higher in the USA. (74) In order to establish whether the envisaged choice of the USA as analogue country was appropriate, the Commission first requested information regarding sales and market conditions from known producers of PSF in other market economy countries, namely in the USA, India, Indonesia and Thailand.
In contrast, in the USA both virgin and recycled PSF was sold in significant quantities.
The other potential analogue countries are subject to anti-dumping duties and/or countervailing duties which could indicate distortions in their domestic markets of this product. (76) The analysis of all of the information available to the Commission showed that the USA has a large and highly competitive market for the product concerned, with more than ten producers and significant imports from third countries.
It was therefore concluded that the access to raw materials in the USA was easier or at least similar as compared to the PRC. (79) The choice of the analogue country on the basis of the lowest normal value found was considered unreasonable as it is not based on clear criteria but rather on the final result.
It is precisely the aim of Article 2(7)(a) of the Basic Regulation that an analogue country is selected in order for normal value to be based on prices and costs unbiased by non-market economy conditions. (80) As far as the different level of economic development of the USA and the PRC is concerned, this in itself is not a relevant factor when selecting an analogue country.
Indeed, the selection of a modern and cost efficient market characterised by intensive competition should result in a lower normal value than if the analogue country has a comparable economic development to the non market economy country. (81) Considering the above, it was concluded that the USA was the most appropriate analogue country and that under these circumstances the selection of the USA seemed reasonable and justified in accordance with Article 2(7) of the Basic Regulation. (82) The Commission subsequently sent a more detailed questionnaire to the producer in the USA requesting information on domestic sales prices and cost of production of the like product.
It was argued that South Korea or Taiwan should be used instead. (84) It should be noted that the above investigation relates to practices occurring more than a year before the start of the investigation period and no information was available which would indicate that such practices, carried-out by the two market actors which have pleaded guilty, would have affected the prices during the IP which were used as the basis for the normal value calculation.
On the contrary, when comparing the profit margin made by the producer in the analogue country on domestic sales of the like product, with that made by producers in Korea and Taiwan, such margin was found to be either similar or lower.
Furthermore, the investigation has not resulted in any charges against the cooperating US producer (Wellman Inc.), which was informed by the US authorities in September 2004 that no indictment was sought for the company or its employees.
Comparison (88) Claimed adjustments were made in respect of duty drawback, transport, insurance and handling, packing and credit costs, bank charges and commissions where applicable and justified. (89) Certain product types exported by the Chinese exporting producers which were granted IT had some different physical characteristics when compared to the comparable types sold in the analogue country, such as lustre, colour, cross section or silicon treatment.
In the absence of the same sales channels in the analogue country, a special adjustment has been granted, in accordance with Article 2(10)(d)(ii) of the Basic Regulation, by deducting from the end-users normal value, an amount corresponding to 10 % of the gross profit margin. (91) On the basis of the above, normal value was established for between around 70 % and around 90 % of the companies' granted IT exported quantity of the product concerned to the Community.
This was considered representative of the degree of dumping being practiced. (92) An adjustment was also made with regard to the Chinese exporting producer for differences in VAT reimbursement. 7.6.
Ltd. | 63,2 % | All other companies | 85,8 % | 8.
SAUDI ARABIA (97) Questionnaire replies were received from two exporting producers and five importers related to one of the exporters. 8.1.
No information was available which would indicate that such profit margin exceeds the profit normally realized by other exporters or producers on sales of products of the same general category in the domestic market of Saudi Arabia, as required by Article 2(6)(c) of the Basic Regulation. 8.1.2.
Export price (101) All sales were made to the Community via a related importer, which resold the product to both related and unrelated customers.
Consequently, the export price was constructed pursuant to Article 2(9) of the Basic Regulation. 8.1.3.
Comparison (102) Adjustments were made for differences in transportation, insurance, packing, and credit costs. (103) An allowance to the normal value was also claimed by this exporting producer for after sales costs on the domestic market.
National Polyester Fibers Factory ("NPF") (104) The questionnaire reply submitted by this exporting producer was significantly deficient and contained contradictory information.
It was therefore considered that the sales data submitted in the questionnaire reply could not be regarded as a reliable basis to establish a dumping margin. (105) Furthermore, data pertaining to cost of production could not be reconciled with the company's internal accounting documents and no substantiating evidence was made available showing that the reported data was indeed complete and correct.
It was therefore concluded that the information submitted on the cost of production of the like product was not reliable and could not be used as a basis to determine the normal value. (106) In view of the above, it was considered that the dumping margin for this exporting producer could not be established on the basis of its own data.
Therefore, it was considered appropriate to set the dumping margin for NPF at the same level as the one established for the other exporting producer in Saudi Arabia. (107) The company contested the approach arguing that it had acted with total transparency and that any errors in the information provided were unintentional and purely clerical.
Furthermore, as stated above, there were no reasons to conclude that NPF dumped at a different level than the other exporting producer in Saudi Arabia.
As explained in recital (106), the dumping margin for the other exporting producer in Saudi Arabia, namely NPF, was established at the same level as the margin found for the cooperating producer in Saudi Arabia (Sabic). (110) The comparison between the normal value and the export price showed the existence of dumping.
The dumping margins, expressed as a percentage of the CIF net free-at-Community-frontier price, before duty, are: National Polyester Fibers Factory 31,7 % Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (Sabic) 31,7 % (111) Since the aforementioned two companies represented all export sales from Saudi Arabia to the Community, as explained in recital (48), the residual duty was also set at the level of the cooperating company with the highest dumping margin.
Thus, the residual duty expressed as a percentage of the CIF net free-at-Community-frontier price, before duty, is 31,7 %. 9.
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA (112) Questionnaire replies were received from the three exporting producers selected in the sample. (113) One exporting producer initially submitted data for all products containing polyester.
Normal value (114) For the three exporting producers selected in the sample, sales of the like product were representative as defined in recitals (29) to (31).
To a large extent, normal value was based on prices paid or payable, in the ordinary course of trade, by independent customers in the Republic of Korea, in accordance with Article 2(1) of the Basic Regulation.
However, for those product types where the domestic sales were insufficient to be considered representative or not made in the ordinary course of trade, normal value was constructed in accordance with Article 2(3) of the basic Regulation, as explained in recital (34). (115) One exporting producer in the Republic of Korea reported sales made to Korean manufacturing companies as domestic sales, although the product was ultimately destined for export.
The exporting producer argued that these sales were intended for domestic consumption.
Under these circumstances, and in accordance with the approach taken in the investigation mentioned in recital (2) (the "original investigation"), these sales were excluded for the purpose of calculating normal value for that company. (116) The same exporting producer in the Republic of Korea benefited from a national programme designed to help Korean companies in financial difficulties, the so called "work out programme".
It was therefore considered that this amount should not be considered as an ordinary income to be taken into account in the calculation of the SG%amp%A.
However, this claim was already investigated during the on-spot verification visit where the company failed to submit any supporting evidence which could show the part of the insurance income which was allegedly destined for the loss of business.
This claim had therefore to be rejected. 9.2.
Therefore, since export prices were reliable, there was no need to recur to the provisions set out in Article 2(9) of the Basic Regulation and to conclude on the relationship between the companies. (123) Therefore, in the case of this exporting producer, the export price was based on the prices paid or payable by all customers in the Community. (124) For the two other exporting producers, the export price was based on the prices paid or payable by unrelated customers in the Community. 9.3.
Comparison (125) To ensure a fair comparison, allowances were made for differences in import charges and indirect taxes, duties, transport, insurance, handling, loading and ancillary costs, packing costs, bank charges, credit costs and commissions where applicable and justified. (126) All three exporting producers made a claim for duty drawback on the grounds that import charges were borne by the like product when intended for consumption in the exporting country but were refunded when the product was sold for export to the Community.
The methodology used in the present investigation was compatible with the conditions set out in Article 2(10)(b) insofar as it accurately reflected the actual import level of duties borne by the like product and was therefore considered as the most appropriate and thus maintained. (129) In addition, all three exporting producers claimed credit costs on the basis of the actual credit period taken by customers under the "open account" payment system used on the Korean domestic market.
The exporting producers' claims had therefore to be rejected. (131) One exporting producer requested an adjustment for differences in the level of trade either in accordance with Article 2(10)(k) ("other factors") or Article 2(10)(d)(ii) of the Basic Regulation.
However, the company was not in a position to demonstrate the existence of any such consistent and distinct difference in prices.
Therefore, it was not possible to conclude that the difference in the level of trade affected price comparability and consequently this claim had to be rejected. (132) One exporting producer claimed that an adjustment for differences in physical characteristics was warranted on the basis of differences in the denier and lustre between product types.
However, the company could not substantiate that the difference in the denier and lustre affected price or price comparability and this claim had consequently to be rejected. 9.4.
Furthermore, it was found that a comparison made on an average-to-average basis would not reflect the significant dumping being practised in the first time period of the IP, as that method would not enable significant differences in the pattern of export prices between the first and the second time period of the IP to be taken appropriately into account.
Therefore, and in view of the findings referred to under recital (134), it was concluded that the weighted average normal value should be compared to prices of all individual export transactions in accordance with Article 2(11) of the basic Regulation, in order to reflect the full degree of dumping being practised. (134) For the reasons set out in recital (44) a comparison of individual normal values and individual export prices on a transaction-by-transaction basis was not possible.
In addition, the claim by the exporting producer that there is an economic justification for this limited number of transactions is in contradiction with information provided by the company itself, which claimed during the investigation that price compensation had taken place after the IP.
Given the above, the methodology of comparing the weighted average normal value to the prices of all individual export transactions is appropriate in this case. (136) For cooperating companies not included in the sample, the dumping margin was established on the basis of a weighted average dumping margin calculated for the companies selected in the sample.
TAIWAN (138) Questionnaire replies were received from the two exporting producers selected in the sample. (139) Both exporting producers initially submitted data for all products containing polyester.
To a large extent, normal value was based on prices paid or payable, in the ordinary course of trade, by independent customers in Taiwan, in accordance with Article 2(1) of the Basic Regulation.
However, for those product types where the domestic sales were insufficient or not made in the ordinary course of trade, normal value was constructed in accordance with Article 2(3) of the Basic Regulation, as explained in recital (34).
SG%amp%A and profit were based on actual data pertaining to production and sales, in the ordinary course of trade, of the like product, by the exporting producer under investigation, in accordance with the chapeau of Article 2(6) of the Basic Regulation. 10.2.
Export price (141) For both exporting producers export prices were established on the basis of the prices actually paid by unrelated customers in the Community in accordance with Article 2(8) of the Basic Regulation. 10.3.
GENERAL (147) In the framework of the interim review concerning Taiwan and the Republic of Korea, it was also examined whether the changed circumstances with respect to the original investigation regarding dumping and injury could reasonably be considered to be of a lasting nature in accordance with Article 11(3) of the Basic Regulation. (148) Moreover, with regard to Taiwan and in accordance with Article 11(7) of the Basic Regulation, it was also examined whether it was likely that dumping would continue or recur should measures be repealed. 2.
With regard to the third exporting producer, as in the original investigation, dumping was found at a de minimis level. (150) The analysis concerning the lasting nature of the changed circumstances with regard to dumping took into account the production capacity, the evolution of the volume of sales on the domestic market, on the Community market and on the export to other third countries market, as well as the prices of the product concerned sold on each of the mentioned markets of the three exporting producers in the Republic of Korea selected in the sample, which represented more than 80 % of the exports of the product concerned to the Community during the IP. 2.1.
Production capacity (151) The production volume of the product concerned has increased slightly by 3,5 % since 2001 (measures were imposed in December 2000), while production capacity decreased by around 4 %.
Therefore, the capacity utilisation reached high levels (89 % in 2001 and 95 % during the IP) and spare capacities are low.
Furthermore, Korean producers are rather export oriented companies selling over 70 % of their PSF production to third country markets.
On the basis of the information available, it can therefore not be concluded that a change in the size of the domestic market would automatically lead to an increase in exports of PSF to the Community at increasingly dumped prices. (153) As far as export sales to other third countries are concerned, these have been stable over the last three financial years, representing around 68 % of the total sales of the product concerned.
There is no reason to believe that third country markets cannot absorb further exports in future, in particular when PSF demand is increasing world-wide due to a wider application of the product concerned, not limited anymore to spinning or woven, but also increasingly to non-woven applications. (154) Given the high capacity utilisation rate of the Korean producers, the low spare capacities as well as the rather stable situation on the domestic and other export markets, it is also unlikely that a decrease of the level of anti-dumping measures would lead to a significant increase of imports of the product concerned in the Community. 2.3.
It was however considered that since the raw materials are commodities for which the price is internationally determined, the effect of the increase in prices of raw materials would have the same effect on the export price as on the normal value, since all actors on the market would be affected in the same way. 2.5.
Conclusions for the Republic of Korea (158) Given the above and in accordance with Article 11(3) of the basic Regulation, it was concluded that the changed circumstances that have led to the decrease of the dumping margin could be reasonably said to be of a lasting nature. (159) As far as the company is concerned for which a de minimis dumping margin was found, it should be noted that this company was already subject to a 0 % anti-dumping duty since imposition of the definitive measures in 2000.
Nevertheless, despite the low priced imports from in particular the PRC and Saudi Arabia, which were in competition with the Korean imports, no dumping could be found for this company in the present interim review.
TAIWAN (162) The analysis took into account the production capacity, the evolution of the volume of sales on the domestic market, on the Community market and on the export to third countries (excluding the Community) market, as well as the prices of the product concerned sold on each of the mentioned markets of the two exporting producers in Taiwan selected in the sample, which represented more than 90 % of the exports of the product concerned to the Community during the IP. 3.1.
Production capacity (163) During the last four financial years the production capacity of the two exporting producers in Taiwan has decreased by around 6,5 %.
Although the capacity utilisation is overall of only 73 %, this capacity utilisation has remained stable over time.
The sales volumes to the Community market were still substantial as they accounted for 24 % of the total sales quantity of the product concerned during the IP.
Despite the measures in force by other third countries (China and Japan), exports to third countries have increased by 14 % over three years, representing in the IP 62 % of the total sales quantity of the product concerned. (165) Sales on the domestic market during the last three financial years remained stable, representing 13,4 % of total sales of the product concerned during the IP. (166) Considering that the exporting producers, although being subject to anti-dumping measures in several third countries have continued to increase their exports to third countries other than the Community, and that they continued to maintain a substantial presence on the Community market, there is no clear indication that any spare capacity would be redirected towards the Community market should the proceeding against Taiwan be terminated.
Sales prices on export markets (167) A price comparison was made between the prices of the product concerned sold for export to the Community and for export to third countries during the investigation period. (168) It was found that for the global figures (including all types of the product concerned), the selling prices of the product concerned were significantly higher (more than 10 % for the last three financial years) in the Community than in third countries.
However, this price difference noted between the Community market and other export markets might be explained to a large extent by the existence of high price dispersions between the product types exported by the exporting producers.
The domestic market has remained stable and the cost situation relating to the domestic market has remained stable. (171) As far as the influence of raw material prices on the normal value is concerned, the conclusions of recital (157) apply also in the case of Taiwan. 3.5.
Conclusions for Taiwan (172) The above analysis shows no indication that dumping would recur should measures be repealed. 4.
CONCLUSION ON THE LIKELIHOOD OF CONTINUATION/RECURRENCE OF (INJURIOUS) DUMPING (173) The current measures in place regarding imports of PSF originating in the Republic of Korea are above what is necessary in order to remove the injurious effect of the dumped imports.
Considering the likelihood that dumping would continue or recur if the measures were terminated and referring to the findings of dumping notwithstanding the measures currently in force against the Republic of Korea, it is concluded that the measures should be amended and set at the levels found in the current review. (174) The current measures in place regarding imports of PSF originating in Taiwan are no longer warranted.
Considering that no element was found that there was a likelihood that dumping would continue or recur if the measures were repealed and referring to the findings on dumping (de minimis) resulting from the current review, it is concluded that the proceeding against Taiwan should be terminated without the imposition of measures. (175) The complainant Community industry objected to the proposed termination of the anti-dumping proceeding against imports from Taiwan.
It was additionally claimed that, since the production capacity of these companies would represent about 66 % of the Community consumption, the impact of these exports would be significant. (176) It is noted that the selected sample represented not only 95 % of Taiwanese exports to the EU, but also 43 % of the Taiwanese exports to other countries, 71 % of domestic sales and 57 % of the domestic production of PSF and was therefore largely representative in accordance with Article 17 of the basic Regulation.
DEFINITION OF THE COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (179) The following European Community producers have supported the complaint: - Catalana de Polimers, S.A., Spain - Dupont Sabanci Polyester GmbH, Germany - Industrias Químicas Textiles, S.A., Spain - Tergal Fibres, S.A., France - Trevira GmbH, Germany - Wellman International Limited, Ireland (180) As these six complainant cooperating Community producers represent 49 % of the Community production of the product concerned, and since no non-complainant Community producer has expressly manifested its opposition against the initiation of the present proceeding, it is considered that the complainant producers constitute the Community industry within the meaning of Articles 4(1) and 5(4) of the Basic Regulation.
COMMUNITY CONSUMPTION (181) Community consumption was established on the basis of the volume of imports of the product concerned from the countries concerned and from all other third countries known to produce and export the product concerned to the Community, plus the volume of sales in the Community market of both the Community industry and other Community producers.
As only two out of 10 non-complainant Community producers submitted information on their sales, the sales of the remaining eight non-complainant producers were calculated further to data reported in the complaint lodged by the Community industry.
Note that the volume of imports reported by producers in the exporting countries concerned was in line with the corresponding Eurostat figures. (183) On this basis, Community consumption has stagnated, passing from 712773 tonnes in 2000 to 709828 tonnes in the IP.
Table 1 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Community consumption (tonnes) | 712773 | 661227 | 729916 | 709828 | Index | 100 | 94 | 102 | 99 | 3.
Cumulation (184) As regards Taiwan, the dumping margin found amounted to less than 2 % (see recitals (138) to (146)).
Conditions of competition (188) In order to determine the appropriateness of a cumulative assessment in view of the conditions of competition between imported products and the like Community product, the Commission has initially analysed the exporters' market behaviour in terms of export prices and volumes. (189) Similar market behaviour of PRC, Saudi Arabian and South Korean producers in terms of export prices was found.
In fact, said countries have decreased their respective average unit selling prices of PSF by 27 %, 23 % and 15 %, throughout the period under consideration.
In addition, a very similar level of undercutting has been determined for imports of all the three countries (see recital (200)). (190) Likewise, all three countries hold significant market shares in the Community market although South Korea is by far the most important exporting country of the three countries concerned (in the IP, 4,7 % in the case of the PRC, 3,1 % in the case of Saudi Arabia and 10 % in the case of South Korea). (191) The investigation also determined that imports from the PRC, Saudi Arabia and South Korea into the Community used the same sales channels, as in the vast majority, said imports are traded through distributors, rather than sold to final customers. (192) Furthermore, as explained above (see recitals (22) and following) it has been found that the product concerned imported from the PRC, Saudi Arabia and South Korea and produced by the Community industry share the same basic technical, physical and chemical characteristics, and are to be considered alike in terms of interchangeability and substitutability, thus competing with each other on a type by type basis. (193) One exporting producer from Saudi Arabia claimed that PSF imported from said country is not in competition with PSF as manufactured by other countries concerned, in particular the PRC, and by the Community industry.
Secondly, exports of PSF from South Korea are not concentrated in the "hollow conjugate" type, as this latter represents only a 24 % of total exports to the European Community for the IP.
Table 2 PRC, Saudi Arabia %amp% South Korea | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Imports (tonnes) | 111905 | 89457 | 120847 | 125633 | Index | 100 | 79 | 107 | 112 | Market Share | 15,6 % | 13,5 % | 16,5 % | 17,6 % | 3.3.
Prices and Undercutting (199) The weighted average price of the dumped imports originating in the PRC, Saudi Arabia and South Korea has declined by 18 % between 2000 and the IP.
Table 3 PRC, Saudi Arabia %amp% South Korea | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Weighted average price (EUR/kg) | 1,08 | 1,07 | 0,9689 | 0,89 | Index | 100 | 99 | 88 | 82 | (200) For the determination of price undercutting, the Commission analysed data referring to the IP.
Prices for the different product types of PSF defined in the questionnaires were compared with the sales prices charged by the exporters, net of discounts, by applying the necessary and warranted adjustments to bring the prices to CIF Community frontier level. (201) During the IP, the weighted average undercutting margin was 16 % for the PRC, 16,8 % for Saudi Arabia and 24 % for South Korea. 4.
Production (202) Production in volume by the Community industry has decreased by 5 % during the period under consideration.
Table 4 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Production (tonnes) | 236902 | 229598 | 225290 | 224649 | Index | 100 | 97 | 95 | 95 | 4.2.
During the IP, capacity of production of the Community industry amounts to 36 % of total Community consumption. (204) Capacity utilisation rates have diminished by 6 percentage points from 87 % to 81 %.
As capacity of production has not decreased itself, this decline in the capacity utilisation is merely due to the decrease in production volumes of the Community industry.
Table 5 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Capacity of production (tonnes) | 271466 | 272561 | 277561 | 277561 | Index | 100 | 100 | 102 | 102 | Capacity utilisation | 87 % | 84 % | 81 % | 81 % | 4.3.
Stocks (205) Stocks have increased during the period under consideration by 13 %.
Table 6 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Stocks (tonnes) | 20560 | 22301 | 21592 | 23317 | Index | 100 | 108 | 105 | 113 | 4.4.
During the period under consideration, the five companies providing reliable investment data have carried out investments for a value of EUR 34,5 million.
Table 7 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Investments (EUR) (5 out of 6 companies) | 4325661 | 12850473 | 5833264 | 11522994 | Index | 100 | 297 | 132 | 238 | 4.5.
Sales and market share (208) PSF sales by the Community industry in the European Community have declined by 6 % from 2000 to the IP.
As Community consumption increased by 11 % during the period under consideration, such decrease of sales has been translated in a loss of market shares.
In particular, market share of the Community industry has passed from 31 % to 29 % in the IP.
Table 8 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Sales in the EC (tonnes) | 220695 | 213322 | 211609 | 206926 | Index | 100 | 97 | 96 | 94 | Market share | 31 % | 32 % | 29 % | 29 % | 4.6.
Prices (209) The Community industry's unit selling price has decreased by 8 % during the period under consideration.
Table 9 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Weighted average price (EUR/kg) | 1,48 | 1,49 | 1,38 | 1,36 | Index | 100 | 101 | 93 | 92 | 4.7.
Profitability (210) The weighted average profitability on net turnover of the Community industry decreased from 4,4 % in 2000 to – 3,2 % in the IP.
Table 10 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Weighted average profitability on net turnover | 4,4 % | 1,2 % | – 2,9 % | – 3,2 % | 4.8.
Cash flow and return on net assets (211) Cash flow has diminished during the period under consideration from EUR 25687824 in 2000 to EUR 12178328 in the IP. (212) Return on net assets was based on information provided by 5 of the companies.
Indeed, it passed from 51,1 % in 2000 to – 8,5 % in the IP.
Table 11 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Cash flow (EUR) | 25687824 | 17843711 | 14511142 | 12178328 | Index | 100 | 70 | 56 | 47 | Weighted return on net assets (5 out of 6 companies) | 51,1 % | 19,9 % | 47,4 % | – 8,5 % | 4.9.
For the rest of the years comprised in the period under consideration, total wages increased 5 % far below the average increase during the period under consideration of the harmonised index of consumer prices for the four countries where Community industry is located (i.e. 9,1 %).
Table 12 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Employees | 1270 | 1223 | 1227 | 1186 | Index | 100 | 96 | 97 | 93 | Weighted average salary (EUR/year) (5 out of 6 companies in 2000) | 31993 | 40340 | 41054 | 42430 | Index | | 100 | 102 | 105 | 4.11.
Productivity (216) Productivity for the total market was stable during the period under consideration, as it has only decreased by 2 % from 2000 until the IP.
This stagnation in productivity mirrors the low level of investments carried out by the Community industry (in quality and in quantity, see recitals (206) and following).
Table 13 | 2000 | 2001 | 2002 | IP | Productivity (tonnes/employee) | 195 | 195 | 190 | 192 | Index | 100 | 100 | 97 | 98 | 4.12.
Growth (217) Overall, it has to be noted that the Community industry's market shares fell by 2 percentage points, which shows that its growth lagged behind the decreasing level of consumption of the overall market (which decreased by 1 %). 4.13.
CONCLUSION ON INJURY (220) Imports volumes from the PRC, Saudi Arabia and South Korea have increased considerably, both in absolute terms and in terms of market share.
Indeed, during the period under consideration, they gained 2 percentage points in market share.
Moreover, the weighted average price of imports from these countries has decreased by 18 % over the period under consideration.
This decrease is mirrored in the significant price undercutting found. (221) Most of the Community industry injury indicators have shown a negative evolution during the period under consideration, which points to a situation of material injury: whereas total Community consumption of PSF has stagnated, the Community industry's total sales in volume have decreased by 6 %, with a corresponding loss in market shares of 2 percentage points; production in volume has decreased; capacity of production has stagnated and capacity utilisation has diminished by 6 %; average unit selling price has decreased by 8 %; profitability on net turnover has yielded negative results, being reduced by 7,6 percentage points during the period under consideration; other profitability related indicators as cash flow and return on net assets have also deteriorated during the period under consideration; employment and productivity decreased by 7 % and 2 % respectively.
The positive developments in investments and wages do not put into question the overall injurious picture of the Community industry as the investment levels were low for such a capital-intensive industry and as the increase in wages essentially compensated for the inflation during the period under consideration. (222) Based on the foregoing, it follows that the Community industry is in a difficult economic and financial situation and has suffered material injury within the meaning of Article 3 of the Basic Regulation.
INTRODUCTION (223) In accordance with Article 3(6) and (7) of the Basic Regulation, it was examined whether the material injury suffered by the Community industry had been caused by the dumped imports from the countries concerned.
Furthermore, in accordance with Article 3(7) of the basic Regulation known factors other than the dumped imports, which might have injured the Community industry, were examined to ensure that any injury caused by those factors was not wrongly attributed to the dumped imports. 2.
EFFECT OF THE DUMPED IMPORTS (224) Imports from the countries concerned have increased during the period under consideration, by 12 % in terms of volume, and by 2 percentage points in terms of market share.
Prices of imports originating in the PRC, Saudi Arabia and South Korea decreased by 18 % and considerably undercut Community industry prices by 16 %, 16,8 % and 24 % respectively. (225) The increase in the volume of imports originating in the PRC, Saudi Arabia and South Korea and their gain in market share, at prices which remained well below those of the Community industry, coincided in time with the deterioration of the situation of the Community industry. (226) The Community industry's sales in volume and market shares have fallen.
Sales in volume have decreased by 6 % and market shares diminished by 2 percentage points.
In particular, Community industry prices started to decline after 2001, at the same time when the average import prices from the PRC, Saudi Arabia and South Korea declined (see recitals (199) and (209), and tables 3 and 9 respectively).
The price suppressing effect of the dumped imports could therefore be clearly established. (228) Profitability of the Community industry has dramatically deteriorated as from the beginning of the period under consideration and was negative in 2002 and during the IP.
The losses of the Community industry from 2002 onwards coincided with the increase of the PSF imports from the countries concerned at particularly low prices.
As mentioned in recital (145), imports from Taiwan were made at de minimis dumping levels during the IP. (235) Import volumes from other third countries slightly increased from 133798 tonnes in 2000 to 137123 tonnes in the IP.
This small increase, together with the stable consumption of PSF has been translated into stagnating market shares for imports of third countries other than the ones concerned (19 % in 2000 and in the IP). (236) Furthermore, according to Eurostat data and to data verified on spot, for the IP, weighted average prices of the product concerned originating in the rest of the main exporting countries (1,25 EUR/kg) were at a very similar level to the weighted average prices of the Community industry.
Therefore, it is concluded that these imports cannot have caused any injury to the Community industry. (237) Some exporting producers have alleged that Turkish exports into the Community are made at dumped prices which would have contributed to the injurious situation of the Community industry. (238) The vast majority of Turkish imports of PSF into the Community are distributed by one of the complainant companies, which is related to the Turkish exporting producer.
Non complainant Community producers (239) Non-complainant Community producers of the product concerned held a market share of 31,5 % during the IP.
During the period under consideration, their sales volume decreased by 7 % and their market share declined by 2 percentage points. (240) In addition, pursuant to information available, there are indications that average prices of non complainant producers are at the same level as the complainant producers' average prices.
Therefore, it cannot be concluded that other Community producers caused material injury to the Community industry. 3.5.
Fluctuation of raw material prices (241) The cost of raw materials is a substantial part of the total cost of production of PSF (about 60 % of total cost of production).
As found in the verification visits, the evolution of the price of recycled materials is usually linked to the fluctuation of MEG and PTA prices. (244) Based on the above, some exporting producers have claimed that injury allegedly suffered by the Community industry has been caused by the fluctuations of raw material costs, in particular by the world-wide price increase of petroleum. (245) In this respect, pursuant to information supplied by raw material producers, it was found that prices of MEG and PTA increased from 2002 until the end of the IP by 14 % and 13 % respectively.
It was found, that the Community producers were not able to pass on any increased raw material costs to their customers due to the competition from dumped imports. (246) In addition, any possible impact of the fluctuations of raw material prices on PSF prices is susceptible to affect both the Community industry and the exporters located in the countries concerned, as petroleum is a commodity with homogeneous pricing all around the world.
Accordingly, the above claim was rejected. 3.6.
However, their volumes stagnated during the period under consideration (even slightly decreasing from year 2002 to the IP), while imports from the dumping countries have increased throughout the same period by 12 %.
CONCLUSION ON CAUSATION (251) The coincidence in time between, on the one hand, the increase of dumped imports from the countries concerned, the increase in market shares and the undercutting found and, on the other hand, the deterioration of the situation of the Community industry, lead to the conclusion that the dumped imports are a cause of the material injury suffered by the Community industry.
On the other hand, although it cannot be excluded that other factors, such as the fluctuation of raw material prices and the currency fluctuations could have contributed to the injurious situation of the Community industry, the effect of said factors is not such as to alter the finding that there is genuine and substantial causal link between the dumped imports from the countries concerned and the material injury suffered by the Community industry.
PRELIMINARY REMARK (253) In accordance with Article 21 of the Basic Regulation, it was considered whether the imposition of anti-dumping measures would be contrary to the interests of the Community as a whole.
On this basis, the Commission sent questionnaires to the Community industry, 10 other Community producers, 23 users and 3 suppliers of raw materials.
The 6 complainant Community industry producers, 2 non-complainant producers, 5 related importers, 15 users and 2 providers of raw materials replied to the questionnaire [8]. (255) 31 unrelated importers were known at the initiation of the proceedings.
In view of that large number of unrelated importers and in conformity with Article 17 of the Basic Regulation, the Commission decided to carry out its investigation on the basis of a sample of said unrelated importers.
The remaining four sampled companies covered 14,6 % of total imports concerned.
The final sample consisted of the following companies: - S.I.M.P., SpA., Italy - Highams Group Ltd., United Kingdom - Tob Herman Industries, N.V., Belgium - Marubeni Europe plc, Hamburg Branch, Germany (257) On this basis, it was examined whether, despite the conclusions on dumping, on the situation of the Community industry and on causation, compelling reasons existed which would lead to the conclusion that it was not in the Community interest to impose measures in this particular case. 2.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (258) The Community industry has suffered material injury, as set out in recitals (202) and following. (259) The imposition of anti-dumping measures would allow the Community industry to reach the levels of profitability which it would have been able to achieve in the absence of dumped imports, and to take advantage of developments in the Community market.
It is considered, therefore, that the imposition of measures would be in the interest of the Community industry. 3.
IMPACT ON USERS AND IMPORTERS (262) As indicated in recitals (254) and (256), the Commission received 15 questionnaire replies from users, 4 full questionnaires from unrelated importers selected for the sample and 5 from related importers.
Said users are members of one of the three users associations cooperating in this proceeding, which represents the non-woven industry at a European level [9].
Further to information on purchases reported in their responses to the questionnaires, cooperating users during the IP represent about 5 % of total Community consumption of PSF and about 13 % of total imports from the countries concerned.
Users and importers have indicated a number of arguments against the imposition of duties. (264) First, the downstream industry has alleged that the Community PSF market substantially depends on external suppliers of the product concerned (the European producers can at maximum satisfy about 60 % of the PSF market demand).
As reported by the non-woven producers, PSF represents on average 40 % of the total cost of production of the product manufactured by them.
It has been alleged that the imposition of duties could lead to a loss of jobs or to moving manufacturing facilities overseas. (268) Regarding the Community market's alleged dependence on external suppliers, it is considered that, whereas duties against imports from the PRC and Saudi Arabia would be at an average level of 27 %, these countries only held 7 % of the market share during the IP.
On the other hand, as reported by one prestigious fibre market consultancy firm, major producers of PSF located in countries not subject to anti-dumping duties (mainly the USA, Mexico, Turkey and South Africa) held during the IP an excess capacity amounting to approximately 50 % of the total Community consumption.
In addition, imports from these countries already hold an important share of the Community market, reaching 5,3 % in the IP. (269) Therefore, in spite of the proposed introduction of duties against the PRC and Saudi Arabia, and taking into account the termination of the measures against Taiwan and the reduction of those applicable on South Korea, the Community users would still be able to rely on (or to switch to) important suppliers of the product concerned, such as South Korea or on other major providers located in countries not subject to anti-dumping duties, including Taiwan. (270) Regarding PSF users alleged inability to pass on any increased costs arising from the imposition of anti-dumping duties, for the particular case of the cooperating users (who are almost exclusively producers of non-woven products) sourcing the product concerned from the PRC, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, and Taiwan, bearing in mind (i) that the average anti-dumping duty rate for the PRC and Saudi Arabia amounts to 34,6 %, whereas said countries held during the IP a 7,8 % of the market; (ii) that the average duty rate to be imposed on imports from South Korea decreases the average duty rate introduced against such country through Regulation (EC) No 2852/2000 by 2 percentage points and that the measures against Taiwan are to be terminated; (iii) that South Korea and Taiwan held together 19,3 % of the Community market share in the IP and (iv) that the importance of PSF in the cost of production of the finished products of the cooperating users (of non-woven products) has been established as, on average, 40 % of the costs, the increase on the cost of production on the cooperating downstream industry as a consequence of the measures to be introduced would be in the region of 0,40 %. (271) If, as alleged by the users, they would not be able to pass on such an increase in their cost of production to their customers, the impact on their financial situation would not be significant.
It is also deemed that this low impact on the financial situation of the downwards industry shall avoid any negative effect in the job force of such an industry. (272) It has also been found that, despite the existence of anti-dumping and/or countervailing measures on about 50 % of imports of the product concerned from all third countries, market consumption in the non-woven segment of the market has increased during the period considered.
Pursuant to information supplied by the association representing the European non-woven producers, this sector has increased its production by about 17 % for the period from 2000 to 2002. (273) It has also been found that the hollow conjugate PSF can in fact also be produced by the Community industry which has the necessary technical know-how and machinery.
The Commission has found that during the IP, the Community industry employed about 60 % of virgin raw materials and 40 % of recycled raw materials for the production of PSF.
Another one envisages to incorporate such a recycling line during 2004 and 2005. (277) Article 6 of the Treaty establishing the European Community ("the Treaty") considers environmental protection as a common policy or activity to achieve the objectives set forth in Article 2 of the Treaty, among them the sustainable development of economic activities.
In this framework, the Community has considered waste prevention and waste management as one of its top priorities. (278) In particular, the Community has enacted legislation concerning packaging and packaging waste [10].
In this context, the European Community has recently established that not later than 31 December 2008, a minimum recycling target of 22,5 % of plastic material contained in packaging waste shall be attained [11]. (279) It has been found that Community PSF industry consumed 70 % of the recycling of PET bottles during the IP, being by a long way, the main end-user of such packaging waste [12].
From this data, it appears that the recycling of PET packaging waste in Europe significantly depends on the PSF industry, as it is its most important customer. (280) The Commission considers that the imposition of duties shall contribute to guarantee the viability of an industrial sector which, as its main customer, holds a central position in the recycling of PET packaging waste. (281) The above conclusion is not modified by the fact that the Community recycling industry also exports PET waste to the PRC, as put forward by some interested parties.
TERMINATION OF THE PROCEEDING IN RESPECT OF TAIWAN (283) In view of the findings set out in recitals (143) and following, the anti-dumping measures currently in force against Taiwan are not longer warranted.
In accordance with Article 11 in conjunction with Article 9 of the Basic Regulation, where, after consultation, protective measures are unnecessary and there is no objection raised within the advisory Committee, the investigation or proceeding shall be terminated. (284) In the light of the above, the Commission has concluded that the continuation of protective measures currently in force against Taiwan is unnecessary and that the proceeding should be terminated.
ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
INJURY ELIMINATION LEVEL (285) The level of the anti-dumping measures should be sufficient to eliminate the injury caused to the Community industry by the dumped imports without exceeding the dumping margin found.
It is considered that in the absence of dumped imports the Community industry should yield a profitability before taxes of 5 %, a level deemed appropriate in the complaint lodged by the Community industry.
In the absence of any information to the contrary, this level of profit was again considered to be appropriate. (286) The necessary price increase was then determined on the basis of a comparison, at the same level of trade, of the weighted average import price, as established for the price undercutting calculations, with the non-injurious price for the like product sold by the Community industry in the Community market. (287) The non-injurious price was obtained by adjusting the sales price of the Community industry to reflect the above mentioned profit margin of 5 %.
Any difference resulting from this comparison was then expressed as a percentage of the total CIF import value. 2.
DEFINITIVE MEASURES (288) In the light of the foregoing, it is considered that, in accordance with Article 9(4) of the Basic Regulation, an anti-dumping duty should be imposed on imports of the product concerned from PRC, Saudi Arabia, and the Republic of Korea at the level of the lesser of the injury or dumping margins found. (289) On the basis of the above, the duty rates are as follows: Country | Company | Basis for ad duty (%) | People's Republic of China | Cixi Jiangnan Chemical Fiber Co.
Sanbei Town Industry Area, Cixi City, Zhejiang Province | 26,3 | Far Eastern Industries (Shanghai) Ltd. 31-33F, Baoan Tower, No 800, Dongfang Road, Pudong New District, 200122, Shanghai | 4,9 | Hangzhou An Shun Pettechs Fibre Industry Co.
No.37, East Avenue, Fu-Yang Town, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province | 18,6 | Deqing An Shun Pettechs Fibre Industry Co.
RM 911, Dae-Young Bldg, 44-1, Youido-Dong, Youngdungpo-ku, Seoul | 0 | Dongwoo Industry Co.
Bongwan #202, Gumi Techno Business Center, 267 Gongdan-Dong, Gumi-si, Kyungbuk, Korea | 6,0 | Estal Industrial Co. 845 Hokye-dong, Yangsan-City, Kyungnam | 6,0 | Geum Poong Corporation 62-2, Gachun-Ri, Samnam-Myon, Ulju-Ku, Ulsan-shi | 6,0 | Keon Baek Co.
Ltd. 557-12, Dongkyu-Ri, Pochon-Eub Pochon-Kun, Kyungki-do | 6,0 | All other companies | 10,6 | (290) The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of findings of the present investigation.
UNDERTAKINGS (292) One cooperating exporting producer in Saudi Arabia offered a price undertaking in accordance with Article 8(1) of the Basic Regulation.
However, this offer could not be accepted because it would have meant exempting a certain volume of imports from definitive measures and would not, therefore, have been adequate to remove the injury caused to the Community industry.
Alternatively, these exporters also offered a minimum price applicable to all imports into the Community but at a level which did not eliminate the injurious effect of dumping.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of synthetic staple fibres of polyesters, not carded, combed or otherwise processed for spinning, falling within CN code 55032000, originating in the People's Republic of China and Saudi Arabia. 2.
The rate of duty applicable to the net free-at-Community-frontier price, before duty, for products produced by the following manufacturers shall be as follows: Country | Manufacturer | Rate of duty (%) | Taric additional code | People's Republic of China | Cixi Jiangnan Chemical Fiber Co.
Sanbei Town Industry Area, Cixi City, Zhejiang Province | 26,3 | A590 | Far Eastern Industries (Shanghai) Ltd. 31-33F, Baoan Tower, No800, Dongfang Road, Pudong New District, 200122, Shanghai | 4,9 | A591 | Hangzhou An Shun Pettechs Fibre Industry Co.
RM 911, Dae-Young Bldg, 44-1; Youido-Dong, Youngdungpo-ku; Seoul | 0 | A154 | Dongwoo Industry Co.
Ltd. 557-12, Dongkyu-Ri, Pochon-Eub Pochon-Kun, Kyungki-do | 6,0 | A613 | All other companies | 10,6 | A999 | Article 3 The anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of synthetic fibres of polyesters originating in Taiwan is hereby terminated.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 10 March 2005.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2004/12/EC (OJ L 47, 18.2.2004, p. 26). [11] See Article 6.1 of Directive 94/62/EC. [12] Other end uses are bottle-to-bottle recycling, using 11 % of PET bottles collected, polyester sheet, using 7,5 % and strapping, using 7,6 %. [13] European Commission, Directorate-General Trade, J-79 05/16, Rue de la Loi/Wetstraat 200, B-1049 Brussels. --------------------------------------------------
