Council Regulation (EC) No 1804/1999 of 19 July 1999 supplementing Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91 on organic production of agricultural products and indications referring thereto on agricultural products and foodstuffs to include livestock production COUNCIL REGULATION (EC) No 1804/1999 of 19 July 1999 supplementing Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91 on organic production of agricultural products and indications referring thereto on agricultural products and foodstuffs to include livestock production THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 37 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission(1), Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament(2), Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee(3), Whereas: (1) Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91(4) provide that the Commission is to put forward proposals before 30 June 1995 concerning the principles for, and specific inspection measures covering, organic production of livestock, unprocessed livestock products and products intended for human consumption containing ingredients of animal origin; (2) Demand for organically produced agricultural products is rising and consumers are increasingly attracted by such products; (3) Livestock production allows that range of products to be extended and permits the development on agricultural holdings practising organic farming of complementary activities accounting for a major share of income; (4) This Regulation harmonises rules of production, labelling and inspection for the most relevant livestock species; for species, other than aquatic species, for which no rules of production are developed in this Regulation, it is appropriate for consumer protection to harmonise at least the labelling requirements and the inspection system; for agriculture products such rules should be developed as soon as possible; (5) Moreover, livestock production is fundamental to the organisation of agricultural production on organic-production holdings in so far as it provides the necessary organic matter and nutrients for cultivated land and accordingly contributes towards soil improvement and the development of sustainable agriculture; (6) In order to avoid environmental pollution, in particular of natural resources such as the soil and water, organic production of livestock must in principle provide for a close relationship between such production and the land, suitable multiannual rotation systems and the feeding of livestock with organic-farming crop products produced on the holding itself; (7) In order to prevent pollution of water by nitrogenous compounds, organic-production livestock holdings should have appropriate storage capacity and plans for the spreading of solid and liquid livestock effluents; (8) Pastoral stockfarming carried out in accordance with the rules of organic farming is an activity particularly suited to the maintenance and exploitation of the potential of abandoned areas; (9) A wide biological diversity should be encouraged and the choice of breeds should take account of their capacity to adopt to local conditions; (10) Genetically modified organisms (GMOs) and products derived therefrom are not compatible with the organic production method; in order to maintain consumer confidence in organic production, genetically modified organisms, parts thereof and products derived therefrom should not be used in products labelled as from organic production; (11) Consumers should be given guarantees that the products have been produced in accordance with this Regulation; as far as technically possible, this should be based on the traceability of livestock products; (12) Livestock must be fed on grass, fodder and feedingstuffs produced in accordance with the rules of organic farming; (13) Under the present circumstances, stockfarmers may experience difficulty in securing supplies of feedingstuffs for organically reared livestock and therefore authorisation should provisionally be granted for a limited number of non-organically produced feedingstuffs to be used in restricted quantities; (14) In addition, in order to provide for the basic nutritional requirements of livestock, certain minerals, trace elements and vitamins may need to be used under well defined conditions; (15) Animal-health management should mainly be based on prevention, by measures such as appropriate selection of breeds and strains, a balanced high-quality diet and a favourable environment, in particular as regards rearing density, livestock housing and husbandry practices; (16) The preventive use of chemically-synthesised allopathic medicinal products is not permitted in organic farming; (17) However, when animals become sick or injured, they should be treated immediately by giving preference to phytotherapeutic or homeopathic medicinal products and by limiting to a strict minimum the use of chemically-synthesised allopathic medicinal products in order to guarantee the integrity of organic production for consumers it should be possible to take restrictive measures such as doubling the withdrawal period after use of chemically synthesised allopathic medicinal products; (18) In most cases livestock should have access to free-range exercise areas or grazing, weather conditions permitting, and such free-range areas should in principle be organised under an appropriate system of rotation; (19) Housing for all species of livestock should satisfy the needs of the animals concerned as regards ventilation, light, space and comfort and sufficient area should accordingly be provided to permit ample freedom of movement for each animal and to develop the animal's natural social behaviour; (20) Systematic operations which lead to stress, harm, disease or the suffering of animals during the production, handling, transport or slaughtering stages should be reduced to the minimum; however, specific interventions essential to certain types of production may be permitted; the use of certain substances to stimulate growth or modify breeding cycles is not compatible with the principles of organic farming; (21) The special features of beekeeping call for specific provisions, in particular to ensure that sources of pollen and nectar of adequate quality are available in sufficient quantities; (22) All operators marketing products of organically reared livestock should be subject to regular and uniform inspections; a register should be kept accessible at the holding and updated with details of livestock arriving at and leaving the holding and any treatment administered; (23) Regional differences in agricultural and climatological conditions call for certain transitional periods for certain practices, and regarding the characteristics of livestock buildings and installations; (24) The current diversity of established practices for organic production of livestock between the Member States requires that it should be possible for Member States to apply more restrictive rules for the livestock and livestock products produced in their territory; (25) The indications in the labelling, advertising material or commercial documents which are considered by the consumer as a reference to the organic production method are reserved by Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91 for products produced in accordance with that regulation; (26) Certain indications are generally considered by the consumer as a reference to the organic production method; (27) However, it is necessary to provide a transitional period in order to permit trade-mark holders to adapt their production to the requirements of organic farming, provided that such a transitional period is available only to trade marks bearing the aforementioned indications where application for registration was made before the publication of Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91 and that the consumer is informed appropriately of the fact that the products are not produced according to the organic production method, HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 1 Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91 is hereby amended as follows: 1.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, where the detailed production rules are not laid down in Annex I for certain animal species, the rules provided for labelling in Article 5 and for the inspections in Articles 8 and 9 shall apply for these species and the products therefrom, with the exception of aquaculture and aquaculture products.
The Commission shall, not later than 24 August 2001, propose a regulation in accordance with the procedure in Article 14 providing for labelling requirements as well as inspection requirements and precautionary measures for products mentioned in paragraph (1)(c), as far as these requirements are related to the organic production method.
Article 2 For the purposes of complying with the conversion periods referred to in Annex I, Sections B and C the period which has elapsed before 24 August 2000 shall be taken into account where the operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the inspection authority or body that during that period he was producing in accordance with the national rules in force, or failing that, with private standards accepted or recognised by the Member States.
It shall apply from 24 August 2000.
Done at Brussels, 19 July 1999.
LIVESTOCK AND LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS FROM THE FOLLOWING SPECIES: BOVINE (INCLUDING BUBALUS AND BISON SPECIES), PORCINE, OVINE, CAPRINE, EQUIDAE , POULTRY. 1.
General principles 1.1.
As part of this concept, landless production (%quot%production hors sol%quot%) is not in conformity with the rules of this Regulation. 1.3.
In organic stockfarming, all livestock on one and the same production unit must be reared in accordance with the rules laid down in this Regulation. 1.6.
By derogation from this principle, livestock not reared in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation can use, for a limited period of time each year, the pasturage of units complying with this Regulation, provided that such animals come from extensive husbandry (as defined in Article 6(5) of Regulation (EC) No 950/97(1) or, for other species not mentioned in that Regulation, the number of animals per ha corresponding to 170 kg of Nitrogen per year/hectare as defined in Annex VII of this Regulation) and provided that other animals which are subject to the requirements of this Regulation are not present on this pasturage at the same time.
This derogation must be authorised by the inspection authority or body. 2.2.
If livestock products are to be sold as organic products, the livestock must be reared according to the rules laid down in this Regulation for at least: - 12 months in the case of equidae and bovines (including bubalus and bison species) for meat production, and in any case at least three quarters of their lifetime, - six months in the case of small ruminant and pigs; however, during a transitional period of three years expiring on 24 August 2003, the period for pigs shall be four months, - six months in the case of animals for milk production; however, during a transitional period of three years expiring on 24 August 2003, the period shall be three months, - 10 weeks for poultry for meat production, brought in before they are three days old, - six weeks in the case of poultry for egg production. 2.2.2.
By derogation from paragraph 2.2.1 and for the constitution of a herd or flock, calves and small ruminants for meat production can be sold as organically reared during a transitional period expiring 31 December 2003, provided that: - they come from extensive husbrandry, - they are reared in the organic-production unit until the time of sale or slaughter, for a minimum period of six months for calves and two months for small ruminants, - the origin of the animals complies with the conditions expressed in the fourth and fifth indents of paragraph 3.4. 2.3.
Simultaneous conversion 2.3.1.
By derogation from paragraphs 2.2.1, 4.2 and 4.4 if there is simultaneous conversion of the complete production unit, including livestock, pasturage and/or any land used for animal feed, the total combined conversion period for both livestock, pasturage and/or any land used for animal feed, shall be reduced to 24 months subject to the following conditions: (a) the derogation applies only to the existing animals and their offspring and at the same time also to the land used for animal feed/pasturage before starting the conversion; (b) the animals are mainly fed with products from the production unit. 3.
Cases (b) and (c) are authorised for a transitional period expiring on 31 December 2003. 3.7.
The Commission will present a report by 31 December 2003 concerning the availability of originally reared livestock with a view to presenting a proposal, if appropriate, to the Standing Committee aimed at ensuring that all organic meat production should come from animals that were born and raised on organic-production holdings. 4.
Up to 30 % of the feed formula of rations on average may comprise in-conversion feedingstuffs.
When the in-conversion feedingstuffs come from a unit of the own holding, this percentage can be increased to 60 %. 4.5.
At least 60 % of the dry matter in daily rations is to consist of roughage, fresh or dried fodder, or silage.
The maximum percentage of conventional feedingstuffs authorised per year is 10 % in the case of herbivores and 20 % for other species.
The maximum percentage authorised of conventional feedingstuffs in the daily ration, except during the transhumance period, must be 25 %, calculated as a percentage of the dry matter. 4.9.
For poultry, the feed formula used in the fattening stage must contain at least 65 % cereals. 4.11.
Conventional feed materials of agricultural origin can be used for animal feeding only if listed in Annex II, Part C, section 1 (feed materials from plant origin), subject to the quantitative restrictions imposed in this Annex, and only if they are produced or prepared without the use of chemical solvents. 4.14.
No later than 24 August 2003, Part C, sections 1, 2, 3 and Part D of Annex II will be reviewed with the aim of removing, in particular, conventional feed materials of agricultural origin produced organically in sufficient quantity in the Community. 4.16.
Husbandry practices 6.1.1.
Physical castration is allowed in order to maintain the quality of products and traditional production practices (meat-type pigs, bullocks, capons, etc.) but only under the conditions set out in the last sentence of the paragraph 6.1.2. 6.1.4.
Nevertheless, by derogation from this principle, the inspection authority or body, can authorise this practice for individual animals upon justification by the operator, that this is necessary for safety or welfare reasons, and that such tethering is only for a limited period of time. 6.1.5.
By derogation from the provisions laid down in paragraph 6.1.4, cattle can be tethered in buildings already existing before 24 August 2000, provided that regular exercise is provided and rearing takes place in line with animal welfare requirements with comfortably littered areas as well as individual management.
This derogation, which must be authorised by the inspection authority or body, shall apply to holdings which meet the requirements of natural rules concerning organic production of livestock effective until 24 August 2000, or in the absence thereof of private standards accepted or recognised by the Member States. 6.1.7.
Before 31 December 2006, the Commission will present a report on the implementation of the provisions of paragraph 6.1.5. 6.1.8.
The keeping of livestock in conditions, or on a diet, which may encourage anaemia, is prohibited. 6.1.9.
For poultry, the minimum age at slaughter shall be: 81 days for chickens, 150 days for capons, 49 days for Peking ducks, 70 days for female Muscovy ducks, 84 days for male Muscovy ducks, 92 days for Mallard ducks, 94 days for guineafowl, 140 days for turkeys and roasting geese.
The total amount of manure, as defined in Directive 91/676/EEC(2), applied on the holding may not exceed 170 kg of Nitrogen per year/hectare of agricultural area used, the amount specified in Annex III of the abovementioned Directive.
To determine the appropriate density of livestock referred to above, the livestock units equivalent to 170 kg of Nitrogen per year/hectare of agricultural area used for the various categories of animals shall be set out by the competent authorities of the Member States, taking, as a guideline, the figures laid down in Annex VII. 7.3.
The maximum limit of 170 kg of Nitrogen from manure per year/hectare of agricultural area used, will be calculated on the basis of all of the organic-production units involved in such a cooperation. 7.5.
General principles 8.1.1.
Only the products listed in part B, section 2, of Annex II can be used for the elimination of insects and other pests in buildings and other installations where livestock is kept. 8.3.
Notwithstanding the last sentence of paragraph 8.3.1, bulls over one year old must have access to pasturage or an open-air exercise area or an open-air run. 8.3.4.
As regards the rearing of calves, from 24 August 2000, all holdings, without derogation, must comply with Directive 91/629/EEC(3) laying down minimum standards for the protection of calves.
As regards the rearing of pigs, from 24 August 2000, all holdings must comply with Council Directive 91/630/EEC(4) laying down minimum standards for the protection of pigs.
Buildings for all poultry must meet the following minimum conditions: - at least one third shall be solid, that is, not of slatted or of grid construction, and covered with a litter material such as straw, wood shavings, sand or turf; - in poultry houses for laying hens, a sufficiently large part of the floor area available to the hens must be available for the collection of bird droppings; - they must have perches of a size and number commensurate with the size of the group and of the birds as laid down in Annex VIII; - they must have exit/entry pop-holes of a size adequate for the birds, and these pop-holes must have a combined length of at least 4 m per 100 m2 area of the house available to the birds; - each poultry house must not contain more than: 4800 chickens, 3000 laying hens, 5200 guinea fowl, 4000 female Muscovy or Peking ducks or 3200 male Muscovy or Peking ducks or other ducks, 2500 capons, geese or turkeys; - the total usable area of poultry houses for meat production on any single production unit, must not exceed 1600 m2. 8.4.4.
By way of derogation from the requirements set out in paragraphs 8.3.1, 8.4.2, 8.4.3 and 8.4.5 and the stocking densities laid down in Annex VIII, the competent authorities of the Member States may authorise derogations from the requirements of these paragraphs and of Annex VIII for a transitional period expiring on 31 December 2010.
This derogation can only be applied to livestock producing holdings with existing buildings, constructed before 24 August 1999 and in so far as these livestock buildings comply with national rules concerning organic livestock production, in force prior to that date, or in the absence thereof with private standards accepted or recognised by the Member States. 8.5.2.
Before 31 December 2006, the Commission shall present a report on the implementation of the provision of paragraph 8.5.1.
BEEKEEPING AND BEEKEEPING PRODUCTS 1.
General principles 1.1.
Conversion period 2.1.
During the conversion period the wax has to be replaced according to the requirements laid down in paragraph 8.3. 3.
The use of veterinary medicinal products in beekeeping which complies with this Regulation shall respect the following principles: (a) they can be used in so far as the corresponding use is authorised in the Member State in accordance with the relevant Community provisions or national provisions in conformity with Community law; (b) phytotherapeutic and homeopathic products shall be used in preference to allopathic products chemically synthesised, provided that their therapeutic effect is effective for the condition for which the treatment is intended; (c) if the use of the abovementioned products should prove or is unlikely to be effective to eradicate a disease or infestation which risks destroying colonies, allopathic chemically synthesised medicinal products may be used under the responsibility of a veterinarian, or other persons authorised by the Member State, without prejudice to the principles laid down in paragraphs (a) and (b) above; (d) the use of allopathic chemically synthesised medicinal products for preventive treatments is prohibited; (e) without prejudice to the principle in (a) above formic acid, lactic acid, acetic acid and oxalic acid and the following substances: menthol, thymol, eucalyptol or camphor can be used in cases of infestation with Varroa jacobsoni. 6.4.
The destruction of bees in the combs as a method associated with the harvesting of beekeeping products is prohibited. 7.2.
The inspection body or authority must be informed of the moving of apiaries with a deadline agreed on with the inspection authority or body. 7.7.
Characteristics of hives and materials used in beekeeping 8.1.
For cleaning and disinfecting materials, buildings, equipment, utensils or products used in beekeeping only the appropriate substances listed in Annex II Part E are permitted.%quot% II.
The following substances are included in this category: Vitamins authorised under Directive 70/524/EEC(7): - preferably derived from raw materials occurring naturally in feedingstuffs, or - synthetic vitamins identical to natural vitamins only for monogastric animals. 1.3.
The following substances are included in this category: Enzymes authorised under Directive 70/524/EEC. 1.4.
The following micro-organisms are included in this category: micro-organisms authorised under Directive 70/524/EEC. 1.5.
The following substances are included in this category: E 551b Colloidal silica E 551c Kieselgur E 553 Sepiolite E 558 Bentonite E 559 Kaolinitic clays E 561 Vermiculite E 599 Perlite 2.
Processing aids used in feedingstuffs 3.1.
OTHER PRODUCTS%quot% III.
The following Annexes are added: %quot%ANNEX VII %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX VIII Minimum surface areas indoors and outdoors and other characteristics of housing in the different species and types of production 1.
BOVINES, OVINE AND PIGS %gt%TABLE%gt% 2.
