Article 2 Where a designated body is part of an organisation involved in activities other than conformance assessment of secure signature-creation-devices with the requirements laid down in Annex III to Directive 1999/93/EC it must be identifiable within that organisation.
Article 3 The body and its staff must not engage in any activities that may conflict with their independence of judgement and integrity in relation to their task.
Article 5 The body shall be transparent in its conformity assessment practices and shall record all relevant information concerning these practices.
Article 6 The body must have at its disposal the necessary staff and facilities to enable it to perform properly and swiftly the technical and administrative work associated with the task for which it has been designated.
Article 7 The personnel responsible for conformity assessment must have: - sound technical and vocational training, particularly in the field of electronic signature technologies and the related IT security aspects, - satisfactory knowledge of the requirements of the conformity assessments they carry out and adequate experience to carry out such assessments.
Article 8 The impartiality of staff shall be guaranteed.
Article 9 The body must have adequate arrangements to cover liabilities arising from its activities, for example, by obtaining appropriate insurance.
Article 10 The body must have adequate arrangements to ensure the confidentiality of the information obtained in carrying out its tasks under Directive 1999/93/EC or any provision of national law giving effect thereto, except vis-a-vis the competent authorities of the designating Member State.
Article 11 Where a designated body arranges for the carrying out of a part of the conformity assessments by another party, it must ensure and be able to demonstrate that this party is competent to perform the service in question.
Article 12 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 6 November 2000.
For the Commission Erkki Liikanen Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 13, 19.1.2000, p. 12.
