Article 2 This Directive shall apply to any national of a Member State wishing to pursue a regulated profession in a host Member State in a self-employed capacity or as an employed person.
This Directive shall not apply to professions which are the subject of a separate Directive establishing arrangements for the mutual recognition of diplomas by Member States. (1) OJ No C 217, 28. 8. 1985, p. 3, and OJ No C 143, 10. 6. 1986, p. 7. (2) OJ No C 345, 31. 12. 1985, p. 80, and OJ No C 309, 5. 12. 1988. (3) OJ No C 75, 3. 4. 1986, p. 5.
Notwithstanding Article 3, the host Member State may also require the applicant: (a) to provide evidence of professional experience, where the duration of the education and training adduced in support of his application, as laid down in Article 3 (a) and (b), is at least one year less than that required in the host Member State.
When applying these provisions, account must be taken of the professional experience referred to in Article 3 (b).
Article 5 Without prejudice to Articles 3 and 4, a host Member State may allow the applicant, with a view to improving his possibilities of adapting to the professional environment in that State, to undergo there, on the basis of equivalence, that part of his professional education and training represented by professional practice, acquired with the assistance of a qualified member of the profession, which he has not undergone in his Member State of origin or the Member State from which he has come.
Member States shall designate, within the period provided for in Article 12, the competent authorities empowered to receive the applications and take the decisions referred to in this Directive.
Each Member State shall designate a person responsible for coordinating the activities of the authorities referred to in paragraph 1 and shall inform the other Member States and the Commission to that effect.
They may be assisted in this task by the information centre on the academic recognition of diplomas and periods of study established by the Member States within the framework of the Resolution of the Council and the Ministers of Education meeting within the Council of 9 February 1976 (1), and, where appropriate, the relevant professional associations or organizations.
Article 11 Following the expiry of the period provided for in Article 12, Member States shall communicate to the Commission, every two years, a report on the application of the system introduced.
Article 12 Member States shall take the measures neccessary to comply with this Directive within two years of its notification (2).
Article 13 Five years at the latest following the date specified in Article 12, the Commission shall report to the European Parliament and the Council on the state of application of the general system for the recognition of higher-education diplomas awarded on completion of professional education and training of at least three years' duration.
Article 14 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 21 December 1988.
PAPANDREOU (1) OJ No C 38, 19. 2. 1976, p. 1. (2) This Directive was notified to Member States on 4 January 1989.
ANNEX List of professional associations or organizations which satisfy the conditions of the second subparagraph of Article 1 (d) IRELAND (1) 1.
Irish Planning Institute UNITED KINGDOM 1.
Institution of Mining and Metallurgy (1) Irish nationals are also members of the following United Kingdom chartered bodies: Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland Institute of Actuaries Faculty of Actuaries The Chartered Institute of Management Accountants Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Royal Town Planning Institute Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Chartered Institute of Building. (2) For the pruposes of the activity of auditing only.
