The present rules of procedure shall apply to the processing of personal data by Eurojust, wholly or partly by automatic means, and to the processing otherwise than by automatic means of personal data which form part of a filing system or are intended to form part of a filing system in accordance with the Eurojust Decision. 2.
The present rules shall not apply to information which has been transmitted to a National Member of Eurojust exclusively in the context of his or her judicial powers, as defined in Article 9(3) of the Eurojust Decision.
Personal data shall be considered as case-related if it is linked to the operational tasks of Eurojust, as defined in Articles 5, 6 and 7 of the Eurojust Decision. 2.
Case-related data shall be processed in accordance with Titles III and IV.
Non-case-related data shall be processed in accordance with Titles III and V.
Article 5 Principles of lawfulness and fairness, proportionality and necessity of processing 1.
Eurojust shall only process personal data that are necessary, adequate, relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which they are collected or further processed. 3.
Eurojust shall define its processing operations and systems in accordance with the aim of collecting or further processing only personal data that are necessary as defined in paragraph 2.
Article 6 Data quality 1.
Article 7 Data security 1.
In accordance with Article 22 of the Eurojust Decision and with the present rules, Eurojust shall put in place the necessary technical measures and organisational arrangements to protect personal data against accidental or unlawful destruction, accidental loss or unauthorised disclosure, alteration, access or any unauthorised form of processing.
The Joint Supervisory Body shall be consulted regarding the security policy of Eurojust. 4.
Article 8 Right of information to the data subjects 1.
Article 10 Confidentiality of processing In accordance with Article 25 of the Eurojust Decision, all persons called upon to work within and with Eurojust are bound by strict confidentiality obligations.
Article 11 Internal processors Unless required to do so by national or European law, a person acting as processor within Eurojust, with access to personal data, shall not process them except on instructions from the controller.
Article 12 Enquiries, information requests and claims by Eurojust postholders 1.
TITLE IV RULES FOR CASE-RELATED PROCESSING OPERATIONS CHAPTER I Conditions to make the processing of personal data legitimate Article 13 Personal data processed in the context of case-related activities 1.
In the context of case-related activities, Eurojust shall, insofar as it is necessary to achieve its objectives, process personal data by automated means or in structured manual files in accordance with Articles 14, 15 and 16 of the Eurojust Decision. 2.
Article 14 Lawfulness and fairness of processing Personal data may be collected and further processed in the context of case-related activities insofar as the processing is necessary for the performance of the tasks of Eurojust in reinforcing the fight against serious crime.
Article 16 Data quality 1.
Article 17 Special categories of data 1.
Article 18 Processing of the categories of personal data referred to in Article 15(3) of the Eurojust Decision 1.
When such data refer to witnesses or victims within the meaning of Article 15(2) of the Eurojust Decision, the case management system shall not record this information unless a decision taken jointly by at least two National Members is documented.
CHAPTER II Rights of the data subjects Article 19 Right of information of the data subjects 1.
Recourse to the cases enumerated in paragraph 1 shall be recorded in the temporary work file related to the case, mentioning the basis for the decision which has been taken by the National Member(s) responsible for this file.
Article 21 Procedure for the exercise of the rights of the data subjects 1.
Individuals wishing to exercise their rights as data subjects may address their requests directly to Eurojust or through the authority appointed for this purpose in the Member State of his or her choice, which shall transmit the request to Eurojust. 2.
Eurojust shall put in place an automated case management system integrating a filing system, that shall be used by the National Members when dealing with case-related activities and which shall include the temporary work files and index as defined in Article 16 of the Eurojust Decision.
The case management system shall be approved by the College after having consulted the Data Protection Officer, the Joint Supervisory Body and the relevant Eurojust staff and shall take full account of the requirements of Article 22 and any other relevant provisions of the Eurojust Decision. 3.
The case management system shall enable National Members to identify the purpose and specific objectives for which a temporary work file is opened, within the framework of the tasks mentioned in Articles 5, 6 and 7 of the Eurojust Decision.
Article 24 Temporary work files and index 1.
Eurojust shall put in place an automated case management system allowing National Members to keep the personal data they process in a temporary work file restricted or to give access to it or to part(s) of it to other National Member(s) involved in the case to which the file relates.
When a National Member gives access to a temporary work file or a part of it to one or more involved National Member(s), the case management system shall ensure that the authorised users have access to the relevant parts of the file but that they can not modify the data introduced by the original author.
The Data Protection Officer shall be automatically informed by such a system of the creation of each new work file that contains personal data and, in particular, of the exceptional cases in which recourse is made to Article 15(3) of the Eurojust Decision.
When such data refer to witnesses or victims within the meaning of Article 15(2) of the Eurojust Decision, the system shall not record this information unless a decision taken jointly by at least two National Members has been documented. 6.
When such data refer to witnesses or victims within the meaning of Article 15(2) of the Eurojust Decision, the system shall not record this information unless a decision taken by the College has been documented. 7.
Article 25 Log files and audit trails 1.
These measures shall take account of the purposes for which the data have been collected and further processed, the state of the art, the level of security required by the sensitive nature of the work carried out by Eurojust and the requirements imposed by Article 22 of the Eurojust Decision. 3.
In particular, National Members shall ensure that appropriate organisational arrangements are made and complied with and that proper use is made of the technical and organisational measures put at their disposal by Eurojust. 4.
Article 27 Audits and control 1.
CHAPTER IV Data flows to third parties or organisations Article 28 Data flows to third parties or organisations 1.
The decision concerning transfers to non-parties of the Council of Europe Convention of 28 January 1981 shall be taken by the National Member(s) involved, on the basis of the assessment concerning the adequacy of the level of protection made by the Data Protection Officer.
CHAPTER V Time limits for the storage of personal data Article 29 Time limits for the storage of personal data 1.
Eurojust shall put in place appropriate technical measures to ensure that the time limits for the storage of personal data defined in Article 21 of the Eurojust Decision are observed. 2.
For these categories of data a review of the need to retain the data shall take place every three months and shall be documented in the same way as outlined in paragraphs 1 and 2. 4.
TITLE V RULES FOR NON-CASE-RELATED PROCESSING OPERATIONS CHAPTER I General principles Article 30 Lawfulness and fairness of processing Personal data must be processed fairly and lawfully.
In particular, personal data may be processed only if: (a) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the controller is subject, or (b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is party or in order to take steps at the request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract, or (c) the data subject has unambiguously given his or her consent, or (d) processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject, or (e) processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the controller, except where such interests are overridden by the interests for fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which require protection under Article 4 of the present rules.
Personal data must be processed for a specific and well-defined lawful and legitimate purpose and subsequently further processed only insofar as this is not incompatible with the original purpose of the processing. 2.
Article 33 Exceptions to the right of information of the data subject 1.
In the context of the non-operational work of Eurojust, exceptions to the general principle of information to the data subject are possible when the provision of this information to the data subject would undermine: (a) an important economic or financial interest of a Member State or of the European Union or (b) the protection of the data subject or of the rights and freedoms of others or (c) the national security, public security or defence of the Member States. 2.
Article 34 Notification to the Data Protection Officer 1.
The information to be given shall include: (a) the name of the controller and an indication of the organisational parts of an institution or body entrusted with the processing of personal data for a particular purpose; (b) the purpose or purposes of the processing; (c) a description of the category or categories of data subjects and of the data or categories of data relating to them; (d) the legal basis of the processing operation for which the data are intended; (e) the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the data might be disclosed; and (f) a general description allowing a preliminary assessment to be made of the appropriateness of the security measures. 3.
Article 35 Register 1.
Article 36 Processing of personal data on behalf of controllers 1.
Where a processing operation is carried out on its behalf by an external processor, the controller shall choose a processor providing sufficient guarantees in respect of the technical and organisational security measures required by Article 22 of the Eurojust Decision and any further relevant documents and ensure compliance with those measures. 2.
Article 37 Automated individual decisions The data subject shall have the right not to be subject to a decision which produces legal effects concerning him or her or significantly affects him or her and which is based solely on automated processing of data intended to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to him or her, such as his or her performance at work, reliability or conduct, unless the decision is expressly authorised pursuant to national or European legislation or, if necessary, by the Data Protection Officer.
CHAPTER II Internal rules concerning the protection of personal data and privacy in the context of internal telecommunication networks Article 38 Scope 1.
Article 39 Security 1.
Article 40 Confidentiality of communications Eurojust shall ensure the confidentiality of communications by means of telecommunications networks and terminal equipment, in accordance with Community law.
Article 42 Directories of users 1.
CHAPTER III Specific rules Article 43 Additional rules Where necessary, Eurojust shall develop further rules regarding the processing of personal data in non-case-related operations.
TITLE VI OTHER PROVISIONS Article 44 Review of the present Rules of Procedure 1.
Article 45 Entry into force and publication 1.
They shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. [1] OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31. --------------------------------------------------
