Council Regulation (EC) No 1531/2002 of 14 August 2002 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of colour television receivers originating in the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia and Thailand and terminating the proceeding regarding imports of colour television receivers originating in Singapore Council Regulation (EC) No 1531/2002 of 14 August 2002 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of colour television receivers originating in the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia and Thailand and terminating the proceeding regarding imports of colour television receivers originating in Singapore THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community(1), and in particular Articles 9, 11(2) and 11(3) thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
Expiry and interim review investigations (5) Following the publication of a notice of impending expiry(7) of the anti-dumping measures in force on imports of CTVs originating in China, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand, the Producers of European Televisions in Cooperation (Poetic), requested an expiry review of the measures in force pursuant to Article 11(2) of Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (the basic Regulation). (6) The request was based on the grounds that the expiry of the measures would be likely to result in the continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury to the Community industry.
Initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning Turkey (8) On 15 July 2000, the Commission announced by a notice (Notice of Initiation) published in the Official Journal of the European Communities(9), the initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding concerning imports of CTVs originating in or exported from Turkey. (9) The proceeding was initiated as a result of a complaint lodged in June 2000 by Poetic, acting on behalf of Community producers representing a major proportion, in this case more than 30 %, of the total Community production of CTVs.
Termination of the anti-dumping proceeding concerning CTVs originating in Turkey (10) Given the complexity of the specific rules of origin applicable to imports of CTVs, the examination of the origin of the CTVs exported from Turkey could not be completed within the deadline stipulated in Article 7 of the basic Regulation.
Therefore, the dumping, injury and Community interest aspects of the case could not be adequately examined and consequently no provisional anti-dumping measures could be considered. (11) The investigation was therefore continued to reach definitive findings.
However, given the findings on origin which are recalled in recitals 40 to 44, the Commission terminated the proceeding as far as it concerned CTVs originating in Turkey by Decision 2001/725/EC(10). 5.
Interested parties were given the opportunity to make their views known in writing and to request a hearing within the time limit set in the notices of initiation. (13) A number of exporting producers in the countries concerned, as well as Community producers made their view known in writing.
Verification visits were carried out at the premises of the following companies: (a) Community producers Tecnimagen SA - Barcelona, Spain Grundig AG - Nuremberg, Germany Philips Consumer Electronics - Eindhoven, The Netherlands Industrie Formenti Italia Spa - Lissone, Italy Seleco Formenti Spa - Pordenone, Italy. (b) Exporters/producers and related sales companies Turkey Profilo Telra Elektronik Sanayi ve Ticaret AS, Istanbul (including the related sales companies (i) PRO-EKS Dis Ticaret AS, Istanbul, (ii) Savunma Gerecleri AS, Istanbul, (iii) Elektrotem Elektronik Aletler Limited, Istanbul) Beko Elektronik AS, Istanbul (including the related sales company Ram Dis Ticaret, Istanbul) Vestel Elektronik Sanayi ve Ticaret AS, Istanbul (including the related sales companies: (i) Vestel Dis Ticaret AS, Istanbul, (ii) Vestel Dis Ticaret AS Ege Serbest Bolge SB, Izmir, (iii) Vestel Bilisim Teknolojileri Sanayi ve Ticaret AS, Istanbul, iv) Vestel Komunikasyon Sanayi ve Ticaret AS, Izmir) Izmir Elektronik Sanayi ve Ticaret AS, Izmir Thailand Thomson Television Thailand, Pathumthani, Thailand (including the related sales company European Audio Products (HK) Ltd, Shatin, New Territory, Hong Kong) (c) Related importers in the Community - Importers related to the Turkish exporters Beko (UK) Ltd, Watford, United Kingdom Beko Electronics Espana SL, Barcelona, Spain Vestel Holland BV, Rotterdam, Netherlands Vestel Iberia, Madrid, Spain - Importers related to Thomson Television Thailand Thomson Multimedia Marketing France SA, Boulogne, France Thomson Multimedia Sales Spain, SA, Madrid, Spain Thomson Multimedia Sales UK Ltd, West Malling, Kent, United Kingdom (d) Unrelated importers in the Community Alba plc - Barking, United Kingdom. (18) The investigation of dumping in the review investigations covered the period from 1 January 1999 to 31 December 1999 (review IP).
The examination of trends in the context of the injury analysis for both investigations covered the period from 1995 up to 30 June 2000 (period considered), to take account of the existence of two differing investigation periods for dumping. 6.
This product is currently classifiable within CN codes ex 8528 12 52, 8528 12 54, 8528 12 56, 8528 12 58, ex 8528 12 62 and 8528 12 66. (22) Regulation (EC) No 710/95 excluded from the definition of the product concerned D2MAC sets and high definition televisions (HDTVs) since these products, which introduced qualitative technical changes, were at that time still in the development stage and were not available to the public except in very limited circumstances.
In the internet-CTV all the necessary modem circuitry is integrated into the body of the television set, instead of having a separate set top box. (24) The importer argued that the exclusion was warranted in view of the differences in basic physical and technical characteristics between CTVs and internet-CTVs and in view of the different consumer perceptions of both products. (25) The differences in the basic physical characteristics of internet-CTVs consisted in the additional internet components in the CTV which represent around 60 % of the total costs of the internet-CTV and a keyboard integrated in the remote control. (26) Regarding the basic technical characteristics it was argued that the internet CTV sends and receives data not via broadcasting technology but via the telephone system using the modem.
Like product (34) In the course of the investigations, it was established that CTVs originating in or exported from the countries concerned and destined for the Community, share the same basic physical and technical characteristics and end-uses as CTVs manufactured and sold by the Community industry on the Community market.
General (35) CTVs frequently incorporate components and parts originating in countries other than the country of manufacture or assembly of the finished product, with the result that CTVs may be considered as originating in a country other than the country of manufacture or assembly.
According to these rules, a CTV originates in the country where the added value of the assembly operations, and, if applicable, the incorporation of parts originating in the country of assembly represents at least 45 % of the ex-works price of the CTV.
When the 45 % rule is not met, the CTV originates in the country of origin of parts whose ex-works price represents more than 35 % of the ex-works price of the CTV. (39) It should be stressed that the findings set out below were established only for the purposes of the present anti-dumping investigation and more particularly for the purposes of determining the likelihood of continuation or recurrence of injurious dumping. 2.
Exports from Turkey (40) It is recalled that the Commission terminated the proceeding concerning CTVs originating in Turkey by Decision 2001/725/EC(14).
They were also accompanied by an ATR certificate indicating that they were in free circulation in Turkey.
In particular, it was found that for the exports of the investigated companies which correspond to all exports of CTVs from Turkey to the Community during the IP, the 45 % added value rule was not met. (42) Since the 45 % added value rule was not met, the origin had to be determined on the basis of the 35 % value rule of the non-originating parts/materials.
In these circumstances, the origin of the cathode-ray colour television picture tube (CPT) virtually determined the origin of the CTVs, since the ex-works price of the CPT represented, in almost all cases, at least 35 % of the ex-works price of the CTV.
Exports from Thailand (45) The investigation showed that for all exports by the cooperating exporting producer in Thailand to the Community during the review IP, the 45 % added value rule was not met.
Accordingly, it was concluded that the CTVs exported from Thailand to the Community during the review IP by the cooperating exporting producer were not of Thai origin but they were found to originate in either Korea or Malaysia. (46) On the basis of information available from Eurostat, it was established that all exports of CTVs from Thailand to the Community were made by the sole cooperating exporting producer in this country.
In view of the above findings regarding the origin, all CTVs exported from Thailand to the Community were treated as originating in Korea and Malaysia for the purpose of the review investigations. 4.
However, one cooperating Turkish company, Vestel Elektronik Sanayi ve Ticaret AS, was found to be exporting significant quantities of CTVs of Chinese origin.
For those product models where more than 80 % by volume was sold at a profit on the domestic market, and where the weighted average sales price was equal to or higher than the weighted average production cost, normal value, by product model, was calculated as the weighted average of all domestic sales prices of the type in question.
This claim could not be accepted since in accordance with Article 2(10)(c) of the basic Regulation quantity discounts can be considered for an adjustment only if they are actually given for differences in quantities and not on the basis of notional assumptions. (64) A level of trade adjustment for original equipment manufacturer (OEM) sales was also claimed.
In fact, the dumping margin established was in excess of the residual dumping margin which was established during the previous investigation, i.e. 44,6 %. (69) Moreover, Poetic gave, in its request for review, prima facie evidence that significant dumping takes place in respect of imports originating in China.
In fact, the dumping margins alleged in the review request were also in excess of the residual dumping margin established in the previous investigation. (70) In these circumstances, there was no reason to believe that the dumping margin for China would be less than the residual dumping margin established during the previous investigation.
Pursuant to Article 18 of the basic Regulation, therefore, a dumping margin of 44,6 % has been attributed to all producers in China. 2.
Korea (71) Given that no exporting producer cooperated in the investigation, the Commission examined the facts available to it for determining the level of dumping for Korea. (72) In this respect, the normal value was established on the basis of the information provided by the Korean producers for the sampling exercise, i.e.
The comparison of this normal value and export price showed that exports from Korea to the Community were dumped to a significant level during the review IP.
In particular, the dumping margin established was in excess of the residual dumping margin which was established during the previous investigation, i.e. 21,2 %. (73) Moreover, Poetic gave, in its request for review, prima facie evidence that significant dumping takes place in respect of imports originating in Korea.
In fact, the dumping margins alleged in the review request were also in excess of the residual dumping margin established in the previous investigation. (74) In these circumstances, there is no reason to believe that the dumping margin for all the non-cooperating companies would be less than the residual dumping margin established during the previous investigation.
Pursuant to Article 18 of the basic Regulation, a dumping margin of 21,2 % was attributed to all non-cooperating producers in Korea. (75) For the same reasons, the same dumping margin of 21,2 % was attributed to Thomson Television Thailand, Thailand and Beko Elektronik AS, Turkey, which were found to export CTVs of Korean origin during the IP.
A comparison of the overall average export price of these CTVs with an overall normal value established on the basis of information concerning domestic prices of similar CTVs types sold in Korea, as derived from the review request, confirmed that significant dumping, in line with the abovementioned margins, was taking place. 3.
Malaysia (76) Given that no exporting producer cooperated in the investigation, the Commission examined the facts available to it for determining the level of dumping for Malaysia. (77) In this respect, and given that no Malaysian exporting producer provided information for the sampling exercise, it was considered appropriate to use information regarding Korea to establish normal value for Malaysia.
The comparison of this normal value and export price showed that exports from Malaysia to the Community were dumped to a significant level during the review IP.
In fact, the dumping margin established was in excess of the residual dumping margin which was established during the previous investigation, i.e. 25,1 %. (78) In these circumstances, there is no reason to believe that the dumping margin for all the non-cooperating companies would be less than the residual dumping margin established during the previous investigation.
Pursuant to Article 18 of the basic Regulation, a dumping margin of 25,1 % was therefore attributed to all non-cooperating producers in Malaysia. (79) For the same reasons, the same dumping margin of 25,1 % was attributed to Thomson Television Thailand, Thailand and Beko Elektronik AS, Turkey, which were found to export CTVs of Malaysian origin during the IP.
A comparison of the overall average export price of these CTVs with an overall normal value established on the basis of information concerning domestic prices of similar CTVs types sold in Malaysia, as derived from the review request, confirmed that significant dumping, in line with the abovementioned margins, was taking place. 4.
Singapore (80) Given that no exporting producer cooperated in the investigation, the Commission examined the facts available for determining the level of dumping for Singapore.
It is noted that the volume of exports to the Community as derived from Eurostat statistics was very low. (81) The normal value and the export price was established on the basis of the information concerning domestic sales and export sales to the Community provided by one Singaporean producer for the sampling exercise.
Pursuant to Article 18 of the basic Regulation, therefore, a dumping margin of 24,6 % was attributed to all non-cooperating producers in Singapore. 5.
In accordance with the information available, as set out in recital 70, it was confirmed that the level of dumping for the CTVs originating in and exported from this country continued to be significant. (88) In addition, the investigation showed that a significant volume of CTVs exported to the Community from Turkey originated in the China.
It was found that these CTVs were exported from Turkey at significantly dumped prices. (89) Moreover, the comparison of normal value established in the analogue country, Turkey, with the prices of Chinese exports to third countries showed that these exports were made at considerably dumped prices. (90) According to information submitted by the cooperating Chinese companies, the production capacity for CTVs in the China has increased since 1998, whilst domestic consumption was not able to absorb production.
It is therefore considered most likely that, should measures be repealed, the dumped exports of Chinese CTVs to the Community will increase significantly. (91) Therefore, there is no reason to believe that dumping will not continue if the measures in force were repealed. 2.
Korea (92) As previously mentioned, no producers in Korea cooperated in the investigation.
Moreover, while this capacity remained stable between 1996 and 1999, the domestic consumption in the same period decreased by 23 %.
As the origin of the CPTs is often decisive in determining the origin of the CTVs, the production capacities of CPTs in Korea were examined and were also found to be significant. (95) In conclusion, the facts available indicate the existence of significant capacities which could be directed to the Community should the current measures be repealed.
In these circumstances, there is no reason to believe that the repeal of measures would not lead to continuation of dumping in significant quantities from Korea. 3.
Malaysia (96) As previously mentioned, no producer in Malaysia cooperated in the investigation.
Moreover, Eurostat shows that certain quantities of CTVs were exported from that country during the review IP.
In accordance with the information available, as set out in recitals 76 to 79, the Commission confirmed that the level of dumping for the CTVs exported from this country continued to be significant. (97) Furthermore, in accordance with the information obtained by the cooperating producers in Turkey (Beko Elektronik AS) and Thailand (Thomson Television Thailand), the investigation showed that significant CTVs sales originating in Malaysia and exported from these countries were made at dumped prices. (98) According to the information available, in particular the review request, large capacities for CTVs production exist in Malaysia.
As the origin of the CPTs is often decisive in determining the origin of the CTVs, the production capacities of CPTs in Malaysia were examined and were also found to be significant. (99) In conclusion, there is no reason to believe that the repeal of measures would not lead to continuation of dumping in significant quantities from Malaysia. 4.
Singapore (100) Given the very low volume of dumped exports during the review IP, it was considered appropriate to examine the likelihood of recurrence of dumping. (101) Since the imposition of anti-dumping measures in 1995, imports of CTVs originating in Singapore decreased from around 36000 sets to around 2000 sets, holding a share of the Community market which decreased from 0,1 % to close to 0 %.
It is therefore reasonable to conclude that the decrease in the volume of exports from Singapore is not due to the imposition of anti-dumping measures on this country, but rather to the focus of domestic production on local markets. (102) Information provided by the applicant in the request for review shows that production in Singapore substantially decreased from an estimated 4,5 million sets in 1995 to an estimated 1,3 million sets in 1999.
Capacity was also reduced due to the discontinuation of production by several Singaporean producers. (103) In view of the above, it is not expected that the repeal of the anti-dumping measures in force would lead to a recurrence of dumping in significant quantities from Singapore. 5.
the review request, large capacities for CTVs production exist in Thailand and the domestic consumption absorbs less than 16 % of the production which leaves significant scope for increased exports.
Moreover, while this capacity increased by 17 % between 1996 and 2000, domestic consumption in the same period decreased by 30 % leaving, thus, significant free production capacities of CTVs in Thailand. (105) As the origin of the CPTs is often decisive in determining the origin of the CTVs, the production capacities of CPTs in Thailand were examined and were also found to be significant. (106) There are, therefore, sound reasons to believe that the repeal of measures would lead to a recurrence of dumping in significant quantities from Thailand.
Regarding the level of dumping, there are no reasons to believe that it would be less than the residual margin established for the non-cooperating exporting producers (i.e. 33,6 %) and 14,7 % for Thomson Television Thailand as found in the context of the previous anti-dumping investigation.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY 1.
Community production (107) In the Community CTVs are manufactured by the following operators: - five producers who lodged and/or supported the complaint and cooperated during the investigation: Industrie Formenti (IT), Grundig (D), Philips Electronic Consumers (NL), Seleco Formenti (IT) and Tecnimagen (E), - one producer who lodged the complaint but finally did not cooperate: AR Systems (E).
The company was informed of its exclusion from the Community industry and raised no objections, - six producers, which were not complainants, submitted some basic information, while not fully replying to the questionnaire, did not oppose the proceeding: Great Wall (F), Matsushita Panasonic (UK) Mivar (I), Sanyo (E), Semitech Turku (FI), and Thomson Multi Media (F).
The latter opposed the continuation of the anti-dumping measures, - other producers which did not cooperate but did not oppose to the procedure. (108) It was assessed whether the abovementioned companies could be considered as constituting the Community production, within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation. (109) One non complainant Community producer was found to be related to one exporter concerned and to be importing itself CTVs originating in two of the countries concerned.
Industrie Formenti, Grundig, Philips Consumer Electronics, Seleco Formenti and Technimagen, fulfil the requirements of Article 5(4) of the basic Regulation, since they account for 30 % of the total Community production of CTVs.
Preliminary remark (114) It should be noted that Seleco Formenti was declared bankrupt in April 1997 and was purchased by Industrie Formenti in March 1998.
The new entity re-started CTV production in October 1998.
Apparent Community consumption (116) Apparent consumption was based on the combined volume of sales in the Community market by the Community industry and by other cooperating Community producers as reported in their questionnaires replies, the volume of sales provided by certain other Community producers, the estimated volume of sales by other non-cooperating Community producers as reported in the request for a review and the information on the volume of total imports as reported by Eurostat, cross-checked where possible by reference to the information provided by cooperating exporters. (117) Consumption of CTVs is influenced by major sporting event such as world and European football championships and Olympic games, when sales of CTVs generally increase. (118) Over the period considered consumption of CTVs in the Community increased by 31 % from 24,7 million in 1995 to 24,5 million in 1996, to 27,7 million in 1997, to 31 million in 1998, to 30,7 million in 1999 and to 32,4 million during the IP. 3.
Economic situation of the Community industry (a) Preliminary remark (128) The situation of the Community industry should be seen in the light of the fact that in 1997 the largest Community producer closed some production facilities of CTVs and relocated them to Poland, which is in itself a consequence of a critical situation of the Community industry on the Community market. (b) Production, capacity and utilisation (129) The production of the Community industry evolved from 6,5 million in 1995, to 6,6 million in 1996, 6 million in 1997, 6,1 million in 1998, 5,9 million in 1999 and 6 million during the IP i.e.
They remained stable between 1995 and 1996 and decreased by 8 % between 1996 and 1997.
Despite the growth in consumption, the Community industry did not increase its share of the Community market, which went from 24 % in 1995 to 17 % in the IP.
Moreover, several Community producers also indicated that given the fact that a part of CPTs incorporated in CTVs manufactured in the Community is purchased in US dollars, the average cost of CPTs increased in 1999 and during the IP for Community producers due to the development of exchange rates. (139) Weighted average unit prices of the Community industry to unrelated customers went from EUR 300 in 1995 to EUR 302 in 1996, EUR 306 in 1997, EUR 320 in 1998, EUR 309 in 1999 and EUR 319 during the IP.
In 1998 the profitability remained at the same level, due to an increase in the sales prices, coinciding with important sporting events such as the world football championship.
Conclusion (151) After the imposition of measures in 1995, the situation of the Community industry improved, and by 1997, the year in which significant restructuring took place, its profitability reached a satisfactory level. (152) However, after 1998, the situation of the Community industry deteriorated, in particular in terms of profitability which decreased to 1,3 % in the IP.
The poor profitability in 1999 was due to a decrease in the sales prices, which were insufficient to cover the increasing costs of the Community industry.
In the IP, despite an increase in the prices, costs increased above prices, mostly due to an increase in the prices of CPT, the main input in the production of CTVs, and to the pressure exerted on prices by imports, thus preventing the profitability of the Community industry from improving to the levels in 1997 and 1998. (153) Furthermore, despite an increase in Community consumption (31 % over the period considered), the Community industry did not benefit from this growth of the market and lost market share, which dropped from 24 % in 1995 to 17 % in the IP. (154) In view of the above it is concluded that the situation of the Community industry improved as from 1995 but continues to be weak. 6.
Impact of the imports concerned (155) The investigation has shown that, despite the existence of anti-dumping measures; imports from the countries concerned have increased by 73 % over the period considered, whereas consumption only increased by 31 %.
The biggest increase took place between 1997 and 1998, when imports rose by 42 %, coinciding with the sharpest increase in consumption (+12 %).
The share of the Community market held by the imports concerned increased from 5,7 % in 1995 to 7,5 % in the IP. (156) Export performance has varied between the countries concerned.
Imports originating in China increased substantially, the increase being attributable to the imports of CTVs originating in China exported from Turkey.
The Chinese market share rose from 1,2 % in 1995 to 3,9 % during the IP.
Furthermore, the imports concerned exerted a pressure on the prices of the Community industry which prevented them from reflecting the increased costs of the Community industry especially in 1999 and in the IP.
It should be noted that Eurostat figures, which were the only information available, may not reflect the actual origin of CTVs imported into the Community from other third countries. (159) The volume of CTV imports from other third countries increased by more than 800 % over the period considered, from 1 million units in 1995 to 8,9 million in the IP.
It cannot therefore be excluded that these imports have also contributed to the stagnation of the sales and market share by the Community industry and to the price depression and decreasing profitability in the IP. (162) In conclusion, imports from other third countries increased significantly during the period considered, well above the increase in apparent consumption and above the increase in the volume of imports from the countries concerned.
Exports from Turkey increased continuously from around 190000 sets in 1995 to around 1,2 million sets in the IP.
Over 95 % of the imports originating in China in the IP corresponded to small screen CTVs (14 inches). (165) Information provided by the applicant in the request for review shows that substantial production capacity exists in China, for around 40 million sets.
Furthermore, information was provided showing that production was around 31 million sets and domestic consumption around 23 million sets, leaving substantial amounts of CTVs available for export. (166) The Chinese exporting producers have in turn argued that while production and capacity currently exceed demand, the Chinese domestic demand for CTVs is likely to increase in the near future, leaving no available production capacity for export.
However, no evidence was provided in support of this claim. (167) The investigation showed that Chinese domestic consumption has continuously increased, rising from an estimated 17 million sets in 1996 to an estimated 23 million sets in 2000.
However, production also increased during the same period, at a level exceeding domestic consumption by between 7 and 10 million sets. (168) It was also found that exports of Chinese CTVS to the USA as reported in the Eurostat statistics increased substantially from around 220000 sets in 1996 to around 900000 sets in 2000, at prices which were substantially below those of the Chinese exports to the Community.
Exports of Chinese CTVs to Japan increased from around 1,3 million sets in 1996 to around 2,3 million sets in 2000.
Imports continued to increase to around 500000 sets in 1999 and to around 650000 sets in the IP.
The biggest increase in the volume of imports took place in medium/large screen sizes.
The volume of imports of Korean CTVs into the United States of America, on the basis of the Eurostat statistics, increased continuously from around 150000 sets in 1996 to around 600000 sets in 1999 and 2000.
The significant increase in the volume of exports to the United States of America in 1999 coincided with the revocation of the anti-dumping duties in force in the United States of America on imports originating in Korea. (177) Exports of Korean CTVs to Japan, decreased from around 1 million sets in 1996 to around 700000 in 1999 and further decreased significantly to around 380000 in 2000. (178) Information available to the Commission shows that significant production capacity exists in Korea and that domestic consumption absorbs less than 15 % of domestic production, leaving substantial scope for increased exports.
However, this exporting producer was found to have exported to the Community CTVs originating in countries concerned other than Thailand.
COMMUNITY INTEREST (209) According to Article 21 of the basic Regulation, the Commission examined whether the maintenance of the anti-dumping measures would be in the overall interest of the Community. (210) It is recalled that the anti-dumping measures have been in force on imports of CTVs originating in Korea since 1990, China since 1991 and Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand since 1995. 1.
Interest of the Community Industry (a) Change in the situation of the Community industry (211) In the present investigation the Community industry is composed of five producers out of which one is a large multinational company operating inter alia in the market of CTVs world-wide, one is a medium company with two production sites in the Community and the remaining three are small companies with production sites in Italy and Spain. (212) The investigation has shown that the Community industry has benefited from the anti-dumping measures in place.
The Community industry's decrease in production, sales and market share between 1995 and 1997 is mainly explained by the closure of some production facilities in the European Union by the largest Community producer of CTVs.
Between 1997 and the IP the Community industry regained production and sales but its share of the Community market decreased, since the increase in consumption during that period was only to the benefit of imported CTVs. (214) Regarding profitability, the return on sales achieved by the Community industry improved significantly from -2,7 % in 1995 to 5,3 % in 1998, but it deteriorated to 0,8 % in 1999 and then reached 1,3 % in the IP.
The sharp deterioration in the profitability in 1999 can be attributed to a decrease in the sales prices of the Community industry under the pressure of low import prices, combined with an increase in its costs.
The slight improvement of the profitability of the Community industry in the IP was due to a moderate increase in its sales prices. (215) Thus, despite an overall improvement of the situation of the Community industry over the period considered, its situation still seems difficult, notably in terms of profitability.
Interest of the importers/traders (218) At the outset of the investigation questionnaires were sent to 33 importers/traders.
No response was received regarding the review investigations on the measures in place on imports originating in China, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, and Thailand.
However, responses were received from three importers/traders in the investigation regarding imports from Turkey, representing around 9 % of the imports originating in the countries concerned and in other third countries into the Community in the IP. (219) The arguments raised by these importers related mostly to the limited availability of small screen CTVs with a limited number of features in the Community.
Thus, it was argued that the continuation of measures would limit the access of importers and also of consumers to these CTVs. (220) The investigation revealed that although a large part of Community production is in branded CTVs with a large number of features, a certain production of non-branded CTVs by both the Community industry and other Community producers was found.
Finally, substantial price competition exists among Community producers themselves. (221) In view of the above, it cannot be argued that the continuation of the anti-dumping measures in place would significantly limit the access of Community importers/traders to certain types of CTVs. 3.
DETERMINATION IN RESPECT OF SINGAPORE (227) In view of the findings in recitals 192 to 196, the anti-dumping measures in place regarding imports originating in Singapore should be allowed to lapse.
It requested that a minimum profit rate of 10 % be used to calculate the injury elimination level, in line with that used in Regulation (EC) No 2584/98. (231) It should be noted that the profit margin to be used when calculating the injury elimination level should be the one that the Community industry could reasonably reach in the absence of dumping.
In the case of Thomson Television Thailand, given its lack of exports to the Community of CTVs originating in Thailand during the IP, it is considered appropriate to maintain the rate of the anti-dumping duty imposed by Regulation (EC) No 710/95.
UNDERTAKINGS (236) Seven Chinese companies offered a joint undertaking in conjunction with the China Chamber of Commerce for Import and Export of Machinery and Electronic Products (CCCME) within the meaning of Article 8(1) of the basic Regulation.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of colour television receivers with a diagonal screen size of more than 15,5 cm, whether or not combined in the same housing with a radio broadcast receiver and/or clock, other than those incorporating a modem and a computer operating system (CTVs) and falling within CN codes ex 8528 12 52 (TARIC code: 8528 12 52*11 ), ex 8528 12 54, ex 8528 12 56, ex 8528 12 58, ex 8528 12 62 (TARIC code: 8528 12 54*10, 8528 12 56*10, 8528 12 58*10, 8528 12 62*11 and 8528 12 62*92 ) and ex 8528 12 66 (TARIC code: 8528 12 66*10 ), and originating in Malaysia, Thailand, the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Korea. 2.
In cases where the cathode ray tube originates in Malaysia, Thailand, the People's Republic of China or the Republic of Korea and the CTV originates in a country other than the country of origin of the cathode ray tube, the importer shall also submit a declaration of origin issued by the final producer of the CTV in conformity with the requirements in Annex III. 2.
Should a subsequent investigation by the customs authority of a Member State or the Commission of the European Communities reveal that any declaration of origin in the customs declaration for release into free circulation in the Community was incorrect or if a party involved in the determination of origin refuses access to or otherwise does not provide the information or documentation necessary for the determination of the non-preferential origin of the CTV, its origin may be determined by the competent authorities on the basis of the best facts available.
Article 4 The proceeding regarding imports of the product described in Article 1(1) and originating in Singapore is hereby terminated.
Article 5 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 14 August 2002.
ANNEX I Necessary information for commercial invoices accompanying sales made subject to the undertaking 1.
The name of the company mentioned in Article 2.1 issuing the commercial invoice. 3.
The TARIC additional code under which the goods on the invoice are to be customs cleared at the Community frontier. 7.
I declare that the information provided in this invoice is complete and correct.%quot% (1) See page 42 of this Official Journal.
ANNEX II Necessary information for the certificate of CCCME accompanying sales made subject to the undertaking 1.
The name of the company mentioned in Article 3.1 issuing the commercial invoice. 3.
The TARIC additional code under which the goods on the invoice are to be customs cleared at the Community frontier. 6.
The exact description of the goods, including: - the product reporting code (PRC), - the technical specification of the goods (including size in cm, format of the screen, existence of the options teletext and/or stereo), - the company product code number (CPC) (if applicable), - CN code. 7.
The seal of CCCME.
ANNEX III %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2002231EN.002802.TIF%quot%%gt%
