In particular, the Committee identified Salmonella spp., Campylobacter spp., verotoxigenic Escherichia coli (VTEC), Listeria monocytogenes, Cryptosporidium spp., Echinococcus granulosus/multilocularis and Trichinella spiralis as public health priorities. (12) It is therefore necessary to improve the existing monitoring and data collection systems established by Directive 92/117/EEC.
The Community may therefore adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
Article 3 General obligations 1.
Each Member State shall ensure that effective and continuous cooperation based on free exchange of general information and, where necessary, of specific data, is established between the competent authority or authorities designated for the purposes of this Directive and: (a) the competent authorities for the purposes of Community legislation on animal health; (b) the competent authorities for the purposes of Community legislation on feed; (c) the competent authorities for the purposes of Community legislation on food hygiene; (d) the structures and/or authorities referred to in Article 1 of Decision No 2119/98/EC; (e) other authorities and organisations concerned. 4.
CHAPTER II MONITORING OF ZOONOSES AND ZOONOTIC AGENTS Article 4 General rules on monitoring of zoonoses and zoonotic agents 1.
Annex I may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12(2) to add zoonoses or zoonotic agents to, or delete them from, the lists therein, taking account in particular of the following criteria: (a) their occurrence in animal and human populations, feed and food; (b) the gravity of their effects for humans; (c) their economic consequences for animal and human health care and for feed and food businesses; (d) epidemiological trends in animal and human populations, feed and food. 5.
When considering whether to propose detailed rules in accordance with paragraph 5 to harmonise the routine monitoring of zoonoses and zoonotic agents, the Commission shall give priority to zoonoses and zoonotic agents listed in Part A of Annex I.
Article 5 Coordinated monitoring programmes 1.
If data collected through routine monitoring in accordance with Article 4 are not sufficient, coordinated monitoring programmes concerning one or more zoonoses and/or zoonotic agents may be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12(2).
Where a coordinated monitoring programme is established, special reference shall be made to zoonoses and zoonotic agents in animal populations referred to in Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 2160/2003. 3.
Article 6 Food business operators' duties 1.
Detailed rules for the implementation of this Article may be laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12(2).
CHAPTER III ANTIMICROBIAL RESISTANCE Article 7 Monitoring of antimicrobial resistance 1.
Member States shall ensure, in accordance with the requirements set out in Annex II, that monitoring provides comparable data on the occurrence of antimicrobial resistance in zoonotic agents and, in so far as they present a threat to public health, other agents. 2.
Detailed rules for the implementation of this Article shall be laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12(2).
CHAPTER IV FOOD-BORNE OUTBREAKS Article 8 Epidemiological investigation of food-borne outbreaks 1.
Member States shall ensure that, when a food business operator provides information to the competent authority pursuant to Article 19(3) of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, the foodstuff involved, or an appropriate sample of it, is preserved in order not to impede its investigation in a laboratory or the investigation of any food-borne outbreak. 2.
The competent authority shall investigate food-borne outbreaks in cooperation with the authorities referred to in Article 1 of Decision No 2119/98/EC.
Detailed rules concerning the investigation of food-borne outbreaks may be laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12(2). 4.
CHAPTER V EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION Article 9 Assessment of trends and sources of zoonoses, zoonotic agents and antimicrobial resistance 1.
Detailed rules concerning the assessment of those reports, including the formats and the minimum information that they must include, may be laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12(2).
The Commission shall send the reports referred to in paragraph 1 to the European Food Safety Authority, which shall examine them and publish by the end of November a summary report on the trends and sources of zoonoses, zoonotic agents and antimicrobial resistance in the Community.
When preparing the summary report, the European Food Safety Authority may take into consideration other data provided for in the framework of Community legislation, such as: - Article 8 of Directive 64/432/EEC, - Article 14(2) of Directive 89/397/EEC(13), - Article 24 of Decision 90/424/EEC, - Article 4 of Decision No 2119/98/EC. 3.
Member States shall provide the Commission with the results of coordinated monitoring programmes established in accordance with Article 5.
CHAPTER VI LABORATORIES Article 10 Community and national reference laboratories 1.
One or more Community reference laboratories for the analysis and testing of zoonoses and zoonotic agents and antimicrobial resistance related thereto may be designated in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12(2). 2.
Certain responsibilities and tasks of the national reference laboratories, in particular with regard to coordination of their activities and those of relevant laboratories in the Member States, may be laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12(2).
CHAPTER VII IMPLEMENTATION Article 11 Amendments to the Annexes and transitional or implementing measures Annexes II, III and IV may be amended and any appropriate transitional or implementing measures adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12(2).
Article 12 Committee procedure 1.
The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. 3.
Article 13 Consultation of the European Food Safety Authority The Commission shall consult the European Food Safety Authority on any matter within the scope of this Directive that could have a significant impact on public health, in particular before proposing any amendment to Annexes I or II or before establishing any coordinated monitoring programme in accordance with Article 5.
Member States shall adopt and publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 12 April 2004.
They shall apply those measures by 12 June 2004.
CHAPTER VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 15 Repeal Directive 92/117/EEC shall be repealed with effect from 12 June 2004.
Member States may seek a Community financial contribution for the monitoring and control of the zoonoses specified in the Annex, Group 2, in the framework of the provisions referred to in Article 24(2) to (11). 2.
As regards control of zoonoses, the Community financial contribution shall be introduced as part of a national control programme referred to in Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 2160/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 on the control of salmonella and other specified food-borne zoonotic agents(14).
Article 18 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 17 November 2003.
Cox For the Council The President G.
Viral zoonoses - calicivirus - hepatitis A virus - influenza virus - rabies - viruses transmitted by arthropods 2.
Bacterial zoonoses - borreliosis and agents thereof - botulism and agents thereof - leptospirosis and agents thereof - psittacosis and agents thereof - tuberculosis other than in point A - vibriosis and agents thereof - yersiniosis and agents thereof 3.
Parasitic zoonoses - anisakiasis and agents thereof - cryptosporidiosis and agents thereof - cysticercosis and agents thereof - toxoplasmosis and agents thereof 4.
Other zoonoses and zoonotic agents ANNEX II Requirements for monitoring of antimicrobial resistance pursuant to Article 7 A.
ANNEX III Coordinated monitoring programmes as referred to in Article 5 When a coordinated monitoring programme is established, at least the following characteristics of the programme must be defined: - its purpose; - its duration; - its geographical area or region; - the zoonoses and/or zoonotic agents concerned; - the type of samples and other data units requested; - minimum sampling schemes; - the type of laboratory testing methods; - the tasks of competent authorities; - the resources to be allocated; - the estimation of its costs and how they will be covered; and - the method and time of reporting the results.
Parts A to D apply to reports on monitoring carried out in accordance with Article 4 or 7.
Part E applies to reports on monitoring carried out in accordance with Article 8.
Each year the following must be described: (a) relevant susceptible animal population (together with the date the figures relate to): - number of herds or flocks, - total number of animals, and - where relevant, methods of production involved; (b) number and general description of the laboratories and institutions involved in monitoring.
