Article 3 This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 22 July 1994.
For the Commission RenĂŠ STEICHEN Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 270, 14. 12. 1970, p. 1. (2) OJ No L 105, 26. 4. 1994, p. 19. (3) OJ No L 64, 7. 3. 1987, p. 19. (4) OJ No L 334, 31. 12. 1993, p. 24. (5) OJ No L 117, 8. 5. 1990, p. 15. (6) OJ No L 103, 22. 4. 1994, p. 20.
The dossiers relating to antibiotics, coccidiostats and other medicinal substances, growth promoters, microorganisms and/or enzyme preparations, must be accompanied by a monograph, conforming with the model provided in Section V, enabling the additive concerned to be identified and characterized in accordance with Article 8 (1) of Directive 70/524/EEC.
The term 'additive', as used in these guidelines, refers to the active substances or the preparations containing active substances in the state in which they will be incorporated in premixtures and feedingstuffs.
An active substance may be a chemically specified substance, a microorganism or an enzyme preparation.
Identity of the additive 1.1.
For chemically specified substances: generic name, chemical name according to Iupac nomenclature, other generic international names and abbreviations.
Chemical Abstracts Service Number (CAS).
Qualitative and quantitative composition of the main components, if the active substance is a fermentation product.
Physico-chemical, technological and biological properties of the additive 3.1.
Shelf life. 3.2.
Other appropriate physico-chemical, technological or biological properties such as ability to obtain homogeneous mixtures in premixtures and feedingstuffs, dust-forming properties, and for microorganisms and/or enzyme preparations, assessment of resistance to degradation or loss of biological activity in the digestive tract or by systems of simulation in vitro. 3.5.
Conditions of use of the additive 4.1.
Contra-indications 4.3.
Proposed dosing in premixtures and feedingstuffs expressed as: - a percentage of the active substance by weight for premixtures and as mg/kg for feedingstuffs, in case of chemically specified substances, - appropriate units of biological activity such as CFU per gram of product for microorganisms or relevant activity units for enzyme preparations. 4.4.
Control methods 5.1.
Description of the qualitative and quantitative analytical methods for routine control of the additive in premixtures and feedingstuffs. 5.3.
The following data must be provided: 2.3.1.
SECTION IV STUDIES CONCERNING THE SAFETY OF USE OF THE ADDITIVE The studies outlined in this section are intended to permit assessment of: - the safety of use of the additive in the target species, - the from risks inhalation, other mucosal, eye or cutaneous contact for persons likely to handle the additive as such or as incorporated into premixtures or feedingstuffs, - the risks to the consumer which could result from the consumption of food containing residues of the additive, or its metabolites, - the risks of pollution or persistence in the enviroment from the additive itself or by products derived from the additive and excreted by animals, - possible risks to non-target species.
These studies will be required in their entirety or in part depending on the nature of the additive and the conditions proposed for its use.
As a general principle microorganisms and/or enzyme preparations must be, or be derived from microorganisms that are non-pathogenic and non-toxicogenic for target species and humans under the expected conditons of use.
If the active substance is chemically specified the knowledge of their metabolism in the various target species and also of the composition and the bio-availability of the tissue residues will be essential for determining the extent of studies on laboratory animals to assess the risks for the consumer.
Nature and concentration of the residues derived from the additive (active substance, metabolites) in the excreta. 2.2.
Toxicity in non-vertebrates (e.g.
The maximum dosage should not be higher than 2,000 mg/kg body weight.
These studies are not relevant for enzyme preparations. 3.1.2.
Mutagenicity 3.2.1.
In the case of enzyme preparations derived from microorganisms the following tests are normally required: (a) a test for gene mutations in bacteria, (b) a test for chromosomal aberrations (preferably in vitro).
Subchronic toxicity These studies must be carried out in general on two animal species (preferably the rat should be one).
These studies are not relevant for microorganisms.
If continued beyond the minimum period, the test must be terminated when survival in any but the highest dose level groups has fallen to 20 %.
These studies are not relevant for microorganisms and enzyme preparations. 3.6.
Specific teratogenic studies must be carried out in at least two suitable species. 3.7.
SECTION V FORM OF MONOGRAPH 1.
Identity of the additive 1.1.
For chemically specified substances: generic name, chemical name according to IUPAC nomenclature, other generic international names and abbreviations.
Chemical Abstracts Service Number (CAS).
Physico-chemical, technological and biological properties of the additive 3.1.
Shelf life. 3.2.
Shelf life. 3.4.
Other appropriate physico-chemical, technological or biological properties such as ability to obtain homogeneous mixtures in premixtures and feedingstuffs, dust-forming properties, and for microorganisms and/or enzyme preparations, assessment of resistance to degradation or loss of biological activity in the digestive tract or by systems of simulation in vitro. 3.5.
Control methods 4.1.
Biological properties of the additive 5.1.
The labelling should be suitable for the purpose intended. (8) If the active substance is produced by fermentation, these studies should be extended to related substances derived from the production process. (9) Such as: - Presentation of an application for assessment of a food additive prior to its authorization. 1989. (ISBN 92-826-0135-B) - Report of the Scientific Committee for Food on guidelines for the safety assessment of food additives. 1980. 10th report series, (EUR 6892). (10) Such as Bergey's Manual of Systematic Bacteriology, The Yeasts, a taxonomic study by Lodder and Kreger van Rij, Ainsworth and Bisby's Dictionary of the Fungi by Hawksworth, Sutton and Ainsworth or The Genus Aspergillus by Raper and Fennell.
