Article 4 The diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal qualifications referred to in Article 2 are the following: (a) in Belgium: Le diplôme légal de pharmacien/het wettelijk diploma van apoteker (the legal diploma in pharmacy) awarded by the faculties of medicine and pharmacy of the Universities, by the Central examining board or by the State examining boards for university education; (b) in Denmark: Bevis for bestaaet farmaceutisk kandidateksamen (the university pharmacy certificate); (c) in the Federal Republic of Germany: (1) Zeugnis ueber die staatliche Pharmazeutische Pruefung (the State examination certificate in pharmacy) awarded by the competent authorities; (2) Certificates from the competent authorities the Federal Republic of Germany stating that the diplomas awarded after 8 May 1945 by the competent authorities of the German Democratic Republic are recognized as equivalent to those referred to in point 1 above; (d) in Greece: Piatopoiitikó ton armodíon archón, ikanótitas áskisis tis farmakeftikís, chorigoýmeno metá kratikí exétasi (the certificate attesting competence to pursue the activity of a pharmacist) issued by the competent authorities following a State examination; (e) in France: The State diploma in pharmacy awarded by the universities or the State diploma of Doctor in Pharmacy awarded by the universities; (f) in Ireland: The certificate of Registered Pharmaceutical Chemist; (g) in Italy: The diploma or certificate giving the right to practise pharmacy, obtained by passing a State examination; (h) in Luxembourg: The State pharmacy diploma awarded by the State Examining Board and signed by the National Minister of Education; (i) in the Netherlands: Het getuigschrift van met goed gevolg afgelegd apothekersexamen (the university pharmacy certificate); (j) in the United Kingdom: The certificate of Registered Pharmaceutical Chemist.
CHAPTER IV Use of academic title Article 7 1.
CHAPTER V Provisions to facilitate the effective exercise of the right of establishment Article 8 1.
In the cases referred to in Articles 8 (3) and 9 (2), a request for re-examination shall suspend the period stipulated in paragraph 1.
CHAPTER VI Final provisions Article 16 In the event of justified doubts, the host Member State may require of the competent authorities of another Member State confirmation of the authenticity of the diplomas, certificates and other formal qualifications issued in that other Member State and referred to in Chapters II and III, and also confirmation of the fact that the person concerned has fulfilled all the training requirements laid down in Directive 85/432/EEC.
Article 17 Within the time limit laid down inArticle 19 (1), Member States shall designate the authorities and bodies competent to issue or receive the diplomas, certificates and other formal qualifications as well as the documents and information referred to in this Directive and shall forthwith inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof.
Article 18 This Directive shall also apply to nationals of Member States who, in accordance with Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68, are pursuing or will pursue as employed persons one of the activities referred to in Article 1.
Article 20 Where a Member State encounters major difficulties in certain fields when applying this Directive, the Commission shall examine these difficulties in conjunction with that State and shall request the opinion of the Pharmaceutical Committee set up under Decision 75/320/EEC (1).
Article 21 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
FISCHBACH (1) OJ No C 35, 18. 2. 1981, p. 6 and OJ No C 40, 18. 2. 1984, p. 4. (2) OJ No C 277, 17. 10. 1983, p. 160. (3) OJ No C 230, 10. 9. 1981, p. 10. (4) See page 34 of this Official Journal. (1) OJ No L 257, 19. 10. 1968, p. 2. (1) OJ No L 147, 9. 6. 1975, p. 23.
