Article 3 The application shall be submitted by the person to whom the special reference quantity referred to in Article 2 has been allocated or by his or her heir or heirs, without prejudice to the application of the provisions of Member States' national law.
The competent authority referred to in Article 9 shall determine the annual quantity in respect of which compensation is due on the basis of the quantity used to calculate the premium granted pursuant to Regulation (EEC) No 1078/77, increased by 1 % and reduced by a percentage representing the reductions applied in each Member State to the reference quantities of producers established in accordance with Articles 2 and 6 of Regulation (EEC) No 857/84. 2.
If the producer has given up a part of the SLOM holding, or of the part of the SLOM holding transferred to him, prior to the allocation of a special reference quantity pursuant to Regulation (EEC) No 2055/93 including the period of the non-marketing undertaking, the annual quantity in respect of which compensation is due as referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 respectively shall be reduced in proportion to the area given up.
Article 8 If during the compensation period, and prior to the allocation of the special reference quantity, production was increased by the producer in excess of the reference quantity available to him, the quantity in respect of which compensation is due shall be reduced for the period concerned by the quantities delivered or sold directly which exceed that reference quantity.
The reference quantities referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 2 of Regulation (EEC) No 2055/93 are not taken into account for the purposes of determining the reference quantity available.
Article 9 Each application for compensation must be addressed to the competent authority designated for that purpose in each Member State concerned using a form drawn up in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30 of Regulation (EEC) No 804/68 (11).
Article 10 The competent authority referred to in Article 9 shall check the accuracy of the information provided by the producer and shall calculate the amount of the compensation on the basis of the quantity and the period in respect of which compensation is due, using the amounts specified in the Annex.
Article 11 Interest shall be added to the amount of the compensation at the rate of 6 % per year from 9 December 1997 to the date of payment of the compensation.
Article 12 The total amount of compensation shall be converted into national currency using the agricultural conversion rate applicable on the date on which this Regulation enters into force.
Within four months of receipt of an application for compensation, the competent authority referred to in Article 9 shall transmit an offer of compensation calculated in accordance with this Regulation to the applicant, accompanied by a receipt in full and final settlement.
Article 16 Detailed rules for the application of this Regulation, and in particular the provisions regarding payment of the costs of producers' agents, shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 804/68.
Article 17 The financing of the payments made pursuant to this Regulation shall be deemed to be intervention within the meaning of Article 3 of Regulation (EEC) No 729/70 (12).
Article 18 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 22 October 1998.
