Article 3 Scope The HICP shall be based on the prices of goods and services available for purchase in the economic territory of the Member State for the purposes of directly satisfying consumer needs.
Article 4 Comparability HICPs shall be considered to be comparable if they reflect only differences in price changes or consumption patterns between countries.
Article 5 Timetable and derogations therefrom 1.
The estimates of price changes for the twelve months prior to January 1997 and subsequent months shall be established on the basis of the indices for 1996. 2.
Where necessary the Commission (Eurostat) may, at the request of a Member State and after consulting the EMI, grant derogations from the provisions of paragraph 1 not exceeding a period of one year where the Member State concerned has to make significant adjustments to its statistical system in order to fulfil its obligations under this Regulation. 3.
Article 6 Basic information The basic information shall be those prices and weightings of goods and services which it is necessary to take into account in order to achieve comparability of indices as defined in Article 4.
Article 7 Sources The statistical units called upon by the Member States to cooperate in the collection or provision of price data shall be obliged to allow observation of the prices actually charged and to give honest and complete information at the time it is requested.
Article 8 Frequency 1.
The weightings of the HICP shall be updated with a frequency sufficient to meet the comparability requirement laid down in Article 4.
Article 9 Production of results Member States shall process the data collected in order to produce the HICP, which shall be a Laspeyres-type index, covering the categories of the Coicop international classification (classification of individual consumption by purpose) (1), which shall be adapted under the procedure in Article 14 to establish comparable HICPs.
Article 10 Transmission of results Member States shall transmit the HICPs to the Commission (Eurostat) within a period which shall not exceed thirty days from the end of the calendar month to which the indices relate.
Article 11 Publication The HICP, the EICP, the MUICP and corresponding subindices for a set of categories within those referred to in Article 9, selected by the procedure laid down in Article 14, shall be published by the Commission (Eurostat) within a period which shall not exceed five working days from the end of the period referred to in Article 10.
Article 13 Funding The implementing measures for this Regulation shall be adopted taking the greatest account of cost-effectiveness and on condition that no major additional resources are needed in a Member State, unless the Commission (Eurostat) bears two-thirds of the additional costs until the end of the second year of implementation of those measures.
Article 14 Procedure 1.
The Commission shall adopt the measures envisaged if they are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee.
Article 15 Review After consulting the Committee, the Commission (Eurostat) shall, within two years of the date of entry into force of this Regulation and again within two years thereafter, submit a report to the Council on the HICPs established pursuant to this Regulation and in particular on their reliability and compliance with the comparability requirements.
In those reports, the Commission shall state its views on the operation of the procedure described in Article 14 and shall propose any amendments it considers appropriate.
Article 16 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 23 October 1995.
