The programme shall be implemented over a period starting on 1 January 2004 and ending on 31 December 2008. 3.
Article 3 Objectives of the programme 1.
Article 4 Programme actions 1.
Article 5 Access to the programme Under the conditions and arrangements for implementation specified in the Annex and bearing in mind the definitions in Article 2, the programme is aimed in particular at: (a) higher education institutions; (b) students having obtained a first degree awarded by a higher education institution; (c) scholars or professionals who lecture or conduct research; (d) staff directly involved in higher education; (e) other public or private bodies active in the field of higher education which may take part only in actions 4 and 5 in the Annex.
Article 6 Implementation of the programme and cooperation with the Member States 1.
The Commission shall: (a) ensure the effective implementation of the Community actions covered by the programme in conformity with the Annex; (b) take account of bilateral cooperation with third countries undertaken by Member States; (c) consult the relevant associations and organisations in the field of higher education at European level and shall inform the Committee referred to in Article 8 of their opinions; (d) seek synergies and develop joint actions with other Community programmes and actions in the field of higher education and research. 2.
Article 7 Implementing measures 1.
Article 8 Committee 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by a Committee. 2.
Article 9 Funding 1.
For the period following 31 December 2006, this amount shall be deemed to be confirmed if it is consistent for this phase with the financial perspectives in force for the period commencing in 2007. 2.
Article 10 Consistency and complementarity 1.
Article 11 Participation of EEA-EFTA States and candidate countries for accession to the European Union The conditions and detailed rules on the participation of EEA-EFTA States and candidate countries for accession to the European Union in the programme shall be established in accordance with the relevant provisions of the instruments governing the relations between the European Community and these countries.
Article 12 Monitoring and evaluation 1.
The European Parliament and the Council shall take a decision on such proposals as soon as possible; (b) an interim evaluation report on the results achieved and on the qualitative aspects of the implementation of the programme by 30 June 2007; (c) a communication on the continuation of the programme by 31 December 2007; (d) an ex post evaluation report by 31 December 2009.
Article 13 Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 5 December 2003.
Cox For the Council The President P.
ANNEX COMMUNITY ACTIONS AND SELECTION PROCEDURES %gt%TABLE%gt% ACTION 1: ERASMUS MUNDUS MASTERS COURSES 1.
ACTION 3: PARTNERSHIPS WITH THIRD-COUNTRY HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTIONS 1.
The Community may support structured relations between Erasmus Mundus masters courses and third-country higher education institutions.
ACTION 4: ENHANCING ATTRACTIVENESS 1.
Activities (which may include seminars, conferences, workshops, development of ICT tools, production of material for publication, etc.) may take place in the Member States or in third countries. 3.
