This Directive and the Directives listed in Article 1 (2) shall apply in the territory of the Community as defined, for each Member State, by the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 227 thereof, except for the following national territories: - in the case of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Island of Heligoland and the territory of Buesingen, - in the case of the Italian Republic, Livigno, Campione d'Italia and the Italian waters of Lake Lugano, - in the case of the Kingdom of Spain, Ceuta and Melilla. 2.
The Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that transactions originating in or intended for: - the Principality of Monaco are treated as transactions originating in or intended for the French Republic, - Jungholz and Mittelberg (Kleines Walsertal) are treated as transactions originating in or intended for the Federal Republic of Germany, - the Isle of Man are treated as transactions originating in or intended for the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, - San Marino are treated as transactions originating in or intended for the Italian Republic. 5.
The provisions of this Directive shall not prevent Greece from maintaining the specific status granted to Mount Athos as guaranteed by Article 105 of the Greek Constitution. 6.
This Directive shall apply at Community level to the following products as defined in the relevant Directives: - mineral oils, - alcohol and alcoholic beverages, - manufactured tobacco. 2.
Article 4 For the purpose of this Directive, the following definitions shall apply: (a) authorized warehousekeeper: a natural or legal person authorized by the competent authorities of a Member State to produce, process, hold, receive and dispatch products subject to excise duty in the course of his business, excise duty being suspended unter tax-warehousing arrangement; (b) tax warehouse: a place where goods subject to excise duty are produced, processed, held, received or dispatched under duty-suspension arrangements by an authorized warehousekeeper in the course of his business, subject to certain conditions laid down by the competent authorities of the Member State where the tax warehouse is located; (c) suspension arrangement: a tax arrangement applied to the production, processing, holding and movement of products, excise duty being suspended; (d) registered trader: a natural or legal person without authorized warehousekeeper status, authorized by the competent authorities of a Member State to receive, in the course of his business, products subject to excise duty from another Member State under duty-suspension arrangements.
This type of trader may neither hold nor dispatch such products under excise duty-suspension arrangements; (e) non-registered trader: a natural or legal person without authorized warehousekeeper status, who is entitled, in the course of his business, to receive occasionally products subject to excise duty from another Member State under duty-suspension arrangements.
The form and content of this document shall be established in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24 of this Directive. 5.
Article 8 As regards products acquired by private individuals for their own use and transported by them, the principle governing the internal market lays down that excise duty shall be charged in the Member State in which they are acquired.
Without prejudice to Articles 6, 7 and 8, excise duty shall become chargeable where products for consumption in a Member State are held for commercial purpose in another Member State.
To establish that the products referred to in Article 8 are intended for commercial purposes, Member States must take account, inter alia, of the following: - the commercial status of the holder of the products and his reasons for holding them, - the place where the products are located or, if appropriate, the mode of transport used, - any document relating to the products, - the nature of the products, - the quantity of the products.
TITLE II Production, processing and holding Article 11 1.
Article 12 The opening and operation of tax warehouses shall be subject to authorization from the competent authorities of the Member States.
Article 13 An authorized warehousekeeper shall be required to: (a) provide a guarantee, if necessary, to cover production, processing and holding and a compulsory guarantee to cover movement, the conditions for which shall be set by the tax authorities of the Member States where the tax warehouse is authorized; (b) comply with the requirements laid down by the Member State within whose territory the tax warehouse is situated; (c) keep, for each warehouse, accounts of stock and product movements; (d) produce the products whenever so required; (e) consent to all monitoring and stock checks.
These exemptions shall apply equally to the traders referred to in Article 16 during the transport of products under excise duty suspension arrangements. 2.
TITLE III Movement of goods Article 15 1.
Without prejudice to the provision of Article 20, the liability of the authorized warehousekeeper of dispatch and, if the case arises, that of the transporter may only be discharged by proof that the consignee has taken delivery of the products, in particular by the accompanying document referred to in Article 18 under the conditions laid down in Article 19.
A registered trader must comply with the following requirements: (a) guarantee payment of excise duty under the conditions set by the tax authorities of his Member State, without prejudice to Article 15 (4) laying down the liability of the authorized warehousekeeper of dispatch and, if the case arises, of the transporter; (b) keep accounts of deliveries of products; (c) produce the products whenever so required; (d) consent to all monitoring and stock checks.
Article 17 A tax representative may be appointed by the authorized warehousekeeper of dispatch.
He must, instead of and in the place of the consignee without authorized warehousekeeper status, comply with the following requirements: (a) guarantee the payment of excise duty under the conditions set by the tax authorities of the Member State of destination, without prejudice to Article 15 (4) laying down the liability of the authorized warehousekeeper of dispatch and, if the case arises, the transporter; (b) pay the excise duty of the Member State of destination at the time of receipt of the goods in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Member States of destination; (c) keep an account of deliveries of products and advise the tax authorities of the Member States of destination of the place where the goods are delivered.
The form and content of this document shall be established in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24 of this Directive. 2.
The procedure to be followed with respect to the copy for the competent authorities of the Member States of destination shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 24. 2.
However, each Member State may require that fiscal marks be made available to a tax representative authorized by the tax authority of that Member State.
Intra-Community movement of products carrying a tax marking or national identification mark of a Member State within the meaning of paragraph 1 and intended for sale in that Member State, which are within the territory of another Member State, shall take place under cover of an accompanying document as provided for in Article 18 (1) and (3), or if the case arises, in accordance with Article 5 (2).
TITLE IV Reimbursement Article 22 1.
In the cases referred to in Article 8b the Member State of departure must, at the vendor's request, reimburse the excise duty paid where the vendor has followed the procedures laid down in Article 10 (3).
TITLE V Exemptions Article 23 1.
The Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, may authorize any Member State to conclude with a non-member country or an international organization an agreement which may contain exemptions from excise duty.
The provisions on excise duty laid down in the following Directives shall cease to apply on 31 December 1992: - Directive 74/651/EEC(6) , - Directive 83/183/EEC(7) , - Directive 68/297/EEC(8) . 4.
The provisions on excise duty laid down in Directive 69/169/EEC(9) shall cease to apply on 31 December 1992 in respect of relations between Member States. 5.
TITLE VI Committee on excise duties Article 24 1.
The Committee shall draw up its rules of procedure. 2.
The measures necessary for the application of Articles 7, 18 and 19 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedures laid down in paragraphs 3 and 4. 3.
The Commission representative shall submit to the Commission a draft of the measures to be adopted.
The Committee shall take its decision by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty.
Article 25 The Member States and the Commission shall examine and assess the application of Community provisions on excise duties.
TITLE VII Final provisions Article 26 1.
Without prejudice to Article 8, until 31 December 1996 and subject to a review mechanism similar to that laid down in Article 28 (2) of Directive 77/388/EEC(10) , Denmark shall be authorized to apply the specific arrangements laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3 for spirit drinks and manufactured tobaccos within the general framework of the approximation of excise duty rates. 2.
Denmark shall be authorized to apply the following quantitative restrictions: - private travellers entering Denmark shall benefit from the allowance in force on 31 December 1992 for cigarettes, cigarillos or smoking tobacco and for spirit drinks, - travellers resident in Denmark and having been outside Denmark for less than the period in force on 31 December 1992 shall benefit from the allowances in force in Denmark on 31 December 1992 for cigarettes and spirit drinks. 3.
Article 28 The following provisions shall apply for the period ending on 30 June 1999: 1.
Article 32 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 25 February 1992.
For the Council The President Vitor MARTINS (1) OJ No C 322, 21. 12. 1990, p.1; and OJ No C 45, 20. 8. 1992, p. 10. (2) OJ No C 183, 15. 7. 1991, p. 131. (3) OJ No C 169, 18. 3. 1991, p. 25. (4) OJ No L 336, 27. 12. 1977, p. 15.
