GFCM must therefore have its own autonomous budget. (5) GFCM adopted, at its meeting from 13 to 16 October 1997, the amendments to the text of the agreement establishing an autonomous budget.
The Community shall accept the establishment of an autonomous budget for the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, in accordance with the instrument set out in Annex I. 2.
Done at Brussels, 17 July 2000.
For the Council The President J.
Glavany (1) OJ C 15, 20.1.1999, p. 13. (2) OJ C 150, 28.5.1999, p. 153. (3) Council Decision (98/416/EC) of 16 June 1998 on the accession of the European Community to the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (OJ L 190, 4.7.1998, p. 34).
I therefore convey to you this instrument by which the Community accepts the new Article VIIIa and IXa as well as the amendments to Articles II, VII and IX of the Agreement as adopted at the meeting from 13 to 16 October 1997, in accordance with Article X.2 of the said Agreement.
The Members of the Commission shall be such Members and Associate Members of the Organisation and such non-member States as are members of the United Nations, any of its Specialised Agencies or the International Atomic Energy Agency, that are: (i) coastal States or Associate Members situated wholly or partly within the Region, (ii) States or Associate Members whose vessels engage in fishing in the Region for stocks covered by this Agreement, or (iii) regional economic integration organisations of which any State referred to in subparagraphs (i), or (ii) above is a member and to which that State has transferred competence over matters within the purview of this Agreement; and which accept this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Article XI below, it being understood that these provisions shall not affect the membership status in the Commission of such States that are not members of the United Nations, any of its Specialised Agencies or the International Atomic Energy Agency as may have become parties to this Agreement prior to 22 May 1963.
Subject to paragraph 3, each Member shall have one vote.
A Regional Economic Integration Organisation that is a Member of the Commission shall be entitled to exercise in any meeting of the Commission or of any subsidiary body of the Commission a number of votes equal to the number of its Member States that are entitled to vote in such meeting. 4.
Any Member of the Commission may request a Regional Economic Integration Organisation that is a Member of the Commission or its Member States that are Members of the Commission to provide information as to which, as between the Member Organisation and its Member States, has competence in respect of any specific question.
Before any meeting of the Commission or a subsidiary body of the Commission, a Regional Economic Integration Organisation that is a Member of the Commission or its Member States that are Members of the Commission shall indicate which, as between the Regional Economic Integration Organisation and its Member States, has competence in respect to any specific question to be considered in the meeting and which, as between the Regional Economic Integration Organisation and its Member States, shall exercise the right to vote in respect of each particular agenda item.
The site and date of all sessions shall be determined by the Commission in consultation with the Director-General of the Organisation. 11.
Such Regulations shall be reported to the Finance Committee which shall have the power to disallow such Financial Regulations or amendment if it finds that they are inconsistent with the principles embodied in the Financial Regulations of the Organisation.
Article III Functions 1.
Article V Recommendations on management measures 1.
The text of such recommendations shall be communicated by the Chairman of the Commission to each Member. 2.
Article VII Committees, working parties and specialists 1.
Article VIII Cooperation with international organisations The Commission shall cooperate closely with other international organisations in matters of mutual interest.
Contributions and donations and other forms of assistance received shall be placed in a Trust Fund administered by the Director-General in conformity with the Financial Regulations of the Organisation. 8.
Article IX Expenses 1.
The expenses of delegates and their alternates, experts and advisers occasioned by attendance at sessions of the Commission and the expenses of representatives sent to committees or working parties established in accordance with Article VII of this Agreement shall be determined and paid by respective Members. 2.
Contributions for cooperative projects shall be paid into a trust fund to be established by the Organisation and shall be administered by the Organisation in accordance with the Financial Regulations and Rules of the Organisation. 5.
The expenses of experts invited to attend meetings of the Commission, committees or working parties in their individual capacity shall be borne by the budget of the Commission. 6.
The acceptance of such voluntary contributions and the administration of the trust fund shall be in accordance with the Financial Regulations and Rules of the Organisation.
Article IXa Administration 1.
The Secretary shall also act as Secretary to other subsidiary bodies established by the Commission, as required. 3.
Article X Amendments 1.
Subject to paragraph 2 below, amendments shall come into force as from the date of their adoption by the Commission. 2.
Article XI Acceptance 1.
This Agreement shall be open to acceptance by Members or Associate Members of the Organisation. 2.
Participation in the activities of the Commission by Members of the Commission which are not Members or Associate Members of the Organisation shall be contingent upon the assumption of such proportionate share in the expenses of the Secretariat as may be determined in the light of the relevant provisions of the Financial Regulations of the Organisation. 4.
Membership shall become effective on the date on which the Commission approves the application for membership, in conformity with the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article. 6.
References in this Agreement to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, 1982, or to other international agreements do not prejudice the position of any State with respect to signature, ratification, or accession to the 1982 United Nations Convention or with respect to other agreements.
In the absence of such a declaration, participation shall be deemed to apply to all the territories for the international relations of which the Member is responsible.
Article XIV Withdrawal 1.
Notice of withdrawal shall become effective three months from the date of its receipt by the Director-General. 2.
In the absence of such a declaration, the withdrawal shall be deemed to apply to all the territories for the international relations of which the Member of the Commission is responsible, with the exception of Associate Members. 3.
Any Member of the Commission that gives notice of withdrawal from the Organisation shall be deemed to have simultaneously withdrawn from the Commission, and this withdrawal shall be deemed to apply to all the territories for the international relations of which the Member concerned is responsible, except that such withdrawal shall not be deemed to apply to an Associate Member.
Rule II Sessions of the Commission 1.
In pursuance of, and in accordance with, Article II(10) of the Agreement, the Commission, in consultation with the Director-General, shall at each regular session decide the time and place for the next session in accordance with the requirements of the Commission's programmes and the terms of the invitation of the country in which the session is to be held.
The Chairman may convene a special session of the Commission at the request or with the approval of the majority of the Members. 3.
Invitations to a regular session of the Commission shall be issued by the Secretary on behalf of the Chairman not less than sixty days in advance of the date fixed for the opening of the session.
Rule IV Agenda 1.
The provisional agenda shall be sent by the Secretary to members and observer nations and organisations not less than 60 days before the date of the session, together with reports and documents available in connection therewith. 4.
Rule V The Secretariat 1.
Rule VI Plenary meetings of the Commission Plenary meetings of the Commission shall be held in public unless otherwise decided by the Commission.
Rule VIII Functions of the Chairman and Vice-Chairmen 1.
Rule IX Voting arrangements and procedures 1.
Except as provided in paragraph 4 of this Rule, voting in plenary meetings shall be oral or by show of hands, except that a vote by roll call shall be taken if a special majority is required by the Agreement or these Rules, or if a request for a vote by roll call is made by any delegation. 2.
Rule X Committees 1.
The procedures of such committees and working parties shall be governed mutatis mutandis by the Rules of Procedure of the Commission.
Rule XI Budget and finance 1.
Rule XII Participation by observers 1.
Rule XIV Records, reports and recommendations 1.
Subject to the provisions of Article V of the Agreement, the conclusions and recommendations of the Commission shall be transmitted to the Director-General of the Organisation at the close of each session, who shall circulate them to Members of the Commission, nations and international organisations that were represented at the session and make them available to other Members and Associate Members of the Organisation for their information. 5.
Subject to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the Chairman may request Members of the Commission to supply the Commission or the Director-General with information on action taken on the basis of recommendations made by the Commission.
Rule XV Recommendations to Members 1.
Rule XVI Amendments to the Agreement 1.
The Secretary shall transmit to all Members and to the Director-General a copy of such proposals for amendment immediately upon their receipt. 2.
Subject to the provisions of the Agreement any of the foregoing Rules, other than Rules IV, V, X(3) and (4), XI, XII, XIV(4) and XVI, may be suspended on the motion of any delegation by a majority of the votes cast at any plenary meeting of the Commission, provided that announcement is made at a plenary meeting of the Commission and copies of the proposal for suspension have been distributed to the delegations not less than 48 hours before the meeting at which action is to be taken. 2.
Amendments of, or addition to, these Rules may be adopted on the motion of any delegation by a two-thirds majority of the Members of the Commission, at any plenary meeting of the Commission, provided an announcement is made at a plenary meeting and copies of the proposal for the amendment or addition have been distributed to delegations not less than 24 hours before the meeting at which action is to be taken. 3.
Any amendment to Rule XVI which may be adopted in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Rule, shall not become effective until the next session of the Commission.
Rule XVIII Official languages 1.
