EC: Commission Recommendation of 15 February 2005 on the role of non-executive or supervisory directors of listed companies and on the committees of the (supervisory) board (Text with EEA relevance) Commission Recommendation of 15 February 2005 on the role of non-executive or supervisory directors of listed companies and on the committees of the (supervisory) board (Text with EEA relevance) (2005/162/EC) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular the second indent of Article 211 thereof, Whereas: (1) In a Communication adopted on 21 May 2003, the Commission presented its Action Plan "Modernising Company Law and Enhancing Corporate Governance in the European Union — A Plan to Move Forward" [1].
The main objectives of the Action Plan are to strengthen shareholders’ rights and protection for employees, creditors and the other parties with which companies deal, while adapting company law and corporate governance rules appropriately for different categories of company, and to foster the efficiency and competitiveness of businesses, with special attention to some specific cross-border issues. (2) In its Resolution of 21 April 2004, the European Parliament welcomed the Action Plan and expressed strong support for most of the initiatives announced.
Given the different approaches in the Member States with respect to the bodies responsible for setting the remuneration of directors, the role of a remuneration committee created within the (supervisory) board should essentially be to make sure that, where the (supervisory) board plays a role in the remuneration setting process (either through a power to table proposals or to make decisions, as defined by national law), this role is performed in as objective and professional a way as possible.
Such structures or procedures, which could be either mandatory for companies under national law or best practice recommended at national level through a "comply or explain" approach, should be functionally equivalent and equally effective.
With respect to listed companies not incorporated in one of the Member States, the set of provisions to be introduced by Member States should cover at least those listed companies which have their primary listing on a regulated market established in their territory. 2.
Number of independent directors A sufficient number of independent non-executive or supervisory directors should be elected to the (supervisory) board of companies to ensure that any material conflict of interest involving directors will be properly dealt with. 5.
It should also be possible to remove them, but their removal should not be easier than for an executive or managing director. 11.
Commitment Each director should devote to his duties the necessary time and attention, and should undertake to limit the number of his other professional commitments (in particular any directorships held in other companies) to such an extent that the proper performance of his duties is assured.
Every year, the board should collect data on such commitments, and make the information available in its annual report. 13.
A number of criteria for assessment of the independence of directors should be adopted at national level, taking into account the guidance set out in Annex II, which identifies a number of situations reflecting the relationships or circumstances usually recognised as likely to generate material conflict of interest.
SECTION IV FINAL PROVISIONS 14.
Done at Brussels, 15 February 2005.
For the Commission Charlie McCreevy Member of the Commission [1] COM(2003) 284 final. [2] OJ L 375, 31.12.1985, p. 3.
COMMON FEATURES 1.1.
Transparency 1.
THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE 2.1.
Creation and composition 1.
Where, under national law, the (supervisory) board is playing a role, either by making decisions itself or by making proposals for consideration by another corporate body, in the process for appointment and/or removal of directors, a nomination committee should be set up within the (supervisory) board. 2.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 3.1.
Creation and composition 1.
Where, under national law, the (supervisory) board is playing a role, either by making decisions itself or by making proposals for consideration by another corporate body, in the process for setting remuneration of directors, a remuneration committee should be set up within the (supervisory) board. 2.
The remuneration committee should be composed exclusively of non-executive or supervisory directors.
With respect to executive or managing directors, the committee should at least: - make proposals, for the approval of the (supervisory) board, on the remuneration policy for executive or managing directors.
With respect to senior management (as defined by the (supervisory) board), the committee should at least: - make general recommendations to the executive or managing directors on the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, - monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, on the basis of adequate information provided by executive or managing directors. 3.
The remuneration committee should consult at least the chairman and/or chief executive about their views relating to the remuneration of other executive or managing directors. 2.
The remuneration committee should be able to avail itself of consultants, with a view to obtaining the necessary information on market standards for remuneration systems.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 4.1.
The committee should be entitled to meet with any relevant person outside the presence of executive or managing directors, if it so wishes. 4.
The audit committee should be informed of the external auditor’s work programme, and should obtain a report by the external auditor describing all relationships between the independent auditor and the company and its group.
If he were to resign, he should explain his reasons in a letter to the board or the audit committee, and, where appropriate, to any relevant body external to the company. [1] OJ L 193, 18.7.1983, p. 1.
