Article 2 Organisations shall have the updates of their environmental statement validated as referred to in Article 3(b) of Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 in accordance with the guidance set out in Annex II.
Article 3 The EMAS logo as referred to in Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 shall be used in accordance with the guidance set out in Annex III.
Article 4 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 7 September 2001.
For the Commission Margot WallstrĂśm Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 114, 24.4.2001, p. 1.
If the organisation comprises one or more sites, each of the sites to which EMAS applies shall comply with all the requirements of EMAS including the continual improvement of environmental performance as defined in Article 2(b) of Regulation (EC) No 761/2001.
Therefore participants are advised to have a clear and reasoned justification for selecting the sites or parts of sites of the organisation to be registered.
Sites registered to EMAS I will fall into this category according to Article 17(4) of Regulation (EC) No 761/2001.
ORGANISATION OPERATING IN DIFFERENT SITES Under Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 participants can still continue to register individual sites or as %quot%an organisation%quot% (defined in Article 2(s)) or part or combination thereof.
A site must be verified individually if: - the size, scale and nature of its activities/operations at the site have been recognised as being significant; - the internal audits and the management review have shown need for corrective action; - substantial changes in the environmental management system or in the operations at the site have occurred since the last verification; - or if the site is significantly different from the other sites of the organisation in: - size and working practices, - direct and indirect environmental aspects/impacts (type and significance), - the sensitivity of its environments, - the legal requirements applicable, - the structure of its local EMS and or the local management system, - the size, scale and nature of its activities/operations at the site.
Organisations should consider the risk of losing the common registration for all sites in case of a breach of regulatory requirements at only one site.
Examples: - banks, - travel agencies, - retail chains, - consultants. 3.2.
Irrespective of whether an organisation wishes to have one or separate registrations of each singular site, several issues must be considered including: - the need for analysis of environmental aspects and impacts associated to all the different locations, - the related management control of those, - existence of environmental policy and programmes taking account of the principle of local accountability.
In this case all of the sites shall be individually verified and the related environmental data shall be reported separately in the environmental statement. (See Annex III, point 3.7 and Guidance on the Environmental Statement (Annex II of this Decision)).
Due to the fact that these organisations operate generally in large areas, including towns or metropolitan territory, the organisation should give evidence, as appropriate, that it has: - considered risks for environment and population, - adopted appropriate plans for informing people how to behave in case of emergency, - prepared systematic information on the pollution level, - considered the infrastructure under its control.
Examples: - service distribution (heat, water, gas, electricity, etc.), - telecommunications, - transport, - waste collection. 5.
Examples: - construction companies, - cleaning companies, - service providers, - contamination remediators, - circuses. 6.
In these cases the participating organisations, in order to get a common registration as one organisation, must be able to demonstrate a common responsibility (policy, procedures, etc.) for the management of significant environmental aspects and impacts including, in particular, the setting of objectives and targets and corrective actions.
VERIFICATION PROGRAMME 2.1.
In designing the verification programme the verifier should consider: - strength and confidence in the internal audit programme, including the frequency of internal audits, - complexity of the EMS, - the environmental policy, - size, scale and nature of the organisation's activities, products and services, - significance of the organisation's direct and indirect environmental aspects over which it has control or can be expected to have an influence, - strength of the data and information management and retrieval system, as it relates to information and data in the environmental statement, - history of environmental problems, - extent of activities subject to environmental regulations, - results from previous verifications, - experience of the organisation in complying with EMAS requirements.
In such cases the verifier is expected to consider the EN ISO 14001 surveillance programme in designing the verification programme and if feasible aim to combine the assessment visits as far as possible, to avoid unnecessary duplication, cost and time to the organisation.
Annex III, point 3.4, on maintenance of publicly available information states: %quot%The organisation shall update the information detailed in point 3.2 and shall have any changes validated by an environmental verifier, on a yearly basis.
Deviations from the frequency with which updates shall be performed may be made under circumstances laid down in Commission guidance ...%quot%. 3.2.
Examples: - small bakeries - kindergarten - single retail outlets 3.3.
AUDIT FREQUENCY 4.1.
The organisation should also carry out audits at least on an annual basis, as this will help to demonstrate to the organisation's management and the verifier that it is in control of its significant environmental aspects. (1) OJ L 107, 30.4.1996, p. 4. (2) See page 3 of this Official Journal.
The EMAS logo is a trade mark of Regulation (EC) No 761/2001.
Within this context the EMAS logo has a threefold function: - to indicate the reliability and credibility of information provided by an organisation with regard to its environmental performance; - to indicate the organisation's commitment to improvement in environmental performance and to the sound management of its environmental aspects; - to raise awareness about the scheme in the public, among interested parties and among organisations willing to improve their environmental performance.
REQUIREMENTS AS NAMED IN REGULATION (EC) No 761/2001 2.1.
Annex III, point 3.5 requires the information to be: - accurate and non deceptive, - substantiated and verifiable, - relevant and used in an appropriate context or setting, - representative of the overall environmental performance of the organisation, - unlikely to result in misinterpretation - significant in relation to the overall environmental impact.
Therefore the logo may be used for the promotion of EMAS in the following format: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2001247EN.004001.TIF%quot%%gt% for the following purposes, for example: - promotional materials (badges, etc); - journalistic articles; - Commission guidance; - books, publications on EMAS; provided that: - it is not used in association with an organisation's name, and - that it does not imply or convey the impression of registration to the scheme or that the user of the logo in this form is not making any environmental claim for its activities, products and services. 2.3.
In Article 8(2) the EMAS Regulation names five different options for the use of the logo: (a) on validated information as described in Annex III, point 3.5, under circumstances defined in this guidance.
In this case the logo indicates that the information is drawn from a validated environmental statement and meets the requirements of Annex III, point 3.5 (version 2); (b) on validated environmental statements: Highlights the participation in the scheme and demonstrates that the content of the statement is validated (version 2); (c) on registered organisations' letterheads (version 1); (d) on information advertising an organisation's participation in EMAS: Indicates the fact that the organisation participates in EMAS.
Version 1 of the logo can, for example, be used on plates, buildings, websites, invitations, etc.; (e) on, or in, adverts for products, activities and services only under the circumstances defined in this guidance which shall ensure that there is no confusion with environmental product labels (version 2).
Whereas the use of the logo in the statement and on letterheads was covered in Regulation (EEC) No 1836/93(2) several new uses of the logo are allowed under Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 and these cases are dealt with in the following points. 3.
GUIDANCE ON THE USE OF THE LOGO ON SELECTED INFORMATION FROM THE ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT (Article 8(2) (a) and Annex III, point 3.5, of Regulation No 761/2001) 3.1.
There is a wide range of possible publication formats such as: - information brochures, - datasheets, - handouts, - adverts in newspapers, - environmental chapters in non-environment-related publications, - websites etc., and - TV advertisements.
Examples %gt%TABLE%gt% 4.
GUIDANCE ON THE USE OF THE LOGO ON ADVERTISEMENT FOR THE ORGANISATION'S PARTICIPATION IN THE SCHEME (Article 8(2) (d) of Regulation No 761/2001) 4.1.
Examples %gt%TABLE%gt% 5.
General requirements Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 puts stronger emphasis on indirect environmental aspects compared to Regulation (EEC) No 1836/93.
where there are established requirements for the EU-eco-label or national eco-labelling schemes) the following requirements apply: - the organisation and the verifier are obliged to take necessary and specific provision, as stipulated in the abovementioned general principles and illustrated in the examples, for avoiding confusion with an existing eco-label; - organisations and verifiers shall consider eco-label criteria relevant for the product when checking the information to be delivered against the requirements of Annex III, point 3.5 (a) to (f), - all eco-labelling schemes shall be considered that are relevant for the market in which the logo will be used; - in no case is it allowed to make reference to criteria established for relevant eco-labels. 5.2.
Examples %gt%TABLE%gt% (1) OJ L 250, 19.9.1984, p. 17. (2) OJ L 168, 10.7.1993, p. 1, repealed by Regulation (EC) No 761/2001.
