For the purpose of this Regulation, (a) the term 'vessel` shall mean any self-propelled sea-going vessel of 100 gross tonnes and above used for transportation of goods or persons or for performance of a specialized service (for example, ice breakers and dredgers) and any tug of 365 kW and over; (b) the term 'like vessel` shall mean any vessel of the same type, purpose and approximate size as the vessel under consideration and possessing characteristics closely resembling those of the vessel under consideration; (c) the term 'same general category of vessel` shall mean any vessel of the same type and purpose, but of a significantly different size; (d) the term 'sale` shall cover the creation or transfer of an ownership interest in the vessel, except for an ownership interest created or acquired solely for the purpose of providing security for a normal commercial loan; (e) the term 'ownership interest` shall include any contractual or proprietary interest which allows the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such interest to take advantage of the operation of the vessel in a manner substantially comparable to the way in which an owner may benefit from the operation of the vessel.
A person or company owns a buyer when it has more than a 50 % interest in the buyer.
A person or company controls a buyer when the person or company is legally or operationally in a position to exercise restraint or direction over the buyer, which is presumed at a 25 % interest.
Article 2 Determination of injurious pricing A.
Normal value 1.
Export price 9.
The change in circumstances which would create a situation in which the sale at less than normal value would cause injury must be clearly foreseen and imminent.
Article 4 Definition of Community industry 1.
Article 5 Initiation of proceedings 1.
The complaint may be submitted to the Commission or to a Member State, which shall forward it to the Commission.
A complaint under paragraph 1 shall be filed no later than: (a) six months from the time that the complainant knew, or should have known, of the sale of the vessel, - when the complainant was invited to tender a bid on the contract at issue through a broad multiple bid or any other bidding process, - when the complainant actually did so tender a bid, and - when the bid of the complainant substantially met bid specifications; (b) nine months from the time that the complainant knew, or should have known, of the sale of the vessel in the absence of an invitation to tender, provided that a notice of intent to apply, including information reasonably available to the complainant to identify the transaction concerned, had been submitted no later than six months from that time to the Commission or a Member State.
An investigation shall not be initiated pursuant to paragraph 1 unless it has been determined, on the basis of an examination as to the degree of support for, or opposition to, the complaint expressed by Community producers capable of building the like vessel, that the complaint has been made by or on behalf of the Community industry.
The complaint shall be considered to have been made by or on behalf of the Community industry if it is supported by those Community producers whose collective capacity to produce the like vessel constitutes more than 50 % of the total capacity of that portion of the Community industry expressing either support for or opposition to the complaint.
However, no investigation shall be initiated when Community producers expressly supporting the complaint account for less than 25 % of total capacity of the Community producers capable of producing the like vessel. 7.
If, in special circumstances, it is decided to initiate an investigation without having received a written complaint by or on behalf of the Community industry for the initiation of such investigation, this shall be done on the basis of sufficient evidence of injurious pricing, injury, a causal link, and that a member of the allegedly injured Community industry met the criteria of paragraph 3 (d) of this Article, to justify such initiation.
The complaint may be withdrawn prior to initiation, in which case it shall be considered not to have been lodged. 11.
There shall be immediate termination where it is determined that the margin of injurious pricing is less than 2 %, expressed as a percentage of the export price. 4.
The Commission shall take the necessary measures for the implementation of the Council decision, in particular the collection of the injurious pricing charge. 5.
Article 8 Alternative remedies After consultation of the Advisory Committee, the investigation may be terminated without the imposition of an injurious pricing charge if the shipbuilder definitively and unconditionally voids the sale of the injuriously priced vessel or complies with an alternative equivalent remedy accepted by the Commission.
Article 9 Countermeasures - denial of loading and unloading rights 1.
Consultations shall be held immediately at the request of a Member State or on the initiative of the Commission and in any event within a period of time which allows the time limits set by this Regulation to be adhered to. 2.
Article 11 Verification visits 1.
Article 12 Non-cooperation 1.
Article 13 Confidentiality 1.
Article 14 Disclosure 1.
Article 15 Final provisions 1.
Article 16 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall not apply to vessels contracted for before the date of entry into force of the Shipbuilding Agreement, except for vessels contracted for after 21 December 1994 and for delivery more than five years from the date of the contract.
Done at Brussels, 29 January 1996.
AGNELLI (1) OJ No C 13, 18. 1. 1996, p. 10. (2) OJ No C 17, 22. 1. 1996. (3) See page 1 of this Official Journal. (4) OJ No L 67, 10. 3. 1994, p. 89.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 839/95 (OJ No L 85, 19. 4. 1995, p. 9). (5) The date of entry into force of the Shipbuilding Agreement will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, L series.
