Article 3 Final provisions 1.
Article 1 shall apply from 8 March 2004. 3.
On behalf of the Governing Council of the ECB The President Jean-Claude Trichet (1) OJ L 310, 11.12.2000, p. 1. (2) OJ L 185, 15.7.2002, p. 1.
ANNEX THE IMPLEMENTATION OF MONETARY POLICY IN THE EURO AREA General documentation on eurosystem monetary policy instruments and procedures February 2004 CONTENTS %gt%TABLE%gt% Abbreviations %gt%TABLE%gt% Introduction This document presents the operational framework chosen by the Eurosystem(1) for the single monetary policy in the euro area.
Chapter 1 gives an overview of the operational framework for the monetary policy of the Eurosystem.
In Chapter 2, eligibility criteria for counterparties taking part in Eurosystem monetary policy operations are specified.
Chapter 5 specifies procedures applied in the execution of monetary policy operations.
In Chapter 6, the eligibility criteria for underlying assets in monetary policy operations are defined.
Chapter 7 presents the Eurosystem's minimum reserve system.
The European System of Central Banks The European System of Central Banks (ESCB) consists of the European Central Bank (ECB) and the national central banks of the European Union (EU) Member States(2).
The activities of the ESCB are carried out in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community (Treaty) and the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank (Statute of the ESCB).
The Eurosystem's monetary policy operations are executed under uniform terms and conditions in all Member States(4). 1.2.
Objectives of the Eurosystem The primary objective of the Eurosystem is to maintain price stability, as defined in Article 105 of the Treaty.
Open market operations Open market operations play an important role in the monetary policy of the Eurosystem for the purposes of steering interest rates, managing the liquidity situation in the market and signalling the stance of monetary policy.
These operations aim to provide counterparties with additional longer-term refinancing and are executed by the national central banks on the basis of standard tenders.
Fine-tuning operations are primarily executed as reverse transactions, but can also take the form of outright transactions, foreign exchange swaps and the collection of fixed-term deposits.
The Governing Council of the ECB will decide whether, under exceptional circumstances, fine-tuning bilateral operations may be executed by the ECB itself, - in addition, the Eurosystem may carry out structural operations through the issuance of debt certificates, reverse transactions and outright transactions.
Structural operations in the form of outright transactions are executed through bilateral procedures. 1.3.2.
The interest rate on the marginal lending facility normally provides a ceiling for the overnight market interest rate, - counterparties can use the deposit facility to make overnight deposits with the national central banks.
The standing facilities are administered in a decentralised manner by the national central banks. 1.3.3.
Institutions subject to minimum reserve requirements according to Article 19.1 of the Statute of the ESCB may access the standing facilities and participate in open market operations based on standard tenders.
Modifications to the monetary policy framework The Governing Council of the ECB may, at any time, change the instruments, conditions, criteria and procedures for the execution of Eurosystem monetary policy operations.
ELIGIBLE COUNTERPARTIES 2.1.
These general eligibility criteria are uniform throughout the euro area.
Institutions fulfilling the general eligibility criteria may: - access the Eurosystem's standing facilities, and - participate in Eurosystem open market operations based on standard tenders.
An institution may access the Eurosystem's standing facilities and open market operations based on standard tenders only through the national central bank of the Member State in which it is established.
If an institution has establishments (head office or branches) in more than one Member State, each establishment has access to these operations through the national central bank of the Member State in which it is located, notwithstanding the fact that the tender bids of an institution may only be submitted by one establishment (either the head office or a designated branch) in each Member State. 2.2.
Selection of counterparties for quick tenders and bilateral operations For outright transactions, no restrictions are placed a priori on the range of counterparties.
The criteria and procedures applied for the selection of counterparties to foreign exchange intervention operations are presented in Annex 3.
If the ECB were to carry out bilateral operations, the selection of counterparties would in such cases be made by the ECB according to a rotation scheme among those counterparties in the euro area which are eligible for quick tenders and bilateral operations in order to ensure equitable access. 2.3.
Sanctions in the event of non-compliance with counterparty obligations The ECB shall impose sanctions, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 2532/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the powers of the European Central Bank to impose sanctions(9), European Central Bank Regulation (EC) No 2157/1999 of 23 September 1999 on the powers of the European Central Bank to impose sanctions (ECB/1999/4)(10), Council Regulation (EC) No 2531/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the application of minimum reserves by the European Central Bank(11), as amended, and Regulation (EC) No 1745/2003 of the European Central Bank of 12 September 2003 on the application of minimum reserves (ECB/2003/9)(12), on institutions which do not comply with obligations arising from ECB Regulations and Decisions relating to the application of minimum reserves.
In accordance with the provisions in the contractual or regulatory arrangements applied by the respective national central bank (or by the ECB), the Eurosystem shall impose financial penalties on counterparties or suspend counterparties' participation in open market operations if counterparties fail to comply with their obligations under the contractual or regulatory arrangements applied by the national central banks (or by the ECB) as set out below.
Financial penalties imposed by national central banks in the event of non-compliance in relation to a breach of the rules concerning tender operations, bilateral transactions, underlying assets, end-of-day procedures or the access conditions to the marginal lending facility shall be calculated at a pre-specified penalty rate (as set out in Annex 6). 2.4.
In addition, suspension or exclusion of counterparties may be warranted in some of the cases which fall within the notion of the %quot%default%quot% of a counterparty as defined in the contractual or regulatory arrangements applied by the national central banks.
Reverse transactions are used for main refinancing operations and longer-term refinancing operations.
Further provisions for reverse transactions based on repurchase agreements are specified in the contractual arrangements applied by the respective national central bank (or the ECB).
The interest rate applied to Eurosystem reverse open market operations is a simple interest rate with the day-count convention %quot%actual/360%quot%. 3.1.2.
Main refinancing operations The main refinancing operations are the most important open market operations conducted by the Eurosystem, playing a pivotal role in pursuing the aims of steering interest rates, managing the liquidity situation in the market and signalling the stance of monetary policy.
The operational features of the main refinancing operations can be summarised as follows: - they are liquidity-providing operations; - they are executed regularly each week(13); - they normally have a maturity of one week(14); - they are executed in a decentralised manner by the national central banks; - they are executed through standard tenders (as specified in Section 5.1); - all counterparties fulfilling the general eligibility criteria (as specified in Section 2.1) may submit tender bids for the main refinancing operations; and - both tier one and tier two assets (as specified in Chapter 6) are eligible as underlying assets for the main refinancing operations. 3.1.3.
Longer-term refinancing operations The Eurosystem also executes regular refinancing operations, normally with a three-month maturity, which are aimed at providing additional longer-term refinancing to the financial sector.
These operations represent only a limited part of the global refinancing volume.
The operational features of the longer-term refinancing operations can be summarised as follows: - they are liquidity-providing operations; - they are executed regularly each month(15); - they normally have a maturity of three months(16); - they are executed in a decentralised manner by the national central banks; - they are executed through standard tenders (as specified in Section 5.1); - all counterparties fulfilling the general eligibility criteria (as specified in Section 2.1) may submit tender bids for the longer-term refinancing operations; and - both tier one and tier two assets (as specified in Chapter 6) are eligible as underlying assets for the longer-term refinancing operations. 3.1.4.
Fine-tuning operations aim to manage the liquidity situation in the market and to steer interest rates, in particular in order to smooth the effects on interest rates caused by unexpected liquidity fluctuations in the market.
The operational features of these operations can be summarised as follows: - they are liquidity-providing operations; - their frequency can be regular or non-regular; - their maturity is not standardised a priori; - they are executed through standard tenders (as specified in Section 5.1); - they are executed in a decentralised manner by the national central banks; - all counterparties fulfilling the general eligibility criteria (as specified in Section 2.1) may submit tender bids for structural reverse operations; and - both tier one and tier two assets (as specified in Chapter 6) are eligible as underlying assets for structural reverse operations. 3.2.
Outright transactions (a) Type of instrument Outright open market transactions refer to operations where the Eurosystem buys or sells eligible assets outright on the market.
The certificates are issued and held in book-entry form in securities depositories in the euro area.
The calculation of the issue amount is shown in Box 1. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.001601.TIF%quot%%gt% (d) Other operational features The operational features of the issuance of ECB debt certificates can be summarised as follows: - the certificates are issued in order to absorb liquidity from the market; - the certificates can be issued on a regular or non-regular basis; - the certificates have a maturity of less than twelve months; - the certificates are issued through standard tenders (as specified in Section 5.1); - the certificates are tendered and settled in a decentralised manner by the national central banks; and - all counterparties fulfilling the general eligibility criteria (as specified in Section 2.1) may submit tender bids for the subscription of ECB debt certificates. 3.4.
Foreign exchange swaps (a) Type of instrument Foreign exchange swaps executed for monetary policy purposes consist of simultaneous spot and forward transactions of the euro against a foreign currency.
The exchange rate terms of foreign exchange swaps are specified in Box 2. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.001701.TIF%quot%%gt% (d) Other operational features The operational features of foreign exchange swaps can be summarised as follows: - they can take the form of liquidity-providing or liquidity-absorbing operations; - their frequency is not standardised; - their maturity is not standardised; - they are executed through quick tenders or bilateral procedures (see Chapter 5); - they are normally executed in a decentralised manner by the national central banks (the Governing Council of the ECB will decide whether, under exceptional circumstances, bilateral foreign exchange swaps may be executed by the ECB); and - the Eurosystem may select, according to the criteria specified in Section 2.2 and Annex 3, a limited number of counterparties to participate in foreign exchange swaps. 3.5.
Collection of fixed-term deposits (a) Type of instrument The Eurosystem may invite counterparties to place remunerated fixed-term deposits with the national central bank in the Member State in which the counterparty is established.
STANDING FACILITIES 4.1.
The marginal lending facility (a) Type of instrument Counterparties may use the marginal lending facility to obtain overnight liquidity from national central banks at a pre-specified interest rate against eligible assets (as set out in Chapter 6).
The procedures for end-of-day access to the marginal lending facility are specified in Section 5.3.3.
A counterparty may also be granted access to the marginal lending facility by sending a request to the national central bank in the Member State in which the counterparty is established.
The deadline for requesting access to the marginal lending facility is postponed by an additional 30 minutes on the last Eurosystem business day of a reserve maintenance period.
The interest rate is announced in advance by the Eurosystem and is calculated as a simple interest rate with the day-count convention %quot%actual/360%quot%.
The ECB may change the interest rate at any time, with effect not earlier than the following Eurosystem business day(20).
Under normal circumstances, the interest rate on the facility provides a floor for the overnight market interest rate.
To be granted access to the deposit facility, the counterparty must send a request to the national central bank in the Member State in which the counterparty is established.
The deadline for requesting access to the deposit facility is postponed by an additional 30 minutes on the last Eurosystem business day of a reserve maintenance period.
The interest rate is announced in advance by the Eurosystem and is calculated as a simple interest rate with the day-count convention %quot%actual/360%quot%.
The ECB may change the interest rate at any time, with effect not earlier than the following Eurosystem business day.
PROCEDURES 5.1.
The main refinancing operations, the longer-term refinancing operations and structural operations (with the exception of outright transactions) are always executed in the form of standard tenders.
Counterparties fulfilling the general eligibility criteria specified in Section 2.1 may participate in standard tenders.
The ECB may decide to conduct fine-tuning operations on any Eurosystem business day.
The public tender announcement message normally contains the following information: - the reference number of the tender operation; - the date of the tender operation; - the type of operation (provision or absorption of liquidity and the type of monetary policy instrument to be used); - the maturity of the operation; - the type of auction (fixed rate or variable rate tender); - the method of allotment (%quot%Dutch%quot% or %quot%American%quot% auction, as defined in Section 5.1.5 d); - the intended operation volume (normally only in the case of the longer-term refinancing operations); - the fixed tender interest rate/price/swap point (in the case of fixed rate tenders); - the minimum/maximum accepted interest rate/price/swap point (if applicable); - the start date and maturity date of the operation (if applicable) or the value date and maturity date of the instrument (in the case of the issuance of debt certificates); - the currencies involved and the currency, the amount of which is kept fixed (in the case of foreign exchange swaps); - the reference spot exchange rate to be used for the calculation of bids (in the case of foreign exchange swaps); - the maximum bid limit (if any); - the minimum individual allotment amount (if any); - the minimum allotment ratio (if any); - the time schedule for the submission of bids; - the denomination of the certificates (in the case of the issuance of debt certificates); and - the ISIN code of the issue (in the case of the issuance of debt certificates).
The announcement of quick tenders follows the same procedures as those for standard tenders.
The tender bids must be submitted to the national central bank of a Member State in which the institution has an establishment (head office or branch).
In variable rate tenders, counterparties may submit bids for up to ten different interest rate/price/swap point levels.
The minimum bid amount is applied to each individual interest rate/price/swap point level.
The minimum bid amount is applied to each individual interest rate level.
Bids submitted after the deadline specified in the tender announcement message are invalid.
If the aggregate amount bid exceeds the total amount of liquidity to be allotted, the submitted bids will be satisfied pro rata, according to the ratio of the amount to be allotted to the aggregate amount bid (see Box 4).
However, the ECB may decide to allot a minimum amount/ratio to each bidder in fixed rate tenders. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.002501.TIF%quot%%gt% (b) Variable rate tenders in euro In the allotment of liquidity-providing variable rate tenders in euro, bids are listed in diminishing order of offered interest rates.
Bids with the highest interest rate levels are satisfied first and subsequently bids with successively lower interest rates are accepted until the total liquidity to be allotted is exhausted.
The amount allotted to each counterparty is rounded to the nearest euro. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.002601.TIF%quot%%gt% In the allotment of liquidity-absorbing variable rate tenders (which may be used for the issuance of debt certificates and the collection of fixed-term deposits), bids are listed in increasing order of offered interest rates (or diminishing order of offered prices).
The amount allotted to each counterparty is rounded to the nearest euro. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.002701.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.002801.TIF%quot%%gt% In the allotment of liquidity-absorbing variable rate foreign exchange swap tenders, bids are listed in diminishing order of offered swap point quotations.
In a multiple rate auction (American auction), the allotment interest rate/price/swap point is equal to the interest rate/price/swap point offered for each individual bid. 5.1.6.
The public tender result message normally contains the following information: - the reference number of the tender operation; - the date of the tender operation; - the type of operation; - the maturity of the operation; - the total amount bid by Eurosystem counterparties; - the number of bidders; - the currencies involved (in the case of foreign exchange swaps); - the total amount allotted; - the percentage of allotment (in the case of fixed rate tenders); - the spot exchange rate (in the case of foreign exchange swaps); - the marginal interest rate/price/swap point accepted and the percentage of allotment at the marginal interest rate/price/swap point (in the case of variable rate tenders); - the minimum bid rate, maximum bid rate and weighted average allotment rate (in the case of multiple rate auctions); - the start date and maturity date of the operation (if applicable) or the value date and maturity date of the instrument (in the case of the issuance of debt certificates); - the minimum individual allotment amount (if any); - the minimum allotment ratio (if any); - the denomination of the certificates (in the case of the issuance of debt certificates); and - the ISIN code of the issue (in the case of the issuance of debt certificates).
Procedures for bilateral operations (a) General considerations The national central banks may execute operations on the basis of bilateral procedures(34).
Outright bilateral operations for structural purposes are normally only conducted and settled on days which are NCB business days in all Member States. 5.3.
Settlement procedures 5.3.1.
General considerations Money transactions relating to the use of Eurosystem standing facilities or to participation in open market operations are settled on the counterparties' accounts with the national central banks (or on the accounts of settlement banks participating in the TARGET system).
The Eurosystem aims to settle open market operations based on quick tenders and bilateral procedures on the trade day.
TABLE 3 Normal settlement dates for Eurosystem open market operations((T refers to the trade day.
Counterparties' requests for access to the marginal lending facility or to the deposit facility must be submitted to the respective national central bank at the latest 30 minutes after the actual closing time of the TARGET system(36).
ELIGIBLE ASSETS 6.1.
A distinction is therefore made, essentially for purposes internal to the Eurosystem, between two categories of assets eligible for Eurosystem monetary policy operations.
These two categories are referred to as %quot%tier one%quot% and %quot%tier two%quot% respectively: - tier one consists of marketable debt instruments fulfilling uniform euro area-wide eligibility criteria specified by the ECB; and - tier two consists of additional assets, marketable and non-marketable, which are of particular importance to national financial markets and banking systems and for which eligibility criteria are established by the national central banks, subject to the minimum eligibility criteria established by the ECB.
Tier one and tier two assets are subject to the risk control measures specified in Section 6.4.
The following eligibility criteria are applied to other tier one assets (see also Table 4): - they must be debt instruments having: (a) a fixed, unconditional principal amount; and (b) a coupon that cannot result in a negative cash flow.
The coupon may be linked to a change in the rating of the issuer itself.
The need for a legal confirmation does not apply to guarantees given in respect of debt instruments with an individual asset rating or to guarantees given by public entities entitled to levy taxes, - they must be transferable in book-entry form, - they must be deposited/registered (issued) in the EEA with a central bank or with a central securities depository (CSD) which fulfils the minimum standards established by the ECB.
If the CSD where the asset is issued and the SSS where it is held are not identical, then the two institutions have to be connected by a link approved by the ECB(45), - they must be denominated in euro(46), - they must be issued (or, alternatively, guaranteed) by entities established in the EEA(47), - they must be listed or quoted on a regulated market as defined in Council Directive 93/22/EEC of 10 May 1993 on investment services in the securities field(48), or listed, quoted or traded on certain non-regulated markets as specified by the ECB(49).
In spite of their inclusion in the tier one list, a counterparty shall not submit as underlying assets debt instruments issued or guaranteed by the counterparty, or by any other entity with which the counterparty has close links(50), as defined in Article 1(26) of Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 March 2000 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions(51),(52).
Tier two assets In addition to debt instruments fulfilling the eligibility criteria for tier one, national central banks may consider, as eligible other assets, tier two assets which are of particular importance to their national financial markets and banking systems.
Eligibility criteria for tier two assets are established by the national central banks in accordance with the minimum eligibility criteria stated below.
The specific national eligibility criteria for tier two assets are subject to approval by the ECB.
Tier two assets have to fulfil the following minimum eligibility criteria (see also Table 4): - they can be debt instruments (marketable or non-marketable) having: (a) a fixed, unconditional principal amount; and (b) a coupon that cannot result in a negative cash flow.
In addition, the coupon should be one of the following: (i) a zero coupon; (ii) a fixed rate coupon; or (iii) a floating rate coupon linked to an interest rate reference.
The coupon may be linked to a change in the rating of the issuer itself.
These features must be maintained until the redemption of the obligation.
They can also be equities (traded on a regulated market as defined in Council Directive 93/22/EEC of 10 May 1993 on investment services in the securities field(55).
Equities issued by credit institutions and debt instruments issued by credit institutions which do not comply strictly with the criteria set out in Article 22(4) of Council Directive 85/611/EEC of 20 December 1985 on the co-ordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS)(56), as amended by Council Directive 88/220/EEC of 22 March 1988(57), Directive 2001/107/EC of 21 January 2002(58), and Directive 2001/108/EC of 21 January 2002(59), are normally not eligible for inclusion in the tier two lists.
The need for a legal confirmation does not apply to guarantees given in respect of debt instruments with an individual asset rating or to guarantees given by public entities entitled to levy taxes, - they must be easily accessible to the national central bank which has included the assets in its tier two list, - they must be located in the euro area (so that perfection and realisation are subject to the law of a euro area country), - they must be denominated in euro(63), - they must be issued (or, alternatively, guaranteed) by entities established in the euro area.
In spite of their inclusion in the tier two lists, a counterparty shall not submit as underlying assets debt obligations against or equities of the counterparty, or any other entity with which the counterparty has close links(64), as defined in Article 1(26) of Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 March 2000 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions(65)(66).
Tier two assets are eligible for reverse open market transactions and the marginal lending facility.
The risk control measures at the disposal of the Eurosystem are described in Box 7. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.003801.TIF%quot%%gt% 6.4.1.
The allocation of eligible assets to the four liquidity categories is described in Box 8, %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.003901.TIF%quot%%gt% - individual debt instruments are subject to specific %quot%valuation haircuts%quot%.
The valuation haircut applied to such an instrument is set equal to the highest of the haircuts applicable to debt instruments with the same residual maturity, and coupon payments of any one of the types occurring in the remaining life of the instrument are considered, - no valuation haircuts are applied in liquidity-absorbing operations, - depending on both the jurisdiction and national operational systems, national central banks allow for the pooling of underlying assets and/or require the earmarking of the assets used in each individual transaction.
Similarly, if the market value of the underlying assets, following their revaluation, were to exceed the upper trigger point, the national central bank would return the excess assets (or cash) to the counterparty (see Box 11), %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.004101.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.004201.TIF%quot%%gt% - in pooling systems counterparties may substitute underlying assets on a daily basis, - in earmarking systems the substitution of underlying assets may be permitted by national central banks, - the ECB may at any time decide to remove individual debt instruments from the list of eligible tier one instruments(71). 6.4.2.
Valuation principles for underlying assets When determining the value of underlying assets used in reverse transactions, the Eurosystem applies the following principles: - for each marketable asset eligible in tier one or tier two, the Eurosystem specifies a single reference price source.
If more than one price is quoted, the lowest of these prices (normally the bid price) is used, - the value of marketable assets is calculated on the basis of the most representative price on the business day preceding the valuation date, - in the absence of a representative price for a particular asset on the business day preceding the valuation date, the last trading price is used.
CHART 3 The correspondent central banking model %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.004501.EPS%quot%%gt% All national central banks maintain securities accounts with each other for the purpose of the cross-border use of eligible assets.
The legal framework for this system is laid down in Article 19 of the Statute of the ESCB, Council Regulation (EC) No 2531/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the application of minimum reserves by the European Central Bank(80) and Regulation (EC) No 1745/2003 of the European Central Bank on the application of minimum reserves (ECB/2003/9)(81).
The Eurosystem's minimum reserve system enables counterparties to make use of averaging provisions, implying that compliance with reserve requirements is determined on the basis of the average of the end-of-calendar-day balances on the counterparties' reserve accounts over a maintenance period.
Institutions subject to minimum reserves Pursuant to Article 19.1 of the Statute of the ESCB, the ECB requires credit institutions established in Member States to hold minimum reserves.
According to Council Regulation (EC) No 2531/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the application of minimum reserves by the European Central Bank and Regulation (EC) No 1745/2003 of the European Central Bank on the application of minimum reserves (ECB/2003/9), the ECB may also exempt institutions from their obligations under the Eurosystem's minimum reserve system on a non-discriminatory basis if the purposes of this system would not be met by imposing these obligations on those particular institutions.
In its decision on any such exemption, the ECB takes into account one or more of the following criteria: - the institution is pursuing special purpose functions; - the institution is not exercising active banking functions in competition with other credit institutions; and/or - the institution has all its deposits earmarked for purposes related to regional and/or international development assistance.
For institutions subject to full reporting requirements, the balance sheet data referring to the end of a given calendar month are used to determine the reserve base for the maintenance period starting in the calendar month two months later.
For example, the reserve base calculated from the balance sheet of the end of February would be used to calculate the reserve requirements to be fulfilled by counterparties in the maintenance period beginning in April.
Liabilities vis-à-vis other institutions included in the list of institutions subject to the Eurosystem's minimum reserve system and liabilities vis-à-vis the ECB and the national central banks are not included in the reserve base.
The reserve ratios are determined by the ECB subject to the maximum limit specified in Council Regulation (EC) No 2531/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the application of minimum reserves by the European Central Bank.
Maintenance of reserve holdings (a) Maintenance period The ECB publishes a calendar of the reserve maintenance periods at least three months before the start of each year(86).
An institution with establishments in more than one Member State is required to hold minimum reserves with the national central bank of each Member State in which it has an establishment, in relation to its reserve base in the corresponding Member State.
An institution may apply to the national central bank in the Member State in which the institution is resident for permission to hold all its minimum reserves indirectly through an intermediary.
Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 1745/2003 of the European Central Bank of 12 September 2003 on the application of minimum reserves (ECB/2003/9) defines procedures for the notification and acknowledgement of the reserve base and the reserve requirement of the institution.
The notified party shall acknowledge the calculated minimum reserves at the latest on the NCB business day preceding the start of the maintenance period.
Where an institution fails to comply with all or part of the reserve requirement, the ECB may, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 2531/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the application of minimum reserves by the European Central Bank, impose any one of the following sanctions: - a payment of up to 5 percentage points above the marginal lending rate, applied to the amount of the reserve requirement which the relevant institution failed to provide; or - a payment of up to two times the marginal lending rate, applied to the amount of the reserve requirement which the relevant institution failed to provide; or - the requirement for the relevant institution to establish non-interest-bearing deposits with the ECB or the national central banks of up to three times the amount of the reserve requirement which the relevant institution failed to provide.
The Executive Board of the ECB may specify and publish the criteria according to which it will apply the sanctions provided for in Article 7(1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2531/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the application of minimum reserves by the European Central Bank(88).
For standard tenders, a maximum of 24 hours elapses between the tender announcement and the certification of the allotment result.
All counterparties fulfilling the general eligibility criteria specified in Section 2.1 may participate in standard tenders.
In such cases, the relevant national central bank is responsible for informing the counterparties in advance of the arrangements to be made for access to the marginal lending facility in relation to the bank holiday. (19) TARGET closing days are announced on the ECB's website (www.ecb.int); see also the Eurosystem websites (Annex 5). (20) Throughout this document, the term %quot%Eurosystem business day%quot% refers to any day on which the ECB and at least one national central bank are open for the purpose of conducting Eurosystem monetary policy operations. (21) Operational differences resulting from the existence of different account structures between the national central banks may exist across euro area countries. (22) Owing to the existence of different account structures across the national central banks, the ECB may allow national central banks to apply access conditions which are slightly different from those referred to here.
The national central banks will provide information on any such deviations from the access conditions described in this document. (23) In some Member States, the national central bank (or some of its branches) may not be open for the purpose of conducting Eurosystem monetary policy operations on certain Eurosystem business days owing to national or regional bank holidays.
In such cases, the relevant national central bank is responsible for informing the counterparties in advance of the arrangements to be made for access to the deposit facility in relation to the bank holiday. (24) TARGET closing days are announced on the ECB's website (www.ecb.int); see also the Eurosystem websites (Annex 5). (25) In fixed rate foreign exchange swap tenders, the ECB fixes the swap points of the operation and the counterparties offer the amount of currency kept fixed that they wish to sell (and buy back) or buy (and sell back) at that rate. (26) In variable rate foreign exchange swap tenders, the counterparties bid the amount of the currency kept fixed and the swap point quotation at which they wish to enter into the operation. (27) The calendar for the Eurosystem's tender operations can be found on the ECB's website (www.ecb.int); see also the Eurosystem websites (Annex 5). (28) Throughout this document, the term %quot%NCB business day%quot% refers to any day on which the national central bank of a specific Member State is open for the purpose of conducting Eurosystem monetary policy operations.
In such cases, the relevant national central bank is responsible for informing the counterparties in advance of the arrangements to be made for transactions involving those branches. (29) In fixed rate foreign exchange swaps, the amount of the currency kept fixed that the counterparty is willing to transact with the Eurosystem is to be stated. (30) With regard to the issuance of ECB debt certificates, the ECB may decide that bids are to be expressed in the form of a price rather than an interest rate.
In such cases, prices shall be quoted as a percentage of the nominal amount. (31) In variable rate foreign exchange swaps, the amount of the currency kept fixed that the counterparty is willing to transact with the Eurosystem and the respective swap point level are to be stated. (32) Or to settle in cash in the case of liquidity-absorbing operations. (33) Swap point quotations are listed in increasing order taking into account the sign of the quotation, which depends on the sign of the interest rate differential between the foreign currency and the euro.
However, no valuation haircuts are applied in liquidity-absorbing operations. (38) This list is published and updated daily on the ECB's website (www.ecb.int). (39) Debt instruments affording rights to the principal and/or the interest that are subordinated to the rights of holders of other debt instruments of the same issuer (or, within a structured issue, subordinated to other tranches of the same issue) are excluded from tier one. (40) Guarantors must be established in the EEA. (41) Debt instruments issued by credit institutions which do not comply strictly with the criteria set out in Article 22(4) of Council Directive 85/611/EEC of 20 December 1985 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS), OJ L 375, 31.12.1985, p. 3, as amended by Council Directive 88/220/EEC of 22 March 1988, OJ L 100, 19.4.1988, p. 31, Directive 2001/107/EC of 21 January 2002, OJ L 41, 13.2.2002, p. 20, and Directive 2001/108/EC of 21 January 2002, OJ L 41, 13.2.2002, p. 35, are accepted in tier one only if each issue as such is awarded a rating (by a rating agency) which indicates, in the view of the Eurosystem, that the debt instrument meets high credit standards.
The eligibility of debt instruments issued under an issuance programme is assessed on the basis of the rating of the programme. (42) The requirement of enforceability is subject to any insolvency or bankruptcy laws, general principles of equity and other similar laws and principles applicable to the guarantor and affecting creditors' rights against the guarantor generally. (43) If the guarantor is established in another jurisdiction than the one of the law governing the guarantee, the legal confirmation shall also confirm that the guarantee is valid and enforceable under the law governing the establishment of the guarantor. (44) The legal confirmation should be submitted for review to the NCB that is reporting a certain asset supported by a guarantee for inclusion in the list of eligible assets.
In the event of multiple listings, any queries should be addressed to the ECB Eligible Assets Hotline at Eligible-Assets.hotline@ecb.int. (45) The description of the standards for the use of eligible SSSs in the euro area and an updated list of the eligible links between these systems can be found on the ECB's website (www.ecb.int). (46) Expressed as such or in the national denominations of the euro. (47) The requirement that the issuing entity be established in the EEA does not apply to international and supranational institutions. (48) OJ L 141, 11.6.1993, p. 27. (49) Debt instruments issued by credit institutions which do not comply strictly with the criteria set out in Article 22(4) of Council Directive 85/611/EEC of 20 December 1985 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS), as amended, are accepted in tier one only if they are listed or quoted on a regulated market as defined in Council Directive 93/22/EEC of 10 May 1993 on investment services in the securities field. (50) In the event that a counterparty is using assets that, owing to an identity with the issuer/guarantor or the existence of close links, it may not or no longer use to secure an outstanding credit, it is obliged to immediately notify the relevant national central bank thereof.
The assets are valued at zero at the next valuation date and a margin call may be triggered (see also Annex 6).
In addition, the counterparty has to remove the asset at the earliest possible date. (51) Article 1(26) of Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 March 2000 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions reads as follows: %quot%Close links shall mean a situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are linked by: (a) participation, which shall mean the ownership, direct or by way of control, of 20 % or more of the voting rights or capital of an undertaking, or (b) control, which shall mean the relationship between a parent undertaking and a subsidiary, in all the cases referred to in Article 1 (1) and (2) of Directive 83/349/EEC, or a similar relationship between any natural or legal person and an undertaking; any subsidiary undertaking of a subsidiary undertaking shall also be considered a subsidiary of the parent undertaking which is at the head of those undertakings.
A situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are permanently linked to one and the same person by a control relationship shall also be regarded as constituting a close link between such persons.%quot% (52) This provision does not apply to: (i) close links between the counterparty and the public authorities of EEA countries (including the case where the public authority is a guarantor of the issuer); (ii) trade bills, for which at least one entity (other than a credit institution) is liable in addition to the counterparty; (iii) debt instruments which comply strictly with the criteria set out in Article 22(4) of Council Directive 85/611/EEC of 20 December 1985 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS), as amended; or (iv) cases in which debt instruments are protected by specific legal safeguards comparable with (iii). (53) If the national central banks were to allow the use of instruments with a maturity shorter than the monetary policy operations for which they serve as underlying assets, counterparties would be required to replace such assets at, or prior to, maturity. (54) These lists are published and updated daily on the ECB's website (www.ecb.int).
The assets are valued at zero at the next valuation date and a margin call may be triggered (see also Annex 6).
In addition, the counterparty has to remove the asset at the earliest possible date. (65) Article 1(26) of Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 March 2000 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions reads as follows: %quot%Close links shall mean a situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are linked by: (a) participation, which shall mean the ownership, direct or by way of control, of 20 % or more of the voting rights or capital of an undertaking, or (b) control, which shall mean the relationship between a parent undertaking and a subsidiary, in all the cases referred to in Article 1 (1) and (2) of Directive 83/349/EEC, or a similar relationship between any natural or legal person and an undertaking; any subsidiary undertaking of a subsidiary undertaking shall also be considered a subsidiary of the parent undertaking which is at the head of those undertakings.
A situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are permanently linked to one and the same person by a control relationship shall also be regarded as constituting a close link between such persons.%quot% (66) As with tier one assets, this provision does not apply to: (i) close links between the counterparty and the public authorities of EEA countries (including the case where the public authority is a guarantor of the issuer); (ii) trade bills, for which at least one entity (other than a credit institution) is liable in addition to the counterparty; (iii) debt instruments which comply strictly with the criteria set out in Article 22(4) of Council Directive 85/611/EEC of 20 December 1985 on the co-ordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS), as amended; or (iv) cases in which debt instruments are protected by specific legal safeguards comparable with (iii). (67) As with tier one assets, if the national central banks were to allow the use of instruments with a maturity shorter than the monetary policy operations for which they serve as underlying assets, counterparties would be required to replace such assets at, or prior to, maturity. (68) Owing to operational differences across Member States in respect of the procedures for counterparties' delivery of underlying assets to the national central banks (in the form of a pool of collateral pledged with the national central bank or as repurchase agreements based on individual assets specified for each transaction), minor differences may occur with regard to the timing of the valuation and other operational features of the risk control framework. (69) The valuation haircut levels applied to fixed coupon securities are also applicable to debt instruments, the coupon of which is linked to a change in the rating of the issuer itself or to inflation-indexed bonds. (70) A coupon payment is considered a variable rate payment if the coupon is linked to a reference interest rate and if the resetting period corresponding to this coupon is no longer than one year.
Since August 2000, the Central Bank and Financial Services Authority of Ireland has been authorised to open such an account in Euroclear.
In addition, such a calendar is published in the Official Journal of the European Union and on the NCBs' websites. (87) If an institution has no head office in a Member State in which it is established, it has to designate a principal branch which would then be responsible for fulfilling the aggregate minimum reserve requirements of all the establishments of the institution in the relevant Member State. (88) Such criteria were published in a notice in the Official Journal of the European Communities on 11 February 2000 entitled %quot%Notice of the European Central Bank on the imposition of sanctions for breaches of the obligation to hold minimum reserves%quot%.
ANNEX ANNEX 1 Examples of monetary policy operations and procedures List of examples Example 1 Liquidity-providing reverse transaction by fixed rate tender Example 2 Liquidity-providing reverse transaction by variable rate tender Example 3 Issuance of ECB debt certificates by variable rate tender Example 4 Liquidity-absorbing foreign exchange swap by variable rate tender Example 5 Liquidity-providing foreign exchange swap by variable rate tender Example 6 Risk control measures %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.005303.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.005401.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.005501.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.005601.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.005701.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.005801.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.005901.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.006001.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.006101.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.006201.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.006301.TIF%quot%%gt% ANNEX 2 Glossary Actual/360: the day-count convention applied for the calculation of interest on a credit, implying that the interest is calculated over the actual number of calendar days over which the credit is extended, on the basis of a 360-day year.
ANNEX 3 Selection of counterparties for foreign exchange intervention operations and foreign exchange swaps for monetary policy purposes The selection of counterparties for foreign exchange intervention operations and foreign exchange swaps for monetary policy purposes follows a uniform approach irrespective of the chosen organisational set-up for the Eurosystem's external operations.
For foreign exchange swaps executed for monetary policy purposes, the range of counterparties corresponds to the counterparties located in the euro area which are selected for Eurosystem foreign exchange intervention operations.
Introduction Council Regulation (EC) No 2533/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the collection of statistical information by the European Central Bank(2) defines the natural and legal persons which are subject to reporting requirements (the so-called reference reporting population), the confidentiality regime and the appropriate provisions for enforcement in accordance with Article 5.4 of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank (Statute of the ESCB).
General considerations The purpose of Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13)(3) is to enable the ECB and, in accordance with Article 5.2 of the Statute, the NCBs - which carry out the work to the extent possible - to collect the statistical material required for the fulfilment of the tasks of the European System of Central Banks (ESCB) and, in particular, its task to define and implement the monetary policy of the Community in accordance with Article 105(2), first indent, of the Treaty establishing the European Community (Treaty).
The statistical information collected in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13) is used to establish the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions (MFI) sector, the principal aim of which is to provide the ECB with a comprehensive statistical picture of monetary developments covering the aggregated financial assets and liabilities of MFIs located in the participating Member States, which are viewed as one economic territory.
It imposes obligations directly on natural and legal persons on which the ECB may impose sanctions whenever the ECB's reporting requirements are not fulfilled (see Article 7 of Council Regulation (EC) No 2533/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the collection of statistical information by the European Central Bank).
Third, the ECB must minimise the reporting burden involved (see Article 3(a) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2533/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the collection of statistical information by the European Central Bank).
Therefore, the statistical material collected by NCBs under Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13) is also used to calculate the reserve base in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1745/2003 of the European Central Bank of 12 September 2003 on the application of minimum reserves (ECB/2003/9)(4).
The articles of Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13) restrict themselves to defining, in general terms, the actual reporting population, its reporting obligations and the principles according to which the ECB and the NCBs normally exercise their competence to verify or compulsorily collect statistical information.
The details of the statistical information to be reported in order to fulfil the ECB's statistical reporting requirements and the minimum standards to be followed are specified in Annexes I to IV to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13). 3.
The ECB establishes and maintains a list of institutions in accordance with this definition and following the classification principles specified in Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13).
The population of MFIs resident in the euro area constitutes the actual reporting population.
NCBs are entitled to grant derogations to small MFIs if the MFIs which contribute to the monthly consolidated balance sheet account for at least 95 % of the total MFI balance sheet in each participating Member State.
The statistical information to be reported is further specified in Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13).
Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13) does not prevent NCBs from collecting, from the actual reporting population, the statistical information necessary to fulfil the statistical requirements of the ECB as part of a broader statistical reporting framework which the NCBs establish under their own responsibility in accordance with Community or national law or established practice and which serves other statistical purposes.
However, this should be without prejudice to the fulfilment of the statistical requirements set out in Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13).
Use of statistical information under the ECB Regulation on minimum reserves To minimise the reporting burden and to avoid any duplication in the collection of statistical information, the statistical information related to the balance sheet reported by MFIs under Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13) is also used to calculate the reserve base under Regulation (EC) No 1745/2003 of the European Central Bank of 12 September 2003 on the application of minimum reserves (ECB/2003/9).
In order to make a correct calculation of the reserve base to which a positive reserve ratio is applied, a detailed breakdown is required for deposits with an agreed maturity of over two years, for deposits redeemable at notice of over two years and for repo liabilities of credit institutions vis-à-vis the (%quot%domestic%quot% and %quot%other participating Member States%quot%) %quot%MFIs%quot%, %quot%credit institutions subject to reserve requirements, ECB and NCBs%quot% and %quot%Central government%quot% sectors, and vis-à-vis the Rest of the World (RoW). %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.007601.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.007801.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004069EN.008001.TIF%quot%%gt% Furthermore, depending on the national collection systems and without prejudice to full compliance with the definitions and classification principles of the MFI balance sheet set out in Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13), credit institutions subject to reserve requirements may alternatively report the data necessary to calculate the reserve base, except those on negotiable instruments, in accordance with the table below, provided that no bold printed positions of the previous table are affected.
Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13) contains specific and transitional provisions and provisions on mergers involving credit institutions in respect of the application of the minimum reserve system.
The Annex also includes provisions on reporting on a consolidated basis.
The terms %quot%merger%quot%, %quot%merging institutions%quot% and %quot%acquiring institution%quot% have the meaning determined in Regulation (EC) No 1745/2003 of the European Central Bank of 12 September 2003 on the application of minimum reserves (ECB/2003/9).
For the maintenance period within which a merger takes effect, the reserve requirements of the acquiring institution are calculated and have to be fulfilled as set out in Article 13 of said Regulation.
For consecutive reserve maintenance periods, the reserve requirements of the acquiring institution are calculated on the basis of a reserve base and of statistical information in accordance with specific rules (see the table in the Appendix to Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13)), if applicable.
Otherwise, the normal rules for the reporting of statistical information and the calculation of reserve requirements, as set out in Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 1745/2003 of the European Central Bank of 12 September 2003 on the application of minimum reserves (ECB/2003/9), apply.
This derogation is without prejudice to the obligation for the acquiring institution to fulfil its reporting obligations in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13) and, if applicable, its obligation to assume the reporting obligations of merging institutions.
Non-participating Member States As a regulation under Article 34.1 of the Statute does not confer any rights or impose any obligations on Member States with a derogation (Article 43.1 of the Statute) and on Denmark (Article 2 of the Protocol on certain provisions relating to Denmark) and is not applicable to the United Kingdom (Article 8 of the Protocol on certain provisions relating to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland), Regulation (EC) No 2423/2001 of the European Central Bank of 22 November 2001 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/2001/13) is applicable only in the participating Member States.
However, Article 5 of the Statute concerning the competence of the ECB and the NCBs in the field of statistics and Council Regulation (EC) No 2533/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the collection of statistical information by the European Central Bank are applicable in all Member States.
This also implies, together with Article 10 (ex Article 5) of the Treaty, an obligation on the non-participating Member States to design and implement at the national level all the measures that they consider appropriate in order to carry out the collection of statistical information needed to fulfil the ECB's statistical reporting requirements and the timely preparations in the field of statistics in order for them to become participating Member States.
This Regulation has replaced Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 of the European Central Bank of 1 December 1998 (ECB/1998/16). (4) OJ L 250, 2.10.2003, p. 10.
ANNEX 5 The Eurosystem websites %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX 6 Procedures and sanctions to be applied in the event of non-compliance with counterparty obligations 1.
The financial penalties that can be applied shall be computed at the marginal lending rate plus 2.5 percentage points. - for infringements of rules related to tender operations and bilateral transactions, the financial penalties shall be calculated on the basis of the amount of collateral or cash which the counterparty could not settle, multiplied by the coefficient 7/360, - for infringements of rules related to the use of underlying assets, the financial penalties shall be calculated on the basis of the amount of ineligible assets (or assets that may not be used by the counterparty), which are either: (1) provided by the counterparty to a national central bank or the ECB, or (2) not removed by the counterparty after 20 working days following an event after which the eligible assets become ineligible or may no longer be used by the counterparty, multiplied by the coefficient 1/360. (ii) The first time the rules for end-of-day procedures or for access to the marginal lending facility are infringed, the financial penalties that can be applied shall be computed at 5 percentage points.
The suspension shall be applied in accordance with the following scale: (i) if the amount of non-delivered collateral or cash is up to 40 % of the total collateral or cash to be delivered on the occasion of the third infringement, a suspension of one month shall be applied; (ii) if the amount of non-delivered collateral or cash is between 40 % and 80 % of the total collateral or cash to be delivered on the occasion of the third infringement, a suspension of two months shall be applied; and (iii) if the amount of non-delivered collateral or cash is between 80 % and 100 % of the total collateral or cash to be delivered on the occasion of the third infringement, a suspension of three months shall be applied.
