Article 3 For the purposes of this Regulation: (a) %quot%pet animals%quot% means animals of the species listed in Annex I which are accompanying their owners or a natural person responsible for such animals on behalf of the owner during their movement and are not intended to be sold or transferred to another owner; (b) %quot%passport%quot% means any document enabling the pet animal to be clearly identified and including the points that enable its status with regard to this Regulation to be checked, which is to be drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 17; (c) %quot%movement%quot% means any movement of a pet animal between Member States or its entry or re-entry into the territory of the Community from a third country.
During an eight-year transitional period starting from the entry into force of this Regulation, animals of the species listed in parts A and B of Annex I shall be regarded as identified where they bear: (a) either a clearly readable tattoo; or (b) an electronic identification system (transponder).
In the case referred to in point (b) of the preceding subparagraph, where the transponder does not comply with ISO Standard 11784 or Annex A to ISO Standard 11785, the owner or the natural person responsible for the pet animal on behalf of the owner must provide the means necessary for reading the transponder at the time of any inspection. 2.
CHAPTER II Provisions applicable to movement between Member States Article 5 1.
For a transitional period of five years starting from the date of entry into force of this Regulation, entry of the pet animals listed in part A of Annex I into the territory of Ireland, Sweden and the United Kingdom shall be subject to the following requirements: - they must be identified in accordance with point (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 4(1), unless the Member State of destination also recognises identification in accordance with point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4(1), and - they must be accompanied by a passport issued by a veterinarian authorised by the competent authority certifying, in addition to the conditions laid down in Article 5(1)(b), a neutralising antibody titration at least equal to 0,5 IU/ml carried out in an approved laboratory on a sample within the periods laid down in national rules in force on the date specified in the second paragraph of Article 25.
Article 7 Movement between Member States or from a territory listed in section 2 of part B of Annex II of animals of the species listed in part C of Annex I shall not be subject to any requirement with regard to rabies.
CHAPTER III Conditions relating to movements from third countries Article 8 1.
At the time of movement, pet animals of the species listed in parts A and B of Annex I shall: (a) when they come from a third country listed in section 2 of part B and in part C of Annex II, and enter: (i) one of the Member States listed in section 1 of part B of Annex II, satisfy the requirements of Article 5(1); (ii) one of the Member States listed in part A of Annex II, either directly or after transit through one of the territories listed in part B of Annex II, satisfy the requirements of Article 6; (b) when they come from another third country and enter: (i) one of the Member States listed in section 1 of part B of Annex II: - be identified by means of the identification system defined in Article 4, and - have undergone: - anti-rabies vaccination in accordance with the requirements of Article 5, and - a neutralising antibody titration at least equal to 0,5 IU/ml carried out on a sample taken by an authorised veterinarian at least 30 days after vaccination and three months before being moved.
Pet animals must be accompanied by a certificate issued by an official veterinarian or, on re-entry, by a passport certifying compliance with the provisions of paragraph 1. 3.
Article 9 The conditions applicable to the movement of animals of the species listed in part C of Annex I from third countries, and the model certificate which must accompany them, shall be established in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24(2).
Article 11 Member States shall provide the public with clear and easily accessible information concerning the health requirements that apply for the non-commercial movement of pets in Community territory and the conditions under which they may enter or re-enter such territory.
Article 14 At the time of any movement, the owner or natural person responsible for the pet animal must be able to present the authorities responsible for checks with a passport or the certificate provided for in Article 8(2) certifying that the animal meets the requirements laid down for such movement.
In particular, in the case referred to in point (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 4(1), where the transponder does not comply with ISO Standard 11784 or Annex A to ISO Standard 11785, the owner or natural person responsible for the pet animal must provide the means necessary for reading the transponder at the time of any inspection.
Article 17 For the movement of animals of the species listed in parts A and B of Annex I, requirements of a technical nature other than those laid down by this Regulation may be laid down in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24(2).
Article 20 Any implementing measure of a technical nature shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24(2).
Article 25 This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day after that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It shall apply from 3 July 2004.
Done at Brussels, 26 May 2003.
Cox For the Council The President G.
ANNEX II LISTS OF COUNTRIES AND TERRITORIES PART A Sweden Ireland United Kingdom PART B Section 1 Member States other than those listed in A Section 2 Andorra Iceland Liechtenstein Monaco Norway San Marino Switzerland The Vatican PART C List of third countries or parts of territories provided for in Article 10.
