CHAPTER II Scope Article 3 1.
Pursuant to Article 4 or Article 5, an authorisation may also be required for the export to all or certain destinations of certain dual-use items not listed in Annex I. 3.
An authorisation shall also be required for the export of dual-use items not listed in Annex I if the purchasing country or country of destination is subject to an arms embargo decided by a common position or joint action adopted by the Council or a decision of the OSCE or an arms embargo imposed by a binding resolution of the Security Council of the United Nations and if the exporter has been informed by the authorities referred to in paragraph 1 that the items in question are or may be intended, in their entirety or in part, for a military end-use.
An authorisation shall also be required for the export of dual-use items not listed in Annex I if the exporter has been informed by the authorities referred to in paragraph 1 that the items in question are or may be intended, in their entirety or in part, for use as parts or components of military items listed in the national military list that have been exported from the territory of that Member State without authorisation or in violation of an authorisation prescribed by national legislation of that Member State. 4.
If an exporter is aware that dual-use items which he proposes to export, not listed in Annex I, are intended, in their entirety or in part, for any of the uses referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, he must notify the authorities referred to in paragraph 1, which will decide whether or not it is expedient to make the export concerned subject to authorisation. 5.
A Member State which imposes an authorisation requirement, in application of paragraphs 1 to 5, on the export of a dual-use item not listed in Annex I, shall, where appropriate, inform the other Member States and the Commission.
This Regulation is without prejudice to the right of Member States to take national measures under Article 11 of Regulation (EEC) No 2603/69.
Member States shall notify any measures adopted pursuant to paragraph 1 to the Commission immediately after their adoption and indicate the precise reasons for the measures. 3.
Member States shall also immediately notify the Commission of any modifications to measures adopted pursuant to paragraph 1. 4.
The Commission shall publish the measures notified to it pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 3 in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Communities.
CHAPTER III Export authorisation Article 6 1.
Items listed in Part 2 of Annex II shall not be included in a general authorisation. 4.
Member States shall indicate in general authorisations that these may not be used if the exporter has been informed by his authorities that the items in question are or may be intended, in their entirety or in part, for any of the uses referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Article 4, or if the exporter is aware that the items are intended for the abovementioned uses. 5.
The Commission shall publish the list of these authorities in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Exporters shall supply the competent authorities with all relevant information required for their applications for export authorisation. 2.
CHAPTER IV Updating of list of dual-use items Article 11 The lists of dual-use items set out in Annex I and Annex IV shall be updated in conformity with the relevant obligations and commitments, and any modification thereof, that each Member State has accepted as a member of the international non-proliferation regimes and export control arrangements, or by ratification of relevant international treaties.
CHAPTER V Customs procedures Article 12 1.
Article 14 The provisions of Articles 463 to 470 and 843 of Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 shall apply to the restrictions relating to the exportation, reexportation and exit from the customs territory of dual-use items for the export of which an authorisation is required under this Regulation.
CHAPTER VI Administrative cooperation Article 15 1.
CHAPTER VII Control measures Article 16 1.
Article 17 In order to ensure that this Regulation is properly applied, each Member State shall take whatever measures are needed to permit its competent authorities: (a) to gather information on any order or transaction involving dual-use items; (b) to establish that the export control measures are being properly applied, which may include in particular the power to enter the premises of persons with an interest in an export transaction.
CHAPTER VIII General and final provisions Article 18 1.
Article 19 Each Member State shall take appropriate measures to ensure proper enforcement of all the provisions of this Regulation.
Article 20 Each Member State shall inform the Commission of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions adopted in implementation of this Regulation, including the measures referred to in Article 19.
The Commission shall publish this information in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Communities. 3.
The measures pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not involve the application of internal frontier controls within the Community, but solely controls which are performed as part of the normal control procedures applied in a non-discriminatory fashion throughout the territory of the Community. 4.
Application of the measures pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2 may in no case result in transfers from one Member State to another being subject to more restrictive conditions than those imposed for exports of the same items to non-Member States. 5.
Article 22 This Regulation does not affect: - the application of Article 296 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, - the application of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community.
Article 23 Regulation (EC) No 3381/94 is hereby repealed.
Done at Luxembourg, 22 June 2000.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 955/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 119, 7.5.1999, p. 1). (6) OJ L 253, 11.10.1993, p. 1.
