Article 2 The present Decision shall repeal Decision 92/532/EEC.
Done at Brussels, 22 February 2001.
For the Commission David Byrne Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 46, 19.2.1991, p. 1. (2) OJ L 189, 3.7.1998, p. 12. (3) OJ L 337, 21.11.1992, p. 18. (4) OJ L 79, 29.3.1996, p. 19. (5) OJ L 175, 19.7.1993, p. 23.
ANNEX SAMPLING PLANS AND DIAGNOSTIC METHODS FOR THE DETECTION AND CONFIRMATION OF VIRAL HAEMORRHAGIC SEPTICAEMIA (VHS) AND INFECTIOUS HAEMATOPOIETIC NECROSIS (IHN) INTRODUCTION This Annex: (a) provides for guidelines and minimum requirements on sampling plans and diagnostic methods for the detection and confirmation of the presence of viral haemorrhagic septicaemia (VHS) and infectious haematopoietic necrosis (IHN); (b) integrates the provisions of Annexes B and C to Directive 91/67/EEC for the approval of and the maintenance of status of zones and of farms in non-approved zones; (c) sets out provisions aiming at the proper diagnosis of VHS and IHN and at the official recognition of the status of zones and of farms in non-approved zones in accordance with Articles 5 and 6 of Directive 91/67/EEC; (d) is directed towards both the authorities responsible for the control of VHS and IHN and the laboratory personnel performing the tests with regards to these diseases.
PART I Sampling plans and diagnostic methods for VHS and IHN surveillance in order to obtain and maintain approved status of a zone or a farm in a non-approved zone I.
General provisions on clinical health inspections, collection and selection of samples for surveillance of zones or farms in non-approved zones in order to achieve or maintain approved status for VHS and/or IHN The clinical health inspections and the sampling of fish tissue and/or ovarian fluid to be carried out in zones or in farms in non-approved zones in order to achieve or maintain approved status for VHS and/or IHN in accordance with Annexes B and C to Directive 91/67/EEC are summarised in Tables 1A, 1B and 1C.
Tables 1A and 1B shall not be applicable to new farms and farms which recommence their activities with fish, eggs or gametes from an approved zone or an approved farm in a non-approved zone, provided that they comply with the requirements laid down in Directive 91/67/EEC, Annex C, Part I.A.6(a) or I.A.6(b) or II.A.3(a) or II.A.3(b).
The clinical inspections must be carried out during the period October to June or whenever the water temperature is below 14 °C.
The species have to be proportionally represented in the sample. - If more than one water source is utilised for fish production, fish representing all water sources must be included for sampling. - If weak, abnormally behaving or freshly dead (not decomposed) fish are present, primarily such fish shall be selected.
A zone or a farm in a non-approved zone that is placed under the supervision of the official services can obtain an approved status for VHS and/or IHN subject to either: (a) Model A - two-year surveillance programme Following at least two years of absence of any clinical or other sign of VHS and/or IHN, all farms in the zone or any farm in a non-approved zone which are to be approved must be health-inspected twice per year for two years.
During this two-year control period, which precedes achievement of approved status, the absence of clinical or other signs of VHS and/or IHN must have continued and samples must be collected for examination in accordance with Table 1A.
Further, the samples must be selected, prepared and examined as described in Parts I.I to I.IV and the laboratory examinations must have produced negative results for VHS and/or IHN; or (b) Model B - two-year surveillance programme with reduced sample size Following an official health inspection programme documenting the historical freedom from VHS and/or IHN for at least four years, all farms in the zone or any farm in a non-approved zone which are to be approved must be health-inspected twice per year for two years.
cell culture medium with 10 % calf serum and antibiotics.
The temperature of a sample during transit should never exceed 10 °C and ice should still be present in the transport box at receipt or one or more freeze blocks must still be partly or completely frozen.
Preparation of samples for virological examination 1.
If a sample consisted of whole fish with body length between 4 cm and 6 cm, the viscera including kidney should be collected.
If a sample consisted of whole fish more than 6 cm long, tissue specimens should be collected as described in Part I.I.3.
The final ratio between tissue material and transport medium must be adjusted in the laboratory to 1:10. 3.
Prior to the inoculation of the cells the supernatant is mixed with equal parts of a suitably diluted pool of antisera to the indigenous serotypes of IPN virus and incubated with this for a minimum of one hour at 15 °C or a maximum of 18 hours at 4 °C.
The titre of the antiserum must be at least 1/2000 in a 50 % plaque neutralisation test.
Treatment of all inocula with antiserum to IPN virus (a virus which in some parts of Europe occurs in 50 % of fish samples) aims at preventing CPE due to IPN virus from developing in inoculated cell cultures.
The medium used for cultivation of cells in open units may be buffered with Tris-HCl (23 mM) and Na-bicarbonate (6 mM).
The pH must be 7,6 +- 0,2.
the primary dilution and, in addition, a 1:10 dilution thereof, resulting in final dilutions of tissue material in cell culture medium of 1:100 and 1:1000, respectively, (in order to prevent homologous interference).
For each dilution and each cell line a minimum of about 2 cm2 cell area, corresponding to one well in a 24-well cell culture tray, has to be utilised.
Incubation of cell cultures Inoculated cell cultures are incubated at 15 °C for 7 to 10 days.
Alternatively aliquots of 10 % of the medium constituting the primary culture is inoculated directly into a well with fresh cell culture (well to well subcultivation).
The inoculation may be preceded by preincubation of the dilutions with the antiserum to IPN virus at appropriate dilution as described in Part I.II.3.
The inoculated cultures are then incubated for 7 to 10 days at 15 °C with observation as in Part I.III.4.
If bacterial contamination occurs despite treatment with antibiotics, subcultivation must be preceded by centrifugation at 2000 to 4000 x g for 15 to 30 min at 2 to 5 °C, and/or filtration of the supernatant through a 0,45 μm filter (low protein-binding membrane).
Virus identification 1.
If these tests have not allowed definitive identification of the virus within one week, the supernatant must be forwarded to a national reference laboratory or to the EU reference laboratory for fish diseases for immediate identification. 2.
Neutralisation Remove cells from the collected supernatant by centrifugation (2000 to 4000 x g) or membrane filtration (0,45 μm) with a low protein binding membrane and dilute the supernatant 1:100 and 1:10000 in cell culture medium.
IF For each virus isolate to be identified, at least eight coverglasses or equivalent are seeded with cells at a density leading to about 60 % to 90 % confluence after 24 hours of cultivation.
Four cultures are inoculated at a volume-to-volume ratio to 1:10, and four cultures at a ratio of 1:1000.
After incubation, the cultures are rinsed twice in Eagle's MEM without serum, fixed in 80 % ice cold acetone and then stained by means of a two-layer IFAT.
After rinsing of wells with PBS-Tween-20 buffer, the virus to be identified is added to the wells in two- or four-fold dilution steps and allowed to react with the coating antibody for 60 minutes at 37 °C.
Following rinsing with PBS-Tween-20 buffer, biotinylated antibodies of a specificity corresponding to that of the coating antibodies are added and allowed to react for 60 minutes at 20 °C.
conventional virus isolation with subsequent serological virus identification, - B.
virus isolation with simultaneous serological virus identification, - C.
other diagnostic techniques (IFAT, ELISA).
Conventional virus isolation with subsequent serological virus identification I.1.
Preparation and shipment of samples from fish As laid down in Part I.I.3 I.3.
Virological examination As laid down in Part I.III IV.
Virus isolation with simultaneous serological virus identification I.1.
Treatment of supernatant with diagnostic antisera The antibiotic treated or membrane filtered organ suspension is diluted 1:10 and 1:1000 in cell culture medium and aliquots mixed and incubated for 60 minutes at 15 °C with equal parts of the reagents listed in Part I.IV.2.
Other diagnostic techniques Supernatant prepared as described in Part I.II.2 can be submitted to IFAT or ELISA according to Part I.IV.3 or Part I.IV.4 respectively.
These rapid techniques have to be supplemented with a virological examination according to either A or B within 48 hours after sampling, if: (a) a negative result is obtained; or (b) a positive result is obtained with material representing the first case of IHN or VHS in an approved zone.
At least at one of the inspections carried out each year, 30 fish tissue and/or ovarian fluid samples shall be collected from each farm.
The samples shall be selected, prepared and subjected for laboratory examination according to Parts I, II and IV. 5.
The health inspection programme shall be conducted for at least four years in all farms in the zone or in the farm (in a non-approved zone) to be approved. 6.
Cell culture medium with at least 10 % serum should be used.
At total CPE, virus is harvested by centrifugation of cell culture supernatant at 2000 x g for 15 minutes, filter sterilised through 0,45 ìm membrane filter and distributed in labelled cryotubes.
The virus is kept at - 80 °C.
If the titre of any of the three virus isolates drops by a factor of 2 logs or more, compared with the initial titre, the cell line should no longer be used for surveillance purposes.
Records should be kept for at least 10 years.
