In case there is no initial service agreement but the successive operations or the separate operations of the same nature performed over time are performed between the same contractual parties, Articles 3 and 4 apply only when the first operation is performed.
Article 3 Information to the consumer prior to the conclusion of the distance contract 1.
Article 5 Communication of the contractual terms and conditions and of the prior information 1.
Article 6 Right of withdrawal 1.
Member States making use of the possibility set out in paragraph 3 shall communicate it to the Commission. 5.
Article 7 Payment of the service provided before withdrawal 1.
The amount payable shall not: - exceed an amount which is in proportion to the extent of the service already provided in comparison with the full coverage of the contract, - in any case be such that it could be construed as a penalty. 2.
Article 9 Unsolicited services Without prejudice to Member States provisions on the tacit renewal of distance contracts, when such rules permit tacit renewal, Member States shall take the necessary measures to: - prohibit the supply of financial services to a consumer without a prior request on his part, when this supply includes a request for immediate or deferred payment, - exempt the consumer from any obligation in the event of unsolicited supplies, the absence of a reply not constituting consent.
Article 10 Unsolicited communications 1.
Article 12 Imperative nature of this Directive's provisions 1.
Article 13 Judicial and administrative redress 1.
Article 14 Out-of-court redress 1.
Article 16 Transitional measures Member States may impose national rules which are in conformity with this Directive on suppliers established in a Member State which has not yet transposed this Directive and whose law has no obligations corresponding to those provided for in this Directive.
Article 19 Directive 98/27/EC The following point shall be added to the Annex of Directive 98/27/EC: %quot%11.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than 9 October 2004.
Article 22 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 23 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 23 September 2002.
Cox For the Council The President M.
