The right of appeal referred to in Article 243 of the Code shall be mentioned.
CHAPTER 3 Provisions applying in the event of inconsistencies in binding information Article 9 1.
CHAPTER 4 Legal effect of binding information Article 10 1.
Article 11 Binding tariff information supplied by the customs authorities of a Member State since 1 January 1991 shall become binding on the competent authorities of all the Member States under the same conditions.
Section 1 Generalized system of preferences Subsection 1 Definition of the concept of originating products Article 67 1.
For the purposes of the provisions concerning generalized tariff preferences granted by the Community to products originating in developing countries (hereinafter referred to as %quot%beneficiary countries%quot%), the following shall be considered to originate in a beneficiary country: (a) products wholly obtained in that country, within the meaning of Article 68; (b) products obtained in that country in the manufacture of which products other than those referred to in (a) are used, provided that the said products have undergone sufficient working or processing within the meaning of Article 69. 2.
For the purposes of this section, products originating in the Community, within the meaning of paragraph 3, which are subject in a beneficiary country to working or processing going beyond that described in Article 70, shall be considered as originating in that beneficiary country. 3.
Paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis in order to establish the origin of the products obtained in the Community. 4.
The provisions of paragraph 4 shall apply on condition that Norway and Switzerland grant, by reciprocity, the same treatment to Community products.
The terms %quot%their vessels%quot% and %quot%their factory ships%quot% in paragraph 1 (f) and (g) shall apply only to vessels and factory ships: - which are registered or recorded in the beneficiary country or in a Member State, - which sail under the flag of a beneficiary country or of a Member State, - which are owned to the extent of at least 50 % by nationals of the beneficiary country or of Member States or by a company having its head office in the that country or in one of those Member States, of which the manager or managers, chairman of the board of directors or of the supervisory board, and the majority of the members of such boards are nationals of that beneficiary country or of the Member States and of which, in addition, in the case of companies, at least half the capital belongs to that beneficiary country or to the Member States or to public bodies or nationals of that beneficiary country or to the Member States, - of which the master and officers are nationals of the beneficiary country or of the Member States, and - of which at least 75 % of the crew are nationals of the beneficiary country or of the Member States. 3.
For the purpose of Article 67, non-originating materials shall be considered to be sufficiently worked or processed when the product obtained is classified in a heading which is different from those in which all the non-originating materials used in its manufacture are classified, subject to paragraph 2. 2.
For a product mentioned in columns 1 and 2 of the list set out at Annex 15, the conditions given in column 3 for the product concerned must be fulfilled instead of the rule in paragraph 1.
By way of derogation from the provisions of Article 69, non-originating materials may be used in the manufacture of a given product, provided that their total value does not exceed 5 % of the ex-works price of the final product and subject to the conditions laid down in Note 3.4 in Annex 14. 2.
By the way of a derogation from Article 67, for the purposes of determining whether a product manufactured in a beneficiary country which is a member of a regional group originates therein within the meaning of that Article, products originating in any of the countries of that regional group and used in further manufacture in another country of the group shall be treated as if they originated in the country of further manufacture (regional cumulation). 2.
The country of origin of the final product shall be determined in accordance with Article 72a. 3.
Regional cumulation shall apply to three separate regional groups of beneficiary countries benefiting from the generalized system of preferences: (a) the Association of South-East Asian Nations (Asean) (Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam); (b) the Central American Common Market (CACM) (Costa Rica, Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua, El Salvador); (c) the Andean Community (Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela). 4.
When goods originating in a country which is a member of a regional group are worked or processed in another country of the same regional group, they shall have the origin of the country of the regional group where the last working or processing was carried out provided that: (a) the value-added there, as defined in paragraph 3, is greater than the highest customs value of the products used originating in any one of the other countries of the regional group, and (b) the working or processing carried out there exceeds that set out in Article 70 and, in the case of textile products, also those operations referred to at Annex 16. 2.
Proof of originating status, acquired or retained under the terms of Article 72, this Article and Article 72b, of goods exported from a country of a regional group to the Community, shall be established by a certificate of origin Form A issued, or an invoice declaration made out in that country on the basis of a certificate of origin Form A issued according the provisions of paragraph 4. 6.
The country of origin shall be marked in box 12 of the certificate of origin Form A or on the invoice declaration, that country being: - in the case of products exported without further working or processing according to paragraph 4, the country of manufacture, - in the case of products exported after further working or processing, the country of origin as determined in accordance with paragraph 1.
Articles 72 and 72a shall apply only where: (a) the rules regulating trade in the context of regional cumulation, as between the countries of the regional group, are identical to those laid down in this section; (b) each country of the regional group has undertaken to comply or ensure compliance with the terms of this section and to provide the administrative cooperation necessary both to the Community and to the other countries of the regional group in order to ensure the correct issue of certificates of origin Form A and the verification of certificates of origin Form A and invoice declarations.
The Secretariats are as follows: - the Asean General Secretariat, - the Permanent Secretariat of the CACM, - the Junta del Acuerdo de Cartagena, as the case may be. 2.
Article 78 (1) (b) shall not apply to products originating in any of the countries of the regional group when they pass through the territory of any of the other countries of the regional group, whether or not further working or processing takes place there.
Article 73 Accessories, spare parts and tools dispatched with a piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle which are part of the normal equipment and included in the price or not separately invoiced are regarded as one with the piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle in question.
Nevertheless, when a set is composed of originating and non-originating articles, the set as a whole shall be regarded as originating, provided that the value of the non-originating articles does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the set.
Article 75 In order to determine whether a product is an originating product, it shall not be necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be used in its manufacture: (a) energy and fuel; (b) plant and equipment; (c) machines and tools; (d) goods which do not enter, and which are not intended to enter, into the final composition of the product.
Where use is made of a derogation the following phrase must appear in box 4 of the certificate of origin Form A, or on the invoice declaration laid down in Article 90: %quot%Derogation - Regulation (EC) No 0000/96%quot% 6.
Article 77 The conditions set out in this section as to the acquisition of the originating status shall be satisfied without interruption in the beneficiary country or in the Community.
The following shall be considered as transported direct from the beneficiary country to the Community or from the Community to the beneficiary country: (a) goods transported without passing through the territory of any other country, except in the case of the territory of another country of the same regional group where Article 72 is applied; (b) goods constituting one single consignment transported through the territory of countries other than the beneficiary country or the Community, with, should occasion arise, trans-shipment or temporary warehousing in those countries, provided that the goods have remained under the surveillance of the customs authorities in the country of transit or of warehousing and have not undergone operations other than unloading, reloading or any operation designed to preserve them in good condition; (c) goods transported through the territory of Norway or Switzerland and subsequently re-exported in full or in part to the Community or to the beneficiary country, provided that the goods have remained under the surveillance of the customs authorities of the country of transit or warehousing and have not undergone operations other than unloading, reloading or any operation designed to preserve them in good condition; (d) products which are transported by pipeline without interruption across a territory other than that of the exporting beneficiary country or of the Community. 2.
Products sent from a beneficiary country for exhibition in another country and sold for importation into the Community shall benefit, on importation, from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67, on condition that the products meet the requirements of this section entitling them to be recognized as originating in the beneficiary country and provided that it is shown to the satisfaction of the competent Community customs authorities that: (a) an exporter has dispatched the products from the territory of the exporting beneficiary country direct to the country in which the exhibition is held; (b) the products have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that exporter to a person in the Community; (c) the products have been dispatched to the Community in the state in which they were sent for exhibition; (d) the products have not, since they were dispatched for exhibition, been used for any purpose other than demonstration at the exhibition. 2.
Where necessary, additional documentary evidence of the nature of the products and the conditions under which they have been exhibited may be required. 3.
Subsection 2 Proof of origin Article 80 Products originating in the beneficiary country shall benefit from this section on submission of either: (a) a certificate of origin Form A, a specimen of which appears at Annex 17; or (b) in the cases specified in Article 90 (1), a declaration, the text of which appears at Annex 18, given by the exporter on an invoice, a delivery note or any other commercial document which describes the product concerned in sufficient detail to enable them to be identified (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%invoice declaration%quot%). (a) Certificate of origin Form A Article 81 1.
Box 12 shall be duly completed by indicating %quot%European Community%quot% or one of the Member States. 9.
Article 84 Since the certificate of origin Form A constitutes the documentary evidence for the application of provisions concerning the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67, it shall be the responsibility of the competent governmental authority of the exporting country to take any steps necessary to verify the origin of the products and to check the other statements on the certificate.
Article 85 Proofs of origin shall be submitted to the customs authorities of the Member State of importation in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 62 of the Code.
By way of derogation from Article 81 (5), a certificate of origin Form A may exceptionally be issued after exportation of the products to which it relates if: (a) it was not issued at the time of exportation because of errors or accidental omissions or special circumstances; or (b) it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that a certificate of origin Form A was issued but was not accepted on importation for technical reasons. 2.
The competent governmental authority may issue a certificate retrospectively only after verifying that the particulars contained in the exporter's application conform with those contained in the corresponding export documents and that a certificate of origin Form A satisfying the provisions of this section was not issued when the products in question were exported. 3.
Box 4 of certificates of origin Form A issued retrospectively must contain the endorsement %quot%Délivré a posteriori%quot% or %quot%issued retrospectively%quot%.
In the event of the theft, loss or destruction of a certificate of origin Form A, the exporter may apply to the competent governmental authority which issued it for a duplicate to be made out on the basis of the export documents in their possession.
The name of the re-exporter shall be given in box 1.
In the case of goods which benefit from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67, under a derogation granted in accordance with the provisions of Article 76, the procedure laid down in this Article shall apply only when such goods are intended for the Community.
Article 89 Originating products within the meaning of this section shall be eligible on importation into the Community to benefit from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67 on production of a replacement certificate of origin Form A issued by the customs authorities of Norway or Switzerland on the basis of a certificate of origin Form A issued by the competent authorities of the beneficiary country, provided that the conditions laid down in Article 78 have been satisfied and provided that Norway or Switzerland assists the Community by allowing its customs authorities to verify the authenticity and accuracy of the issued certificates.
An invoice declaration may be made out: (a) by an approved Community exporter within the meaning of Article 90a, or (b) by any exporter for any consignment consisting of one or more packages containing originating products whose total value does not exceed ECU 3 000, and provided that the assistance referred to in Article 81 (1) shall apply to this procedure. 2.
In the cases referred to in paragraph 1 (b), the use of an invoice declaration shall be subject to the following special conditions: (a) one invoice declaration shall be completed for each consignment; (b) if the goods contained in the consignment have already been subject to verification in the exporting country by reference to the definition of %quot%originating products%quot%, the exporter may refer to this check in the invoice declaration.
The customs authorities of the Community may authorize any exporter, hereinafter called %quot%approved exporter%quot%, who makes frequent shipments of Community goods, within the meaning of Article 67 (2), and who offers, to the satisfaction of the customs authorities, all guarantees necessary to verify the originating status of the products as well as the fulfilment of the other requirements of this section, to draw up invoice declarations. 2.
The customs authorities shall grant to the approved exporter a customs authorization number which must appear on the invoice declaration. 4.
The customs authorities shall monitor the use of the authorization by the approved exporter. 5.
The customs authorities may withdraw the authorization at any time.
Evidence of originating status of Community products within the meaning of Article 67 (2) shall be furnished either by: (a) production of a EUR.1 movement certificate, a specimen of which is set out at Annex 21; or by (b) production of a declaration as referred to at Article 90. 2.
The exporter or his authorized representative shall enter %quot%GSP beneficiary countries%quot% and %quot%EC%quot% or %quot%pays bénéficiaire du SPG%quot% and %quot%CE%quot% in box 2 of the EUR.1 movement certificate. 3.
The provisions of this section concerning the issue, use and subsequent verification of certificates of origin Form A shall apply mutatis mutandis to movement certificates EUR.1 and, with the exception of the provisions concerning their issue, to invoice declarations.
Products sent as small packages from private persons to private persons or forming part of travellers' personal luggage shall be admitted as originating products benefiting from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67 without requiring the presentation of a certificate of origin Form A or an invoice declaration, provided that such imports are of a non-commercial nature and have been declared as meeting the conditions required for the application of this section where there is no doubt as to the veracity of such declaration. 2.
Furthermore, the total value of the products must not exceed ECU 215 in the case of small packages or ECU 600 in the case of the contents of travellers' personal luggage.
When Article 67 (2) (3) or (4) applies, the competent authorities of the beneficiary country called on to issue a certificate of origin Form A for products in the manufacture of which materials originating in the Community, Norway or Switzerland are used shall rely on the EUR.1 movement certificate or, where necessary, the invoice declaration. 2.
Box 4 of certificates of origin Form A issued in the cases set out in paragraph 1 shall contain the endorsement %quot%Cumul CE%quot%, %quot%cumul Norvège%quot% %quot%cumul Suisse%quot%, or %quot%EC cumulation%quot%, %quot%Norway cumulation%quot%, %quot%Switzerland cumulation%quot%.
Article 92 The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the certificate of origin Form A, in the EUR.1 movement certificate or in an invoice declaration, and those made in the documents produced to the customs office for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the products shall not ipso facto render the certificate or declaration null and void, provided that it is duly established that the document does correspond to the products concerned.
Subsection 3 Methods of administrative cooperation Article 93 1.
The beneficiary countries shall inform the Commission of the names and addresses of the governmental authorities situated in their territory which are empowered to issue certificates of origin Form A, together with specimens of stamps used by those authorities, and the names and addresses of the relevant governmental authorities responsible for the control of the certificates of origin Form A and the invoice declarations.
The Commission shall publish in the Official Journal of the European Communities (%quot%C%quot% series) the date on which the new beneficiary countries referred to in Article 97 met the obligations referred to in paragraph 1. 3.
Article 93a For the purposes of the provisions concerning the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67, every beneficiary country shall comply or ensure compliance with the rules concerning the origin of the goods, the completion and issue of certificates of origin Form A, the conditions for the use of invoice declarations and those concerning methods of administrative cooperation.
Subsequent verifications of certificates of origin Form A and invoice declarations shall be carried out at random or whenever the customs authorities in the Community have reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of the document or as to the accuracy of the information regarding the true origin of the products in question. 2.
If the said authorities decide to suspend the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67 pending the results of the verification, they shall offer to release the products to the importer subject to any protective measures judged necessary. 3.
The results shall be such as to establish whether the certificate of origin Form A or the invoice declaration in question applies to the products actually exported and whether these products were in fact eligible to benefit from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 67. 4.
The provisions of the first subparagraph apply between the countries of the same regional group for the purposes of subsequent control of the issued certificates of origin Form A or the invoice declaration, drawn up in accordance with this section. 6.
Article 95 Article 78 (1) (c) and Article 89 shall apply only in so far as Norway and Switzerland, in the context of tariff preferences granted by them to certain products originating in developing countries, apply provisions similar to those of the Community.
Subsection 4 Ceuta and Melilla Article 96 1.
The term %quot%Community%quot% used in this section shall not cover Ceuta and Melilla.
The term %quot%products originating in the Community%quot% shall not cover products originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 2.
This Section shall apply mutatis mutandis in determining whether products may be regarded as originating in the exporting beneficiary country benefiting from the generalized system of preferences when imported into Ceuta and Melilla or as originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 3.
The provisions of this section concerning the issue, use and subsequent verification of certificates of origin Form A shall apply mutatis mutandis to products originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 5.
The Spanish customs authorities shall be responsible for the application of this section in Ceuta and Melilla.
For the purposes of the provisions concerning tariff preferences granted by the Community to certain products originating in the Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and the territories of the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, (hereinafter referred to as %quot%beneficiary Republics or Territories%quot%), the following products shall be considered as products originating in a beneficiary Republic or Territory: (a) products wholly obtained in that beneficiary Republic or Territory, within the meaning of Article 99; (b) products obtained in that beneficiary Republic or Territory, in the manufacture of which products other than those referred to in (a) are used, provided that the said products have undergone sufficient working or processing within the meaning of Article 100. 2.
For the purposes of this section, products originating in the Community within the meaning of paragraph 3 which are subject, in a beneficiary Republic or Territory to working or processing going beyond that described in Article 101 shall be considered as originating in that beneficiary Republic or Territory. 3.
Paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis in establishing the origin of the products obtained in the Community.
The terms %quot%their vessels%quot% and %quot%their factory ships%quot% in paragraphs 1 (f) and (g) shall apply only to vessels and factory ships: - which are registered or recorded in the beneficiary Republic or Territory or in a Member State, - which sail under the flag of a beneficiary Republic or Territory or of a Member State, 397R0012.1 - which are owned to the extent of at least 50 % by nationals of the beneficiary Republic or Territory or of Member States or by a company with its head office in one of those Republics, Territories or States, of which the manager or managers, chairman of the board of directors or of the supervisory board, and the majority of the members of such boards are nationals of that beneficiary Republic or Territory or of the Member States and of which, in addition, in the case of companies, at least half the capital belongs to that beneficiary Republic or Territory or to the Member States or to public bodies or nationals of that beneficiary Republic or Territory or to the Member States, - of which the master and officers are nationals of the beneficiary Republic or Territory or of the Member States, and - of which at least 75 % of the crew are nationals of the beneficiary Republic or Territory or of the Member States. 3.
For the purposes of Article 98, non-originating materials shall be considered to have been sufficiently worked or processed when the product obtained is classified under a heading different from those under which all the non-originating materials used in its manufacture are classified, subject to paragraph 2. 2.
For a product mentioned in columns 1 and 2 of the list: - contained in Annex 19, for the territories of West Bank and the Gaza Strip, or - contained in Annex 20, for the Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the conditions set out in column 3 for the product concerned must be fulfilled instead of the rule in paragraph 1.
By way of derogation from Article 100, non-originating materials may be used in the manufacture of a given product, provided that their total value does not exceed 5 % of the ex-works price of the final product and subject to the conditions laid down in Note 3.4 to Annex 14. 2.
Article 103 Accessories, spare parts and tools dispatched with a piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle which are part of the normal equipment and included in the price or not separately invoiced are regarded as one with the piece of equipment, machine, apparatus or vehicle in question.
Nevertheless, when a set is composed of originating and non-originating articles, the set as a whole shall be regarded as originating provided that the value of the non-originating articles does not exceed 15 % of the ex-works price of the set.
Article 105 In order to determine whether a product is an originating product, it shall not be necessary to determine the origin of the following which might be used in its manufacture: (a) energy and fuel; (b) plant and equipment; (c) machines and tools; (d) goods which do not enter, and which are not intended to enter, into the final composition of the product.
Article 106 The conditions set out in this section as to the acquisition of originating status must be fulfilled without interruption in the beneficiary Republic or Territory or in the Community.
The following shall be considered as transported direct from the beneficiary Republic or Territory to the Community and from the Community to the beneficiary Republic or Territory: (a) goods transported without passing through the territory of any other country; (b) goods constituting one single consignment transported through the territory of countries other than the exporting beneficiary Republic or Territory or the Community, with, should the occasion arise, trans-shipment or temporary warehousing in those countries, provided that they remain under the surveillance of the customs authorities in the country of transit or of warehousing and do not undergo operations other than unloading, reloading or any operation designed to preserve them in good condition; (c) products which are transported by pipeline without interruption across a territory other than that of the exporting beneficiary Republic or Territory or of the Community. 2.
Products sent from a beneficiary Republic or Territory for exhibition in another country and sold after the exhibition for importation into the Community shall benefit on importation into the Community from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 98, provided that they meet the requirements of this section entitling them to be recognized as originating in that beneficiary Republic or Territory and provided that it is shown to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that: (a) an exporter has dispatched the products from the beneficiary Republic or Territory to the country in which the exhibition is held; (b) the products have been sold or otherwise disposed of by that exporter to a person in the Community; (c) the products have been dispatched during the exhibition or immediately thereafter to the Community in the state in which they were sent for exhibition; (d) the products have not, since they were dispatched for exhibition, been used for any purpose other than demonstration at the exhibition. 2.
Subsection 2 Proof of origin Article 109 Products originating in the beneficiary Republics or Territories shall benefit from this section on submission of either: (a) a EUR.1 movement certificate, a specimen of which appears at Annex 21; or (b) in the cases specified in Article 117 (1), a declaration, the text of which appears at Annex 22, given by the exporter on an invoice, a delivery note or any other commercial document which describes the product concerned in sufficient detail to enable them to be identified (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%invoice declaration%quot%). (a) EUR.1 movement certificate Article 110 1.
A EUR.1 movement certificate may be issued only where it can serve as the documentary evidence required for the purposes of implementing the tariff preferences referred to in Article 98. 3.
Since the EUR.1 movement certificate constitutes the documentary evidence for the application of the preferential arrangements set out in Article 98, it shall be the responsibility of the competent authorities of the beneficiary Republic or Territory, or of the customs authorities of the exporting Member State, to take any steps necessary to verify the origin of the goods and to check the other statements on the certificate. 7.
Article 112 Proofs of origin shall be submitted to the customs authorities of the Member State of importation in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 62 of the Code.
By way of derogation from Article 110 (10), a EUR.1 movement certificate may exceptionally be issued after exportation of the products to which it relates if: (a) it was not issued at the time of exportation because of errors or accidental omissions or special circumstances; or (b) it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that a EUR.1 movement certificate was issued but was not accepted on importation for technical reasons. 2.
The competent authorities may issue a EUR.1 movement certificate retrospectively only after verifying that the particulars contained in the exporter's application conform with those contained in the corresponding export documents and that a EUR.1 movement certificate satisfying the provisions of this section was not issued when the products in question were exported. 3.
EUR.1 movement certificates issued retrospectively shall be endorsed with one of the following phrases: %quot%EXPEDIDO A POSTERIORI%quot%, %quot%UDSTEDT EFTERFØLGENDE%quot%, %quot%NACHTRÄGLICH AUSGESTELLT%quot%, %quot%ÅÊÄÏÈÅÍ ÅÊ ÔÙÍ ÕÓÔÅÑÙÍ%quot%, %quot%ISSUED RETROSPECTIVELY%quot%, %quot%DELIVRE A POSTERIORI%quot%, %quot%RILASCIATO A POSTERIORI%quot%, %quot%AFGEGEVEN A POSTERIORI%quot%, %quot%EMITIDO A POSTERIORI%quot%, %quot%ANNETTU JÄLKIKÄTEEN%quot%, %quot%UTFÄRDAT I EFTERHAND%quot%. 4.
The endorsement referred to in paragraph 3 shall be inserted in the %quot%Remarks%quot% box of the EUR.1 movement certificate.
In the event of the theft, loss or destruction of a EUR.1 movement certificate, the exporter may apply to the competent authorities, or the customs authorities of the exporting Member State which issued it for a duplicate made out on the basis of the export documents in their possession. 2.
The duplicate issued in this way shall be endorsed with one of the following words: %quot%DUPLICADO%quot%, %quot%DUPLIKAT%quot%, %quot%DUPLIKAT%quot%, %quot%ÁÍÔÉÃÑÁÖÏ%quot%, %quot%DUPLICATE%quot%, %quot%DUPLICATA%quot%, %quot%DUPLICATO%quot%, %quot%DUPLICAAT%quot%, %quot%SEGUNDA VIA%quot%, %quot%KAKSOISKAPPALE%quot%, %quot%DUPLIKÁT%quot%. 3.
The endorsement referred to in paragraph 2 shall be inserted in the %quot%Remarks%quot% box of the EUR.1 movement certificate. 4.
Article 115 When originating products are placed under the control of a customs office in the Community, it shall be possible to replace the original proof of origin by one or more EUR.1 movement certificates for the purpose of sending all or some of these products elsewhere in the Community.
The invoice declaration may be made out: (a) by an approved exporter within the meaning of Article 118 or, (b) by any exporter for any consignment consisting of one or more packages containing originating products whose total value does not exceed ECU 3 000, and on condition that the assistance referred to in Article 110 (1) also applies to this procedure. 2.
An invoice declaration shall be made by the exporter by typing, stamping or printing on the invoice, the delivery note or another commercial document, the declaration, the text of which appears at Annex 22, using one of the linguistic versions set out in that Annex and in accordance with the provisions of the domestic law of the exporting country.
However, an approved exporter within the meaning of Article 118 shall not be required to sign such declarations provided that he gives the governmental authorities a written undertaking that he accepts full responsibility for any invoice declaration which identifies him as if it had been signed in manuscript by him. 6.
In the cases referred to in paragraph 1 (b), the use of an invoice declaration shall be subject to the following special conditions: (a) one invoice declaration shall be completed for each consignment; (b) if the goods contained in the consignment have already been subject to verification in the beneficiary Republic or Territory by reference to the definition of %quot%originating products%quot%, the exporter may refer to this check in the invoice declaration.
The customs authorities shall assign the approved exporter a customs authorization number which shall appear on the invoice declaration. 4.
The customs authorities shall monitor the use of the authorization by the approved exporter. 5.
The customs authorities may withdraw the authorization at any time.
Products sent as small packages from private persons to private persons or forming part of travellers' personal luggage shall be admitted as originating products benefiting from the tariff preferences referred to in Article 98 without requiring the submission of a EUR.1 movement certificate or an invoice declaration, provided that such products are of a non-commercial nature and have been declared as meeting the conditions required for the application of this section, where there is no doubt as to the veracity of such declaration. 2.
Furthermore, the total value of the products must not exceed ECU 215 in the case of small packages or ECU 600 in the case of the contents of traveller's personal luggage.
Article 120 The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the proof of origin and those made in the documents submitted to the customs office for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the goods, shall not ipso facto render the proof of origin null and void, provided that it is duly established that the document corresponds to the goods submitted.
Subsection 3 Methods of administrative cooperation Article 121 1.
The beneficiary Republics or Territories shall inform the Commission of the names and addresses of the governmental authorities situated in their territory which are empowered to issue EUR.1 movement certificates, together with specimens of stamps used by those authorities, and the names and addresses of the relevant governmental authorities responsible for the control of the EUR.1 movement certificates and the invoice declarations.
Subsequent verifications of EUR.1 movement certificates or invoice declarations shall be carried out at random or whenever the customs authorities in the importing Member State or the competent authorities of the beneficiary Republics or Territories, have reasonable doubts as to the authenticity of such documents or the origin status of the products concerned or the fulfilment of the other requirements of these provisions. 2.
These results must indicate clearly whether the EUR.1 movement certificate or the invoice declaration applies to the products actually exported, and whether these products can benefit from the preferences referred to in Article 98. 4.
For the purposes of subsequent verification of EUR.1 movement certificates and invoice declarations, as well as any export documents or any copies of certificates referring to them, shall be kept for at least three years by the competent authorities of the beneficiary Republics or Territories, or by the exporting customs authorities of the Member State. 5.
Subsection 4 Ceuta and Melilla Article 123 1.
The term %quot%Community%quot% used in this section shall not cover Ceuta and Melilla.
The term %quot%products originating in the Community%quot% shall not cover products originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 2.
This section shall apply mutatis mutandis in determining whether products may be regarded as originating in the exporting beneficiary Republics or Territories benefiting from the preferences when imported into Ceuta and Melilla or as originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 3.
The provisions of this section concerning the issue, use and subsequent verification of EUR.1 movement certificates shall apply mutatis mutandis to products originating in Ceuta and Melilla. 5.
The Spanish customs authorities shall be responsible for the application of this section to Ceuta and Melilla.` 3.
Without prejudice to specific provisions, the documents to accompany the declaration of entry for a customs procedure with economic impact, shall be as follows: (a) for the customs warehousing procedure: - type D; the documents laid down in Article 218 (1) (a) and (b), - other than type D; no documents; (b) for the inward-processing procedure - drawback system; the documents laid down in Article 218 (1), - suspension system; the documents laid down in Article 218 (1) (a) and (b), and, where appropriate, the written authorization for the customs procedure in question or a copy of the application for authorization where the second subparagraph of Article 556 (1) applies; (c) for processing under customs control the documents laid down in Article 218 (1) (a) and (b), and, where appropriate, the written authorization for the customs procedure in question; (d) for the temporary importation procedure: - with partial relief from import duties; the documents laid down in Article 218 (1), - with total relief from import duties; the documents laid down in Article 218 (1) (a) and (b), and, where appropriate, the written authorization for the customs procedure in question; (e) for the outward-processing procedures, the documents laid down in Article 221 (1) and, where appropriate, the written authorization of the procedure or a copy of the application for authorization where the second subparagraph of Article 751 (1) applies. 2.
Article 218 (2) shall apply to declarations of entry for any customs procedure with economic impact. 3.
The Commission shall forward any such information to the other Member States.` 5.
Done at Brussels, 18 December 1996.
For the Commission Mario MONTI Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 302, 19. 10. 1992, p. 1. (2) OJ No L 253, 11. 10. 1993, p. 1. (3) OJ No L 289, 12. 11. 1996, p. 1. (4) OJ No L 336, 23. 12. 1994, p. 1. (5) OJ No L 70, 20. 3. 1996, p. 4. (6) OJ No L 42, 19. 2. 1993, p. 34. (7) OJ No L 184, 24. 7. 1996, p. 35.
within the meaning of Articles 70, 100 (3) and 122 (3)`, read: '. . .
within the meaning of Articles 70 and 101`.
the paper use shall be white writing paper, sized, not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 25 g/m².
Certificates, a specimen of which is shown in this annex, shall be acceptable from 1st January 1996; however certificates made out in accordance with the previous specimen, dated 1992, may be presented until 31st December 1997. %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% 1.
A declaration setting forth all pertinent detailed information concerning the production or manufacture of the merchandise is considered sufficient only if requested by the district collector of Customs. %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% 1.
Une déclaration reprenant toute information appropriée et détaillée concernant la production ou la fabrication de la marchandise est considérée comme suffisante, et doit être présentée uniquement à la demande du receveur des douanes du district (District Collector of Customs). %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% ` ANNEX VI 'ANNEX 18 Invoice declaration %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% The invoice declaration, the text of which is given below, must be made out in accordance with the footnotes.
French version L'exportateur des produits couverts par le présent document (authorisation douanière no . . . (1)) déclare que, sauf indication claire du contraire, ces produits ont l'origine préférentielle . . . (2) au sens des règles d'origine du Système des préférences tarifaires généralisées de la Communauté européenne.
English version The exporter of the products covered by this document (customs authorization No . . . (1)) declares that, except where otherwise clearly indicated, these products are of . . .
preferential origin (2) according to rules of origin of the Generalized System of Preferences of the European Community. .......... (place and date) (3) .......... (Signature of the exporter; in addition the name of the person signing the declaration has to be indicated in clear script) (4) (1) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter within the meaning of Article 90a, the authorization number of the approved exporter must be entered in this space.
Spanish Version El exportador de los productos incluidos en el presente documento (autorización aduanera no . . . (1)) declara que, salvo indicación en sentido contrario, estos productos gozan de un origen preferencial . . . (2).
Danish Version Eksportøren af varer, der er omfattet af nærværende dokument (toldmyndighedernes tilladelse nr. . . . (1)), erklærer, at varerne, medmindre andet tydeligt er angivet, har præferenceoprindelse i . . . (2).
German Version Der Ausführer (Ermächtigter Ausführer; Bewilligungs-Nr. . . . (1)) der Waren, auf die sich dieses Handelspapier bezieht, erklärt, daß diese Waren, soweit nicht anderes angegeben, präferenzbegünstigte . . . (2) Ursprungswaren sind.
Greek Version Ï åîáãùãÝáò ôùí ðñïúüíôùí ðïõ êáëýðôïíôáé áðü ôï ðáñüí Ýããñáöï (Üäåéá ôåëùíåßïõ õð' áñéè. . . . (1)) äçëþíåé üôé, åêôüò åÜí äçëþíåôáé óáöþò Üëëùò, ôá ðñïúüíôá áõôÜ åßíáé ðñïôéìçóéáêÞò êáôáãùãÞò . . . (2).
English Version The exporter of the products covered by this document (customs authorization No . . . (1)) declares that, except where otherwise clearly indicated, these products are of . . . (2) preferential origin.
French Version L'exportateur des produits couverts par le présent document (autorisation douanière no . . . (1)) déclare que, sauf indication claire du contraire, ces produits ont l'origine préférentielle . . . (2).
Italian Version L'esportatore delle merci contemplate nel presente documento (autorizzazione doganale n. . . . (1)) dichiara che, salvo indicazione contraria, le merci sono di origine preferenziale . . . (2).
Dutch Version De exporteur van de goederen waarop dit document van toepassing is (douanevergunning nr. . . . (1)), verklaart dat, behoudens uitdrukkelijke andersluidende vermelding, deze goederen van preferentiële . . .
Portugese Version O abaixo assinado, exportador dos produtos cobertos pelo presente documento (autorização aduaneira nº . . . (1)), declara que, salvo expressamente indicado em contrário, estes produtos são de origem preferencial . . . (2).
Finnish Version Tässä asiakirjassa mainittujen tuotteiden viejä (tullin lupan:o . . . (1)) ilmoittaa, että nämä tuotteet ovat, ellei toisin ole selvästi merkitty, etuuskohteluun oikeutettuja . . .
Swedish Version Exportören av de varor som omfattas av detta dokument (tullmyndighetens tillstånd nr. . . . (1)) försäkrar att dessa varor, om inte annat tydligt markerats, har förmånsberättigande . . .
ursprung (2). .......... (Place and date) (3) .......... (Signature of the exporter, in addition the name of the person signing the declaration has to be indicated in clear script) (4) (1) When the invoice declaration is made out by an approved exporter, the authorization number of the approved exporter must be entered in this space.
