A T2M form, made out in accordance with Articles 327 to 337, shall be produced to prove the Community status: (a) of the products of sea-fishing caught by a Community fishing vessel, in waters other than the territorial waters of a country or territory outside the customs territory of the Community; and (b) of the goods obtained from such products on board that vessel or a Community factory ship, in the production of which other products having Community status may have been used, which may be in packaging having Community status and are to be brought into the customs territory of the Community in the circumstances set out in Article 326. 3.
A T2M form shall be presented in respect of the products and goods referred to in Article 325 (2) which are transported directly to the customs territory of the Community: (a) by the Community fishing vessel which caught the products and, where applicable, processed them; or (b) by another Community fishing vessel or by the Community factory slip which processed the products following their transhipment from the vessel referred to in point (a); or (c) by any other vessel onto which the said products and goods were transhipped from the vessels referred to in points (a) and (b), without any further changes being made; or (d) by a means of transport covered by a single transport document made out in the country or territory not forming part of the customs territory of the Community where the products or goods were landed from the vessels referred to in points (a), (b) and (c).
Article 330 The master of a vessel referred to in point (b) of Article 326 (1) shall complete box 6 and complete and sign the declaration in box 11 of the original of the T2M form whenever he lands goods either in a port in the customs territory of the Community or in a port outside the said territory for subsequent consignment to that territory, or whenever he tranships goods onto another vessel for that purpose.
Article 331 When the products or goods referred to in point (a) or point (b) of Article 329 are transhipped for the first time, box 10 of the original and the copy of a T2M form shall be completed; if a further transhipment, of the type referred to in Article 330, takes place, box 12 of the original of that T2M form shall also be completed.
Where products or goods covered by a T2M form go to a country or territory not forming part of the customs territory of the Community, the said form shall be valid only if the certification in box 13 of the form has been completed and endorsed by the customs authorities of that country or territory. 2.
Where products or goods covered by a T2M form go to country or territory not forming part of the customs territory of the Community for subsequent despatch in split consignments to that territory, the person concerned or his representative shall: (a) enter in the %quot%Remarks%quot% box of the initial T2M form the number of kind of packages, the gross mass, the treatment or use to which the consignment has been assigned and the number of the %quot%Extract%quot% referred to in point (b); (b) make out a T2M %quot%Extract%quot%, using for this purpose an original form taken from a booklet of T2M forms issued in accordance with the provisions of Article 328.
Each %quot%Extract%quot%, and its copy which shall remain in the T2M booklet, shall include a reference to the initial T2M form referred to in point (a) and shall be clearly marked with one of the following words: - Extracto, - Udskrift, - Auszug, - Áðüóðáóìá, - Extract, - Extrait, - Estratto, - Uittreksel, - Extracto, - Ote, - Utdrag.
The T2M %quot%Extract%quot% accompanying the split consignment to the customs territory of the Community shall state in boxes 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 the name, kind, CN code and quantity of products or goods making up that consignment.
In addition, the certification in box 13 shall be completed and endorsed by the customs authorities of the country or territory where the products or goods remained while in transit. 2.
When all the products and goods covered by the initial T2M form referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 have been sent to the customs territory of the Community, the certification in box 13 of the form shall be completed and endorsed by the authorities referred to in that paragraph.
Article 334 All T2M forms, whether initial or %quot%Extract%quot%, shall be presented at the customs office where the products or goods to which they refer are brought into the customs territory of the Community.
The office shall complete box C of each T2M form, a copy of which shall be sent to the customs office referred to in Article 328.
Article 335 By way of derogation from Articles 332, 333 and 334, where products or goods covered by a T2M form go to a third country that is a contracting party to the Convention on a common transit procedure, for reconsignment in full or split consignments to the customs territory of the Community under %quot%T2%quot% procedure, the particulars of the said procedure shall be entered in the %quot%Remarks%quot% box of the T2M form.
When all the products and/or goods covered by this T2M form have been sent to the customs territory of the Community, the certification in box 13 of the form shall be completed and endorsed by the customs authorities.
A completed copy of the form, shall be sent to the customs office referred to in Article 328.
Article 336 The booklet containing the T2M forms shall be produced whenever the customs authorities so require.
When a vessel for which a booklet of T2M forms as referred to in Article 327 has been issued ceases to satisfy the conditions laid down, before all the forms have been used, or when all the forms in the booklet have been used or its period of validity has expired, the booklet shall be returned immediately to the customs office of issue.
In cases where the provisions of Article 362 are applied, or whenever the customs authorities consider it necessary, the office of departure may prescribe an itinerary for the consignment.
Articles 360, 361 and 362 are replaced by the following: 'Article 360 1.
The amount of the guarantee shall be set at least at 30 % of the duties and other charges payable, subject to a minimum level of ECU 7 000 in accordance with the procedures laid down in paragraph 2. 2.
The measures which, in the context of external Community transit operations for certain goods, fixed the amount of the comprehensive guarantee at the level of either the total amount, or at 50 %, of the duties and other charges applicable or in respect of which use of the comprehensive guarantee is forbidden, and which were adopted on the basis of the rules applicable before the date of entry into force of this Regulation shall remain in force until the date of the first decision taken pursuant to Article 362 (1) of Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93, as amended by this Regulation, and in any event no later than 31 December 1996.
Forms employed before that date may be used until stocks are exhausted but not after 31 December 1996.
Done at Brussels, 19 March 1996.
For the Commission Mario MONTI Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 302, 19. 10. 1992, p. 1. (2) OJ No L 253, 11. 10. 1993, p. 1. (3) OJ No L 171, 21. 7. 1995, p. 8. (4) OJ No L 118, 25. 5. 1995, p. 10.
Authentication of T2M forms 6.
Boxes 4 to 12 of the form must be completed in one of the official Community languages. 8.
Use of T2M forms 9.
The master of the Community fishing vessel must complete boxes 4, 5 and/or boxes 6, 7, 8 and complete and sign the declaration in box 9, of the original and the copy of a T2M form whenever: - a catch and/or the goods resulting from on-board processing of a catch are landed either in a port in Community customs territory, or in another part from which they will leave for that territory, - the catch and/or goods are transhipped onto another Community fishing vessel, a Community factory ship - where the catch undergoes on-board processing - or any other vessel which transports the catch and/or goods without processing them, either directly to a port within Community customs territory or to a port not in Community customs territory from where they will leave for that territory.
Where appropriate, the master of the vessel onto which a Community fishing vessel's catch has been transhipped to undergo on-board processing must complete boxes 6, 7 and 8, and complete and sign the declaration in box 11 of the original whenever: - goods resulting from on-board processing are landed either in a port in Community customs territory, or in a port not in Community customs territory from which they will leave for that territory, - the goods are transhipped onto any other vessel which transports them without processing, either directly to a port in Community customs territory or to a port not in Community customs territory from where they will leave for that territory.
In this case, the master of the processing vessel and the master of the vessel onto which the goods are transhipped must complete and sign box 12 of the original. 11.
Where catch or goods have gone to a country or territory not forming part of Community customs territory before being shipped to Community customs territory, box 13 of the form must be completed and signed by the customs authorities of the country or territory.
Whenever catch and/or goods are transhipped for carriage to Community customs territory, they must be accompanied by the original of a T2M form.
Use of %quot%Extracts%quot% of T2M forms Where catch and/or goods have been transported to a country or territory not forming part of Community customs territory for later reconsignment to that territory in split consignments: 13.
This information must also be entered in the copies of the %quot%Extracts%quot% which must remain in the booklet. 14.
For each split consignment: - boxes 4, 5 and/or 6, 7, 8 of the T2M %quot%Extract%quot% form must be completed, stating the quantities of catch and/or goods consigned, - box 13 of the original of the %quot%Extract%quot% form must be completed, endorsed and signed by the customs authorities of the country or territory concerned, - the number and kind of packages, the gross mass, the treatment or use assigned to the consignment and the number and date of the %quot%Extract%quot% form must be entered in the %quot%Remarks%quot% box of the initial T2M form, - the %quot%Extract%quot% form must accompany the consignment of catch and/or goods. 15.
When all the catch and/or goods covered by the initial T2M form have been shipped to Community customs territory, box 13 of the form must be completed, endorsed and signed by the customs authorities of the country or territory concerned.
Discharge of T2M forms 16.
