Zone R covers those of the abovementioned waterways for which inspection certificates are to be issued in accordance with Article 22 of the Revised Convention for the Navigation of the Rhine as this Article is worded when the Directive is adopted.
This Directive shall apply to: - vessels having a total dead weight of 15 tonnes or more, or vessels not intended for the carriage of goods having a displacement of 15 cubic metres or more, - tugs and pusher craft, including those with a displacement of less than 15 cubic metres, provided that they have been built to tow or push or to move vessels alongside. 2.
Article 3 Vessels operating on the Community waterways listed in Article 1 shall carry: - a certificate issued pursuant to Article 22 of the Revised Convention for the Navigation of the Rhine, when operating on a Zone R waterway, - a Community inland-navigation certificate issued to vessels complying with the technical requirements of Annex II, when operating on waterways of other zones.
All vessels carrying a valid certificate issued pursuant to Article 22 of the Revised Convention for the Navigation of the Rhine may navigate on Community waterways carrying only that certificate. 2.
However, all vessels carrying the certificate referred to in paragraph 1 shall also be provided with a supplementary inland-navigation certificate (supplementary Community certificate): - when operating on Zone 3 and 4 waterways, if they wish to take advantage of the reduction in technical requirements on these waterways, - when operating on Zone 1 and 2 waterways, if the Member State concerned has adopted additional technical requirements for these waterways, in accordance with Article 5.
Each Member State may, subject to the requirements of the Revised Convention for the Navigation of the Rhine and after consulting the Commission, adopt technical requirements additional to those in Annex II for vessels operating on Zone 1 and 2 waterways within its territory.
Such additional requirements shall be communicated to the other Member States and the Commission at least six months before their entry into force, unless they were already in force on 21 January 1977. 2.
Compliance by the vessels with these additional requirements shall be specified in the Community certificate referred to in Article 3 or, where Article 4 (2) applies, in the supplementary Community certificate.
Any Member State may require that vessels which do not carry an ADNR certificate shall be authorized to carry dangerous goods within its territory only if the vessels comply with requirements additional to those set out in this Directive.
Such requirements shall be notified to the Commission and the other Member States.
Member States may exempt from the application of all or part of this Directive: (a) vessels operating on navigable waterways not linked, by inland waterway, to the waterways of other Member States; (b) vessels having a dead weight not exceeding 350 tonnes which were laid down before 1 January 1950 and operate exclusively on a national waterway. 2.
TITLE II Conditions and rules for issuing Community inland waterway certificates Article 8 1.
The Community certificate shall be issued to vessels laid down as from 1 January 1985 following a technical inspection carried out prior to the vessel being put into service and intended to check whether the vessel complies with the technical requirements laid down in Annex II. 2.
The Community certificate shall be issued to vessels in service on 1 January 1985 and to vessels laid down before that date following a technical inspection to be carried out between 1 January 1986 and 1 July 1998, in accordance with a timetable to be laid down by each Member State, to check that the vessel complies with the technical requirements laid down in Annex II.
Compliance of a vessel with the additional requirements referred to in Article 5 shall, where appropriate, be checked during the technical inspections provided for in the preceding paragraphs, or during a technical inspection carried out at the request of the vessel's owner.
Article 9 The Community certificate shall be issued by the competent national authority of the Member State in which the vessel is registered or, failing that, of the Member State in which its home port is situated or, failing that, of the Member State in which the owner is established.
Any Member State which, by virtue of Article 7 (4), has not appointed a competent authority may request another Member State or States to direct their competent authorities to issue Community certificates in respect of vessels registered in or having their home port in its territory, or owned by persons established therein.
Article 10 The technical inspection referred to in Article 8 shall be carried out by competent authorities which may refrain from subjecting the vessel in whole or in part to technical inspection where it is evident from a valid attestation, issued by a classification society approved by the State in which the certificate is issued, that the vessel satisfies in whole or in part the technical requirements of Annex II.
Article 11 The period of validity of the Community certificate shall be determined in each specific case by the authority competent for issuing such certificates.
Article 12 Each Member State shall lay down the conditions under which a valid certificate which has been lost or damaged may be replaced.
TITLE III Conditions and rules for the renewal or amendment of certificates Article 13 The Community certificate shall be renewed on expiry of its period of validity, in accordance with the conditions and rules for the issue of such certificates.
If this certificate is issued in a Member State other than that which issued or renewed the initial certificate, the competent authority which issued or renewed the certificate shall be informed accordingly within one month.
TITLE IV Refusal or withdrawal Article 16 Any decision to refuse to issue or renew the Community certificate shall state the grounds on which it is based.
Any valid certificate may be withdrawn by the competent authority which issued or renewed it if the vessel ceases to comply with the technical requirements specified in its certificate.
TITLE V Verification Article 17 1.
The competent authorities of a Member State may at any time check that a vessel is carrying a certificate valid under the terms of this Directive and satisfies the requirements set out in such certificate s). 2.
The authority which issued the certificate or which last renewed it shall be informed. 3.
The authority which issued or last renewed the certificate shall be informed. 4.
TITLE VI Provisions applicable to the vessels of third countries Article 18 Pending the conclusion of agreements on the mutual recognition of navigability certificates between the Community and third countries, Member States may recognize the navigability certificates of vessels from third countries and, where appropriate, issue Community certificates or supplementary Community certificates to vessels from third countries in accordance with this Directive.
TITLE VII Adaption of the Annexes to the Directive to technical progress Article 19 The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt any amendments necessary to adapt the Annexes to this Directive to technical progress.
TITLE VIII Final provisions Article 20 Directive 76/135/EEC shall continue to apply to: - vessels in service referred to in Article 8 (2) of this Directive until such time as they undergo the inspection provided for in that Article, - passenger vessels, - vessels which carry a Community certificate but do not yet comply with the requirements of Annex II, in accordance with the rules set out in 13.01 (a) of Chapter 13.
Article 21 The provisions concerning the composition and qualifications of crews and the necessary certificates which apply in Member States are not affected by this Directive.
Article 22 Member States shall, after consulting the Commission, adopt the provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than 1 January 1985.
Article 23 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Zone 2 Federal Republic of Germany Ems : from a line, going from the entrance to the port towards Papenburg crossing the Ems, which links the Diemen pumping station (Diemer Schöpfwerk) and the opening of the dyke at Halte as far as a line linking the Delfzijl and Knock lighthouses, taking account of the Ems-Dollart cooperation treaty.
Jade : inside a line linking the Schillighörn upper light and Langwarden church tower.
Weser : from the Bremen railway bridge to a line linking the Langwarden and Kappel church towers with the Schweiburg secondary arm including the Kleine Weser, Rekumder-Loch, and Rechter Nebenarm secondary arms.
Meldorfer Bucht : inside a line linking the north-west point of the Hohe Ufer (Dieksand) and the Büsum west pier head.
Flensburger Förde : inside a line linking the Kekenis lighthouse and Birknack.
Eckernförder Bucht : inside a line linking Bocknis-Eck to the north-west tip of the mainland at Dänisch Nienhof.
Hunte : from the port of Oldenburg and from 200 m downstream of the Amalienbrücke in Oldenburg to the mouth.
Lesum : from the Bremen-Burg railway bridge to the mouth.
Lühe : from the mill 250 m upstream of the Marschdamm-Horneburg road bridge to the Lühe barrage.
Schwinge : from the footbridge downstream of the Güldenstern bastion at Stade to the Schwinge barrage.
Freiburger-Hafenpriel : from the Freiburg/Elbe sluices to the mouth.
Oste : from the Bremervörde mill dam to the Oste barrage.
Stör : from Pegel Rensing to the Stör barrage.
Eider : from the Gieselau Canal to the Eider barrage.
Nord-Ostsee-Kanal (Kiel Canal) : from a line linking the Brunsbüttel pier heads to a line linking the Kiel-Holtenau entry lights and the Schirnauer See, Bergstedter See, Audorfer See, Obereidersee with Enge, the Achterwehrer canal and the Flemhuder See.
Trave : from the railway bridge and the Holsten bridge (Stadttrave) in Lübeck to a line linking the two outer pier heads of Travemünde and the Pötenitzer Wiek and the Dassower See.
French Republic Seine : downstream of the Jeanne d'Arc bridge in Rouen.
Garonne and Gironde : downstream of the Bordeaux stone bridge.
Rhône : downstream of the Trinquetaille bridge in Arles and beyond towards Marseille.
Rotterdam Waterweg and the Scheur.
Haringvliet and Vuile Gat : including the waterways between Goeree-Overflakkee on the one hand and Voorne-Putten and Hoekse Waard on the other.
Grevelingen and Brouwershavense Gat : including all the waterways between Schouwen-Duiveland and Goeree-Overflakkee.
Keten, Mastgat, Zijpe Eastern Scheldt and Roompot : including the waterways between Walcheren, Noord-Beveland and Zuid-Beveland on the one hand and Schouwen-Duiveland and Tholen on the other hand, excluding the Scheldt-Rhine Canal.
Federal Republic of Germany Danube : from Kelheim (km 414 760) to the German-Austrian border.
Sneekermeer, Koevordermeer, Heegermeer, Fluessen, Slotermeer, Tjeukemeer, Beulakkerwijde, Belterwijde, Ramsdiep, Ketelmeer, Zwartemeer, Veluwemeer, Eemmeer, Alkmaardermeer, Gouwzee, Buiten IJ, afgesloten IJ, Noordzeekanaal, port of IJmuiden, Rotterdam port area, Nieuwe Maas, Noord, Oude Maas, Beneden Merwede, Nieuwe Merwede, Dordtsche Kil, Boven Merwede, Waal, Bijlandsch Canal, Boven Rijn, Pannersdensch Canal, Geldersche IJssel, Neder Rijn, Lek, Amsterdam-Rhine Canal, Veerse Meer, Scheldt-Rhine Canal as far as the mouth in the Volkerak, Amer, Bergsche Maas, the Meuse below Venlo.
Italian Republic River Po : from Piacenza to the mouth.
Milan-Cremona Canal, River Po : final stretch of 15 km to the Po.
River Mincio : from Mantua, Governolo to the Po.
Brondolo and Valle Canals : from the eastern Po to the Venice lagoon.
Fissero Canal - Tartaro - Canalbianco : from Adria to the eastern Po.
The hull must be sufficiently strong for all stresses to which it is subjected under normal conditions. 2.02.2.
Water bulkheads extending to the deck or, in the absence of a deck, to the upper edge of the hull planking or plating must be installed as follows: (a) a collision bulkhead at an appropriate distance from the stem; (b) in vessels whose length overall is over 25 m, a stern bulkhead at an appropriate distance from the stern. 2.02.4.
It must be possible to pump out each compartment separately. 2.02.6.
Accommodation must be separated from the engine and boiler rooms by gas-tight bulkheads and directly accessible from the deck.
Manholes are permitted, however, in bulkheads other than the collision bulkhead, on condition that they are bolted in a watertight manner.
By way of derogation from 2.02.5 and 2.02.7, the stern compartment may communicate with an engine room by means of a readily accessible self-closing drain installation. 2.03.
By way of derogation from 2.03.2, cooking appliances and heating and refrigeration appliances fitted with burners with wicks and working on commercial paraffin may be permitted in the accommodation and wheelhouse, subject to the capacity of the fuel tank not exceeding 12 litres. 2.03.4.
Heating with liquid fuels having a flash-point above 55 °C 2.04.1.
They must be fixed over a metal drip pan with sufficient capacity to prevent an accidental overflow of fuel and equipped with a device to prevent leaks in the event of the flame accidentally going out.
It must be possible to interrupt the flow of fuel from the deck.
Forced-draught equipment must be fitted with a device that automatically stops the flow of fuel when the supply of air necessary for combustion is interrupted. 2.04.5.
Forced-draught central heating appliances mounted in an engine room or a compartment accessible from the engine room must also meet the following requirements: (a) during start-up, the fan must initially function alone to ensure that the boiler is well ventilated; (b) there must be a thermostatic device to regulate the fuel flow; (c) the fuel must be ignited automatically by pilot flame or any other means; (d) it must be possible to stop the fan and the burner fuel pump from the deck; (e) if the central heating appliance is in the engine room, it must be so installed that no flame from the burner can reach other items in the space; (f) where warm-air heating appliances are installed in the engine room, the air intakes must be connected to ducts leading to the open air. 2.05.
The maximum permissible sound pressure level in the engine room is 110 dB(A).
If the sound pressure level in the engine room exceeds 90 dB(A), an explicit warning notice must be posted at each of the entrances.
Effectiveness of the steering gear The steering gear must comply with the following requirements as to performance: (a) where the steering gear is manually operated, one complete turn of the hand wheel must correspond to at least 3° of rudder angle; (b) where the steering gear is fully powered, it must be possible to obtain an average rate of 4° of rudder deflection per second through the entire rudder arc when the rudder is fully immersed and with the vessel at full speed; (c) where the steering gear is provided with power assistance gear (power assistance gear supplementing a manual main steering gear) it must be possible to achieve an average rate of 3° per second of rudder deflection through the arc 30° on either side of the neutral position of the rudder when it is fully immersed and with the vessel at full speed. (d) where fully powered steering gear is provided with a second, manually operated control, the latter must at least permit the vessel to proceed to a mooring at reduced speed. 3.03.
The entire steering gear must be designed, constructed and installed so as to allow for permanent transverse lists of up to 15° and ambient temperatures of up to 40 °C. 3.03.2.
Where a vessel is equipped with powered steering gear, an independent secondary steering system must be provided in order to ensure manoeuvrability without delay if the main gear breaks down. 3.04.2.
Manually operated hydraulic steering gear is an installation in which the rudder is driven by a pump which in its turn is driven solely by a manually operated steering wheel (steering wheel pump). 3.07.2.
Where the main steering gear is hydraulically operated while the secondary steering is a manually operated hydraulic system, the piping of the manually operated system must be separate from that of the main installation.
The drive circuits and control circuits may be protected only against short circuits.
For the electric equipment the following monitoring and indicating devices must be provided: (a) a green pilot light indicating that the installation is functioning; (b) a red pilot light which comes on when the installation breaks down or is accidentally disconnected, when the electric motor is overloaded or when one phase of a three-phase supply fails.
Safety distance The minimum safety distance shall be: (a) for doors and openings, other than hatches, which can be closed in a sprayproof and weathertight manner : 0 715 m; (b) for doors and openings, other than hatches, which cannot be closed in a sprayproof and weathertight manner : 0 720 m; (c) for hatches which can be closed in a sprayproof and weathertight manner : 0 730 m; (d) for hatches which cannot be closed by special devices, or are not closed (open holds) : 0 750 m. 4.03.
Every vessel must have at least three pairs of draught marks, one pair amidships and the others approximately one-sixth of the vessel's length from bow and stern respectively.
However: - in the case of vessels under 40 m in length, two pairs of marks about one-quarter of the vessel's length from bow and stern respectively suffice, - in the case of vessels not intended for the carriage of goods, one pair of marks roughly amidships suffice. 4.04.5.
General 5.01.1.
Main and secondary machinery running on fuel with a flashpoint below 55 °C is prohibited.
Nevertheless, engines providing power for anchor winches, ship's boats and portable motor pumps may run on fuel with a flashpoint below 55 °C. 5.01.4.
Starting aids using fuel with a flashpoint below 55 °C are permitted. 5.02.
Sight tube gauges on liquid fuel tanks and bunkers must be adequately protected against impact damage, fitted with self-closing cocks, and be connected to the tanks or bunkers at the upper end. 5.05.6.
Liquid fuel tanks and bunkers must be fitted with ports, having leaktight closures to permit cleaning and inspection. 5.05.7.
However, vessels where the power of the mechanical propulsion installation exceeds 225 kW and vessels of over 350 dwt must be equipped with two separate bilge pumps, at least one of which must be powered.
Manually operated bilge pumps are sufficient for watertight compartments under 4 m in length. 5.06.3.
The inside diameter (d) of the bilge pipe must be at least: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0033734%quot%%gt% The inside diameter (da) of the branch pipes connecting at the various suction strainers must be at least: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0033735%quot%%gt% where: - L is the length of the vessel between perpendiculars (in m), - B is the moulded breadth of the vessel (in m), - C is the moulded depth up to the main deck (in m), - l is the length (in m) of the corresponding watertight compartment. 5.06.4.
The capacity of the powered bilge pump must be at least 0 71 d2 l/min.
Anchor winches must be provided for anchors over 50 kg. 5.08.2.
Under normal operating conditions the vessel's intrinsic noise, measured laterally at a point 25 m from the vessel's side must not exceed 75 dB(A).
General 6.01.1.
All electrical installations must be designed, constructed and installed to withstand a permanent transverse list of up to 15° and ambient temperatures of up to 40 °C. 6.02.
Where an electrical installation is fed by an on-shore source of current, the cables must have a fixed connection on board or be equipped with permanent connection or with current take-off devices.
If the lead-in voltage exceeds 50 V, the hull must be effectively earthed.
Batteries requiring a power of more than 2 kW for charging (calculated from the maximum charging current and the nominal voltage of the battery) must be installed in a room specifically set aside for them.
Batteries requiring a power not exceeding 2 kW for charging may be installed below deck in a cupboard or chest.
They may also be installed in the engine room or some other well-ventilated place provided they are protected against falling objects and dripping water. 6.05.4.
It must be not less than 80 cm2 for lead-plate batteries and not less than 120 cm2 for alkaline batteries. 6.05.8.
When the voltage exceeds 50 V: (a) switchboards whose current-carrying components are so arranged or protected as to prevent accidental contact must be used; (b) an insulating mat or an impregnated wooden grating must be provided ; this shall not apply, however, to disconnecting-switch panels; (c) metal parts of control-panel frames or substructures and metal casings of appliances must be carefully earthed. 6.06.4.
Where the current is as 50 V or less, exceptions are permitted for branch cables from distribution panels, particularly in the case of circuits with individual switches for each appliance. 6.07.2.
Such electrical protection devices must be so installed as to be adequately protected against jolting. 6.07.3.
This does not apply to light switches handling less than 10 A. 6.07.5.
Appliances requiring a current of more than 10 A must be connected to a special circuit. 6.07.7.
Earth detector equipment Appropriate earth detector equipment must be provided for all unearthed circuits of over 50 V. 6.09.
Lighting appliances in engine and boiler rooms must be distributed between at least two circuits. 6.10.
The light-control switchboard must be installed in the wheelhouse ; it must be capable of being fed by a separate cable from the main switchboard. 6.10.2.
Each light must be supplied separately from the light-control switchboard and separately protected and controlled.
In installations where the voltage does not exceed 50 V, earthing may be dispensed with. 6.11.4.
Where the voltage exceeds 50 V, the casings of mobile current-consuming appliances, if not made of an insulating material or not protected, must be earthed through the feeder cable by means of an additional conductor not normally carrying current. 6.12.
The following are permitted as emergency power installations: (a) an auxiliary set with a fuel supply system independent of the main engine and a separate cooling system, which in the event of failure of the main circuit starts automatically or can be hand-started if it is installed in the immediate vicinity of the wheelhouse or any other station continuously manned by qualified personnel, and is capable on its own of covering current supply requirements within 30 seconds ; or (b) an accumulator battery which automatically takes over the supply of current in the event of failure of the main circuit, or can be switched on manually from the wheelhouse or any other station continuously manned by qualified personnel, and is capable of supplying the listed current-consuming devices for the duration of the prescribed period without being recharged and without an inadmissible drop in voltage. 6.12.2.
Auxiliary sets, emergency batteries and the associated switch gear may be installed in the engine room but in this case as high as possible. 6.12.3.
At least the following must be on board: (a) in wheelhouse : one portable fire-extinguisher; (b) near each point of access from deck to accommodation : one portable fire-extinguisher; (c) at the point of access to any service area not accessible from the accommodation and in which are installed heating, cooking or refrigerating equipment running on solid or liquid fuel : one portable fire-extinguisher; (d) at the entrance to each engine and boiler room : one portable fire-extinguisher; (e) for vessels whose total capacity exceeds 110 kW, at a suitable point below deck in the engine room : one portable fire-extinguisher. 7.03.2.
All fire-fighting appliances must be inspected at least once every two years.
A certificate signed by the person carrying out the inspection must be carried on board. 7.03.4.
Where fire-fighting appliances are so installed as to be concealed from view, the partition covering them shall be marked with a red letter %quot%F%quot% at least 10 cm high. 7.03.5.
They must not be installed forward of the collision bulkhead; (b) the water pressure in the hydrants must be maintained at not less than 3 bar; (c) piping and hydrants must be so designed that the hoses can be easily connected; (d) all nozzles must be fitted with a device for regulating the water jet at high-pressure or spray and for stopping the flow; (e) the entire system must conform to current standards. 7.03.6.
The only extinguishing agent authorized in permanently installed appliances is halon 1301 (CBrF3).
Its use is subject to compliance with the following conditions: (a) these appliances may be used only in engine rooms, boiler rooms and pump rooms; (b) the quantity of extinguishing agent must be sufficient to fill, in a gaseous form at 20 °C, from 4 725 to 7 % of the total volume of the room to be protected, including ventilation shafts.
In calculating the quantity of extinguishing agent necessary, one kilo of halon 1301 at 20 °C is considered to fill a volume of 0 7160 m3; (c) the tanks under pressure intended for storing halon 1301 must conform to the specifications of the approved inspection bodies.
These tanks must also be able to withstand the same pressure as the entire system under conditions in which the ambient temperature reaches a maximum of 60 °C.
The permissible reduction of pressure may not exceed 10 % in each tank.
Any reduction in this quantity must not exceed 5 % in each extinguisher; (o) the inspection certificates signed by the inspectors must be carried on board; (p) where the vessel is fitted with one or more extinguisher systems using halon 1301 which have been inspected, the following should be mentioned under heading 18 on the certificate issued for the vessel: %quot%... (number of) permanently fixed extinguisher systems using halon 1301.
The required certificates must be carried on board. %quot% 7.04.
The ship's boats required in 7.04.1 and 7.04.2 must meet the following requirements: (a) they must be equipped with seats for at least three persons, the width of the seat per person being at least 0 745 m; (b) they must be sufficiently strong; (c) the volume must be at least 1 75 m3 or the product of length × beam × depth must be not less than 2 77 m3; (d) when carrying three persons weighing approximately 75 kg each, ship's boats must have a freeboard of at least 25 cm; (e) they must be sufficiently stable.
They shall be deemed sufficiently stable if, with two people weighing approximately 75 kg each sitting on the same side and as close as possible to the gunwale, there remains a freeboard of at least 10 cm; (f) with nobody aboard but entirely full of water, the boat's reserve buoyancy (in kg) must be at least 30 × length × bean × depth; (g) the following equipment must be aboard; - one set of oars, - one mooring line, - one baler. 7.04.4.
CHAPTER 8 LIQUEFIED GAS INSTALLATIONS FOR DOMESTIC USES 8.01.
Liquefied gas installations must be suitable throughout for use with propane, must be installed in accordance with good practice and conform to the current regulations of the Member State which issued the certificate. 8.02.2.
There may be a number of separate installations on board.
Where receptacles with a load of up to 35 kg are used, the supply unit must be installed on deck in a special cupboard or wall cupboard located outside the accommodation area in a position such that it does not interfere with movement on board.
The cupboard must be so designed and placed that the temperature of the receptacles cannot exceed 50 °C; 8.04.5.
Any gas which this protection device allows to escape must be evacuated into the open air without any risk that it may penetrate inside the vessel or come into contact with anything that might set it on fire ; if necessary, a special pipe must be fitted for this purpose. 8.06.3.
The pressure at the outlet from the last pressure reducer must be more than 0 705 bar above atmospheric pressure, with a tolerance of 10 %. 8.07.2.
The gas-consuming appliances may, if not installed in a fixed manner, be connected by means of suitable flexible tubes not more than 1 m in length. 8.08.2.
Flexible pipes and their joints must be able to withstand any stresses which may occur under normal operating conditions on board.
They must be reliable in operation and fire-resistant.
The notice must bear inter alia the following instructions in the appropriate language or languages: - %quot%the taps of receptacles which are not connected to the distribution system must be closed, even if the recipients are presumed to be empty%quot%, - %quot%flexible pipes must be changed as soon as their condition so requires%quot%, - %quot%all receptacles must remain connected unless the corresponding connecting pipes are closed by taps or sealed%quot%. 8.13.
Pipes at the utilization pressure between the single or final pressure reducer and the valves fitted before the gas-consuming appliances: - leak test, carried out with air or an inert gas at a pressure of 1 bar above atmospheric pressure. 8.14.3.
In the tests referred to in 8.14.1 (b), 8.14.2 and 8.14.3, the pipes are deemed gas-tight if, after sufficient time to allow for normal balancing, no fall in the test pressure is observed during the following 10 minutes. 8.14.5.
All gas-consuming appliances must be brought into service and tested at the nominal pressure to ensure that combustion is satisfactory with the regulating knobs in the different positions.
After the test referred to in 8.14.6, it must be verified, in respect of each gas-consuming appliance connected to a flue, whether, after five minutes' operation at the nominal pressure, with windows and doors closed and the ventilation devices in operation, any combustion gases are escaping through the damper.
CHAPTER 9 SPECIAL WHEELHOUSE ARRANGEMENTS FOR STEERING ON RADAR BY ONE PERSON 9.01.
Each light or light signal must be monitored by a tell-tale light of the same colour as the light or light signal which it monitors, built into the switch or mounted beside it.
The sweep of the lever from the neutral position to the %quot%full speed ahead%quot% position and from the neutral position to the %quot%full speed astern%quot% position must not exceed 90°. 9.05.3.
This requirement shall not apply to vessels of pushed trains or breasted-up formations not exceeding 86 m in length. 9.07.
Telephone equipment 9.07.1.
The strength of this signal must be not less than 75 dB(A) in the accommodation.
Pushers must be equipped with the requisite coupling gear ; where cables are used for coupling, pushers must be equipped with at least two special winches or equivalent devices. 10.01.3.
The vessel must remain sufficiently manoeuvrable and stable when towing; (b) the steersman must be able to operate the propulsion machinery himself or be able to control such operations without leaving the steering station; (c) where cables are used for towing, the towing gear must comprise winches or a towing hook which can be slipped from the steering station.
CHAPTER 11 HEALTH AND SAFETY IN THE CREW'S ACCOMMODATION AND WORKING STATIONS 11.01.
Such accommodation must comply with the requirements of 11.02 to 11.12. 11.01.3.
Accommodation must be protected from unacceptable noise and vibration.
The maximum permissible sound pressure levels are: - 70 dB(A) in the living quarters, - 60 dB(A) in the sleeping quarters, except in the case of vessels working only by day. 11.02.5.
Dimensions of the accommodation 11.03.1.
The cubic capacity of each unit in the living and sleeping quarters must not be less than 7 m3. 11.03.5.
Piping in the accommodation Piping in the accommodation must comply with the requirements of 5.05.8. 11.05.
Where there is no deck level access to the accommodation, and the difference in levels is 0 730 m or more, the accommodation must be accessible by means of companionways. 11.05.5.
Daylight and lighting in the accommodation 11.08.1.
Each member of the crew must be provided with an individual berth.
Berths must not be placed side by side in such a way that the occupant has to climb over one berth in order to reach the next berth. 11.09.3.
It must be possible to keep it in an impeccable state of hygiene.
The following minimum sanitary installations must be provided in vessels with accommodation: (a) one wash basin connected up to hot and cold potable water per accommodation unit or per four crew members.
Potable water installations 11.12.1. (a) Vessels with accommodation must be fitted with one or more tanks for potable water or an installation for recuperating potable water; (b) they must have sufficient capacity for the number of persons on board, the minimum being 150 litres per person. 11.12.2.
Potable water tanks must be so designed and installed that there is no risk of the water being polluted or deteriorating in taste or smell, particularly through the action of liquid fuel or lubricating oil.
Potable water tanks must be fitted with a water level indicator. 11.12.4.
Pressurized water cisterns for potable water must operate only on compressed air of natural composition.
Potable water pipes must not pass through cisterns or tanks containing other liquids.
Pipes carrying other liquids or gas must not pass through potable water cisterns or tanks.
Vessels must be so fitted out that the crew can move about and work easily.
Accessibility of working stations 11.14.1.
Permanently manned working stations must be of sufficient dimensions to ensure: (a) a net volume of air not less than 7 m3, except for the wheelhouse of vessels less than 40 m long; (b) a free floor area and headroom for each working station which gives adequate freedom of movement for operation and inspection and for ordinary maintenance and repair work. 11.15.3.
Emergency exits and ports or skylights designed for use as emergency exits must have a clear opening of at least 0 736 m2 and the smallest dimension must be at least 0 750 m. 11.18.
Natural light and lighting of working stations 11.20.1.
Without prejudice to the provisions of 2.06.7 and 3.15, the ambient noise levels in permanently manned working stations may not exceed 90 dB(A) at head level and each of the means of access must be equipped with a clearly worded warning. 11.21.2.
Working stations must be located, fitted out and designed in such a way that crew members are not exposed to harmful vibration.
Requirements relating to shipbuilding Vessels, pushed trains and breasted-up formations with a maximum length exceeding 86 m. 12.01.1.
Any vessel fitted with mechanical means of propulsion and having a maximum length exceeding 86 m must be built and fitted out in such a way as to be capable of coming to a halt pointing downstream in time, while remaining sufficiently manoeuvrable during and after stopping.
The freeboard of vessels with a continuous deck, without sheer and without superstructures must be 150 mm.
Minimum freeboard Taking into account the reductions referred to in 12.02.3, the minimum freeboard must not be less than 50 mm.
Draught marks In the case of vessels operating in the various inland waterway zones (Zones 1, 2, 3 and 4), there must be a vertical line and one or more additional draught lines of a length of 150 mm towards the bow on the draught marks fore and aft for one or more inland waterway zones.
Vessels capable of towing In order to perform towing operations, vessels must meet the following requirements: (a) The length of the vessels must not exceed 86 m ; exceptionally, the locally competent authority may authorize vessels with a length exceeding 86 m to tow downstream when certain conditions to be laid down by it are satisfied.
The same applies to pushers intended to push trains of 86 × 12 m and over. (b) Where there is a risk of towing cables fouling the stern of the vessel, towing rails must be provided.
CHAPTER 13 DEROGATIONS FOR VESSELS IN SERVICE 13.01.
The temperature in this area must not exceed 60 °C.
The characters must be at least 6 cm high. (e) CO2 tanks, fittings and piping under pressure must conform to the specifications in force in the Member State which issued the certificate.
This check must at least include: - external inspection of the entire system, - functional testing of piping and outlet nozzles, - functional testing of the triggering mechanism, - a check on the CO2 supply in each service tank. (g) The inspection certificates signed by the inspectors must be carried on board.
However, for reasons of safety, the provisions in 11.01.1, 11.01.3, 11.01.4 and, within the time limits stipulated, those in Table 2 of this Chapter apply also to the vessels referred to in 13.01. 13.05.
On existing vessels with side decks less than 0 750 m wide, a handrail in the form of a taut cable along the waterside or handrails along hatch coamings may be substituted for the guardrail.
TABLE 1 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0033746%quot%%gt% TABLE 2 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0033747%quot%%gt% CHAPTER 14 PROCEDURE 14.01.
New entries should be inserted in black or blue under heading No 23 of the certificate. 14.07.
