This Directive is a specific Directive within the meaning of Article 3 of Directive 89/109/EEC. 2.
Other substances or matter may be added to such macromolecular compounds.
Article 2 Plastic materials and articles shall not transfer their constituents to foodstuffs in quantities exceeding 10 milligrams per square decimetre of surface area of material or article (mg/dm2) (overall migration limit).
However, this limit shall be 60 milligrams of the constituents released per kilogram of foodstuff (mg/kg) in the following cases: (a) articles which are containers or are comparable to containers or which can be filled, with a capacity of not less than 500 millilitres (ml) and not more than 10 litres (l); (b) articles which can be filled and for which it is impracticable to estimate the surface area in contact with foodstuffs; (c) caps, gaskets, stoppers or similar devices for sealing.
substances which are listed neither in Section A nor in Section B of Annex II, according to Article 3 of Directive 89/109/EEC. 4.
No Member State shall authorise any new substance for use within its territory except under the procedure in Article 4 of Directive 89/109/EEC. 5.
The lists appearing in Annex II, Sections A and B, do not yet include monomers and other starting substances used only in the manufacture of: - surface coatings obtained from resinous or polymerised products in liquid, powder or dispersion form, such as varnishes, lacquers, paints, etc., - epoxy resins, - adhesives and adhesion promoters, - printing inks.
Article 4 An incomplete list of additives, which may be used for the manufacture of plastic materials and articles, together with the restrictions and/or specifications on their use, is set out in Annex III, Sections A and B.
For the substances in Annex III, Section B, the specific migration limits are applied as from 1 January 2004 when the verification of compliance is carried out in simulant D or in test media of substitute tests as laid down in Directives 82/711/EEC and 85/572/EEC.
Article 5 Only the products obtained by means of bacterial fermentation listed in Annex IV may be used in contact with foodstuffs.
Other specifications related to some substances appearing in Annexes II, III and IV are laid down in Annex V, Part B. 2.
However, such limits are expressed in mg/dm2 in the following cases: (a) articles which are containers or are comparable to containers or which can be filled, with a capacity of less than 500 ml or more than 10 l; (b) sheet, film or other materials which cannot be filled of for which it is impracticable to estimate the relationship between the surface area of such materials and the quantity of foodstuffs in contact therewith.
In these cases, the limits set out in Annex II, expressed in mg/kg shall be divided by the conventional conversion factor of 6 in order to express them in mg/dm2.
Verification of compliance with the migration limits shall be carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in Directives 82/711/EEC and 85/572/EEC and the further provisions set out in Annex I. 2.
The verification of compliance with the specific migration limits provided for in paragraph 1 shall not be compulsory, if it can be established that compliance with the overall migration limit laid down in Article 2 implies that the specific migration limits are not exceeded. 3.
The verification of compliance with the specific migration limits provided for in paragraph 1 may be ensured by the determination of the quantity of a substance in the finished material or article provided that a relationship between that quantity and the value of the specific migration of the substance has been established either by an adequate experimentation or by the application of generally recognised diffusion models based on scientific evidence.
At the marketing stages other than the retail stages, the plastic materials and articles which are intended to be placed in contact with foodstuffs shall be accompanied by a written declaration in accordance with Article 6(5) of Directive 89/109/EEC. 2.
Paragraph 1 does not apply to plastic materials and articles, which by their nature are clearly intended to come into contact with foodstuffs.
Article 11 This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 12 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 6 August 2002.
It shall in all cases be permissible to demonstrate compliance with migration limits by the use of a more severe test. 4.
Special provisions relating to overall migration 6.
The following analytical tolerances have been observed: - 20 mg/kg or 3 mg/dm2 in migration tests using rectified olive oil or substitutes, - 12 mg/kg or 2 mg/dm2 in migration tests using the other simulants referred to in Directives 82/711/EEC and 85/572/EEC. 8.
In any such case, for substances exempt from specific migration limits or other restrictions in the list provided in Annex II, a generic specific migration limit of 60 mg/kg or 10 mg/dm2, according to the case, is applied.
The list includes: - substances undergoing polymerisation, which includes polycondensation, polyaddition or any other similar process, to manufacture macromolecules, - natural or synthetic macromolecular substances used in the manufacture of modified macromolecules, if the monomers or the other starting substances required to synthesise them are not included in the list, - substances used to modify existing natural or synthetic substances. 2.
The materials and articles, which contain the substances indicated under points (a), (b) and (c) shall comply with the requirements stated in Article 2 of Directive 89/109/EEC. 4.
The list does not include the following substances although they may be present: (a) substances which could be present in the finished product such as: - impurities in the substances used, - reaction intermediates, - decomposition products; (b) mixtures of the authorised substances.
The materials and articles which contain the substances indicated in (a) and (b) shall comply with the requirements stated in article 2 of Directive 89/109/EEC. 4.
These may include: - specific migration limit (SML), - maximum permitted quantity of the substance in the finished material or article (QM), - maximum permitted quantity of the substance in the finished material or article expressed as mg per 6 dm2 of the surface in contact with foodstuffs (QMA), - any other restriction specifically laid down, - any type of specification related to the substance or polymer. 6.
