Ovine and caprine animals with clinical signs compatible with TSE shall be subject to active surveillance. (2) In view of the detection of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in two bovine animals at the age of 28 months in routine testing of casualty slaughtered animals and to provide an early warning system of the emergence of any unfavourable trends in BSE incidence in younger animals, the age limit should be reduced to 24 months in animals belonging to certain risk populations. (3) In the monitoring carried out during the first trimester of 2001, positive BSE cases were detected in all Member States except in Greece, Luxembourg, Austria, Finland and Sweden.
The number of bovine animals belonging to certain risk groups tested in the above Member States were: 248 in Greece, 763 in Luxembourg, 3295 in Austria, 4527 in Finland and 8254 in Sweden. (4) In its opinion of 6 July 2000 on the geographical risk of BSE (GBR), the Scientific Steering Committee (SSC) concluded that the GBR level of Luxembourg was III (BSE confirmed at a low level) and the GBR level of Austria, Finland and Sweden was II (BSE unlikely, but not excluded).
Furthermore, the diagnostic methods and protocols laid down for bovine animals should be updated. (14) According to Article 22 of Regulation (EC) No 999/2001, a conclusive statistical survey shall be used to confirm or overturn the risk analysis conclusions carried out as the first step in determining the BSE status of a country or a region.
The minimum criteria for the statistical survey are laid down in Part B of Annex XI.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
However, the provisions of Annex III, Chapter A, section II, to Regulation (EC) No 999/2001, as set out in Annex I to this Regulation, shall apply from 1 January 2002.
Done at Brussels, 22 June 2001.
For the Commission David Byrne Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 147, 31.5.2001, p. 1. (2) OJ L 122, 24.4.1998, p. 59. (3) OJ L 2, 5.1.2001, p. 28. (4) OJ L 305, 6.12.2000, p. 28.
MONITORING IN BOVINE ANIMALS 1.
General Monitoring in bovine animals shall be carried out in accordance with the laboratory methods laid down in Annex X, Chapter C, point 3.1(b). 2.
All bovine animals over 24 months of age: - subject to %quot%special emergency slaughtering%quot% as defined in Article 2(n) of Council Directive 64/433/EEC(1), or - slaughtered in accordance with Annex I, Chapter VI, point 28(c), to Directive 64/433/EEC, shall be tested for BSE. 2.2.
All bovine animals over 30 months of age subject to normal slaughter for human consumption shall be tested for BSE. 2.3.
The sample shall comprise at least 10000 animals per year. 3.
Monitoring in animals not slaughtered for human consumption Bovine animals over 24 months of age which have died or been killed but which were not - killed for destruction pursuant to Commission Regulation (EC) No 716/962(2), - killed in the framework of an epidemic, such as foot-and-mouth disease, - slaughtered for human consumption, shall be tested for BSE at random.
The sampling must be representative for each region and continuous. %gt%TABLE%gt% 4.
Monitoring in animals purchased for destruction pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 716/96 4.1.
All animals born between 1 August 1996 and 1 August 1997 shall be tested for BSE. 4.3.
A random sample comprising at least 50000 animals annually of animals not covered by points 4.1 or 4.2 shall be tested for BSE. 5.
All parts of the body of an animal tested for BSE including the hide shall be retained under official control until a negative result to the rapid test has been obtained, unless they are destroyed in accordance with Annex V, point 3 or 4. 6.4.
All parts of the body of an animal found positive to the rapid test including the hide shall be destroyed in accordance with Annex V, point 3 or 4, apart from material to be retained in conjunction with the records provided for in Chapter B, Section III. 6.5.
Member States may derogate from the provisions of point 6.5 where a system is in place in the slaughterhouse preventing contamination between carcases.
General Monitoring in ovine and caprine animals shall be carried out in accordance with the laboratory methods laid down in Annex X, Chapter C, point 3.2(b). 2.
Multiple sampling in the same flock shall be avoided, where possible. %gt%TABLE%gt% 3.
Monitoring in animals not slaughtered for human consumption Animals over 18 months of age which have died or been killed, but which were not: - killed in the framework of an epidemic, such as foot-and-mouth disease, - slaughtered for human consumption, shall be tested in accordance with the sample size indicated in the table.
Multiple sampling in the same flock shall be avoided, where possible. %gt%TABLE%gt% 4.
Monitoring in Member States with a small ovine and caprine population Member States, where the total number of ovine and caprine animals over 18 months of age is 500000 or less may, by way of derogation from the sampling foreseen in points 2 and 3, decide to monitor the following combined subpopulation: (a) animals over 18 months of age which have died or been killed, but which were not: - killed in the framework of an epidemic, such as foot-and-mouth disease, - slaughtered for human consumption (%quot%dead animals%quot%); and (b) animals over 18 months of age whose appearance suggests a chronic wasting condition (%quot%chronic wasting animals%quot%).
The sampling shall be representative for each region and season.
Multiple sampling in the same flock shall be avoided, where possible. %gt%TABLE%gt% 5.
Monitoring in other animals In addition to the monitoring programmes set out in points 2 to 4, Member States may on a voluntary basis carry out monitoring in other animals, in particular: - animals used for dairy production, - animals originating from countries with indigenous TSEs, - animals which have consumed potentially contaminated feedingstuffs, - animals born or derived from TSE infected dams, - animals from flocks infected with TSE. 6.
Measures following testing of ovine and caprine animals All parts of the body of a tested animal including the hide shall be retained under official control until a negative result to the rapid test has been obtained, unless they are destroyed in accordance with Annex V, point 3 or 4.
All parts of the body of an animal found positive to the rapid test including the hide shall be destroyed in accordance with Annex V, point 3 or 4, apart from material to be retained in conjunction with the records provided for in Chapter B, section III. 7.
The number of suspected cases per animal species subject to laboratory examination in accordance with Article 12(2) and the outcome of the examination. 3.
The estimated size of each subpopulation referred to in Chapter A, Section I, points 3 and 4. 5.
The number of bovine animals tested within each subpopulation referred to in Chapter A, Section I, point 2 to 5, the method for sample selection and the outcome of the tests. 6.
The competent authority shall keep, for seven years, records of: - the number and types of animals placed under movement restrictions as referred to in Article 12(1), - the number and outcome of clinical and epidemiological investigations as referred to in Article 12(1), - the number and outcome of laboratory examinations as referred to in Article 12(2), - the number, identity and origin of animals sampled in the framework of the monitoring programmes as referred to in Chapter A and, where possible, age, breed and anamnestic information, - the prion protein genotype of positive TSE cases in sheep, - where chronic wasting ovine and caprine animals have been selected for sampling, the method to establish the age of and the clinical symptoms observed in each sampled animal. 2.
Methods and protocols 3.1.
Laboratory testing for the presence of BSE in bovine animals (a) Suspect cases Tissues from bovine animals sent for laboratory testing pursuant to the provisions of Article 12(2) shall be subject to a histopathological examination as laid down in the latest edition of the Manual, except where the material is autolysed.
An animal shall be regarded a positive BSE case if the result of the rapid test is positive or inconclusive, and - the result of the subsequent histopathological examination is positive, or - the result of another diagnostic method mentioned under (a) is positive. 3.2.
Laboratory testing for the presence of scrapie in ovine and caprine animals (a) Suspect cases Tissues from ovine and caprine animals sent for laboratory testing pursuant to the provisions of Article 12(2) shall be subject to a histopathological examination as laid down in the latest edition of the Manual, except where the material is autolysed.
Where the result of the histopathological examination is inconclusive or negative or where the material is autolysed, the tissues shall be subjected to an examination by immunocytochemistry or immuno-blotting, as laid down in the Manual.
Rapid tests For the purposes of carrying out the tests in accordance with Article 5(3) and Article 6(1), the following methods shall be used as rapid tests within the meaning of this Regulation: - immuno-blotting test based on a western blotting procedure for the detection of the protease-resistant fragment PrPRes (Prionics Check test), - chemiluminescent ELISA test involving an extraction procedure and an ELISA technique, using an enhanced chemiluminescent reagent (Enfer test), - sandwich immunoassay for PrPRes carried out following denaturation and concentration steps (Bio-Rad Platelia test). 5.
The statistical survey referred to in Article 22 must cover: - the animals sampled pursuant to the provisions of Annex III, Chapter A, Section I, points 2.1 and 4.1, - all the animals in the subpopulation referred to in Annex III, Chapter A, Section I, point 3, instead of a random sample.
