Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
The two values measured as specified in item 5.2.1.1, above, must be recorded in the test report and in a certificate corresponding to the model shown in Annex III. 5.2.2.
Acoustic measurements The apparatus used for measuring the noise level must be a precision sound-level meter of the type described in Publication 179 %quot%Precision sound level meters%quot%, second edition, of the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC).
Speed measurements The engine speed and vehicle speed on the test section shall be determined with an accuracy of 3 % or better. 5.2.2.3.
This condition shall be deemed to be met if there are no large sound-reflecting objects such as fences, rocks, bridges or buildings within 50 m of the centre of the acceleration section.
The surface of the site must be made of hard materials such as concrete, asphalt or any other acoustically equivalent material within a minimum radius of 10 m around the centre of the acceleration section and be free of powdery snow, tall grass, loose soil or cinders.
Positioning of the microphone The microphone must be located at a distance of 7 75 ± 0 72 m from the reference line CC' (Figure 1) of the track and 1 72 ± 0 71 m above the ground.
General conditions For all measurements, the vehicle must be driven in a straight line over the acceleration section in such a way that the longitudinal median plane of the vehicle is as close as possible to the line CC'.
The vehicle must approach the line AA' at a steady initial road speed as specified in items 5.2.2.4.3.2 and 5.2.2.4.3.3.
Approach speed The vehicle must approach the line AA' at a steady speed corresponding to the lower of the two following speeds: - the speed corresponding to an engine speed equal to three-quarters of the speed (S) at which the engine develops rated maximum power; - 50 km/h.
If the vehicle is fitted with a manual selector with X forward positions, the test must be conducted with the selector in position X ; the forced change-down facility (e.g. %quot%kick-down%quot%) must be put out of action.
Ambient noise Readings on the measuring instruments produced by ambient noise and wind must be at least 10 dB(A) below the sound level to be measured.
At least three measurements must be taken at each measuring point. 5.2.3.4.2.
The microphone must be positioned to the side of this vertical plane which gives the greatest possible distance between the microphone and the vehicle contour.
As far as possible, the microphone must be more than 0 75 m from the nearest obstacle, and its axis of maximum sensitivity must face the exhaust outlet from the position least concealed by the abovementioned obstacles. 5.2.3.4.3.
Such a silencer shall be considered to be efficient on the road if the exhaust gases are not in contact with the fibrous materials or if the silencer of the prototype vehicle tested in accordance with the requirements of items 5.2.2 and 5.2.3 has been put into a normal state for road use before the sound-level measurements are taken.
Continuous road operation for 10 000 km 5.3.1.1.1.
The exhaust system or components thereof must be fitted to the vehicle referred to in item 2.3 or the engine referred to in item 2.4.
It must close when this pressure does not differ by more than 10 % from its stabilized value with the valve open. 5.3.1.3.4.
Engine speed must be 75 % of the speed (S) at which the engine develops maximum power. 5.3.1.3.6.
The power indicated by the dynamometer must be 50 % of the full-throttle power measured at 75 % of engine speed (S). 5.3.1.3.7.
The entire test must be completed within 48 hours.
At the request of the technical service concerned, the applicant must submit: 2.3.1. - two examples of the system in respect of which application for EEC type-approval has been made; 2.3.2. - an exhaust system of the type originally fitted to the vehicle when EEC type-approval was granted; 2.3.3. - a vehicle representative of the type to which the system is to be fitted: - which, as far as its noise level when moving is concerned, must be in such a condition that it respects the limits in item 5.2.2.1 of Annex I and does not exceed by more than 3 dB(A) the values obtained during the type-approval tests and - which, as far as its noise level when stationary is concerned, respects the value obtained during the type-approval; 2.3.4. - a separate engine corresponding to the type of vehicle described above. 3.
The value measured with the replacement exhaust system must not exceed the value measured with the original equipment system by more than 25 % under the conditions mentioned below. 5.3.4.
Engine test method The measurement must be conducted on the engine referred to in item 2.3.4 coupled to a dynamometer.
The test must be conducted: - either on a road, or - on a roller dynamometer.
