The marketing years within the meaning of Article 6 of Regulation (EC) No 2202/96 shall run: (a) from 1 October to 30 September in the case of: - sweet oranges, - mandarins, clementines and satsumas, - grapefruit and pomelos; (b) from 1 June to 31 May in the case of lemons. 2.
For a given marketing year, the %quot%equivalent period%quot% referred to in Article 5(2) of Regulation (EC) No 2202/96 shall run: - from 1 July of the previous year to 30 June of the current year in the case of oranges, - from 1 October to 30 June of the current marketing year in the case of mandarins, clementines and satsumas, - from 1 July of the previous marketing year to 30 June of the current year in the case of grapefruit and oranges, - from 1 March of the previous marketing year to 28/29 February of the current year in the case of lemons.
CHAPTER II CONTRACTS Article 3 1.
Article 4 In the case of a commitment to supply within the meaning of Article 3(1)(b), contracts covering the production of the members of the producer organisation concerned shall be deemed to have been concluded after the following particulars have been forwarded to the competent authority: (a) the name and address of each producer and the reference data and areas of the parcels on which each producer cultivates the raw material; (b) the estimated total harvest; (c) the quantity intended for processing, broken down by type of contract; (d) the delivery schedule referred to in Article 3(3)(d); (e) an undertaking by the producer organisation to process the quantities delivered under the contract in question.
Contracts shall be concluded no later than: (a) 1 November in the case of oranges, mandarins, clementines, satsumas, grapefruit and pomelos; (b) 1 July in the case of lemons. 2.
The total quantity laid down in the amendment(s) may not exceed 40 % of the quantity initially laid down in the contract.
Where there are two amendments, they may not relate to more than 20 % of the said initial quantity each.
The quantity to be delivered each year as laid down in the amendment may not exceed 40 % of the quantity initially laid down in the contract for the given year.
CHAPTER III INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED Article 7 1.
The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be provided by the producer organisations or individual producers concerned to the producer organisation signing the contract, which shall forward it to the body designated by the Member State, where the producer organisation signing the contract: (a) markets quantities intended for processing produced by members of other producer organisations under the second and third indents of Article 11(1)(c)(3) of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96; and/or (b) passes on the benefit of the aid scheme to individual producers under Article 4(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2202/96. 3.
The Member States may adopt additional provisions covering the agreements referred to in the first subparagraph, in particular as regards compensation payable by producer organisations or individual producers failing to fulfil their contractual obligations. 4.
The information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, together with a copy of the agreements referred to in paragraph 3 shall be sent to the body referred to in paragraph 1 within 30 days of the start of the marketing year in question. 5.
Where a producer joins a producer organisation after the dates referred to in paragraph 4, the information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 and, where appropriate, the agreements referred to in paragraph 3 which relate to this new member shall be sent to the body referred to in paragraph 1 no later than 30 days from the date on which his membership takes effect. 6.
For the purposes of Article 4(a) and paragraph 1(a) of this Article: - the parcel identification system shall be that used for the integrated system referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EEC) No 3508/92.
CHAPTER IV RAW MATERIALS Article 9 Products delivered by the producer organisations to the processors under a contract must satisfy the minimum requirements laid down in the Annex hereto.
The documents required under national law may be used for the purposes of this Article, provided they contain all the information referred to paragraph 2.
CHAPTER V AID APPLICATIONS Article 12 1.
Such aid applications shall be submitted: (a) for quantities accepted for processing during the first half of the marketing year, no later than: - 31 December in the case of lemons, - 30 April in the case of other products; (b) for quantities accepted for processing during the second half of the marketing year, with the exception of mandarins and clementines, no later than: - 30 June of the following marketing year in the case of lemons, - 31 October of the following marketing year in the case of oranges, grapefruit and pomelos; (c) in the case of mandarins and clementines accepted for processing during the third quarter of the marketing year, no later than 31 July. 2.
Article 14 The aid shall be paid to producer organisations: (a) for quantities accepted for processing during the first half of the marketing year, no later than: - 28 or 29 February in the case of lemons, - 30 June in the case of other products; (b) for quantities accepted for processing during the second half of the marketing year, with the exception of mandarins and clementines, no later than: - 31 August of the following marketing year in the case of lemons, - 31 December of the following marketing year in the case of oranges, grapefruit and pomelos. (c) in the case of mandarins and clementines accepted for processing during the third quarter of the marketing year, no later than 30 September.
CHAPTER VI CHECKS AND PENALTIES Article 16 1.
The risk analysis criteria shall be regularly updated. 3.
The Member States may decide what material or computerised form the records provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall take.
The records or accounting documents required under national law may be used for the purposes of this Article, provided they contain all the information referred to in paragraph 1.
The Member States may decide what material or computerised form the records provided for in paragraphs 1 and 3 shall take.
The records or accounting documents required under national law may be used for the purposes of this Article, provided they contain all the information referred to in paragraph 1.
For each producer organisation, finished product and marketing year: (a) physical checks shall be conducted on at least: - 5 % of the areas referred to in Articles 4 and 8(1) and (2), - 20 % of the quantities delivered for processing under each contract, in order to check that they tally with the delivery certificates referred to in Article 10(2) and comply with the minimum quality requirements referred to in Article 9; (b) administrative and accounting checks shall be conducted on at least: - 5 % of producers covered by contracts, in order to check in particular that for each producer the areas, the total harvest, the quantity delivered to the producer organisation and the quantity delivered for processing all tally with the aid payments provided for in Article 15, - 10 % of the agreements referred to in Article 8(3); (c) administrative and accounting checks shall be conducted to verify that the quantities of products delivered to the producer organisation by the producers referred to in Article 8(1) and (2), the quantities delivered for processing, the delivery certificates referred to in Article 10, and the quantities stated in the applications for aid all tally with the aid paid under Article 15; (d) administrative checks shall be conducted on all aid applications as referred to in Article 12. 2.
For each processor, plant, product received and marketing year: (a) physical checks shall be conducted on at least: - 10 % of the finished products obtained, in order to verify the yield of raw material under contract and otherwise; (b) administrative and accounting checks shall be conducted on at least: - 5 % of the lots received under each type of contract (one-year or multiannual); they shall involve the real link with a contract, the delivery certificates referred to in Article 10(2), the precise identification of the means of transport used and compliance with the minimum requirements laid down in Article 9, - 10 % of the price transfers referred to in Article 3(3)(f); (c) physical and accounting checks shall be conducted on stocks and, at least twice a year, shall cover all stocks of finished products to ensure that they tally with the finished products manufactured, purchased and sold.
If the difference referred to in paragraph 1 is more than 20 %, the beneficiary shall lose all entitlement to the aid and, if the aid has already been paid, reimburse the total aid, plus interest calculated in accordance with paragraph 1.
If the difference is more than 30 %, the producer organisation shall also be excluded from the aid scheme for the product concerned for the following three marketing years. 3.
The Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the provisions on aid payments are complied with, in accordance with Article 15.
Except in cases of force majeure, if the quantity delivered of a product under a multiannual contract for a marketing year is found to be less than the minimum quantity laid down in Article 3(6), the corresponding aid shall be reduced by 50 % for the marketing year in question.
Except in cases of force majeure, if the quantities accepted for processing during a marketing year under each contract referred to in Article 3(2)(a) and (b) are found to be less than the quantities contracted for in respect of that marketing year, including any amendments thereto, the corresponding aid shall be reduced by: - 20 %, if the discrepancy between the quantities accepted for processing and the quantities contracted for is equal to or more than 20 % but less than 30 % of the quantities contracted for, - 30 %, if the discrepancy between the quantities accepted for processing and the quantities contracted for is equal to or more than 30 % but less than 40 % of the quantities contracted for, - 40 %, if the discrepancy between the quantities accepted for processing and the quantities contracted for is equal to or more than 40 % but less than 50 % of the quantities contracted for.
If the aid has already been paid, the producer organisation shall pay back the difference between the aid paid and the aid due, plus interest calculated in accordance with paragraph 1.
If it is found that a processing contract has been totally or partially cancelled before its full term, the producer organisation that signed the contract shall reimburse 40 % of the aid received under that contract, plus interest calculated in accordance with the second subparagraph of paragraph 1.
In addition, in the case of multiannual contracts: - a producer organisation that has cancelled all or part of two contracts or more in the same marketing year may not conclude any further multiannual contract under Regulation (EC) No 2202/96 for three marketing years from the date on which the competent body in the Member State concerned becomes aware of the cancellation, - except in the case of bankruptcy of the processor, failure to deliver a product for one of the marketing years under contract shall be considered a cancellation of the contract in question. 8.
If the area checks referred to in Article 19(1)(a) show a discrepancy between the area declared and that actually determined, at the level of the total area checked, the aid payable to the producer organisation shall be reduced, unless the discrepancy is clearly due to error: - by the percentage of the discrepancy established, if it is more than 5 % but not more than 20 % of the area actually determined, - by 30 % if the discrepancy is more than 20 % of the area determined.
Furthermore, the processor shall not sign new contracts: - for the marketing year following the finding, if the difference referred to in the first subparagraph is 10 % or less, - for two marketing years following the finding, if the difference is more than 10 % but no more than 20 %, - for three marketing years following the finding if the difference is more than 20 %. 2.
In addition, the Member States shall exclude the processor from the aid scheme provided for in Regulation (EC) No 2202/96: - where the producer organisation makes false declarations with the collaboration of the processor, - where the processor fails to pay the price referred to in Article 3(3)(f), - where the processor fails to pay the penalties provided for in paragraph 1.
CHAPTER VII NOTIFICATIONS TO THE COMMISSION Article 23 1.
The quantities shall be expressed as net weight. 3.
Article 25 Regulation (EEC) No 1169/97 is hereby repealed with effect from the end of the 2000/01 marketing year for each of the products concerned.
Article 26 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 30 May 2001.
