For the products referred to in Article 1 (2) (a), (b) and (d), with the exception of those falling within subheadings 07.01 N II and 07.03 A II of the Common Customs Tariff, and for the products falling within subheading 23.04 A I, the Common Customs Tariff shall be applied.
For the products referred to in Article 1 (2) (c) and (e), with the exception of those falling within subheading 23.04 A I, and for the products falling within subheadings 07.01 N II and 07.03 A II of the Common Customs Tariff, a system of levies on imports from third countries shall be applied. 2.
The amounts shall be fixed in accordance with rules adopted by the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission.
However, when there is a marked change during the marketing year in the factors which were used to determine the representative market price for olive oil, it may be decided, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38, to change the representative market price and the threshold price during the marketing year. 2.
The prices referred to in paragraph 1 (a) and the standard quality referred to in paragraph 2 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty.
The prices referred to in paragraph 1 (b) shall be adopted by the Council acting by a qualified, majority on a proposal from the Commission.
The aid, which is designed to contribute towards the establishment of a fair income for producers, shall be fixed taking account of the effect of the consumption aid referred to in Article 11 on a part of the production only. 2.
Detailed rules of application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38 and where appropriate in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 729/70 of 21 April 1970 on the financing of the common agricultural policy (1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2788/72 (2).
Article 6 The production target price shall be fixed at a level which is fair to producers, account being taken of the need to keep Community production at the required level.
Article 7 The representative market price shall be fixed at a level which will permit normal marketing of olive oil produced, account being taken of prices for competing products, and in particular of the probable trend of such prices during the marketing year, and the incidence of the monthly increases referred to in Article 10 on the price of olive oil.
Article 8 The intervention price shall be equal to the production target price less the production aid referred to in Article 5 and an amount allowing for market fluctuations and for the cost of transporting olive oil from production areas to consumption areas.
Article 9 The threshold price shall be fixed in such a way that the selling price for the imported product at a Community frontier crossing point shall be the same as the representative market price, account being taken of the effect of the measures referred to in Article 11 (3).
Where the production target price less the production aid exceeds the representative market price for olive oil, a consumption aid shall be granted for olive oil produced and marketed in the Community.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt the general rules for the application of this Article and in particular those relating to the verification of eligibility for aid ; such verification shall in principle relate both to olive oil produced in the Community and to olive oil imported from third countries. 5.
Detailed rules of application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38 and, where appropriate, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 729/70.
Article 11a Member States shall, in so far as they are concerned, take the necessary measures to provide for sanctions in the event of breaches of the aid arrangements laid down in Articles 5 and 11.
Member States shall communicate to the Commission the measures provided for in the first paragraph as soon as they are adopted.
Article 13 To mitigate the effects of harvest fluctuations on the balance between supply and demand and in this way to stabilize consumer prices, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, may require intervention agencies to form a buffer stock of olive oil ; it shall, in accordance with the same procedure, lay down the conditions governing the formation, management and disposal of the buffer stock.
Where untreated olive oil falling withing within subheading 15.07 A I of the Common Customs Tariff is imported from third countries and where the threshold price is higher than the cif price, a levy equal to the difference between these two prices shall be charged. 2.
Where free quotations on the world market are not a determining factor for the offer price and where that price is lower than world market prices, a price determined on the offer price shall be substituted for the cif price in respect of the imports in question only. 4.
A levy shall be charged on imports from third countries of olive oil falling within subheading 15.07 A II of the Common Customs Tariff ; this levy shall be composed of a variable component corresponding to the levy applicable to the quantity of olive oil needed for production of the imported oil, which may be fixed at a standard rate, and a fixed component to protect the processing industry. 2.
Where, for one or more origins, the offer prices on the world market for olive oil falling within subheading 15.07 A II of the Common Customs Tariff are not in line with the cif price referred to in Article 14, the latter shall be replaced for the calculation of the variable component of the levy by a price determined on the basis of the abovementioned offer prices. 3.
Where the real trend on the world market in untreated olive oil cannot be determined from the offers on that market, the import levy on the products referred to in Articles 14 and 15 shall be fixed by tendering procedure. 2.
Any tenderer having indicated a rate of levy equal to or higher than the minimum rate shall be declared a successful tenderer and shall be obliged to import the quantity of the product specified in his application at the rate of levy indicated by him. 3.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt general rules for the application of this Article. 6.
On imports from third countries of olives falling within subheadings 07.01 N II and 07.03 A II of the Common Customs Tariff, a levy derived from the levy applicable to olive oil pursuant to Article 14 and based on the oil content of the imported product shall be charged.
However, the levy charged may not be less than an amount equal to 8 % of the value of the imported product, such amount to be fixed at a standard rate. 2.
On imports from third countries of products falling within subheadings 23.04 A II and 15.17 B I of the Common Customs Tariff, a levy derived from the levy applicable to olive oil and based on the oil content of the imported product shall be charged. 3.
Where Article 16 is applied, a levy shall be charged on imports of the products referred to in the preceding paragraphs, taking account of the minimum levy applicable to the quantity of olive oil contained in those products.
Where Articles 14, 15 and 17 (1) and (2) are applied, the levy applicable to an import shall be that in force on the day of importation.
However, as regards importation of the products listed in Article 1 (2) (c), the levy may be fixed in advance, at the request of the party concerned, in accordance with the conditions adopted by the Council acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission. 2.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt rules for the application of this paragraph and define the cases in which and the limits within which Member States may take protective measures. 2.
Without prejudice to Article 8 of Regulation (EEC) No 1360/78, recognition of a producer group shall be withdrawn if the conditions for recognition laid down in the first subparagraph were not or are no longer fulfilled.
