2006/57/EC: Council Decision of 30 January 2006 on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the European Partnership with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and repealing Decision 2004/518/EC Council Decision of 30 January 2006 on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the European Partnership with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and repealing Decision 2004/518/EC (2006/57/EC) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 533/2004 of 22 March 2004 on the establishment of European Partnerships in the framework of the stabilisation and association process [1], and in particular Article 2 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Whereas: (1) The Thessaloniki European Council of 19- 20 June 2003 endorsed the introduction of the European Partnerships as a means of realising the European perspective of the western Balkan countries within the framework of the stabilisation and association process. (2) Regulation (EC) No 533/2004 provides in its Article 2 that the Council is to decide on the principles, priorities and conditions to be contained in the European Partnerships, as well as any subsequent adjustments. (3) The Council adopted on 14 June 2004 a first European Partnership with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia [2].
Article 2 The implementation of the European Partnership shall be monitored through the mechanisms established under the stabilisation and association process, notably the annual progress reports presented by the Commission.
Article 3 Decision 2004/518/EC shall be repealed.
Article 4 This Decision shall take effect on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
The first Partnership with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia was adopted by the Council on 14 June 2004.
The main priorities identified for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia relate to its capacity to meet the criteria defined by the Copenhagen European Council of 1993 and the conditions set for the stabilisation and association process, notably the conditions defined by the Council in its conclusions of 29 April 1997 and 21 and 22 June 1999, the content of the final declaration of the Zagreb Summit of 24 November 2000 and the Thessaloniki Agenda. 3.
Ohrid Framework Agreement - Ensure the effective implementation of the legislative framework adopted in accordance with the Ohrid Framework Agreement, with a view, inter alia, to promoting inter-ethnic confidence-building. - Complete the necessary legislative framework to implement the decentralisation process and ensuring that municipalities have the necessary means to implement their new competences. - Adopt and begin to implement a medium-term strategic plan for equitable representation of minorities in the public administration (including in the judiciary) and public enterprises.
Public procurement - Align the legislation on public procurement with the acquis, in particular in the utilities sector. - Ensure an effective remedies system, especially as regards the parties that may have recourse to remedies and by extending deadlines for the submission of complaints. - Increase the public sector's awareness of and compliance with public procurement rules. - Set up the public procurement bureau and provide it with sufficient staff and equipment, also in view of its role in detecting corrupt activities.
Competition - Establish a credible enforcement record in the anti-trust area and in the field of State aid control.
Information society and media - Terminate the breach of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement by taking all necessary measures to fulfil the obligation to liberalise the electronic communications sector, including the adoption of all required secondary legislation and further strengthening of the regulatory bodies. - Secure competitive safeguards for significant market power operators. - Ensure that media legislation is in line with the recommendations formulated in May 2005 by the joint expertise of the Council of Europe and the Commission. - Ensure that the legislation on defamation reflects European standards - Reinforce the independence and administrative capacity of the Council for Electronic Media.
Strengthen the management and training of inspectors. - Set up a system for identification and registration of bovines and other relevant species. - Further align animal disease and animal health control systems with the EU legislative and institutional requirements as well as the contingency plans for List-A diseases. - Prepare a programme for upgrading food processing establishments to meet EU requirements.
Environment - Improve the implementation of legislation and environmental monitoring. - Strengthen the Environmental Inspectorate and other enforcement bodies.
Abolish the special fee of EUR 100 for every request submitted for allocating tariff quotas, as these are contrary to the acquis and infringe the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. - Increase administrative capacity to implement customs legislation and to fight against cross-border crime. - Take all necessary steps to properly implement rules of origin. - Further approximate legislation and procedures with the acquis, in particular in the area of transit, simplified procedures and tariff quotas.
Financial control - Adopt and implement consistent legislation for the entire field of internal control, covering all relevant aspects of managerial accountability, independent internal audit, central harmonisation as well as fraud prevention. - Develop a public internal financial control strategy or policy paper as a basis for implementation of the medium-term priorities related to public internal control. - Complete the establishment of functionally independent internal audit units in central State institutions and create such units at municipal level.
Judicial system - Complete the implementation of the strategy and action plan on judicial reform.
Ohrid Framework Agreement - Complete the decentralisation process and further implement the strategy on equitable representation of minorities in the public administration and public enterprises.
Right of establishment and freedom to provide services - Adopt legislation for the recognition of foreign professional qualifications and create administrative structures and procedures for this purpose. - Adopt a postal policy based on the postal directives, including the establishment of an independent national regulatory authority in the field of postal services.
Transport policy - Continue work towards complete alignment with the acquis in the area of road transport.
Social policy and employment - Continue alignment with EU legislation in the fields of occupational health and safety, labour law and anti-discrimination, and strengthen the corresponding administrative structures. - Reinforce the labour inspectorate in terms of staff and equipment and enable it to apply effective and dissuasive sanctions. - Develop and implement a comprehensive employment strategy involving all relevant stakeholders with a view to subsequent participation in the European Employment Strategy, matched by appropriate capacity-building for analysis, implementation and assessment.
Enterprise and industrial policy - Define and implement an industrial strategy conducive to growth and innovation. - Further develop support mechanisms for SMEs and improve access of SMEs to financial services.
Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments - Ensure a clear distribution of responsibilities and effective interministerial coordination in order to develop a comprehensive and coherent regional development strategy. - Set up partnership structures ensuring close cooperation between relevant stakeholders at national and regional levels.
Involve socioeconomic and other partners. - Ensure that the designated managing and paying authorities will progressively build up their capacity. - Design and implement national and regional development plans. - Enhance financial management and control procedures and set up proper monitoring and evaluation systems. - Set up a national agency for regional development. - Develop capacity for project preparation and management in accordance with the Structural and Cohesion Funds, both at central level and at NUTS III level.
Justice, freedom and security - Complete the implementation of the Integrated Border Management Strategy. - Complete the implementation of the action plan for the reform of the police.
Foreign, security and defence policy - Ensure that the "EU Guiding Principles concerning Arrangements between a State Party to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and the United States regarding the conditions to surrender of persons to the Court", adopted on 30 September 2002, are fully taken into account.
PROGRAMMING Community assistance under the stabilisation and association process to the western Balkan countries will be provided under the existing financial instruments, in particular Council Regulation (EC) No 2666/2000 of 5 December 2000 on assistance for Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia [1].
Failure to respect these conditions could lead the Council to take appropriate measures on the basis of Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 2666/2000.
MONITORING The implementation of the European Partnership will be monitored through the mechanisms established under the stabilisation and association process, notably the annual reports presented by the Commission. [1] OJ L 306, 7.12.2000, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2112/2005 (OJ L 344, 27.12.2005, p. 23). --------------------------------------------------
