Article 2 Definitions For the purpose of this Directive: (a) mineral-extracting industries through drilling shall mean all the industries practising: - extraction, in the strict sense of the word, of minerals through drilling by boreholes, and/or (%amp%{È%amp%};) OJ N° L 183, 29. 6. 1989, p. 1. - prospection with a view to such extraction, and/or - preparation of extracted materials for sale, excluding the activities of processing the materials extracted; (b) workplace shall mean the whole area intended to house workstations, relating to the immediate and ancillary activities and installations of the mineral-extracting industries through drilling, including accommodation, where provided, to which workers have access in the context of their work.
SECTION II EMPLOYERS' OBLIGATIONS Article 3 General obligations 1.
To safeguard the safety and health of workers, the employer shall take the necessary measures to ensure that: (a) workplaces are designed, constructed, equipped, commissioned, operated and maintained in such a way that workers can perform the work assigned to them without endangering their safety and/or health and/or those of other workers; (b) the operation of workplaces when workers are present takes place under the supervision of a person in charge; (c) work involving a special risk is entrusted only to competent staff and carried out in accordance with the instructions given; (d) all safety instructions are comprehensible to all the workers concerned; (e) appropriate first-aid facilities are provided; (f) any relevant safety drills are performed at regular intervals. 2.
The employer shall ensure that a document concerning safety and health, hereinafter referred to as 'safety and health document`, covering the relevant requirements laid down in Articles 6, 9 and 10 of Directive 89/391/EEC, is drawn up and kept up to date.
The employer who, in accordance with national laws and/or practices, is in charge of the workplace, shall coordinate the implementation of all the measures concerning the safety and health of the workers and shall state, in his safety and health document, the aim of that coordination and the measures and procedures for implementing it.
Article 4 Protection from fire, explosions and health-endangering atmospheres The employer shall take measures and precautions appropriate to the nature of the operation: - to avoid, detect and combat the starting and spread of fires and explosions, and - to prevent the occurance of explosive and/or health-endangering atmospheres.
Article 5 Escape and rescue facilities The employer shall provide and maintain appropriate means of escape and rescue in order to ensure that workers have adequate opportunities for leaving the workplaces promptly and safely in the event of danger.
Article 6 Communication, warning and alarm systems The employer shall take the requisite measures to provide the necessary warning and other communication systems to enable assistance, escape and rescue operations to be launched immediately if the need arises.
Article 7 Keeping workers informed 1.
Without prejudice to Article 10 of Directive 89/391/EEC, workers and/or their representatives shall be informed of all measures to be taken concerning safety and health at workplaces, and in particular of those relating to the implementation of Article 3 to 6. 2.
Article 8 Health surveillance 1.
To ensure that workers receive health surveillance appropriate to the health and safety risks they incur at work, measures shall be introduced in accordance with national law and/or practices. 2.
Article 9 Consultation of workers and workers' participation Consultation and participation of workers and/or of their representatives shall take place in accordance with Article 11 of Directive 89/391/EEC on the matters covered by this Directive.
Article 10 Minimum requirements for safety and health 1.
Workplaces used for the first time after the date on which this Directive is brought into effect as referred to in Article 12 (1) must satisfy the minimum safety and health requirements laid down in the Annex. 2.
Workplaces already in use before the date on which this Directive is brought into effect as referred to in Article 12 (1) must satisfy the minimum safety and health requirements laid down in the Annex as soon as possible and at the latest five years after that date. 3.
SECTION III OTHER PROVISIONS Article 11 Adjustments to the Annexes Purely technical adjustments to the Annexes in line with: - the adoption of Directives in the field of technical harmonization and standardization concerning the mineral-extracting industries through drilling, and/or - technical progress, changes in international regulations or specifications, and new findings concerning the mineral-extracting industries through drilling, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17 of Directive 89/391/EEC.
Article 12 Final provisions 1.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than 24 months after its adoption.
Article 13 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 3 November 1992.
For the Council The President DENTON OF WAKEFIELD (1) OJ N° C 32, 7. 2. 1991, p. 7. (2) OJ N° C 280, 28. 10. 1991, p. 79; and OJ N° C 241, 21. 9. 1992, p. 88. (3) OJ N° C 191, 22. 7. 1991, p. 34. (4) OJ N° L 393, 30. 12. 1989, p. 1.
ANNEX MINIMUM SAFETY AND HEALTH REQUIREMENTS AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 10 OF THE DIRECTIVE Preliminary note The obligations laid down in this Annex apply whenever required by the features of the workplace, the activity, the circumstances or a specific risk.
PART A Common minimum requirements applicable to the on-shore and off-shore sectors 1.
They must have a structure and solidity appropriate to the nature of their use. 2.
Organization and supervision 2.1.
Supervision To ensure workers' safety and health protection during all operations undertaken, the necessary supervision must be provided by persons having the skills and competence for this duty, in accordance with the national laws and/or practices, having been appointed by the employer or on his behalf and acting on his behalf.
The employer must ensure that workers receive comprehensible instructions so as not do endanger their safety and health or those of other workers. 2.6.
Safe working methods Safe working methods must be applied at each workplace or in respect of each activity. 2.8.
Electrical equipment and plant must be of sufficient size and power for the purpose for which it is intended. 4.
Protection from harmful atmospheres and explosion risks 6.1.
The equipment must be suitably stored and maintained. 6.2.3.
Where hydrogen sulphide or other toxic gases are or may be present in the atmosphere, a protection plan detailing the protective equipment available and the preventive measures taken must be held at the disposal of the competent authorities. 6.3.
An explosion prevention plan detailing the equipment and measures required must be prepared. 7.
Emergency routes and exits 7.1.
Accommodation and rest rooms must have at least two separate escape routes situated as far apart as possible and leading to a safe area, a safe assembly point or a safe evacuation point. 7.4.
Specific emergency routes and exits must be indicated by signs in accordance with the national regulations transposing Directive 92/58/EEC (²) into law. 7.6.
Emergency doors must not be locked.
The emergency routes and exits, and the traffic routes and doors giving access to them, must be free from obstruction so that they can be used at any time without hindrance. 7.7.
Emergency routes and exits requiring illumination must be provided with emergency lighting of adequate intensity in case the lighting fails. (¹) OJ N° L 393, 30. 12. 1989, p. 18. (²) OJ N° L 245, 26. 8. 1992, p. 23. 8.
Any breakdown must be indicated by a control system where this is necessary for workers' health. 8.2.
Room temperature 9.1.
Transparent or translucent walls, in particular all-glass partitions, in rooms or in the vicinity of workplaces and traffic routes must be clearly indicated and made of safety material or be shielded from such place or traffic routes to prevent workers from coming into contact with walls or being injured should the walls shatter. 10.4.
Every workplace must be provided throughout with lighting capable of supplying illumination sufficient to ensure the health and safety of persons therein. 11.2.
Workplaces must as far as possible receive sufficient natural light and be equipped, taking into account climatological conditions, with artificial lighting adequate for the protection of workers' safety and health. 11.3.
Workplaces in which workers are especially exposed to risks in the event of failure or artifical lighting must be provided with emergency lighting of adequate intensity. 11.5.
Doors and gates 13.1.
Transparent doors must be appropriately marked at a conspicuous level. 13.3.
Swing doors and gates must be transparent or have see-through panels. 13.4.
It must be possible to open the doors when the workplaces are occupied. 13.8.
Traffic routes 14.1.
Danger areas 15.1.
If the workplaces contain danger areas in which, owing to the nature of the work, there are risks including that of the worker or objects falling, the places must be equipped, as far as possible, with devices preventing unauthorized workers from entering those areas. 15.2.
Workrooms must have sufficient surface area, height and air space to allow workers to perform their work without risk to their safety, health or well-being. 16.2.
The dimensions of the unoccupied area at the workstation must allow workers sufficient freedom of movement and enable them to perform their work safely. 17.
Rest rooms 17.1.
In rest rooms appropriate measures must be introduced for the protection of non-smokers against discomfort caused by tobacco smoke. 17.4.
Workstations, traffic routes and other areas or installations outdoors which are used or occupied by the workers in the course of their activity must be organized in such a way that pedestrians and vehicles can circulate safely. 18.2.
When workers are employed at workstations outdoors, such workstations must as far as possible be arranged so that workers: (a) are protected against inclement weather conditions and if necessary against falling objects; (b) are not exposed to harmful noise levels nor to harmful external influences such as gases, vapours or dust; (c) are able to leave their workstations swiftly in the event of danger or are able to be rapidly assisted; (d) cannot slip or fall. 19.
PART B Special minimum requirements applicable to the on-shore sector 1.
Fire detection and fire fighting 1.1.
Workplaces must be equipped with appropriate fire-fighting equipment and, as necessary, with fire detectors and alarm systems. 1.3.
A fire protection plan detailing the precautions to be taken, in accordance with Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of this Directive, to protect against, detect and combat the outbreak and spread of fires must be kept on site. 1.5.
The fire-fighting equipment must be indicated by signs in accordance with the national regulations transposing Directive 92/58/EEC into law.
Remote control in emergencies Where required by the safety and health document, certain equipment must be capable of remote control at suitable locations in the event of an emergency.
Where required by the safety and health document, every workplace at which workers are present must be provided with: (a) an acoustic and optical system capable of transmitting an alarm indication to every manned part of the workplace as necessary; (b) an acoustic system capable of being heard distinctly at all parts of the installation where workers are frequently present. 3.2.
When workers are present at workplaces which are not normally manned, appropriate communication systems must be placed at their disposal. 4.
Means of evacuation and escape 5.1.
Workers must be trained in the appropriate actions to be taken in emergencies. 5.2.
Changing rooms must be easily accessible, be of sufficient capacity and be provided with seating. 7.1.2.
Changing rooms must be sufficiently large and have facilities to enable each worker to lock away his/her clothes during working hours.
Provision must be made for separate changing rooms or separate use of changing rooms for men and women. 7.1.4.
Provision must be made for separate shower rooms or separate use of shower rooms for men and women. 7.2.2.
The showers must be equipped with hot and cold running water. 7.2.3.
Such washbasins must be separate for, or used separately by, men and women when so required for reasons of propriety. 7.2.4.
Where the rooms housing the showers or washbasins are separate from the changing rooms, there must be easy communication between the two. 7.3.
Lavatories and washbasins Separate facilities must be provided in the vicinity of workstations, rest rooms, changing rooms and rooms housing showers or washbasins, with an adequate number of lavatories and washbasins.
Provision must be made for separate lavatories or separate use of lavatories for men and women. 8.
First aid rooms and equipment 8.1.
First aid rooms must be fitted with essential first aid installations and equipment and be easily accessible to stretchers.
They must be signposted in accordance with the national regulations transposing Directive 92/58/EEC into law. 8.3.
In addition, first aid equipment must be available in all places where working conditions require it.
This equipment must be suitably marked and easily accessible. 8.4.
A sufficient number of workers must be trained in the use of the first aid equipment provided. 9.
PART C Special minimum requirements applicable to the off-shore sector 1.
Preliminary remark 1.1.
Different employers who are responsible for different workplaces shall cooperate, where appropriate, in preparing safety and health documents and in measures necessary to ensure the safety and health of workers. 2.
Fire detection and fire fighting 2.1.
Adequate fire detection and protection systems, fire-fighting systems and alarms must be provided at all workplaces in accordance with the risks identified in the safety and health document referred to in point 1.1.
These may include but are not limited to: - fire detection systems, - fire alarms, - fire water mains, - fire hydrants and hoses, - water deluge systems and water monitors, - automatic sprinkler systems, - gas extinguishant systems, - foam systems, - portable fire extinguishers, - fireman's equipment. 2.3.
The equipment must be indicated by signs in accordance with the national regulations transposing Directive 92/58/EEC into law.
Remote control in emergencies 3.1.
Where required by the safety and health document referred to in point 1.1, a remote control system in the event of an emergency must be set up.
Where required by the safety and health document referred to in point 1.1, every workplace at which workers are present must be provided with: - an acoustic and optical system capable of transmitting an alarm to every manned part of the workplace as necessary, - an acoustic system capable of being heard distinctly in all parts of the installation where workers are frequently present, - a system capable of maintaining communication with the shore and rescue services. 4.2.
Such system must be capable of remaining operational in the event of an emergency.
When workers are present at workplaces which are not normally manned, communications systems appropriate to the circumstances must be provided. 5.
Safe assembly points and evacuation points must be readily accessible from accommodation and work areas. 5.4.
Means of evacuation and escape 6.1.
Workers must be trained in the appropriate actions to be taken in emergencies.
Workers must be given suitable training in survival techniques, taking into account the criteria laid down in the safety and health document referred to in point 1.1. 6.3.
Suitable and sufficient means of evacuation in an emergency and means of escape direct to the sea must be provided at every workplace. 6.4.
An emergency plan for sea rescue and workplace evacuation situations must be drawn up.
The required response time must be given in the safety and health document for each installation.
The minimum requirement for every survival craft (lifeboat), life-raft, life-buoy and life-jacket which is provided are that they: - must be suitable and equipped to maintain life for a sufficient time, - must be in sufficient number of all the workers likely to be present, - must be of a type suitable for the workplace, - must be properly constructed of suitable materials having regard to their life-saving function and the circumstances in which they may be used and kept ready for use, and - must be of such colour as will make them conspicuous when in use, and equipped with devices such that the user can use them to attract the attention of rescuers. 6.6.
Adequate life-saving appliances must be available for immediate use. 7.
Safety drills At workplaces at which workers are usually present, safety drills must be held at regular intervals in which: - all workers to whom specific duties have been assigned involving the use, handling or operation of emergency equipment are trained and examined in the execution of such duties, taking into account the criteria laid down in the safety and health document referred to in point 1.1.
Changing rooms must be easily accessible, be of sufficient capacity and be provided with seating. 8.1.2.
Changing rooms must be sufficiently large and have facilities to enable each worker to lock away his/her clothes during working hours.
Provision must be made for separate changing rooms or separate use of changing rooms for men and women. 8.1.4.
Showers and washing facilities In addition to those facilities provided in any accommodation area, suitable showers and washing facilities must if necessary be provided in the vicinity of workstations. 8.3.
Lavatories and washbasins In addition to those facilities provided in any accommodation, lavatories and washbasins must if necessary be provided in the vicinity of workstations.
Provision must be made for separate lavatories or separate use of lavatories for men and women. 9.
First-aid rooms and equipment 9.1.
One or more first-aid rooms must be provided according to the size of the installation and the type of activity being carried out. 9.2.
The first-aid rooms must have suitable equipment, facilities and medicines and a sufficient number of specialized workers, as required by the circumstances, for giving first-aid or, where necessary, treatment under the direction of a registered medical practitioner (who may or may not be present).
They must be signposted in accordance with national rules transposing Directive 92/58/EEC into law. 9.3.
In addition, first-aid equipment must be available in all places where working conditions require it.
This equipment must be suitably signposted and easily accessible. 10.
If the nature, scale and duration of operations so require, the employer must also provide employees with accommodation which must be: - suitably protected against the effects of explosion, the infiltration of smoke and gas and the outbreak and spread of fire as identified in the safety and health document referred to in point 1.1, - suitably equipped with ventilation, heating and lighting facilities, - provided at each level with at least two independent exits leading to escape routes, - protected against noise, smells and fumes likely to be hazardous to health from other areas, and against inclement weather, - separate from any workstation and located away from dangerous areas. 10.2.
Separate sleeping rooms for men and women must be provided. 10.3.
Provision must be made for separate shower rooms or separate use of shower rooms for men and women.
The accommodation must be equipped with a sufficient number of lavatories and washbasins.
Provision must be made for separate facilities or separate use of such facilities for men and women. 10.5.
Helicopter operations 11.1.
All the necessary measures must be taken to ensure the safety and health of workers in the mineral-extracting industries through drilling while off-shore installations are being positioned at sea. 12.2.
