2006/66/EC: Commission Decision of 23 December 2005 concerning the technical specification for interoperability relating to the subsystem rolling stock %mdash% noise of the trans-European conventional rail system ( notified under document number C(2005) 5666 ) (Text with EEA relevance) Commission Decision of 23 December 2005 concerning the technical specification for interoperability relating to the subsystem "rolling stock — noise" of the trans-European conventional rail system (notified under document number C(2005) 5666) (Text with EEA relevance) (2006/66/EC) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Directive 2001/16/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2001 on the interoperability of the conventional rail system [1], and in particular Article 6(1) thereof, Whereas: (1) In accordance with Article 2(c) of Directive 2001/16/EC, the trans-European conventional rail system is subdivided into structural and functional subsystems. (2) In accordance with Article 23(1) of the Directive, the subsystem "noise" needs to be covered by a technical specification for interoperability (TSI). (3) The first step in establishing a TSI is to have a draft TSI drawn up by the European Association for Railway Interoperability (AEIF) which was appointed as the joint representative body. (4) The AEIF has been given a mandate to draw up a draft TSI for the subsystem "noise" in accordance with Article 6(1) of the Directive.
Where applicable, a review or updating procedure will be initiated in accordance with Article 6(3) of Directive 2001/16/EC. (10) To encourage innovation and in order to take into account the experience acquired, the TSI could be subject to revision at regular intervals.
The TSI shall be fully applicable to the rolling stock of the trans-European conventional rail system as defined in Annex I to Directive 2001/16/EC.
Article 2 The TSI shall comprise a two-step approach, as specified in Chapter 7 of the Annex.
Without prejudice to the regular revision mechanism provided for in Chapter 7, the Commission shall deliver to the Committee set up by Article 21 of Directive 96/48/EC, no later than seven years after the date on which this Decision becomes applicable, a report and, if needed, a proposal for revising section 7.2 of the Annex.
Article 3 Where agreements contain requirement relating to noise emission limits, Member States shall notify them to the Commission within six months of the entry into force of this Decision.
Article 4 The provisions of Decision 2004/446/EC concerning the basic parameters of the trans-European conventional rail system shall no longer apply as from the date on which this Decision becomes applicable.
Article 5 This Decision shall become applicable six months after the date of its notification.
Article 6 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 23 December 2005.
DEFINITION OF SUBSYSTEM/SCOPE 2.1.
DEFINITION OF SUBSYSTEM 2.2.
INTERFACES OF SUBSYSTEM 3.
ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS 3.1.
ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS 3.3.
Environmental protection 3.4.
CHARACTERISATION OF THE SUBSYSTEM 4.1.
Limits for stationary noise 4.2.2.
Noise emitted by locomotives, multiple units and coaches 4.2.2.1.
Limits for stationary noise 4.2.2.3.
Limits for starting noise 4.2.2.4.
Limits for pass-by noise 4.2.3.
FUNCTIONAL AND TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS OF THE INTERFACES 4.3.1.
OPERATING RULES 4.5.
MAINTENANCE RULES 4.6.
PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS 4.7.
Infrastructure register 4.8.2.
INTEROPERABILITY CONSTITUENTS 5.1.
Assessment procedures 6.2.2.
TSI REVISION 7.3.
Exceptions for national, bilateral, multilateral or multinational agreements 7.5.4.1.
Existing agreements 7.5.4.2.
SPECIFIC CASES 7.7.1.
List of specific cases 7.7.2.1.
Finland 7.7.2.3.
Limits for pass-by noise for freight wagons in Finland, Norway, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania 7.7.2.5.
STATIONARY NOISE A.1.2.
STARTING NOISE A.1.3.
PASS-BY NOISE A.1.4.
CHARACTERISATION OF THE DYNAMIC PERFORMANCES OF THE REFERENCE TRACKS A.2.1.
MEASUREMENT PROCEDURE A.2.2.
MEASUREMENT SYSTEM A.2.3.
MODULE SB: TYPE EXAMINATION B.2.
MODULE SD: PRODUCTION QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM B.3.
MODULE SF: PRODUCT VERIFICATION B.4.
Content of this TSI In accordance with Article 5(3) of Directive 2001/16/EC, this TSI: (a) indicates its intended scope (part of the network or rolling stock referred to in Annex I to the Directive; subsystem or part of subsystem referred to in Annex II to the Directive) — Chapter 2; (b) lays down essential requirements for each subsystem concerned and its interfaces vis-à-vis other subsystems — Chapter 3; (c) establishes the functional and technical specifications to be met by the subsystem and its interfaces vis-à-vis other subsystems.
If necessary, these specifications may vary according to the use of the subsystem, for example according to the categories of line, hub and/or rolling stock provided for in Annex I to the Directive — Chapter 4. (d) determines the interoperability constituents and interfaces covered by European specifications, including European standards, which are necessary to achieve interoperability within the trans-European conventional rail system — Chapter 5; (e) states, in each case under consideration, the procedures for the assessment of conformity or suitability for use.
Lastly, this TSI also comprises, in Chapter 4, the operating and maintenance rules specific to the scope indicated in points 1.1 and 1.2. 2.
The rolling stock subsystem TSI noise includes limits for stationary noise, starting noise, pass-by noise and interior noise for driver's cabs caused by conventional rolling stock. 2.2.
Interfaces of subsystem This noise TSI has interfaces with: - - pass-by noise, - stationary noise; - - stationary noise, - starting noise, - pass-by noise, - interior noise within the driver's cab, where applicable. 3.
ESSENTIAL REQUIREMENTS 3.1.
General In the scope of the present TSI, fulfilment of relevant essential requirements quoted in Chapter 3 of this TSI will be ensured by the compliance with the specifications described in Chapter 4 for the subsystem, as demonstrated by a positive result of the assessment of the verification of the subsystem, as described in Chapter 6.
Nevertheless, if part of the essential requirements are covered by national rules because of: - open and reserved points declared in the TSI, - derogation under Article 7 of the Directive 2001/16/EC, - specific cases described in point 7.6 of the present TSI, the corresponding conformity assessment shall be carried out according to procedures under the responsibility of the Member State concerned.
Essential requirements The essential requirements relate to: - safety, - reliability and availability, - health, - environmental protection, - technical compatibility.
As far as the rolling stock subsystem regarding noise emitted by rolling stock is concerned, this essential requirement is addressed by the specification of the subsections: - Pass-by noise (basic parameter 4.2.1.1 and 4.2.2.4), - Stationary noise (basic parameter 4.2.1.2 and 4.2.2.2), - Starting noise (basic parameter 4.2.1.3), - Interior noise of locomotives, multiple units and driving trailers (basic parameter 4.2.3). 3.4.
Aspects relating to essential requirements specific for the rolling stock subsystem The essential requirements specific for the rolling stock subsystem are not relevant as far as noise emitted by rolling stock is concerned. 4.
CHARACTERISATION OF THE SUBSYSTEM 4.1.
Point 4.2 of this TSI is applicable only for the putting into service of rolling stock according Article (14)(1) or 14(3) of Directive 2001/16/EC. 4.2.
Functional and technical specifications of the subsystem In light of the essential requirements in Chapter 3, the functional and technical specifications of the rolling stock subsystem regarding Noise emitted by rolling stock are as follows: - stationary noise (basic parameters 4.2.1.2 and 4.2.2.2), - starting noise (basic parameter 4.2.2.3), - pass-by noise (basic parameters 4.2.1.1 and 4.2.2.4), - interior noise of locomotives, multiple units and driving trailers (basic parameter 4.2.3).
The parameter set for the characterisation of pass-by noise comprises: - sound pressure level, according to a defined measuring method. - microphone position, - speed of the wagon, - rail roughness, - dynamic and radiation behaviour of the track.
The parameters set for the characterisation of stationary noise comprise: - sound pressure level, according to a defined measuring method and microphone position, - operating conditions. 4.2.1.1.
Limits for pass-by noise The indicator for pass-by noise is the A-weighted equivalent continuous sound pressure level LpAeq, Tp measured over the pass-by time at a distance of 7,5 m from the track centreline, 1,2 m above top of rail.
Measurements shall be made in accordance to prEN ISO 3095:2001 except that the reference track shall meet the requirements stated in Annex A1.4.
The reference track shall be made available in a non-discriminatory way.
The limiting values LpAeq,Tp for the pass-by noise of freight wagons under the conditions stated above are given in Table 1.
Table 1 Limiting values LpAeq,Tp for the pass-by noise of freight wagons Wagons | LpAeq,Tp | New wagons with an average number of axles per unit length (apl) up to 0,15 m-1 at 80 km/h | %lt% = 82 dB(A) | Renewed or upgraded wagons according Article 14(3) of Directive 2001/16/EC with an average number of axles per unit length (apl) up to 0,15 m-1 at 80 km/h | %lt% = 84 dB(A) | New wagons with an average number of axles per unit length (apl) higher than 0,15 m-1 up to 0,275 m-1 at 80 km/h | %lt% = 83 dB(A) | Renewed or upgraded wagons according Article 14(3) of Directive 2001/16/EC with an average number of axles per unit length (apl) higher than 0.15 m-1 up to 0,275 m-1 at 80 km/h | %lt% = 85 dB(A) | New wagons with an average number of axles per unit length (apl) higher than 0,275 m-1 at 80 km/h | %lt% = 85 dB(A) | Renewed or upgraded wagons according Article 14(3) of Directive 2001/16/EC with an average number of axles per unit length (apl) higher than 0,275 m-1 at 80 km/h | %lt% = 87 dB(A) | Apl is the number of axles divided by the length over buffers.
The values to be compared with the limits (see Table 1) is the maximum of the measured value at 80 km/h and the measured value taken at maximum speed but referred to 80 km/h by the equation LpAeq,Tp (80 km/h) = LpAeq,Tp(v)-30*log (v/80 km/h).
Other speeds mentioned in the prEN ISO 3095:2001 shall not be considered. 4.2.1.2.
Limits for stationary noise Stationary noise is to be described in terms of the A-weighted equivalent continuous sound pressure level LpAeq, T, according to prEN ISO 3095:2001, Chapter 7.5 with the deviations defined in Annex A.
The limiting value for the stationary noise of freight wagons at a distance of 7,5 m from the track centreline of track and 1,2 m above the upper surface of the rails is given in Table 2.
Table 2 Limiting value LpAeq,T for the stationary noise of freight wagons Wagons | LpAeq,T | All freight wagons | %lt% = 65 dB(A) | The specified level for stationary noise is the energy-average of all measured values taken at the measuring points defined in Annex A.1.1 of this TSI. 4.2.2.
Noise emitted by locomotives, multiple units and coaches 4.2.2.1.
Introduction Noise emitted by locomotives, multiple units and coaches subdivides into stationary noise, starting noise, and pass-by noise.
The emitted level of noise is characterised by: - Sound pressure level, according to a defined measuring method, - Microphone position, - Speed of the wagon, - Rail roughness, - Dynamic and radiation behaviour of the track.
The parameters set for the characterisation of stationary noise comprise: - sound pressure level, according to a defined measuring method and microphone position, - operating conditions.
Limits for stationary noise The limits for stationary noise are defined at a distance of 7,5 m from the centreline of the track, 1,2 m above the upper surface of the rails.
The measuring conditions are defined by the standard prEN ISO 3095:2001 with the deviations defined in Annex A.
Table 3 Limiting values LpAeq,T for the stationary noise of electric locomotives, diesel locomotives, EMUs, DMUs and passenger coaches Vehicles | LpAeq,T | Electric locomotives | 75 | Diesel locomotives | 75 | EMUs | 68 | DMUs | 73 | Passenger coaches | 65 | The specified level for stationary noise is the energy-average of all measured values taken at the measuring points defined in Annex A.1.1 of this TSI. 4.2.2.3.
Limits for starting noise The limits for starting noise are defined at a distance of 7,5 m from the centreline of the track, 1,2 m above the upper surface of the rails.
The limiting values for the starting noise of the vehicles under the conditions stated are given in Table 4.
Table 4 Limiting values LpAFmax for the starting noise of electric locomotives, diesel locomotives, EMUs and DMUs Vehicle | LpAFmax | Electric locomotives P %lt% 4500 kW at the rim | 82 | Electric locomotives P %gt%/= 4500 kW at the rim | 85 | Diesel locomotives P %lt% 2000 kW at the shaft | 86 | Diesel locomotives P %gt%/= 2000 kW at the shaft | 89 | EMUs | 82 | DMUs P %lt% 500 kW/engine | 83 | DMUs P %gt%/= 500 kW/engine | 85 | 4.2.2.4.
Limits for pass-by noise The limits for pass-by noise are defined at a distance of 7,5 m from the centreline of the reference track, 1,2 m above the upper surface of the rails for a vehicle speed of 80 km/h.
The measurements shall be carried out in accordance with prEN ISO 3095:2001 with deviations stated in Annexes A1.3 and A1.4.
The pass-by noise of a train shall be measured at 80 km/h and at maximum speed, but less than 190 km/h.
Other speeds mentioned in the prEN ISO 3095:2001 shall not be considered.
The limiting values for the noise emission of electric and diesel locomotives, EMUs, DMUs and passenger coaches under the conditions stated above are given in Table 5.
Table 5 Limiting values LpAeq,Tp for the pass-by noise of electric and diesel locomotives, EMUs, DMUs and passenger coaches Vehicle | LpAeq,Tp @ 7,5 m | Electric locomotives | 85 | Diesel locomotives | 85 | EMUs | 81 | DMUs | 82 | Passenger coaches | 80 | 4.2.3.
The limiting values are defined in Table 6.
Table 6 Limiting values LpAeq,T for the noise within the driver's cab of electric and diesel locomotives, EMUs, DMUs and driving trailers Noise within the driver's cab | LpAeq,T | Measurement time interval T | Standstill (during external acoustical warning with the maximum sound pressure of the horn, but less than 125 dB(A) at 5 m ahead of the vehicle in 1,6 m height above head of rail) | 95 | 3 s | Maximum speed, applicable for speeds less than 190 km/h. (open country without interior and exterior warnings) | 78 | 1 min | The measurements shall be done under the following conditions: - the doors and windows must be closed, - the hauled loads must be equal to at least two-thirds of the maximum permissible value.
Functional and technical specifications of the interfaces 4.3.1.
Conventional rail rolling stock subsystem The noise limits of this TSI emitted by freight wagons shall be taken as design parameter in Chapter 4.2.4 (Braking) and as part of the subsystem approval in Chapter 6.2 (Subsystem conventional rail rolling stock freight wagons) of the CR RST TSI into account. 4.3.2.
With regard to the noise emitted by locomotives, multiple units and coaches, their design has to be compliant with the specified limits in Chapter 4 (characterisation of the subsystem) of these TSIs. 4.4.
Operating rules In light of the essential requirements in Chapter 3, there are no operating rules specific to the subsystem rolling stock regarding noise emitted by rolling stock. 4.5.
See maintenance file, which is specified in Chapter 4.2.8 of the conventional rail rolling stock TSI. 4.6.
Health and safety conditions The lower exposure action values set up in Article 3 of Directive 2003/10/EC (17th individual directive within the meaning of Article 16(1) of Directive 89/391/EEC) are met with the present limits of interior noise in drivers’ cabs: - as regards peak values, - and generally as regards average values, for standard operational conditions. 4.8.
Rolling stock register As far the subsystem rolling stock regarding noise emitted by rolling stock is concerned, the following information shall be included in the rolling stock register: - pass-by noise (basic parameters 4.2.1.1 and 4.2.2.4), - stationary noise (basic parameters 4.2.1.2 and 4.2.2.2), - starting noise (basic parameters 4.2.2.3), - interior noise in the driver's cab. 5.
INTEROPERABILITY CONSTITUENTS 5.1.
Subsystem rolling stock regarding noise emitted by rolling stock 6.2.1.
The contracting entity shall draw up the EC declaration of verification for the rolling stock subsystem including the noise aspect in accordance with Article 18(1) and Annex V to Directive 2001/16/EC. 6.2.2.
Modules For the verification procedure of the noise requirements, as specified in Chapter 4, the contracting entity or its authorised representative established within the Community may chose the following modules: - - either the production quality management system procedure (module SD), - or the product verification procedure (module SF); - or the full quality management system with design examination procedure (module SH2).
The conformity assessment of the noise requirements of freight wagons may be carried out in the same time than the verification procedures of the other requirements of freight wagons, which are specified in the conventional rail rolling stock TSI.
The module SD may only be chosen where the contracting entity, or the main contractors when involved, operate a quality management system for manufacture, final product inspection and testing, approved and surveyed by a notified body of their choice.
The following additional facts shall be taken into account for the use of the modules: - design phase: module SB, with reference to chapter 4.3 of the module, a design review is requested, - production phase: the application of the modules SD, SF and SH2 for the production phase shall enable the conformity of the vehicles with the approved type as described in the type examination certificate.
Subsystem rolling stock aspect noise For the subsystem rolling stock, aspect noise emitted by freight wagons, locomotives, multiple units and coaches, verification is based on this chapter.
Stationary noise - A1.2.
Starting noise - A1.3.
Reference track for pass-by noise. 7.
TSI Revision In conformity with Article 6(3) of Directive 2001/16/EC as modified by Directive 2004/50/EC, the Agency shall be responsible for preparing the review and updating of TSIs and making appropriate recommendations to the Committee referred to in Article 21 of this Directive in order to take account of developments in technology or social requirements.
For both later cases the reduction is of 2 dB(A).
This recommendation will serve only as a basis for revising points 4.2.1.1 and 4.2.2.4 in the context of the TSI revision process mentioned in point 7.2. 7.4.
Retrofitting programme for noise reduction Given the long life-cycle of railway vehicles it is also necessary to take measures on the existing fleet of rolling stock, with priority for freight wagons, to foster a noticeable reduction of the perceived noise level within a reasonable time period.
Transitional period for external noise It is allowable to apply limits 2 dB(A) higher than those stated in Chapters 4 and 7 of this TSI for external noise from electric locomotives, diesel locomotives, EMUs, DMUs and passenger coaches within a transitional period of 24 months starting from the date of entry into force of this TSI.
This allowance is restricted to the case of: - contracts already signed or under final phase of tendering procedure at the date of entry into force of this TSI, and options to these contracts to purchase additional vehicles, or - contracts for purchasing new rolling stock of an existing design type signed during this transitional period. 7.5.2.
Starting noise The starting noise limits may be raised by 2 dB(A) for all DMUs, with an engine power greater than 500 kW/engine, put into service during a transitional period of five years from the date of entry into force of this TSI.
This is not additional to the 2 dB(A) of section 7.5.1. 7.5.3.
This concerns the following cases: - contracts already signed or under final phase of tendering procedure at the date of entry into force of this TSI, and options to these contracts to purchase additional vehicles, or - contracts for purchasing new rolling stock of a new and existing design type signed during this transitional period. 7.5.4.
Exceptions for national, bilateral, multilateral or multinational agreements 7.5.4.1.
Existing agreements Where agreements contain requirements related to noise, then Member States shall notify the Commission, within six months after the entry into force of this TSI, of the following agreements under which freight wagons, locomotives, DMUs, EMUs and coaches, related to the scope of this TSI are operated: (a) national, bilateral or multilateral agreements between Member States and railway undertakings or infrastructure managers, agreed on either a permanent or a temporary basis and necessitated by the very specific or local nature of the intended transport service; (b) bilateral or multilateral agreements between railway undertakings, infrastructure managers or safety authorities which deliver significant levels of local or regional interoperability; (c) international agreements between one or more Member States and at least one third country, or between railway undertakings or infrastructure managers of Member States and at least one railway undertaking or infrastructure manager of a third country, which deliver significant levels of local or regional interoperability.
The RIV Agreement and COTIF instruments shall not be notified because they are known. 7.5.4.2.
Future agreements or modification of existing agreements Any future agreement or modification of existing agreements shall take into account EU legislation and, in particular, this TSI.
Application of this TSI to existing rolling stock 7.6.1.
If the performance of the brake system of this wagon is changed by the renewal or upgrading and if a new authorisation of putting into service is needed, the requirement is that the pass-by level of this wagon shall comply with the relevant level indicated in Table 1 of point 4.2.1.1.
Upgraded or renewed freight wagons, requiring new authorisation for putting into service within the meaning of Directive 2001/16/EC Article 14(3) shall comply with requirements of the conventional rail rolling stock TSI according to the provisions of point 7.3 of this TSI. 7.6.2.
Specific cases 7.7.1.
Introduction The following special provisions are permitted in the specific cases below.
List of specific cases 7.7.2.1.
In this case the stationary noise limit may be raised by 7 dB(A) due to the temperature range down to — 40 oC together with freezing and icy conditions. 7.7.2.3.
Normal operation is defined by performance at an external temperature of 20 °C.
Design parameters for forcing the operation in order to simulate 20 °C conditions are to be provided by the manufacturer.
Table A1 Stationary noise, deviations from prEN ISO 3095:2001 Point (prEN ISO 3095: 2001) | Subject | Deviation (marked in bold, italic characters) | 6.2.3 | Microphone positions, measurements on stationary vehicles | Measurements shall be made according to prEN ISO 3095:2001 Annex A, Figure A.1. | 6.3.1 | Vehicle conditions | Fouling on grilles, filters and fans shall be removed before the measurements. | 7.5.1 | General | The measuring time is to be 60 s. | 7.5.2 | Coaches, wagons and electric power units | All equipment that can operate with the vehicle stationary, including the main traction equipment where relevant, but excluding the brake air compressor, shall be operating.
The auxiliary equipment shall be operated at normal load. | 7.5.3.1 | Power units with internal combustion engines | Engine idling unloaded, fan at normal speed, auxiliary equipment with normal load, brake air compressor not operating. | 7.5.3.2 | Power units with internal combustion engines | This clause is not relevant for Diesel locomotives and DMUs | 7.5.1 | Measurements on stationary vehicles, general | The sound level of the stationary noise is the energy average of all measured values taken at the measurement points according to prEN ISO 3095:2001 Annex A, Figure A.1. | A.1.2.
Starting noise The measurement of starting noise shall be made according to prEN ISO 3095:2001 with the following deviations (see Table A2).
Normal operation is defined by performance at an external temperature of 20 °C.
Design parameters for forcing the operation to simulate 20 °C conditions are provided by the manufacturer.
Table A2 Starting noise, deviations from prEN ISO 3095:2001 Point (prEN ISO 3095:2001) | Subject | Deviation (marked in bold, italic characters) | 6.1.2 | Meteorological Conditions | Measurements on accelerating vehicles shall be made only if the rail is dry. | 6.3.1 | Vehicle conditions | Fouling on grilles, filters and fans shall be removed before the measurements. | 6.3.3 | Doors, windows, auxiliary equipment | Tests on accelerating trains shall be performed with all auxiliary equipment operating at normal load.
Pass-by noise Point (prEN ISO 3095:2001) | Subject | Deviation (marked in bold, italic characters) | 6.2 | Microphone position | There will be no track in-between the running track and the microphone | 6.3.1 | Vehicle conditions | Fouling on grilles, filters and fans shall be removed before the measurements. | 7.2.3 | Test procedure | A tachometer shall be used such that the speed is sufficiently accurately measured for pass-by, with train speed not in the range ±3 % of the stated test speed to be correctly identified as being outside that range and rejected.
Minimum tractive effort to maintain a constant speed shall be maintained for at least 60 s before, and during, the pass-by measurement | A.1.4.
Approval of the reference track shall be made according to prEN ISO 3095:2001 with the following deviations: - the rail roughness shall lie below the limit spectrum as defined in figure F1.
This limiting curve replaces the specification of prEN ISO 3095:2001, point 6.4.2 (figure 4), Annex C "Procedure for determining the rail rough ness limit spectrum".
In that case, the track vertical and lateral decay rates of the test track must be shown to be equivalent to those of the track type mentioned in this TSI, measured in accor dance with the specification sheet presented in point A.2.
The decay rates of the reference track shall lie above the lower limits given in Figure F2, - the reference track shall have consistent superstructure over a minimum length of 100 m.
The check of the roughness shall be carried out according prEN ISO 3095:2001.
Figure F3: Captor location on the rail cross section +++++ TIFF +++++ Fvertical1Flateral2Acceleromet A measured force impulse is applied on the rail head, in each direction, with an instrumented hammer equipped with a tip of appropriate hardness to enable a good measurement of force and response in the frequency range (50; 6000 Hz). (A hardened steel tip is required for the higher end of the frequency range and is usually, though not always sufficient, to apply enough force for the lower end frequency range.
The measurement locations can be divided into sets as the "point" measurement location, the "near-field" set and "far-field" set as follows: - the location index 0 is associated with the mid-point of the first sleeper bay.
Ideally, the response level in each one- third octave band should be at least 10 dB below the level of the same band at location 0.
Figure F4: Track decay rates — location of the excitation points +++++ TIFF +++++ Hammer impulse over the sleeperHammer impulse in between the sleepers0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15Accelerometer positionIntersleeper index15 16 20 24 30 36 42 48 54 66 67 68 (…)0 1 2 3 Experience has shown that the variability of the results is such that the whole decay measurement should be repeated for another accelerometer location on the track site.
Measurement system Each sensor and acquisition system should have a calibration certificate, according to the EN ISO 17025 standard [1].
If both vertical and lateral waves in the rail are assumed to decay exponentially from the excitation point (wheel contact) with distance along the rail then, A(z) ≈ A(0)e-βz where β is the decay constant for the amplitude of the response, A, with distance z along the rail from the excitation point. β can be converted to a decay rate expressed as dB per metre, Δ, as Δ=20log10(eβ)=8,686 β dB/m. +++++ TIFF +++++ If A refers to the velocity response then the sound power emitted from the track is proportional to ∫x0| A(z) |2 dz.
This quantity is simply related to the decay rate, either for vertical or lateral waves, by: +++++ TIFF +++++ ∫x0| A(z) |2 dz = | A(0) |2 ∫x0 e-2ß dz = | A(0) |2 1 2ß | (A2.1) | This demonstrates the way in which the decay rate is in relation to the noise-radiation performance of the track structure.
The decay rate can, in principle, be evaluated as the slope of a graph of response amplitude in dB versus the distance z.
In practice however, it is better to evaluate a decay rate based on a direct estimate of the summed response: +++++ TIFF +++++ ∫x0| A(z) |2| A(0) |2 dz = 1 2ß ≃ Σz maxz=0 | A(z) |2| A(0) |2Δz | (A2.2) | where zmax is the maximum measurement distance and the sum is carried out for the response measurement locations with Δz representing the interval between the mid-distance points to the measurement locations either side.
Thus for the response averaged in each one-third octave frequency band, the decay rate is evaluated as: +++++ TIFF +++++ Δ (in dB/m) ≃ 4.343Σz maxz=0| A(z) |2| A(0) |2Δz | (A2.3) | It is clear from this that it is immaterial whether A represents the response in terms of accelerance or mobility since these only differ by the factor 2πf, where f is the frequency.
Thus a minimum decay rate that can be evaluated for a particular value of zmax is: +++++ TIFF +++++ Δmin = 4.343zmax | (A2.4) | The evaluated decay rate should be compared with this value and if it is close to it the estimation of decay rate deemed unsafe.
A value of zmax of about 40 m should be capable of evaluating a track decay rate that complies with the minimum specified in Figure F2.
Module SB: Type examination 1.
This module describes the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies at the request of an contracting entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that a type of a rolling stock subsystem aspect noise, representative of the production envisaged, - complies with this TSI and any other applicable TSI, which demonstrate that the essential requirements [1] of Directive 2001/16/EC [2] have been met, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty.
The contracting entity [3] must lodge an application for EC verification (through type examination) of the subsystem with a notified body of his choice.
The application must include : - name and address of the contracting entity or its authorised representative, - the technical documentation, as described in point 3. 3.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the type-examination certificates issued, withdrawn or refused. 7.
Module SD: Production quality management system 1.
This module describes the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies, at the request of an contracting entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that a rolling stock subsystem aspect noise, for which already a type-examination certificate has been issued by a notified body: - complies with this TSI and any other applicable TSI, which demonstrate that the essential requirements [6] of Directive 2001/16/EC [7] have been met, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty, and may be placed in service. 2.
It concerns: - the company responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration), - other companies only involved in a part of the subsystem project (performing for example assembly or installation of the subsystem).
When the contracting entity itself is responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration), or the contracting entity is directly involved in the production (including assembly and installation), it has to operate an approved quality management system for those activities, which shall be subject to surveillance as specified in point 6.
If a main contractor is responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration), it must operate in any case an approved quality management system for manufacture and final product inspection and testing, which shall be subject to surveillance as specified in point 6. 4.
EC verification procedure 4.1.
The application must enable the design, manufacture, assembly, installation, maintenance and operation of the subsystem to be understood, and shall enable conformity with the type as described in the type-examination certificate and the requirements of the TSI to be assessed.
The application must include: - name and address of the contracting entity or its authorised representative, - the technical documentation regarding the approved type, including the type examination certificate, as issued after completion of the procedure defined in module SB, and, if not included in this documentation, - a general description of the subsystem, its overall design and structure, - the technical specifications, including European specifications, that have been applied, - any necessary supporting evidence for the use of the above specifications, in particular where these European specifications, and the relevant clauses have not been applied in full.
This supporting evidence must include the results of tests carried out by the appropriate laboratory of the manufacturer or on his behalf, - the rolling stock register, including all information as specified in the TSI, - the technical documentation regarding the manufacture and the assembly of the subsystem, - evidence of conformity to other regulations deriving from the treaty (including certificates) for the production phase, - a list of the interoperability constituents to be incorporated into the subsys- tem, - copies of the EC declarations of conformity or suitability for use with which the constituents must be provided, and all the necessary elements defined in Annex VI to the Directives, - a list of manufacturers, involved in the subsystem's design, manufacturing, assembly and installation, - the demonstration, that all stages, as mentioned in point 5.2, are covered by quality management systems of the contracting entity, if involved, and/or of the main contractors, and the evidence of their effectiveness, - indication of the notified body, responsible for the approval and surveillance of these quality management systems. 4.3.
Quality management system 5.1.
The contracting entity, if involved, and the main contractors, when employed, must lodge an application for assessment of their quality management systems with a notified body of their choice.
For those only involved in a part of the subsystem project, the information to be provided is only that for the relevant part. 5.2.
For other main contractor, their quality management system(s) has (have) to ensure compliance of their relevant contribution to the subsystem with the type as described in the type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the TSI.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of the following items for all applicant(s): - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, - the corresponding manufacturing, quality control and quality management techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used, - the examinations, checks and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, assembly and installation, and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc., and also for the contracting entity or the main contractor responsible for the whole subsystem project, - responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to overall subsystem quality, including in particular the subsystem integration management.
The examinations, tests and checking shall cover all of the following stages: - structure of subsystem, including, in particular, civil-engineering activities, constituent assembly, final adjustment, - final testing of the subsystem, - and, where specified in the TSI, the validation under full operation conditions. 5.3.
If the conformity of the subsystem with the type as described in the type-examination certificate and the compliance of the subsystem with the requirements of the TSI is based on more than one quality management system, the notified body shall examine in particular, - if the relations and interfaces between the quality management systems are clearly documented, - and if overall responsibilities and powers of the management for the compliance of the whole entire subsystem for the main contractors are sufficiently and properly defined. 5.4.
The notified body referenced to in point 5.1 must assess the quality management system to determine whether it satisfies the requirements referenced in point 5.2.
The contracting entity, if involved, and the main contractors must send to the notified body referenced in point 5.1 (or have sent) all the documents needed for that purpose including the implementation plans and technical records concerning the subsystem (as far as relevant for the specific contribution of the applicants to the subsystem), in particular: - the quality management system documentation, including the particular means implemented to ensure that: - for the contracting entity or main contractor, responsible for the whole subsystem project, overall responsibilities and powers of the management for the compliance of the entire subsystem are sufficiently and properly defined, - for each applicant, the quality management system is correctly managed for achieving integration at subsystem level, - the quality records as foreseen by the manufacturing part (including assembly and installation) of the quality management system, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc. 6.3.
This coordination includes the rights of the notified body: - to receive all documentation (approval and surveillance), issued by the other notified bodies, - to witness the surveillance audits in point 6.3, - to initiate additional audits as in point 6.4 under its responsibility and together with the other notified bodies. 7.
The notified body as referenced in point 5.1 must have entrance, for inspection purposes, audit and surveillance, to the locations of building sites, production workshops, locations of assembly and installations, storage areas and where appropriate, prefabrication and testing facilities and, more general, to all premises which it considers necessary in order to carry out its tasks, in accordance with the applicant's specific contribution to the subsystem project. 8.
The contracting entity, if involved, and the main contractors must, for a period of 10 years after the last subsystem has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referenced in the second indent of the second subparagraph of point 5.1, - the updating referenced in the second subparagraph of point 5.5, - the decisions and reports from the notified body, which are, referenced in points 5.4, 5.5 and 6.4. 9.
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain at least the information included in Annex V to the Directive. 10.
B.3 Module SF: Product verification 1.
This module describes the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies at the request of an contracting entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that a rolling stock subsystem aspect noise, for which a type-examination certificate has already been issued by a notified body: - complies with this TSI and any other applicable TSI, which demonstrate that the essential requirements [10] of Directive 2001/16/EC [11] have been met, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty, and may be placed into service. 2.
The contracting entity must take all measures necessary in order that the manufacturing process (including assembly and integration of interoperability constituents by main contractors [13] when employed) ensures conformity of the subsystem with the type as described in the type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the TSI that apply to it. 5.
The application must enable the design, manufacture, installation, maintenance and operation of the subsystem to be understood, and shall enable conformity with the type as described in the type-examination certificate and the requirements of the TSI to be assessed.
The application must include: - the technical documentation regarding the approved type, including the type examination certificate, as issued after completion of the procedure defined in module SB, and, if not included in this documentation, - a general description of the subsystem, overall design and structure, - the rolling stock register, including all information as specified in the TSI, - conceptual design and manufacturing information, for example drawings, schemes of components, subassemblies, assemblies, circuits, etc., - the technical documentation regarding the manufacture and the assembly of the subsystem, - the technical specifications, including European specifications, that have been applied, - any necessary supporting evidence for the use of the above specifications, in particular where these European specifications and the relevant clauses have not been applied in full, - evidence of conformity to other regulations deriving from the treaty (including certificates) for the production phase, - a list of the interoperability constituents, to be incorporated into the subsystem, - copies of the EC declarations of conformity or suitability for use with which said constituents must be provided and all the necessary elements defined in Annex VI to the Directives, - a list of manufacturers involved in the subsystem's design, manufacture, assembly and installation.
If the TSI requires further information for the technical documentation, this shall be included. 6.
Where the subsystem meets the requirements of the TSI, the notified body must, draw up the certificate of conformity intended for the contracting entity, which in turn draws up the EC declaration of verification intended for the supervisory authority in the Member State where the subsystem is located and/or operates.
These NB activities shall be based on the type examination and the tests, verifications and checks carried out on all serial products as indicated in point 7 and required in the TSI and/or in the relevant European specifications.
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain at least the information included in Annex V of the Directive. 10.
The technical file shall include at least the information indicated in Article 18(3) of the Directive, and in particular as follows : - all necessary documents relating to the characteristics of the subsystem, - the rolling stock register, including all information as specified in the TSI, - the list of interoperability constituents incorporated into the subsystem, - copies of the EC declarations of conformity and, where appropriate, of the EC declarations of suitability for use, which the constituents must be provided in accordance with Article 13 of the Directive, accompanied, where appropriate, by the corresponding documents (certificates, quality management system approvals and surveillance documents) issued by the notified bodies, - all elements relating to the maintenance, the conditions and limits for use of the subsystem, - all elements relating to the instructions concerning servicing, constant or routine monitoring, adjustment and maintenance, - the type-examination certificate for the subsystem and accompanying technical documentation, as defined in the module SB, - certificate of conformity of the notified body as mentioned in point 9, accompanied by corresponding calculation notes and countersigned by itself, stating that the project complies with the directive and the TSI, and mentioning, where appropriate, reservations recorded during performance of activities and not withdrawn.
B.4 Module SH2: Full quality management system with design examination 1.
This module describes the EC verification procedure whereby a notified body checks and certifies, at the request of an contracting entity or its authorised representative established within the Community, that a rolling stock subsystem Aspect Noise: - complies with this TSI and any other applicable TSI, which demonstrate that the essential requirements [15] of Directive 2001/16/EC [16] have been met, - complies with the other regulations deriving from the Treaty; and may be placed in service. 2.
It concerns the company: - responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration), - other companies only involved only in a part of the subsystem project (performing for example design, assembly or installation of the subsystem).
The main contractor responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration), must operate in any case an approved quality management system for design, manufacture and final product inspection and testing, which shall be subject to surveillance as specified in point 6.
In the case that the contracting entity itself is responsible for the whole subsystem project (including in particular responsibility for subsystem integration) or that the contracting entity is directly involved in the design and/or production (including assembly and installation), it shall operate an approved quality management system for those activities, which shall be subject to surveillance as specified in point 6.
Applicants which are only involved in assembly and installation, may operate only an approved quality management system for manufacture and final product inspection and testing 4.
EC verification procedure 4.1.
The system must contain in particular an adequate description of the following items: - for all applicants: - the quality objectives and the organisational structure, - the corresponding manufacturing, quality control and quality management techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used, - the examinations, checking and tests that will be carried out before, during and after design, manufacture, assembly and installation and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, qualification reports of the personnel concerned, etc.; - for the main contractors, as far as relevant for their contribution to the design of the subsystem: - the technical design specifications, including European specifications [19], that will be applied and, where the European specifications will not be applied in full, the means that will be used to ensure that the requirements of the TSI that apply to the subsystem will be met, - the design control and design verification techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used when designing the subsystem, - the means to monitor the achievement of the required design and subsystem quality and the effective operation of the quality management systems in all phases including production; - and also for the contracting entity or the main contractor responsible for the whole subsystem project: - responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to overall subsystem quality, including in particular the subsystem integration management.
The examinations, tests and checking shall cover all of the following stages: - overall design, - structure of the subsystem, including, in particular, civil-engineering activities, constituent assembly, final adjustment, - final testing of the subsystem, - and, where specified in the TSI, the validation under full operation conditions. 5.3.
If the compliance of the subsystem with the requirements of the TSI is based on more than one quality management system, the notified body shall examine in particular, - if the relations and interfaces between the quality management systems are clearly documented, - and if overall responsibilities and powers of the management for the compliance of the whole entire subsystem for the main contractor are sufficiently and properly defined. 5.4.
The contracting entity, if involved, and the main contractors must send the notified body referenced in point 5.1 (or have sent) all the documents needed for that purpose and in particular the implementation plans and technical records concerning the subsystem (as far as relevant for the specific contribution of the applicant to the subsystem), including: - the quality management system documentation, including the particular means implemented to ensure that: - for the contracting entity or the main contractor, responsible for the whole subsystem project, overall responsibilities and powers of the management for the compliance of the whole entire subsystem are sufficiently and properly defined, - for each applicant, the quality management system is correctly managed for achieving integration at subsystem level, - the quality records as foreseen by the design part of the quality management system, such as results of analyses, calculations, tests, etc., - the quality records as foreseen by the manufacturing part (including assembly, installation and integration) of the quality management system, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, competency records of the personnel concerned, etc. 6.3.
This coordination includes the right of the notified body: - to receive all documentation (approval and surveillance), issued by the other notified body(ies), - to witness the surveillance audits as in point 5.4, - to initiate additional audits as in point 5.5 under its responsibility and together with the other notified body(ies). 7.
The contracting entity, if involved, and the main contractors must, for a period of 10 years after the last subsystem has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referenced in the second indent of the second subparagraph of point 5.1, - the updating referenced in the second subparagraph of point 5.5, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referenced in the points 5.4, 5.5 and 6.4. 9.
The declaration must be written in the same language of the technical file and must contain at least the information included in Annex V to the Directive. 10.
The technical file shall include at least the information indicated in Art 18(3) of the Directive, and in particular as follows: - all necessary documents relating to the characteristics of the subsystem, - the list of interoperability constituents incorporated into the subsystem, - copies of the EC declarations of conformity and, where appropriate, of the EC declarations of suitability for use, which the constituents must be provided in accordance with Article 13 of the Directive, accompanied, where appropriate, by the corresponding documents (certificates, quality management system approvals and surveillance documents) issued by the notified bodies, - evidence of conformity to other regulations deriving from the Treaty (including certificates), - all elements relating to the maintenance, the conditions and limits for use of the subsystem, - all elements relating to the instructions concerning servicing, constant or routine monitoring, adjustment and maintenance, - certificate of conformity of the notified body as mentioned in point 9, accompanied by corresponding calculation notes and countersigned by itself, stating that the project complies with the Directive and the TSI, and mentioning, where appropriate, reservations recorded during performance of the activities and not withdrawn.
Each notified body must communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality management system approvals and the EC design examination reports, which it has issued, withdrawn or refused.
This will be indicated in the relevant chapter of the TSI. [15] The essential requirements are reflected in the technical parameters, interfaces and performance requirements, which are set out in Chapter 4 of the TSI. [16] This module could be used in the future when the TSIs of HS Directive 96/48/EC are updated. [17] In the module, "the contracting entity" means "the subsystem contracting entity, as defined in the Directive, or his authorised representative established within the Community". [18] The presentation of the results of the tests can be at the same time as the application or later. [19] The definition of an European specification is indicated in Directives 96/48/EC and 2001/16/EC and in the guidelines for application of HS TSIs. [20] For the rolling stock TSI, the notified body may participate to the final in service test of rolling stock or train set in the conditions specified in the relevant chapter of the TSI. --------------------------------------------------
