the supply of goods or services effected for consideration within the territory of the country by a taxable person acting as such; 2.
TITLE III TERRITORIAL APPLICATION Article 3 1.
States, regional and local government authorities and other bodies governed by public law shall not be considered taxable persons in respect of the activities or transactions in which they engage as public authorities, even where they collect dues, fees, contributions or payments in connection with these activities or transactions.
Member States may treat as supplies made for consideration: (a) the application by a taxable person for the purposes of his business of goods produced, constructed, extracted, processed, purchased or imported in the course of such business, where the value added tax on such goods, had they been acquired from another taxable person, would not be wholly deductible; (b) the application of goods by a taxable person for the purposes of a non-taxable transaction, where the value added tax on such goods became wholly or partly deductible upon their acquisition or upon their application in accordance with subparagraph (a); (c) except in those cases mentioned in paragraph 8, the retention of goods by a taxable person or his successors when he ceases to carry out a taxable economic activity where the value added tax on such goods became wholly or partly deductible upon their acquisition or upon their application in accordance with subparagraph (a). 8.
In order to prevent distortion of competition and subject to the consultations provided for in Article 29, Member States may treat as a supply of services for consideration the supply by a taxable person of a service for the purposes of his undertaking where the value added tax on such a service, had it been supplied by another taxable person, would not be wholly deductible. 4.
Article 7 Imports %quot%Importation of goods%quot% shall mean the entry of goods into the territory of the country as defined in Article 3.
TITLE VI PLACE OF TAXABLE TRANSACTIONS Article 8 Supply of goods 1.
Article 9 Supply of services 1.
Where goods are placed on importation under one of the arrangements provided for in Article 16 (1) A or under arrangements for transit or temporary admission, the chargeable event and the date when the tax becomes chargeable shall occur only when the goods cease to be covered by these arrangements and are declared for home use.
TITLE IX RATES Article 12 1.
In the event of changes in the rates, Member States may: - effect adjustments in the cases provided for in paragraph 1 (a) in order to take account of the rate applicable at the time when the goods or services were supplied, - adopt all appropriate transitional measures. 3.
TITLE X EXEMPTIONS Article 13 Exemptions within the territory of the country A.
Article 14 Exemptions on importation 1.
Without prejudice to other Community provisions, Member States shall exempt the following under conditions which they shall lay down for the purpose of ensuring the correct and straightforward application of such exemption and of preventing any possible evasion, avoidance or abuse: (a) final importation of goods of which the supply by a taxable person would in all circumstances be exempted within the country; (b) importation of goods under a declaration for transit arrangements; (c) importation of goods declared to be under temporary importation arrangements, which thereby qualify for exemption from customs duties, or which would so qualify if they were imported from a third country; (d) final importation of goods qualifying for exemption from customs duties other than as provided for in the Common Customs Tariff or which would qualify therefor if they were imported from a third country.
However, Member States shall have the option of not granting exemption where this would be liable to have a serious effect on conditions of competition on the home market; (e) reimportation by the person who exported them of goods in the state in which they were exported, where they qualify for exemption from customs duties or would qualify therefor if they were imported from a third country; (f) the re-importation of movable tangible property by the person who exported it, or by another person on his account, where that property has while in another Member State undergone work which has been taxed without the right to deduction or refund; (g) importations of goods: - under diplomatic and consular arrangements, which qualify for exemption from customs duties or would qualify therefor if they were imported from a third country, - by international organizations recognized as such by the public authorities of the host country, and by members of such organizations, within the limits and under the conditions laid down by the international conventions establishing the organizations or by headquarters agreements, - into the territory of Member States which are parties to the North Atlantic Treaty by the armed forces of other States which are parties to that Treaty for the use of such forces or the civilian staff accompanying them or for supplying their messes or canteens where such forces take part in the common defence effort: (h) importation into ports by sea fishing undertakings of their catches, unprocessed or after undergoing preservation for marketing but before being supplied; (i) the supply of services, in connection with the importation of goods where the value of such services is included in the taxable amount in accordance with Article 11 B (3) (b); (j) importation of gold by Central Banks. 2.
Article 15 Exemption of exports and like transactions and international transport Without prejudice to other Community provisions Member States shall exempt the following under conditions which they shall lay down for the purpose of ensuring the correct and straightforward application of such exemptions and of preventing any evasion, avoidance or abuse: 1.
the supply of goods dispatched or transported to a destination outside the territory of the country as defined in Article 3 by or on behalf of the vendor; 2.
the supply of services consisting of work on movable property acquired or imported for the purpose of undergoing such work in the territory of the country as defined in Article 3, and dispatched or transported out of the territory of that country by the person providing the services or by his customer who is not established within the territory of the country or on behalf of either of them; 4.
the supply of goods for the fuelling and provisioning of aircraft referred to in paragraph 6; 8.
the supply of services other than those referred to in paragraph 5, to meet the direct needs of the sea-going vessels referred to in that paragraph or of their cargoes; 9.
the supply of services other than those referred to in paragraph 6, to meet the direct needs of aircraft referred to in that paragraph or of their cargoes; 10.
TITLE XI DEDUCTIONS Article 17 Origin and scope of the right to deduct 1.
In so far as the goods and services are used for the purposes of his taxable transactions, the taxable person shall be entitled to deduct from the tax which he is liable to pay: (a) value added tax due or paid in respect of goods or services supplied or to be supplied to him by another taxable person; (b) value added tax due or paid in respect of imported goods; (1)OJ No L 194, 6.8.1968, p. 13. (2)OJ No L 58, 8.3.1969, p. 11. (3)OJ No L 58, 8.3.1969, p. 7. (4)OJ No L 238, 28.9.1968, p. 1. (c) value added tax due under Articles 5 (7) (a) and 6 (3). 3.
The Council shall endeavour to adopt before 31 December 1977, on a proposal from the Commission and acting unanimously, Community rules laying down the arrangements under which refunds are to be made in accordance with paragraph 3 to taxable persons not established in the territory of the country.
Article 19 Calculation of the deductible proportion 1.
Article 20 Adjustments of deductions 1.
TITLE XII PERSONS LIABLE FOR PAYMENT FOR TAX Article 21 Persons liable to pay tax to the authorities The following shall be liable to pay value added tax: 1.
under the internal system: (a) taxable persons who carry out taxable transactions other than those referred to in Article 9 (2) (e) and carried out by a taxable person resident abroad.
TITLE XIII OBLIGATIONS OF PERSONS LIABLE FOR PAYMENT Article 22 Obligations under the internal system 1.
Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that those persons who, in accordance with Article 21 (1) (a) and (b), are considered to be liable to pay the tax instead of a taxable person established in another country or who are jointly, and severally liable for the payment, shall comply with the above obligations relating to declaration and payment. 8.
Article 23 Obligations in respect of imports As regards imported goods, Member States shall lay down the detailed rules for the making of the declarations and payments.
TITLE XIV SPECIAL SCHEMES Article 24 Special scheme for small undertakings 1.
Member States which might encounter difficulties in applying the normal tax scheme to small undertakings by reason of their activities or structure shall have the option, under such conditions and within such limits as they may set but subject to the consultation provided for in Article 29, of applying simplified procedures such as flat-rate schemes for charging and collecting the tax provided they do not lead to a reduction thereof. 2.
Until a date to be fixed by the Council acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, but which shall not be later than that on which the charging of tax on imports and the remission of tax on exports in trade between the Member States are abolished: (a) Member States which have made use of the option under Article 14 of the second Council Directive of 11 April 1967 to introduce exemptions or graduated tax relief may retain them and the arrangements for applying them if they conform with the value added tax system.
Those Member States which apply an exemption from tax to taxable persons whose annual turnover is less than the equivalent in national currency of 5 000 European units of account at the conversion rate of the day on which this Directive is adopted, may increase this exemption up to 5 000 European units of account.
It shall as far as may be necessary, and taking into account the need to ensure the long-term convergence of national regulations, attach to this report proposals for: (a) improvements to be made to the special scheme for small undertakings; (b) the adaptation of national systems as regards exemptions and graduated value added tax relief; (c) the adaptation of the limit of 5 000 European units of account mentioned in paragraph 2. 9.
Article 25 Common flat-rate scheme for farmers 1.
For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: - %quot%farmer%quot% : a taxable person who carries on his activity in one of the undertakings defined below, - %quot%agricultural, forestry or fisheries undertakings%quot% : an undertaking considered to be such by each Member State within the framework of the production activities listed in Annex A, - %quot%flat-rate farmer%quot% : a farmer subject to the flat-rate scheme provided for in paragraphs 3 et seq., - %quot%agricultural products%quot% : goods produced by an agricultural, forestry or fisheries undertaking in each Member State as a result of the activities listed in Annex A, - %quot%agricultural service%quot% : any service as set out in Annex B supplied by a farmer using his labour force and/or by means of the equipment normally available on the agricultural, forestry or fisheries undertaking operated by him, - %quot%value added tax charge on inputs%quot% : the amount of the total value added tax attaching to the goods and services purchased by all agricultural, forestry and fisheries undertakings of each Member State subject to the flat-rate scheme where such tax would be deductible under Article 17 by a farmer subject to the normal value added tax scheme, - %quot%flat-rate compensation percentages%quot% : the percentages fixed by Member States in accordance with paragraph 3 and applied by them in the cases specified in paragraph 5 to enable flat-rate farmers to offset at a fixed rate the value added tax charge on inputs, - %quot%flat-rate compensation%quot% : the amount arrived at by applying the flat-rate compensation percentage provided for in paragraph 3 to the turnover of the flat-rate farmer in the cases referred to in paragraph 5. 3.
This compensation shall exclude all other forms of deduction. 6.
Article 26 Special scheme for travel agents 1.
TITLE XV SIMPLIFICATION PROCEDURES Article 27 1.
The Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, may authorize any Member State to introduce special measures for derogation from the provisions of this Directive, in order to simplify the procedure for charging the tax or to prevent certain types of tax evasion or avoidance.
A Member State wishing to introduce the measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall inform the Commission of them and shall provide the Commission with all relevant information. 3.
TITLE XVI TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS Article 28 1.
Any provisions brought into force by the Member States under the provisions of the first four indents of Article 17 of the second Council Directive of 11 April 1967 shall cease to apply, in each Member State, as from the respective dates on which the provisions referred to in the second paragraph of Article 1 of this Directive come into force. 2.
Reduced rates and exemptions with refund of the tax paid at the preceding stage which are in force on 31 December 1975, and which satisfy the conditions stated in the last indent of Article 17 of the second Council Directive of 11 April 1967, may be maintained until a date which shall be fixed by the Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, but which shall not be later than that on which the charging of tax on imports and the remission of tax on exports in trade between the Member States are abolished.
This derogation shall also apply to travel agents acting in the name and on account of the traveller. 4.
TITLE XVII VALUE ADDED TAX COMMITTEE Article 29 1.
The Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure. 4.
TITLE XVIII MISCELLANEOUS Article 30 International Agreements The Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, may authorize any Member State to conclude with a non-member country or an international organization an agreement which may contain derogations from this Directive.
Article 31 Unit of account 1.
When converting this unit of account into national currencies, Member States shall have the option of rounding the amounts resulting from this conversion either upwards or downwards by up to 10 %.
Article 32 Second-hand goods The Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt before 31 December 1977 a Community taxation system to be applied to used goods, works of art, antiques and collectors' items.
TITLE XIX FINAL PROVISIONS Article 34 For the first time on 1 January 1982 and thereafter every two years, the Commission shall, after consulting the Member States, send the Council a report on the application of the common system of value added tax in the Member States.
Article 38 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 17 May 1977.
For the Council The President J.
SILKIN ANNEX A LIST OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES I.
Fresh-water fishing 2.
Fish farming 3.
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS AND GAME %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0010819%quot%%gt% (1)The classification used in this Annex is that used in the Economic Accounts for Agriculture of the Statistical Office of the European Communities (SOEC). %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0010820%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0010821%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0010822%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0010823%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0010824%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0010825%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0010826%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0010827%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0010828%quot%%gt% V.
The transport of goods 4.
Passenger transport 6.
The transactions of agricultural intervention agencies in respect of agricultural products carried out pursuant to Regulations on the common organization of the market in these products 8.
Transactions referred to in Article 13 A (1) (a) in so far as they relate to parcel post services 2.
Transactions referred to in Article 13 A (1) (e) 3.
Transactions referred to in Article 13 A (1) (f) other than those of groups of a medical or paramedical nature 4.
Transactions referred to in Article 13 A (1) (m) 5.
Transactions referred to in Article 13 A (1) (n) 6.
Transactions referred to in Article 13 A (1) (p) 7.
Transactions referred to in Article 13 A (1) (q) 8.
Transactions referred to in Article 13 B (d) (5) in so far as they relate to the services of intermediaries 10.
Transactions referred to in Article 13 B (d) (6) 11.
Supplies referred to in Article 15 (12) 15.
The supply of water by public authorities 13.
Transactions concerning gold other than gold for industrial use 27.
The services of travel agents referred to in Article 26, and those of travel agents acting in the name and on account of the traveller, for journeys within the Community ANNEX G RIGHT OF OPTION 1.
