Initiation (1) On 16 September 1999, the Commission announced by a notice (%quot%Notice of initiation%quot%) published in the Official Journal of the European Communities(2), the initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding with regard to imports into the Community of certain electronic weighing scales (%quot%REWS%quot%) originating in the People's Republic of China (%quot%PRC%quot%), the Republic of Korea (%quot%Korea%quot%) and Taiwan. (2) The proceeding was initiated as a result of a complaint lodged on 30 July 1999 on behalf of the Community producers representing a major proportion of the Community REWS industry, as defined in Article 5(4) of Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (%quot%basic Regulation%quot%).
Replies were received from two Community producers, eight exporting producers in the countries concerned, as well as certain known related importers in the Community and the cooperating producer in the analogue country.
Ltd, Seoul CAS Corporation, Seoul Descom Scales Mfg.
Ltd, Kyungki-Do TAIWAN Snowrex International Co.
Ltd, Taipei PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA Mettler-Toledo Changzhou Scale Ltd, Changzhou Shanghai Teraoka Electronic Co.
Ltd, Shanghai (c) Analogue country INDONESIA PT TEC Indonesia Co.
Ltd, Batam (d) Related importers Ishida Europe AB, Gustavsberg, Sweden Mettler-Toledo GmbH, GieĂ&#x;en, Germany Mettler-Toledo (Albstadt) GmbH, Albstadt, Germany Mettler-Toledo GmbH, Wien, Austria. (6) The investigation of dumping and injury covered the period from 1 September 1998 to 31 August 1999 (%quot%investigation period%quot% or %quot%IP%quot%).
The examination of trends relevant for the determination of injury covered the period from 1 January 1995 up to the end of the investigation period (%quot%analysis period%quot%). (7) All parties concerned were informed of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it was intended to recommend the imposition of the existing measures.
Previous proceedings involving the product concerned (8) In October 1993, by Regulation (EEC) No 2887/93(3), the Council imposed definitive anti-dumping measures on imports on REWS originating in Singapore and Korea.
The measures applicable to Singapore are subject to an ongoing review which was opened in October 1998(4) whereas the measures applicable to Korea lapsed in October 1998. (9) In April 1993, by Regulation (EEC) No 993/93(5), the Council imposed definitive anti-dumping measures on imports of REWS originating in Japan.
In addition, the investigation has shown that between the three segments there are no clear dividing lines, models in neighbouring segments often being interchangeable.
Like product (12) The investigation has shown that the various REWS produced in the PRC, Korea, Taiwan and Indonesia (which served as an analogue country for the PRC) and sold on these markets are, despite differences in size, life span, voltage or design, identical to or closely resemble the REWS exported from the PRC, Korea and Taiwan to the Community and accordingly have to be considered as like products. (13) Likewise, the REWS produced by the Community industry and sold on the Community market, are alike in all respects to the REWS produced and exported from the PRC, Korea and Taiwan to the Community. (14) Therefore these products are alike within the meaning of Article 1(4) of the basic Regulation.
Market economy countries General methodology Normal value (15) As far as the determination of normal value is concerned, it was first established, for each exporting producer, whether its total domestic sales of REWS were representative in comparison with its total export sales to the Community.
In accordance with Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation, domestic sales were considered representative when the total domestic sales volume of each exporting producer was at least 5 % of its total export sales volume to the Community. (16) Subsequently those types of REWS sold domestically by the companies, that were identical or directly comparable to the types sold for export to the Community, were identified. (17) For each of the types sold by the exporting producers on their domestic markets and found to be directly comparable to types sold for export to the Community, it was established whether domestic sales were sufficiently representative for the purposes of Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation.
Domestic sales of a particular type were considered sufficiently representative when the total domestic sales volume of REWS of that type during the investigation period represented 5 % or more of the total sales volume of REWS of the comparable type exported to the Community. (18) An examination was also made as to whether the domestic sales of each type could be regarded as having been made in the ordinary course of trade, by establishing the proportion of profitable sales to independent customers of the type in question.
In cases where the sales volume of REWS sold at a net sales price equal to or above the calculated cost of production represented 80 % or more of the total sales volume, normal value was based on the actual domestic price, calculated as a weighted average of the prices of all domestic sales made during the investigation period, irrespective of whether these sales were profitable or not.
In cases where the volume of profitable sales of REWS represented less than 80 % but 10 % or more of the total domestic sales volume, normal value was based on the actual domestic price, calculated as a weighted average of profitable sales only.
In cases where the volume of profitable sales of any type of REWS represented less than 10 % of the total sales volume, it was considered that this particular type was sold in insufficient quantities for the domestic price to provide an appropriate basis for the establishment of the normal value. (19) Wherever domestic prices of a particular type sold by an exporting producer could not be used, normal value was constructed.
Where this criterion was not met, a weighted average profit margin of the other companies in the country concerned with sufficient sales made in the ordinary course of trade was used.
In such cases, adjustments were made for all costs incurred between importation and resale and for profits accruing, in order to establish a reliable export price.
On the basis of the information available, this profit was set at around 10 %.
Comparison (23) The comparison was made on an ex-factory basis and at the same level of trade.
For the purpose of ensuring a fair comparison between the normal value and the export price, due allowance in the form of adjustments was made for differences affecting price comparability in accordance with Article 2(10) of the basic Regulation.
Dumping margin for non-cooperating companies (25) For non-cooperating companies, a %quot%residual%quot% dumping margin was determined in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, on the basis of the facts available. (26) For those countries with a high level of cooperation, it was decided to set the residual dumping margin at the level of the cooperating company with the highest dumping margin. (27) For those countries where the level of cooperation was low, information from the cooperating company with the highest dumping margin was used.
The residual dumping margin was determined on the basis of the weighted average margin of the dumped types with the highest dumping margins exported in representative quantities.
Export price (31) In cases of sales for export to the Community of the product concerned by the producing exporters to independent importers in the Community the export price was established in accordance with Article 2(8) of the basic Regulation by reference to the prices actually paid or payable. (32) In cases of sales for export to the Community by the exporting producers through related importers in the Community the export price was reconstructed on the basis of the price at which the imported products were first resold to an independent buyer pursuant to Article 2(9) of the basic Regulation.
Adjustments were then made for all costs incurred between importation and resale and for profits accruing, in order to establish a reliable export price.
Comparison (33) The comparison was made on an ex-factory basis and at the same level of trade.
This included, in the case of two companies, adjustments for costs incurred by a related party in Japan. (34) The same adjustments made to the normal value based on domestic sales were also made on the normal value calculated in accordance with Article 2(3) of the basic Regulation.
Therefore the normal value established on a weighted average basis was compared to prices of all individual transactions to the Community. (36) The comparison showed the existence of dumping in respect of two cooperating producers.
The dumping margin expressed as a percentage of the cif import price at the Community border is: %gt%TABLE%gt% Since the level of cooperation was high the residual dumping margin was set at the same level as for the cooperating company i.e. 4,9 %. 3.
Comparison (41) The comparison was made on an ex-factory basis and at the same level of trade.
Therefore, the normal value established on a weighted average basis was compared to prices of all individual transactions to the Community. (44) The comparison showed the existence of dumping in respect of two cooperating producers.
The dumping margin expressed as a percentage of the cif import price at the Community border is: %gt%TABLE%gt% Since the level of cooperation was low, the residual dumping margin was set at the level of the model with the highest individual dumping margin sold in representative quantities. 4.
The Commission sought all information deemed necessary and verified all information submitted in the MES applications, on-the-spot, at the premises of the remaining two companies. (46) The Commission found that both companies were selling at more or less uniform, loss making prices in the PRC for several years.
Choice of analogue country (48) In the absence of any companies fulfilling the requirements of MES, it was necessary to compare the export prices of the Chinese exporting producers with a normal value established for an appropriate market economy country, pursuant to Article 2(7) of the basic Regulation. (49) Indonesia was suggested by the complainant and proposed by the Commission in the Notice of initiation.
Consequently, it was considered feasible to use Indonesia as an analogue country in this investigation. (50) It was decided that Indonesia was the most appropriate market economy third country for the purpose of establishing normal value, in view of the significant volume of domestic and export sales made by the Indonesian producer as compared to imports into the Community from the PRC and the level of competition on the Indonesian and export markets which allowed for reasonable, but not excessive profits.
Comparison (56) The comparison was made on an ex-factory basis and at the same level of trade.
However, for one exporting producer the normal value established on a weighted average basis was compared to prices of all individual transactions to the Community, as there was a pattern of export prices which differed significantly among different purchasers, regions or time periods and as the weighted average method did not reflect the full degree of dumping being practised. (58) The comparison showed the existence of dumping in respect of the three cooperating producers accepted for individual treatment.
The dumping margin expressed as a percentage of the cif import price at the Community border is: %gt%TABLE%gt% Since the level of cooperation was low, the residual dumping margin was set at the level of the model with the highest individual dumping sold in representative quantities as for the cooperating companies, i.e. 30,7 %.
Since October 1993 (i.e.
It has become evident during the investigation that other Community producers have restructured and consolidated along similar lines. (60) Although four Community producers supported the complaint (representing over 50 % of Community production) only two of these companies cooperated with the investigation by responding to questionnaires.
These two companies represented 39 % of total Community production in the investigation period. (61) It should be noted that for the purposes of the calculation of total Community REWS production, in accordance with Article 4(1)(a) and (2) of the basic Regulation, any company operating in the Community related to exporting producers in the countries concerned was excluded from the definition of total Community production.
In the case of Mettler-Toledo, it was clear that the producer in the Community directly controlled its subsidiary in the PRC. (62) It was claimed by one of the other operators in the Community (which has been excluded from the definition of a Community producer because it is also one of the exporting producers in the PRC) that the level of cooperation mentioned above (39 %) was not sufficient to justify the continuation of the investigation.
This claim was rejected because the two cooperating Community producers represented substantially more than 25 % of the total production in the Community and, thus, qualify as a major proportion of the Community production pursuant to Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation.
These two producers, therefore, constitute the Community industry. 2.
Apparent Community consumption General (63) Consumption in the Community has been calculated using verified sales data provided by the Community industry and, figures provided in the complaint (for other operators in the Community), and import volumes obtained via Eurostat. %gt%TABLE%gt% Over the analysis period consumption of all REWS increased by 35 % and consumption of low range REWS increased by 33 %.
The increase in consumption in the low range segment is shown separately because it is in this segment that 97 % of the imports from the countries concerned in the investigation period were concentrated.
The increase in consumption in 1996 was caused by a large increase in imports from the countries concerned.
The euro-effect (64) The increase in consumption from 1997 to the investigation period was mainly due to a one-off increase in demand from retailers arising from the introduction of the euro.
Therefore, the overall impact of the euro-effect will not be to increase consumption but simply to bring forward some sales from one period (2001 to 2004) to another (1997 to 2000). (65) Although the final date for the implementation of retail metrication in the UK will also have increased consumption, this impact was not as important in increasing sales and affected that Member State only. (66) The table below shows the actual development/expected development in consumption from 1995 to 2005.
The table also shows that the euro-effect provides a temporary boost to sales over the period 1997 to 2000 and that from 2000 to 2002 consumption is forecast to be lower.
From 2004 onwards consumption is forecast to return to its normal level (i.e.
Their claim was, therefore, rejected. (68) It was pointed out by an exporting producer that consumption had increased since the previous investigations into the product concerned, mentioned at recitals 8 and 9.
It was found that: - the dumping margins established were more than de minimis for all countries concerned; - the volume of imports from each country and corresponding market shares were not negligible when compared to Community consumption; - the product concerned imported from the countries concerned was largely interchangeable; - the prices of the imports followed largely the same trend; - an analysis of the conditions of competition between imported REWS and the like products indicates that all REWS are sold with a similar pricing policy to the same level of customers.
The investigation showed that more than 97 % of REWS imported from the countries concerned during the investigation period were in the low range segment as explained in recital 73.
Results of the price comparisons (75) The results of the price comparisons showed margins of undercutting ranging from 0 % to 52 % for PRC, 60 % to 65 % for Taiwan and 30 % to 50 % for Korea. 4.
Production, utilisation of capacity and inventories (78) Production of all REWS over the analysis period increased by 22 %.
In contrast, however, the production of low range REWS increased by only 5 % over the analysis period.
The capacity utilisation rate of the Community industry increased from 55 % to 65 % during the analysis period. %gt%TABLE%gt% It was considered that the level of inventories could not be considered to have any significant effect on the situation of the Community industry because the Community industry used a production to order system whereby stocks were almost non-existent.
The sales turnover of total REWS of the Community industry on the Community market increased by 27 % during the analysis period.
Profitability (84) The return on turnover of REWS as a whole rose from low positive levels in 1995 to around 10 % in the investigation period.
In contrast the low range segment suffered a fall from low positive profitability in 1995 to substantial losses in the investigation period (around 20 %). (85) The trend for REWS as a whole can be explained by an increased sales volume and turnover resulting from the %quot%euro effecte%quot% as explained at recital 64.
This is significant because it is the segment in which the imports from the countries concerned are concentrated.
In addition, it is considered that the price depressive effects of the dumped imports have also been felt within the mid and high range segments because prices in one range inevitably have a knock-on effect on the other segments. (89) In conclusion, the overall profitability of the Community industry was not at the level it could reasonably have expected during the investigation period, due to the price depressive effects of the dumped imports.
The companies other business lines represent more than 50 % of total company turnover and, therefore, an overall analysis would not necessarily be representative for the product under consideration.
Productivity, employment and wages (91) The table below shows that during the analysis period employment in the Community industry decreased by 11 %. %gt%TABLE%gt% (92) Productivity per employee increased by 40 % over the analysis period. (93) No detailed analysis was carried out on wages given the importance of other business lines in the overall companies' activities.
Conclusion on injury (94) The above findings show that in the investigation period, taking into account the developments over the period considered, the Community industry suffered a reduction in average prices (in all three ranges) and a loss in market share.
In particular, the poor economic situation of the low range segment has prevented the Community industry from achieving the overall profitability level that it could have expected under the circumstances of the euro-effect and the anti-dumping measures in place, particularly bearing in mind the restructuring efforts which it has implemented. (95) It was, therefore, considered that the Community industry has suffered material injury in the investigation period. (96) It should be noted that the low range segment is important to the Community industry as it needs to offer all three range segments to its customers and any price pressure in the low range segment inevitably depresses prices in the other segments which are largely sold to the same customers. (97) The euro-effect is temporary in nature, whereas there is no indication that competition from dumped imports will cease.
Introduction (98) The effect of the dumped imports on the Community industry was examined. (99) Furthermore, an assessment of the impact of all other known factors on the Community industry was made.
Effect of the dumped imports Effect on the volume of sales and market share (100) During the period considered consumption on the Community market increased by 35 %.
However, Community industry sales only increased by 29 % and the imports from the countries concerned increased by 123 %. (101) As explained at recital 81, the Community industry's market share fell by 4.6 % over the period considered.
In contrast, the market share of imports from the countries concerned increased from 9,2 % to 15,1 % over the same period. (102) As explained at recital 82, the Community industry's sales prices decreased over the period considered.
Impact of the dumped imports on the low range segment (104) The negative impact of the dumped imports on the overall situation of the Community industry can be traced back by making a refined causal link analysis based on the various market segments of REWS. (105) It should be recalled that during the investigation period, 97 % of the imports from the cooperating exporting producers, amounting to almost 15000 units, were in the low range segment.
Total imports from the countries concerned amounted to 33063 units in the investigation period.
It was, therefore, assumed that 97 % of total imports were in the low range.
This shows that over the period considered, the exporting producers increased their sales volume by 123 % in this segment whereas the Community industry only managed to increase its sales volume by 10 %. %gt%TABLE%gt% (106) The corresponding development in market share also shows that imports from the countries concerned had increased over the period considered at the expense of the Community industry.
The anti-dumping duties, relating to imports from Japan and Singapore (described at recitals 8 and 9) relate mainly to the high and medium range segments and contributed to this profitability situation.
Imports from other third countries (109) During the investigation period, other imports into the Community originated in several countries including Japan and Singapore as shown in the table below. %gt%TABLE%gt% (110) Imports from Japan and Singapore have been subject to anti-dumping measures ranging from 15 % to 32 % throughout the period considered and were small in volume.
However, bearing in mind the de minimis (1451 units) volume of imports from Indonesia in the investigation period, it is clear that they are unlikely to have contributed significantly to the injury suffered by the Community industry. 4.
Effect of internal competition within the Community (112) It was submitted by exporting producers that internal competition on the Community market for REWS, arising from changes in the structure in the Community retail sector, had a downward effect on prices.
This change of structure has increased the buying power of the user industry in general, and it is likely that this change has had some downward effect on average prices. (114) As mentioned at recital 59, the structure of the Community industry has also changed substantially over the period considered.
It was concluded that internal market competition arising from changes in the structure of the Community retail sector did not break the causal link between the dumped imports and the injury suffered by the Community industry. 5.
Conclusion on causation (115) In view of the coincidence in time between, on the one hand, the price undercutting established, the significant market share gained by the dumped imports from the countries concerned and, on the other hand, the corresponding loss of market share suffered by the Community industry, as well as the reduction of its sales prices, it is concluded that the dumped imports originating in the countries concerned have caused material injury to the Community industry. (116) It was, therefore, concluded that the dumped imports originating in the countries concerned have caused material injury to the Community industry.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
General considerations (117) In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation, it was examined whether the imposition of anti-dumping measures would be against the interest of the Community as a whole.
Questionnaires were sent to the Community industry, importers/traders and two associations of users of the product concerned. (119) On this basis it was examined whether, despite the conclusions on dumping, injury and causation, compelling reasons exist which would lead to the conclusion that it is not in the Community interest to impose measures in this particular case. 2.
The importance of this segment to the Community industry is that it must continue to offer all 3 segments for sale in order to supply major users on the market. (121) There has been a large scale consolidation of Community production over the analysis period.
It was concluded, however, that the impact would be negligible, particularly for the retail sector where the proportion of costs represented by REWS is very small. (128) It should be recalled, however, that the dumped imports from the countries concerned have caused material injury to the Community industry, which has made great efforts to remain competitive.
PROPOSED DUTIES 1.
For the purpose of determining the level of these duties, account was taken of the dumping margins found, the amount of duty necessary to eliminate the injury sustained by the Community industry and the market situation of the Community industry. (131) To this end, the representative production costs of the two basic low range models (i.e.
The two non injurious prices were compared with the prices of the dumped imports used to establish undercutting, as outlined at recitals 72 to 75.
The differences between these prices (on a weighted average basis and expressed as a percentage at cif level) showed the underselling margins applicable to each company. (132) These margins including those for non cooperating exporters are above the dumping margins established (with the exception of Mettler-Toledo where the injury margin was 0 %).
In accordance with the lesser duty rule in accordance with Article 9(4) of the basic Regulation, it is proposed that the duty should be set at the level of the lowest margins. 2.
Form and level of the definitive measures (133) In the light of the foregoing, it is considered that, in accordance with Article 9(4) of the basic Regulation, definitive anti-dumping duties should be imposed.
As cooperation was low in the PRC and Taiwan, the residual duty level has been set at the level of the model with the highest individual dumping margin sold in representative quantities. (135) The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of the findings of the present investigation.
Done at Brussels, 27 November 2000.
Fabius (1) OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
