Article 4 The competent authorities of each Member State shall within one month send to the competent authorities of the other Member States a copy of the component type-approval certificates, an example of which is given in Annex I, completed for each type of rear fog lamp which they approve or refuse to approve.
Article 6 Any decision taken pursuant to the provisions adopted in implementation of this Directive, to refuse or withdraw EEC component type-approval for a rear fog lamp or prohibit its placing on the market or use shall set out in detail the reasons on which it is based.
Article 7 No Member State may refuse to grant EEC type-approval or national type-approval of any vehicle on grounds relating to its rear fog lamps if these bear the EEC component type-approval mark and are fitted in accordance with the requirements laid down in Directive 76/756/EEC.
Article 8 No Member State may refuse or prohibit the sale, registration, entry into service or use of any vehicle on grounds relating to its rear fog lamps if these bear the EEC component type-approval mark and are fitted in accordance with the requirements laid down in Directive 76/756/EEC.
Article 10 Any amendments necessary to adjust the requirements of the Annexes to take account of technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13 of Directive 70/156/EEC.
Article 12 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
The light emitted by each of the two samples referred to in 1.2.3 of Annex II, having met the requirements of 5 below, shall be of not less than the minimum intensity and of not more than the maximum intensity specified below and shall be measured in relation to the axis of reference in the directions shown below (expressed in degrees from the axis of reference). 3.2.
The intensity between the axes shall not be less than 75 cd. 3.3.
The intensity of the light emitted in all directions in which the light can be observed shall not exceed 300 cd. 3.4.
The exterior light-emitting surface in the direction of the reference axis shall not exceed 140 cm2. 3.5.
The ambient temperature shall be 23 ยฑ 5 ยบC.
Where only the maximum power is specified, the test shall be carried out by regulating the voltage to obtain a power equal to 90 % of the specified power.
This mark shall consist of a rectangle surrounding the lower-case letter %quot%e%quot%, followed by the distinguishing number or letter(s) of the Member State which has granted the component type-approval: 1 for Germany, 2 for France, 3 for Italy, 4 for the Netherlands, 6 for Belgium, 11 for the United Kingdom, 13 for Luxembourg, 18 for Denmark, IRL for Ireland.
