The request shall also include: (a) a copy of all the proof and circumstantial evidence showing that the requested Member State is responsible for examining the application for asylum, accompanied, where appropriate, by comments on the circumstances in which it was obtained and the probative value attached to it by the requesting Member State, with reference to the lists of proof and circumstantial evidence referred to in Article 18(3) of Regulation (EC) No 343/2003, which are set out in Annex II to the present Regulation; (b) where necessary, a copy of any written declarations made by or statements taken from the applicant. 2.
Where the request is based on a positive result (hit) transmitted by the Eurodac Central Unit in accordance with Article 4(5) of Regulation (EC) No 2725/2000 after comparison of the asylum seeker's fingerprints with fingerprint data previously taken and sent to the Central Unit in accordance with Article 8 of that Regulation and checked in accordance with Article 4(6) of that Regulation, it shall also include the data supplied by the Central Unit. 3.
CHAPTER II REACTION TO REQUESTS Article 3 Processing requests for taking charge 1.
The arguments in law and in fact set out in the request shall be examined in the light of the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 343/2003 and the lists of proof and circumstantial evidence which are set out in Annex II to the present Regulation. 2.
Article 4 Processing of requests for taking back Where a request for taking back is based on data supplied by the Eurodac Central Unit and checked by the requesting Member State, in accordance with Article 4(6) of Regulation (EC) No 2725/2000, the requested Member State shall acknowledge its responsibility unless the checks carried out reveal that its obligations have ceased under the second subparagraph of Article 4(5) or under Article 16(2), (3) or (4) of Regulation (EC) No 343/2003.
Article 5 Negative reply 1.
In any event, this additional procedure shall not extend the time limits laid down in Article 18(1) and (6) and Article 20(1)(b) of Regulation (EC) No 343/2003.
CHAPTER III TRANSFERS Article 7 Practical arrangements for transfers 1.
Article 8 Cooperation on transfers 1.
Article 9 Postponed and delayed transfers 1.
Article 10 Transfer following an acceptance by default 1.
CHAPTER IV HUMANITARIAN CLAUSE Article 11 Situations of dependency 1.
Article 15(2) of Regulation (EC) No 343/2003 shall apply whether the asylum seeker is dependent on the assistance of a relative present in another Member State or a relative present in another Member State is dependent on the assistance of the asylum seeker. 2.
Article 12 Unaccompanied minors 1.
Article 13 Procedures 1.
The initiative of requesting another Member State to take charge of an asylum seeker on the basis of Article 15 of Regulation (EC) No 343/2003 shall be taken either by the Member State where the application for asylum was made and which is carrying out a procedure to determine the Member State responsible, or by the Member State responsible. 2.
The conciliation procedure shall be initiated by a request from one of the Member States in dispute to the Chairman of the Committee set up by Article 27 of Regulation (EC) No 343/2003.
CHAPTER V COMMON PROVISIONS Article 15 Transmission of requests 1.
Any request, reply or correspondence emanating from a National Access Point, as referred to in Article 19, shall be deemed to be authentic. 3.
Article 17 Consent of the persons concerned 1.
TITLE II ESTABLISHMENT OF THE %quot%DUBLINET%quot% NETWORK CHAPTER I TECHNICAL STANDARDS Article 18 Establishment of %quot%DubliNet%quot% 1.
The secure electronic means of transmission referred to in Article 22(2) of Regulation (EC) No 343/2003 shall be known as %quot%DubliNet%quot%. 2.
Article 19 National Access Points 1.
The National Access Points shall be responsible for processing incoming data and transmitting outgoing data. 3.
The forms of which the models are set out in Annexes I and III and the form for the request of information set out in Annex V shall be sent between National Access Points in the format supplied by the Commission.
CHAPTER II RULES FOR USE Article 20 Reference number 1.
That number must also make it possible to determine whether the transmission relates to a request for taking charge (type 1), a request for taking back (type 2) or a request for information (type 3). 2.
Article 21 Continuous operation 1.
If a National Access Point has sent data to a National Access Point that has experienced an interruption in its operation, the acknowledgement of transmission generated by the IDA generic services shall be used as proof of the date and time of transmission.
TITLE III TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 22 Laissez-passer produced for the purposes of the Dublin Convention Laissez-passer printed for the purposes of the Dublin Convention shall be accepted for the transfer of applicants for asylum under Regulation (EC) No 343/2003 for a period of no more than 18 months following the entry into force of the present Regulation.
Article 23 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
For the Commission Ant贸nio Vitorino Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 50, 25.2.2003, p. 1. (2) OJ C 254, 19.8.1997, p. 1. (3) OJ L 316, 15.12.2000, p. 1. (4) OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31. (5) OJ L 93, 3.4.2001, p. 40. (6) OJ L 203, 3.8.1999, p. 9.
ANNEX I %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2003222EN.001002.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2003222EN.001101.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2003222EN.001201.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2003222EN.001301.TIF%quot%%gt% ANNEX II (References are to Articles of Council Regulation (EC) No 343/2003) LIST A MEANS OF PROOF I.
Presence of a family member (father, mother, guardian) of an asylum applicant who is an unaccompanied minor (Article 6) Probative evidence - written confirmation of the information by the other Member State, - extracts from registers, - residence permits issued to the family member, - evidence that the persons are related, if available, - failing this, and if necessary, a DNA or blood test. 2.
Legal residence in a Member State of a family member recognised as having refugee status (Article 7) Probative evidence - written confirmation of the information by the other Member State, - extracts from registers, - residence permits issued to the individual with refugee status, - evidence that the persons are related, if available, - consent of the persons concerned. 3.
Presence of a family member applying for asylum whose application has not yet been the subject of a first decision regarding the substance in a Member State (Article 8) Probative evidence - written confirmation of the information by the other Member State, - extracts from registers, - temporary residence authorisations issued to the individual while the asylum application is being examined, - evidence that the persons are related, if available, - failing this, if necessary, a DNA or blood test, - consent of the persons concerned. 4.
Valid residence documents (Article 9(1) and (3) or residence documents which expired less than two years previously (and date of entry into force) (Article 9(4)) Probative evidence - residence document, - extracts from the register of aliens or similar registers, - reports/confirmation of the information by the Member State which issued the residence document. 5.
Valid visas (Article 9(2) and(3)) and visas which expired less than six months previously (and date of entry into force) (Article 9(4)) Probative evidence - visa issued (valid or expired, as appropriate), - extracts from the register of aliens or similar registers, - reports/confirmation of the information by the Member State which issued the visa. 6.
Legal entry into the territory at an external frontier (Article 11) Probative evidence - entry stamp in a passport, - exit stamp from a country bordering on a Member State, bearing in mind the route taken by the asylum-seeker and the date the frontier was crossed, - tickets conclusively establishing entry at an external frontier, - entry stamp or similar endorsement in passport. 7.
Illegal entry at an external frontier (Article 10(1)) Probative evidence - positive match by Eurodac from a comparison of the fingerprints of the applicant with fingerprints taken pursuant to Article 8 of the %quot%Eurodac%quot% Regulation, - entry stamp in a forged or falsified passport, - exit stamp from a country bordering on a Member State, bearing in mind the route taken by the asylum-seeker and the date the frontier was crossed, - tickets conclusively establishing entry at an external frontier, - entry stamp or similar endorsement in passport. 8.
Residence in a Member State for at least five months (Article 10(2)) Probative evidence - residence authorisations issued while the application for a residence permit is being examined, - requests to leave the territory or expulsion order issued on dates at least five months apart or that have not been enforced, - extracts from the records of hospitals, prisons, detention centres. 9.
Departure from the territory of the Member States (Article 16(3)) Probative evidence - exit stamp, - extracts from third-country registers (substantiating residence), - tickets conclusively establishing departure from or entry at an external frontier, - report/confirmation by the Member State from which the asylum-seeker left the territory of the Member States, - stamp of third country bordering on a Member State, bearing in mind the route taken by the asylum-seeker and the date the frontier was crossed.
Process of determining the Member State responsible is under way in the Member State where the asylum application was lodged (Article 4(5)) Probative evidence - positive match by Eurodac from a comparison of the fingerprints of the applicant with fingerprints taken pursuant to Article 4 of the %quot%Eurodac%quot% Regulation, - form submitted by the asylum-seeker, - official report drawn up by the authorities, - fingerprints taken in connection with an asylum application, - extracts from relevant registers and files, - written report by the authorities attesting that an application has been made. 2.
Application for asylum is under examination or was lodged previously (Article 16(1)(c)(d) and (e)) Probative evidence - positive match by Eurodac from a comparison of the fingerprints of the applicant with fingerprints taken pursuant to Article 4 of the %quot%Eurodac%quot% Regulation, - form submitted by the asylum-seeker, - official report drawn up by the authorities, - fingerprints taken in connection with an asylum application, - extracts from relevant registers and files, - written report by the authorities attesting that an application has been made. 3.
Presence of a family member (father, mother, guardian) of an asylum applicant who is an unaccompanied minor (Article 6) Indicative evidence(1) - verifiable information from the asylum applicant, - statements by the family members concerned, - reports/confirmation of the information by an international organisation, such as UNHCR. 2.
Legal residence in a Member State of a family member recognised as having refugee status (Article 7) Indicative evidence - verifiable information from the asylum applicant, - reports/confirmation of the information by an international organisation, such as UNHCR. 3.
Presence of a family member applying for asylum whose application has not yet been the subject of a first decision regarding the substance in a Member State (Article 8) Indicative evidence - verifiable information from the asylum applicant, - reports/confirmation of the information by an international organisation, such as UNHCR. 4.
Valid residence documents (Article 9(1) and (3)) or residence documents which expired less than two years previously (and date of entry into force) (Article 9(4)) Indicative evidence - detailed and verifiable statements by the asylum applicant, - reports/confirmation of the information by an international organisation, such as UNHCR, - reports/confirmation of the information by the Member State which did not issue the residence permit, - reports/confirmation of the information by family members, travelling companions, etc. 5.
Valid visas (Article 9(2) and (3)) and visas which expired less than six months previously (and date of entry into force) (Article 9(4)) Indicative evidence - detailed and verifiable statements by the asylum applicant, - reports/confirmation of the information by an international organisation, such as UNHCR, - reports/confirmation of the information by the Member State which did not issue the residence permit, - reports/confirmation of the information by family members, travelling companions, etc. 6.
Legal entry into the territory at an external frontier (Article 11) Indicative evidence - detailed and verifiable statements by the asylum applicant, - reports/confirmation of the information by an international organisation, such as UNHCR, - reports/confirmation of the information by another Member State or third country, - reports/confirmation of the information by family members, travelling companions, etc. - fingerprints, except in cases where the authorities decided to take fingerprints when the alien crossed the external frontier.
In such cases, they constitute probative evidence as defined in list A, - tickets, - hotel bills, - entry cards for public or private institutions in the Member States, - appointment cards for doctors, dentists, etc., - information showing that the asylum applicant has used the services of a travel agency, - other circumstantial evidence of the same kind. 7.
Illegal entry into the territory at an external frontier (Article 10(1)) Indicative evidence - detailed and verifiable statements by the asylum applicant, - reports/confirmation of the information by an international organisation, such as UNHCR, - reports/confirmation of the information by another Member State or third country, - reports/confirmation of the information by family members, travelling companions, etc., - fingerprints, except in cases where the authorities decided to take fingerprints when the alien crossed the external frontier.
In such cases, they constitute probative evidence as defined in list A, - tickets, - hotel bills, - entry cards for public or private institutions in the Member States, - appointment cards for doctors, dentists, etc., - information showing that the asylum applicant has used the services of a courier or a travel agency, - other circumstantial evidence of the same kind. 8.
Residence in a Member State for at least five months (Article 10(2)) Indicative evidence - detailed and verifiable statements by the asylum applicant, - reports/confirmation of the information by an international organisation, such as UNHCR, - reports/confirmation of the information by a non-governmental organisation, such as an organisation providing accommodation for those in need, - reports/confirmation of the information by family members, travelling companions, etc., - fingerprints, - tickets, - hotel bills, - entry cards for public or private institutions in the Member States, - appointment cards for doctors, dentists, etc., - information showing that the asylum applicant has used the services of a courier or a travel agency, - other circumstantial evidence of the same kind. 9.
Departure from the territory of the Member States (Article 16(3)) Indicative evidence - detailed and verifiable statements by the asylum applicant, - reports/confirmation of the information by an international organisation, such as UNHCR, - reports/confirmation of the information by another Member State, - re Article 3(7) and Article 10(3): exit stamp where the asylum applicant concerned has left the territory of the Member States for a period of at least three months, - reports/confirmation of the information by family members, travelling companions, etc., - fingerprints, except in cases where the authorities decided to take fingerprints when the alien crossed the external frontier.
Process of determining the Member State responsible is under way in the Member State where the asylum application was lodged (Article 4(5)) Indicative evidence - verifiable statements by the asylum applicant, - reports/confirmation of the information by an international organisation, such as UNHCR, - reports/confirmation of the information by family members, travelling companions, etc., - reports/confirmation of the information by another Member State. 2.
Application for asylum is under examination or was lodged previously (Article 16(1) (c)(d)(e)) Indicative evidence - verifiable statements by the asylum applicant, - reports/confirmation of the information by an international organisation, such as UNHCR, - reports/confirmation of the information by another Member State. 3.
Departure from the territory of the Member States (Article 4(5), Article 16(3)) Indicative evidence - detailed and verifiable statements by the asylum applicant, - reports/confirmation of the information by an international organisation, such as UNHCR, - reports/confirmation of the information by another Member State, - exit stamp where the asylum applicant concerned has left the territory of the Member States for a period of at least three months, - reports/confirmation of the information by family members, travelling companions, etc., - fingerprints, except in cases where the authorities decided to take fingerprints when the alien crossed the external frontier.
In such cases, they constitute probative evidence as defined in list A, - tickets, - hotel bills, - appointment cards for doctors, dentists, etc., - information showing that the asylum applicant has used the services of a courier or a travel agency, - other circumstantial evidence of the same kind. (1) This indicative evidence must always be followed by an item of probative evidence as defined in list A.
ANNEX III %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2003222EN.002002.TIF%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2003222EN.002101.TIF%quot%%gt% ANNEX IV %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2003222EN.002202.TIF%quot%%gt% ANNEX V %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2003222EN.002302.TIF%quot%%gt%
