Member States shall apply the stratification method based on actual rentals in order to compile the output of dwelling services.
Member States shall use tabular analyses or statistical techniques to derive significant stratification criteria. 2.
Member States shall make use of actual rentals due for the right to use an unfurnished dwelling under all contracts relating to privately-owned dwellings in order to compile imputed rentals.
In countries where the privately rented sector is small, exceptionally, duly increased public rentals may be used to enlarge the basis for imputed rentals.
No justification shall be required for use of the user-cost method in compiling the output of owner-occupied dwellings, provided that both of the following conditions are met: (a) privately rented dwellings must represent less than 10 % of the dwelling stock; and (b) the disparity between private and other paid rentals must exceed a factor of three. 2.
Article 4 Member States using a base year approach shall extrapolate a given base year figure using appropriate quantity, price and quality indicators.
Article 5 The further and more detailed principles for the estimation of output, intermediate consumption and transactions with the rest of the world, in the context of dwelling services, shall be as contained in the Annex.
Article 6 This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 20 October 2005.
For the Commission JoaquĂ­n Almunia Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 181, 19.7.2003, p. 1. [2] OJ L 253, 7.10.2000, p. 42. [3] OJ L 310, 30.11.1996, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1267/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 180, 18.7.2003, p. 1). [4] OJ L 49, 21.2.1989, p. 26.
Directive as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). [5] OJ L 186, 5.8.1995, p. 59. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX For the purpose of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1287/2003, the following points aim to clarify the principles for the estimation of output, intermediate consumption and transactions with the rest of the world, regarding dwelling services. 1.
In principle, several methods are available for estimating the value of services produced by owner-occupied dwellings: - the stratification method based on actual rentals, which combines information on the housing stock, broken down by various strata, with information on actual rentals paid in each stratum, - the user-cost method, where separate estimates are made of intermediate consumption, consumption of fixed capital, other taxes less subsidies on production and net operating surplus.
The stratification method based on actual rentals is the preferred method.
This method can also be used for estimating the value of all actual rentals from a sample of actual rentals and for estimating the value of dwelling services from dwellings let at a zero or low rental (see section 1.4.1 for detail).
However, sometimes results from objective assessment methods may be available for some strata.
The stratification method uses information about actual rentals from rented dwellings to obtain an estimate of the rental value of the stock of dwellings.
This may be interpreted as a grossing-up procedure based on a price times quantity approach.
If the available information is derived from sample surveys, this grossing-up relates to both a part of the rented and all owner-occupied dwellings.
The rental to be applied to owner-occupied dwellings in the stratification method is defined as the private market rental due for the right to use an unfurnished dwelling.
The rentals for unfurnished dwellings from all private market contracts should be used to determine imputed rentals.
The stratification method may be used also for grossing up to all rented dwellings.
For example, scaled-down rentals for furnished dwellings or increased public rentals may not be appropriate for the respective actually rented dwellings.
Separate strata for actually rented furnished or social dwellings combined with appropriate average rentals can overcome this problem.
Details of the user-cost method The user-cost method should only be applied when the stratification method based on actual rentals cannot be used because the rental market is unrepresentative.
By convention, this is considered to be the case when the two following conditions are met simultaneously: (1) the number of privately rented dwellings represents less than 10 % of the total number of dwellings and (2) the disparity between private and other paid rentals exceeds a factor of three.
A separate estimate for the owner-occupied residential buildings should be available.
The net operating surplus should be measured by applying a constant real annual rate of return of 2,5 % to the net value of the stock of owner-occupied dwellings at current prices (replacement costs).
Principle 1: To compile the output of dwelling services Member States shall apply the stratification method based on actual rentals, either by direct extrapolation or by means of econometric regression.
In respect of owner-occupied dwellings, this implies the use of actual rentals for similar rented dwellings.
No additional justification is required for compiling the output of owner-occupied dwellings with the user-cost method provided that two conditions are met simultaneously: privately rented dwellings represent less than 10 % of the dwelling stock and the disparity between private and other paid rentals exceeds a factor of three. 1.2.
Factors affecting the rental level A first set of variables determining the level of rentals concern the characteristics of the dwelling and the building.
At the same time, the rental per square metre tends to fall with the size of a dwelling.
Therefore the use of capital values for stratification purposes may be considered.
In this situation, capital values are assumed to reflect the missing "physical" stratification criteria.
It is therefore recommended that the variance per stratum is calculated at least in those cases where the stratification affects the level of both actual and imputed rentals.
The use of advanced statistical techniques to select important variables is considered to be an efficient way of stratifying the housing stock.
As a minimum, the size, the location and at least one other important feature of a dwelling have to be used to stratify the housing stock; this stratification should produce a minimum of 30 cells.
To guarantee comparable results, a correlation coefficient of at least 70 % is recommended as a threshold.
Principle 3: Member States shall use tabular analyses or statistical techniques to derive significant stratification criteria.
The use of fewer or other variables is acceptable if it has been proved previously that the (multiple) correlation coefficient reaches 70 %. 1.2.3.
For imputation purposes, the rental is defined as the price due for the right to use an unfurnished dwelling.
In order to meet this definition, observed rentals may have to be adjusted.
The first point relates to the question of whether use should be made of all actual rentals or only those from new contracts, for the imputation procedure.
Given that "average" rentals are used for the rented sector, the same should apply for owner-occupied dwellings.
In principle, the basis for imputing a rental value for owner-occupied dwellings is unfurnished rentals.
Therefore, rentals for furnished dwellings cannot be used directly.
Principle 4: For imputation purposes, the rental shall be understood as the rental due for the right to use an unfurnished dwelling.
To compile imputed rentals, actual rentals from all contracts shall be exploited relating to privately-owned unfurnished dwellings.
If necessary for statistical reasons, rentals of public-owned dwellings may, exceptionally, be used, provided they are appropriately increased to serve as proxies for private market rentals.
Housing stock An essential element of the calculation according to the stratification method is the information on the stock of dwellings.
Actual rentals The second fundamental element for the calculation of the output of dwelling services, according to the stratification method, concerns the actual rentals paid in the rented sector.
In the first case, actual rentals are probably covered in total and the calculations only have an impact on the level of imputed rentals.
In addition, the benchmarking of the price element (rental per stratum) should be carried out at least every five years, i.e., the usual periodicity for household budget surveys.
The extrapolation of the housing stock and the average rental shall be carried out separately for each stratum.
To extrapolate the imputed rental for owner-occupied dwellings, in general, a price index reflecting private rentals shall be applied.
Special problems 1.4.1.
Neither zero rentals nor cheap rentals shall be used to calculate imputed rentals, on an uncorrected basis. 1.4.2.
In the case of difficulties, a substitute method may be applied, i.e., to collect information on holiday homes in one stratum and to apply the average annual rental for actually rented holiday homes to the owner-occupied ones.
In the justified exceptional case of missing or statistically unreliable actual rentals for certain strata of holiday homes, other objective methods, like the user-cost method, may be employed. 1.4.3.
In the case of difficulties, the two other methods proposed for holiday homes are also acceptable for time-share properties.
Principle 10: With regard to time-share accommodation, the same procedures shall be applied as for holiday homes. 1.4.4.
Secondly, in line with the general solution agreed for holiday homes and time-share accommodation, the annual rental implicitly reflects the average time of occupancy.
But since it is comparable to the case of a rented but empty dwelling, it seems appropriate to insert a rental.
Garages Since garages are a part of gross fixed capital formation, it is appropriate not only to include the service of the rented ones in the output of the economy but also to calculate an imputed output for owner-occupied garages.
ESA95 paragraph 3.64 states that "for garages located separately from dwellings, which are used by the owner for final consumption purposes in connection with using the dwelling, a similar imputation is to be made.
ESA95 states in paragraph 3.76 that household final consumption expenditure includes the materials for small repairs to and interior decoration of dwellings of a kind typically carried out by tenants as well as owners.
This means that, for owner-occupied dwellings, intermediate consumption should cover the same types of ordinary maintenance and repairs as would normally be regarded as intermediate consumption by the landlord for similar rented dwellings.
Expenditure on repairs and maintenance of a type typically undertaken by tenants rather than landlords should be treated as household final consumption expenditure for both tenants and owner-occupiers.
Intermediate consumption of ordinary maintenance and repairs related to owner-occupied dwellings may be derived from direct statistical sources such as household budget surveys.
When the difference is caused by differences in quality, for example a different level of ordinary maintenance for otherwise similar dwellings, imputed rentals should be adjusted accordingly.
Intermediate consumption should include financial intermediation services indirectly measured (FISIM) in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 448/98 [3].
This includes intermediate consumption of households in their capacity as owners of dwellings in relation to dwelling loans.
In general both items should exclude charges for heating, water, electricity etc.
Comparable results may be obtained using a more feasible approach.
A Member State deducting a property income for dwellings occupied by non-resident owners should at the same time add a property income for dwellings abroad owned and occupied by residents. [1] For consistency with ESA95 the term "rental" is used throughout this text. [2] It is conceptually possible that owner-occupiers, individually or collectively, employ housekeepers without involving other statistical units such as housing corporations or management service companies.
Where this situation occurs, output according to the user-cost method should include an allowance for compensation of employees. [3] OJ L 58, 27.2.1998, p. 1.
