Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Regulation: 1. %quot%political party%quot% means an association of citizens: - which pursues political objectives, and - which is either recognised by, or established in accordance with, the legal order of at least one Member State; 2. %quot%alliance of political parties%quot% means structured cooperation between at least two political parties; 3. %quot%political party at European level%quot% means a political party or an alliance of political parties which satisfies the conditions referred to in Article 3.
Article 3 Conditions A political party at European level shall satisfy the following conditions: (a) it must have legal personality in the Member State in which its seat is located; (b) it must be represented, in at least one quarter of Member States, by Members of the European Parliament or in the national Parliaments or regional Parliaments or in the regional assemblies, or it must have received, in at least one quarter of the Member States, at least three per cent of the votes cast in each of those Member States at the most recent European Parliament elections; (c) it must observe, in particular in its programme and in its activities, the principles on which the European Union is founded, namely the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule of law; (d) it must have participated in elections to the European Parliament, or have expressed the intention to do so.
Article 4 Application for funding 1.
Article 5 Verification 1.
They may not exceed 40 % of that party's annual budget.
Article 7 Prohibition of funding The funding of political parties at European level from the general budget of the European Union or from any other source may not be used for the direct or indirect funding of other political parties, and in particular national political parties, which shall continue to be governed by national rules.
Article 9 Implementation and control 1.
Funding of political parties at European level in their capacity as bodies pursuing an objective of general European interest shall not be subject to the provisions of Article 113 of the Financial Regulation relating to the decreasing of the funding.
Article 10 Distribution 1.
Available appropriations shall be distributed annually as follows among the political parties at European level which have obtained a positive decision on their application for funding as referred to in Article 4: (a) 15 % shall be distributed in equal shares; (b) 85 % shall be distributed among those which have elected members in the European Parliament, in proportion to the number of elected members.
Funding charged to the general budget of the European Union shall not exceed 75 % of the budget of a political party at European level.
Article 11 Technical support All technical support from the European Parliament to political parties at European level shall be based on the principle of equal treatment.
Article 13 Entry into force and application This Regulation shall enter into force three months following the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Articles 4 to 10 shall apply from the date of the opening of the first session held after the European Parliament elections of June 2004.
Done at Brussels, 4 November 2003.
Cox For the Council The President G.
Tremonti (1) Opinion of the European Parliament of 19 June 2003 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and Council Decision of 29 September 2003. (2) Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1). (3) OJ L 336, 30.12.2000, p. 75.
