Commission Regulation (EC) No 1535/2003 of 29 August 2003 laying down detailed rules for applying Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/96 as regards the aid scheme for products processed from fruit and vegetables Commission Regulation (EC) No 1535/2003 of 29 August 2003 laying down detailed rules for applying Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/96 as regards the aid scheme for products processed from fruit and vegetables THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/96 of 28 October 1996 on the common organisation of the markets in processed fruit and vegetable products(1), as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 453/2002(2), and in particular Article 1(3), Article 3(2), Article 6, Article 6b(3), Article 6c(7), Article 25, Article 26 and Article 27(1) thereof, Whereas: (1) Regulation (EC) No 2201/96 introduces aid to producer organisations delivering tomatoes, peaches and pears for the production of the products listed in Annex I to that Regulation and aid for the production of prunes and figs.
For the sake of clarity, Commission Regulation (EC) No 449/2001 of 2 March 2001 laying down detailed rules for applying Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/96 as regards the aid scheme for products processed from fruit and vegetables(3), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1426/2002(4), should be repealed and replaced. (3) To ensure that the scheme is applied uniformly, the products listed in Article 6a(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2201/96 and in Annex I thereto, the marketing years applicable to those products and the delivery periods for the raw materials should be defined. (4) Fruit in sugar syrup is produced in the European Union with a total sugar content of less than 14° Brix.
Article 3 Marketing years and delivery periods 1.
CHAPTER II CONTRACTS Article 4 Form of contracts 1.
Article 5 Approval of processors of tomatoes, peaches and pears 1.
Article 6 Date of signing of contracts 1.
Member States may postpone the date fixed at (a) above until 10 March. 2.
Article 7 Content of contracts 1.
Contracts must specify, in particular: (a) the name and address of the producer organisation; (b) the name and address of the processor; (c) the quantities of raw materials to be delivered for processing; (d) the obligation on processors to process the quantities delivered under the contract concerned into one of the products listed in Article 6a(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2201/96, which must meet the standards laid down in accordance with Article 8 of that Regulation; (e) the price to be paid for the raw materials, which may vary by variety and/or quality and/or delivery period; (f) the compensation payable if either party fails to fulfil their contractual obligations, in particular as regards payment deadlines and the obligation to deliver and accept the quantities covered by the contract.
The price shall not be lower than the minimum price laid down under Article 6b of Regulation (EC) No 2201/96.
Article 8 Additional national provisions Member States may adopt additional provisions covering contracts, in particular as regards compensation payable by processors or producer organisations that fail to fulfil their contractual obligations.
Article 9 Amendments to contracts 1.
However, until the 2003/2004 marketing year, amendments to contracts for unprocessed dried figs intended for the production of fig pastes may be concluded no later than 31 May and may increase the quantities originally stipulated in the contracts by no more than 100 %. 3.
Article 10 Conclusion of contracts in the case of a commitment to supply In the case of a commitment to supply within the meaning of Article 4(2)(b), contracts covering the production of the members of the producer organisation concerned shall be deemed to have been concluded after the following particulars have been forwarded to the competent authorities: (a) the name and address of each producer and the reference data and areas of the parcels on which each producer cultivates the raw materials; (b) the estimated total harvest; (c) the quantity intended for processing; (d) an undertaking by the producer organisation to process the quantities delivered under the contract in question.
This information must be sent before 31 May in the case of tomatoes and within the time limit laid down in Article 11(3) in the case of the other products.
Article 11 Transmission of contracts to the competent authorities 1.
The total quantity covered by all the contracts signed by a given producer organisation may not exceed, per product, the quantity intended for processing indicated by that producer organisation under Article 10 and Article 12(1). 2.
Article 12 Forwarding of information to the competent authorities 1.
Member States may choose to use exclusively the data available from the application of Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 2419/2001 as regards the information referred to in point (b) of this paragraph, provided that this does not hinder effective checks on the aid scheme. 2.
Such additions or changes shall be communicated in writing to the competent authorities by 30 June. 3.
Article 13 Identification of parcels In the case of tomatoes, for the purposes of Article 10 and Article 12(1) the parcel identification system shall be the one referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EEC) No 3508/92.
Article 22 of Regulation (EEC) No 2419/2001 shall apply for the purposes of determining the area of plots during checks as provided for in Article 31 of this Regulation.
Article 15 Information on the commencement of deliveries or processing 1.
At least five working days before the start of deliveries or processing each marketing year, producer organisations or processors participating in the aid scheme shall notify the week in which contractual deliveries or processing are to commence to the competent authorities of the Member State in which their head office is situated and, where applicable, the competent authorities of the Member State in which processing is to take place.
Article 16 Information on mixed fruit and prepared sauces Processors wishing to manufacture mixed fruit and prepared sauces as referred to in Article 2(3) and (15) shall notify the composition of the products to be made, specifying the net weight of each ingredient to the competent authorities of the Member State before the beginning of each marketing year.
Article 17 Information on quantities of tomatoes, peaches and pears 1.
In the case of processed tomato products, the quantity of finished products to be notified in accordance with paragraph 1(b) and (c) shall be broken down into: (a) tomato concentrate of a dry-matter content by weight of 28 % or more but less than 30 %; (b) whole peeled preserved tomatoes of the oblong varieties; (c) other processed tomato products, shown separately.
The notifications referred to in paragraph 1(b) of this Article shall state separately the quantities of products as referred to in Article 2(3) and (15) obtained, broken down according to the products used as referred to in (1), (2), (9), (11), (12), (13) and (14) of that Article.
CHAPTER IV RAW MATERIALS Article 19 Quality of raw materials Without prejudice to any minimum quality criteria laid down or to be laid down in accordance with Article 3(3)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96, raw materials delivered to processors under contracts shall be of sound and fair merchantable quality and suitable for processing.
Article 20 Delivery certificates 1.
The producer organisation shall also forward a copy or written telecommunication or e-mail containing the information referred to in the paragraph 1, no later than the fifth working day following the week of delivery, to the competent authorities of the Member State where its head office is situated and, where applicable, to the competent authorities of the Member State where processing is carried out, to facilitate checks. 3.
The documents required under national law may be used for the purposes of this Article, provided they contain all the information referred to in paragraph 1. 4.
Article 21 Notification of deliveries in another Member State 1.
In the case of tomatoes, peaches and pears, where processing takes place in a Member State other than the one in which production has taken place, no later than twenty-four hours before the day of delivery, the producer organisation shall notify each delivery to the competent authorities of the Member State where its head office is situated and to the competent authorities of the Member State where processing is carried out.
Article 22 Payments 1.
CHAPTER V AID APPLICATIONS AND PAYMENT OF THE AID Article 23 Submission of aid applications 1.
In the case of tomatoes, peaches and pears, producer organisations shall submit their aid applications to the competent authorities of the Member State in which their head office is situated, provided that that Member State has a processing threshold for the product concerned as defined in Annex III to Regulation (EC) No 2201/96.
Applications for advance payment of the aid may be submitted under the conditions laid down in Article 25. 3.
In the case of prunes, processors may submit three aid applications for each marketing year: (a) the first for products processed up to 15 January, (b) the second for products processed from 16 January to 30 April, and (c) the third for products processed from 1 May to the end of the marketing year concerned.
Aid applications as referred to in (a) and (b) shall be submitted within 30 days of expiry of the processing period concerned and applications as referred to in (c) by 14 August of the marketing year in progress. 4.
Aid applications as referred to in (a) and (b) shall be submitted within 30 days following expiry of the processing period concerned and applications as referred to in (c) by 31 October of the following marketing year. 5.
Article 24 Content of aid applications in the case of tomatoes, peaches and pears Aid applications for tomatoes, peaches and pears shall give at least the following information for each product: (a) the name and address of the producer organisation; (b) the quantity covered by the aid application, whereby that quantity, broken down by contract, may not exceed the quantity accepted for processing, after deduction of any reduction rates applied; (c) the average selling price for the quantity delivered under contract; (d) the quantity delivered during the same period otherwise than under contract, and the average selling price.
Article 25 Advance payment of aid in the case of tomatoes, peaches and pears 1.
Member States may decide that applications for advance payment of aid may be submitted by 30 September, covering the total quantity of tomatoes, peaches or pears delivered for processing up to 15 September. 2.
Applications for advance payment of aid as referred to in paragraph 1 shall include the information referred to in Article 24(a) and (b). 3.
The competent authorities of the Member State shall pay the amount due between 16 and 31 October, after checking the application against, in particular, the delivery certificates referred to in Article 20. 4.
The aid shall be paid in advance provided a security equal to 110 % of the aid is lodged.
Article 26 Content of aid applications in the case of prunes and dried figs Aid applications for prunes and dried figs shall give at least the following information for each product: (a) the name and address of the processor; (b) the quantity of products covered by the aid application, broken down by the different rates of aid applicable, together with the quantity of products not covered by the aid scheme obtained during the same period; (c) the quantity of raw materials used, by contract, to obtain each category of products as referred to in (b); (d) a declaration by the processor to the effect that the finished products comply with the quality standards laid down under Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 2201/96; (e) copies of transfer orders as referred to in Article 22(1)(a).
Article 27 Payment of the aid 1.
The aid shall be paid to producer organisations and processors no later than: (a) 60 days after the date on which the application, including all the information required under Articles 24 and 26 of this Regulation, is submitted, in the case of tomatoes, peaches, pears and dried figs; (b) 90 days after the date on which the application is submitted, in the case of prunes.
CHAPTER VI CHECKS AND PENALTIES Article 28 National control measures 1.
Without prejudice to Title VI of Regulation (EC) No 2200/96, Member States shall take the necessary steps to: (a) ensure that this Regulation is complied with; (b) prevent and prosecute irregularities and apply the penalties provided for in this Regulation; (c) recover sums lost as a result of irregularities or negligence; (d) verify the records provided for in Articles 29 and 30, ensuring that they tally with the accounting required of producer organisations and processors under national law; (e) carry out unannounced checks as referred to in Articles 31 and 32 during the appropriate periods; (f) carry out checks on areas sown to tomatoes as referred to in Article 31(1) after sowing and before harvesting. 2.
Where irregularities or anomalies are found, Member States shall increase the frequency and percentage of checks as referred to in Articles 31 and 32 having regard to the seriousness of the findings.
Article 29 Records and information to be kept by producer organisations 1.
Member States may decide what form the records and information referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall take.
Member States may decide that the records referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 are to be certified in the same way as records or accounting documents required under national law. 4.
The records or accounting documents required under national law may be used for the purposes of this Article, provided they contain all the information referred to in paragraph 1.
Article 30 Records and information to be kept by processors 1.
Member States may decide what form the records referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall take.
Member States may decide that the records referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 are to be certified in the same way as records or accounting documents required under national law. 7.
The records or accounting documents required under national law may be used for the purposes of this Article, provided they contain all the information referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3.
Article 31 Checks on tomatoes, peaches and pears 1.
For each producer organisation delivering tomatoes, peaches and pears for processing, the following checks shall be conducted for each product and marketing year: (a) physical checks on: - at least 5 % of areas as referred to in Articles 10 and 12(1), - at least 7 % of quantities delivered for processing, in order to check that they tally with the certificates referred to in Article 20 and comply with the minimum quality requirements; (b) administrative and accounting checks on at least 5 % of producers covered by contracts, in order to check that the details for each producer, in particular the areas, the total harvest, the quantity marketed by the producer organisation, the quantity delivered for processing and the quantity indicated in the delivery certificates, are consistent with the prices paid as provided for in Article 22(1) and the aid paid as provided for in Article 27(1); (c) administrative and accounting checks to verify that the total quantities of products delivered to the producer organisation by producers as referred to in Article 12(1) and (3), the total quantities delivered for processing, all the delivery certificates referred to in Article 20 and the total quantities stated in the aid application tally with the prices paid as provided for in Article 22(1) and the aid paid as provided for in Article 27(1); (d) administrative and accounting checks on at least 5 % of agreements as referred to in Article 12(4); (e) checks on all aid applications and supporting documents and, in the case of tomatoes, crosschecks on all declared parcels. 2.
For processors of tomatoes, peaches and pears, the following checks shall be conducted for each factory, product and marketing year: (a) checks on at least 5 % of finished products to verify that the applicable minimum quality standards have been complied with; (b) physical and accounting checks on at least 5 % of finished products to verify the yield of raw materials processed in terms of the finished product obtained under contract and otherwise than under contract; (c) administrative and accounting checks to verify, on the basis of the invoices issued and received and on the basis of the accounting data, that the quantity of finished product obtained from the raw materials received and the quantities of finished products purchased tally with the quantities of finished products sold; (d) physical and accounting checks on all stocks of finished products at least once each year, to ensure that they tally with the finished products manufactured, purchased and sold; (e) administrative and accounting checks on at least 10 % of payments of the prices referred to in Article 22(1).
Article 32 Checks on prunes and dried figs 1.
For each producer organisation delivering prunes and dried figs, administrative and accounting checks shall be conducted on at least 5 % of producers covered by contracts to verify that the following tally: (a) the raw materials delivered by each producer for processing; and (b) the payments provided for in Article 22(1). 2.
The unannounced physical checks shall be conducted on at least 5 % of finished products eligible for production aid, to verify that they comply with the minimum quality requirements applicable.
Article 33 Reduction in aid in the event of discrepancies between the aid applied for and the amount due 1.
Where it is ascertained, for a given product, that the aid for a product applied for in respect of any marketing year exceeds the amount due, then that amount shall be reduced, unless the difference is clearly due to error.
If the difference is more than 30 %, the producer organisation or processor shall also forfeit any entitlement to aid for the product concerned for the following three marketing years. 3.
Article 34 Reduction in aid resulting from checks on areas 1.
In the case of tomatoes, if the area checks referred to in Article 31(1)(a) and (e) reveal that the area declared is larger than that actually determined, at the level of the total area checked, the aid payable to the producer organisation shall be reduced, unless the difference is clearly due to error: (a) by the percentage of the discrepancy established, if it is more than 5 % but no more than 20 % of the area determined, (b) by 30 % if the discrepancy is more than 20 % of the area determined.
Where the area declared is less than the area actually determined, and the discrepancy is more than 10 % of the area determined, the aid payable to the producer organisation shall be reduced by half the percentage of the discrepancy established. 2.
Article 35 Penalties in the event of discrepancies between quantities accepted for processing and quantities actually processed 1.
In addition, except in cases duly justified to the satisfaction of the Member State, the processor's approval as provided for in Article 5 shall be suspended: (a) for the marketing year following the finding, if the difference found between the quantity accepted for processing and the quantity actually processed is more than 10 % but no more than 20 % of the quantity accepted for processing; (b) for two marketing years following the finding, if the difference is more than 20 %.
For the purposes of applying the first and second subparagraphs, any quantities of raw materials used in the manufacture of finished products not complying with the minimum quality requirements, in excess of an 8 % tolerance, shall be treated as quantities not processed. 2.
Article 38 Administrative cooperation between Member States Member States shall take appropriate measures to establish reciprocal administrative cooperation to ensure that this Regulation is properly applied.
CHAPTER VII NOTIFICATION TO THE COMMISSION Article 39 Notification 1.
No later than 15 April in the case of tomatoes and peaches, no later than 15 May in the case of pears and no later than 1 June in the case of prunes and dried figs, each Member State shall provide the Commission with the following information: (a) the quantity of raw materials for which aid has been granted, including the quantity of raw materials processed in another Member State, where applicable divided into sub-thresholds; (b) the quantity of finished products referred to in Article 2(1) to (15), broken down by quantities covered by contracts and quantities not covered by contracts in the case of tomatoes, peaches and pears, and by quantities covered by aid applications and quantities not covered by aid applications in the case of prunes and dried figs; (c) the quantity of raw materials used to manufacture each of the products referred to in (b), including the quantity of raw materials processed in another Member State; (d) the quantity of products as referred to in (a) in stock at the end of the previous marketing year in the case of products processed from tomatoes, peaches and pears, broken down, in the case of tomatoes, into products sold and products unsold; (e) the quantity in stock at 1 May in the case of prunes and dried figs; (f) in the case of tomatoes: - the total area in hectares planted during the marketing year, - the average yield, expressed in tonnes per hectare, for the marketing year, - the area and yield, broken down into oblong varieties and round varieties, - the average soluble dry-matter content of the tomatoes used to make tomato concentrate; (g) the total quantity made of each of the products referred to in Article 2(3) and (15), broken down according to the products referred to in (1), (2), (9), (11), (12), (13) and (14) of that Article used to make them.
No later than 30 September, each Member State shall send the Commission a report on the checks made during the marketing year in progress, specifying the number of checks and the results, broken down by type of finding. 4.
CHAPTER VIII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 40 Examination of compliance with processing thresholds for the 2004/2005 marketing year In the case of tomatoes, and for the purposes of setting the aid for the 2004/2005 marketing year, compliance with the Community and national processing thresholds shall be established on the basis of the data for the 2001/2002 and 2002/2003 marketing years and the quantities covered by aid applications during the 2003/2004 marketing year.
Each Member State shall inform the Commission, no later than 10 December 2003, of the total quantity of tomatoes covered by aid applications, broken down, where applicable, by sub-threshold.
Article 41 Repeal Regulation (EC) No 449/2001 is hereby repealed.
Article 42 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 29 August 2003.
For the Commission Franz Fischler Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 297, 21.11.1996, p. 29. (2) OJ L 72, 14.3.2002, p. 9. (3) OJ L 64, 6.3.2001, p. 16. (4) OJ L 206, 3.8.2002, p. 4. (5) OJ L 297, 21.11.1996, p. 49. (6) OJ L 262, 2.10.2001, p. 6. (7) OJ L 297, 21.11.1996, p. 1. (8) OJ L 7, 11.1.2003, p. 64. (9) OJ L 355, 5.12.1992, p. 1. (10) OJ L 72, 14.3.2001, p. 6. (11) OJ L 327, 12.12.2001, p. 11. (12) OJ L 341, 22.12.2001, p. 105. (13) OJ L 153, 7.6.1986, p. 1. (14) OJ L 10, 12.1.2002, p. 58. (15) OJ L 35, 6.2.2002, p. 11.
