Article 2 The definitions given in this Regulation, with the exception of that of former household members, and the delivery of income data, shall be applied to both cross-sectional and longitudinal components of Community statistics on income and living conditions (EU-SILC).
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 21 October 2003.
For the Commission Pedro Solbes Mira Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 165, 3.7.2003, p. 1.
ANNEX I DEFINITIONS OF HOUSEHOLD MEMBERS AND FORMER HOUSEHOLD MEMBERS, PENSIONS FROM INDIVIDUAL PRIVATE PLANS, CONTRIBUTIONS TO INDIVIDUAL PRIVATE PENSION PLANS, TOTAL GROSS AND DISPOSABLE HOUSEHOLD INCOME, TOTAL DISPOSABLE HOUSEHOLD INCOME BEFORE SOCIAL TRANSFERS (EXCEPT OLD-AGE AND SURVIVORS' BENEFITS; INCLUDING OLD-AGE AND SURVIVORS' BENEFITS) AND GROSS/NET INCOME COMPONENTS 1.
Gross cash profits or losses from self-employment (including royalties) (PY050G) It includes: - net operating profit or loss accruing to working owners of, or partners in, an unincorporated enterprise, less interest on business loans, - royalties earned on writing, inventions and so on, not included in the profit/loss of unincorporated enterprises, - rentals from business buildings, vehicles, equipment, etc., not included in the profit/loss of unincorporated enterprises, after deduction of related costs such as interest on associated loans, repairs and maintenance and insurance charges.
Imputed rent 2.3.1.
Imputed rent (HY030G) The imputed rent refers to the value that shall be imputed for all households that do not report paying full rent, either because they are owner-occupiers or they live in accommodation rented at a lower price than the market price, or because the accommodation is provided rent-free.
Interest, dividends, profits from capital investment in an unincorporated business (HY090G) Interest (not included in the profit/loss of an unincorporated enterprise), dividends and profits from capital investment in an unincorporated business refer to the amount of interest from assets such as bank accounts, certificates of deposit, bonds, etc., dividends and profits from capital investment in an unincorporated business in which the person does not work, received during the income reference period, less expenses incurred. 2.4.2.
Current transfers received 2.5.1.
It includes: - income maintenance benefit in the event of childbirth: flat-rate or earnings-related payments intended to compensate the parent for loss of earnings due to absence from work in connection with childbirth for the period before and/or after confinement or in connection with adoption, - birth grant: benefits normally paid as a lump sum or by instalments in case of childbirth or adoption, - parental leave benefit: benefit paid to either mother or father in the event of interruption of work or reduction of working time in order to bring up a child, normally of a young age, - family or child allowance: periodical payments to a member of a household with dependent children to help with the costs of raising children, - other cash benefits: benefits paid independently of family allowances to support households and help them meet specific costs, such as costs arising from the specific needs of lone-parent families or families with handicapped children.
It does not include: - family allowances paid for dependent children (which are included under %quot%Family/children-related allowances%quot% (HY050G)). 2.5.1.4.
This may occur with or without a reduction of the normal pension, - partial retirement pensions: periodic payment of a portion of the full retirement pension to older workers who continue to work but reduce their working hours or whose income from a professional activity is below a defined ceiling, - care allowances: benefit paid to old people who need frequent or constant assistance to help them meet the extra costs of attendance (other than medical care) when the benefit is not a reimbursement of certified expenditure, - survivors' benefits paid after the standard retirement age, - disability cash benefits paid after the standard retirement age, - lump-sum payments at the normal retirement date, - other cash benefits: other periodic and lump-sum benefits paid upon retirement or on account of old age, such as capital sums paid to people who do not fully meet the requirements for a periodic retirement pension, or who were members of a scheme designed to provide only capital sums at retirement.
It does not include: - family allowances for dependent children (which are included under %quot%Family/children-related allowances%quot% (HY050G)), - early retirement benefits paid for labour-market reasons or in case of reduced capacity to work (they are included respectively under %quot%Unemployment benefits%quot% (PY090G) or under %quot%Disability benefits%quot% (PY130G)), - benefits paid to old people who need frequent or constant assistance to help them meet the extra costs of attendance when the benefits are reimbursed against a certified expenditure. 2.5.1.5.
Survivors' benefits (PY110G) Survivors' benefits refer to benefits that provide a temporary or permanent income to people below retirement age after death of their spouse, partner or next-of-kin, usually when the latter represented the main breadwinner for the beneficiary.
Sickness benefits (PY120G) Sickness benefits refer to cash benefits that replace in whole or in part loss of earnings during temporary inability to work due to sickness or injury.
These benefits may be paid by autonomous social protection schemes, but they may also be provided by the employer in form of a continued payment of wages and salaries during the period of sickness, - paid leave in case of sickness or injury of a dependent child, - other cash benefits: miscellaneous payments made to protected people in connection with sickness or injury.
Disability benefits (PY130G) Disability benefits refer to benefits that provide an income to persons below standard retirement age whose ability to work and earn is impaired beyond a minimum level laid down by legislation by a physical or mental disability.
Disability is the full or partial inability to engage in economic activity or to lead a normal life due to a physical or mental impairment that is likely to be either permanent or to persist beyond a minimum prescribed period.
Other income received 2.6.1.
Income received by people aged under 16 (HY110G) Income received by people aged under 16 is defined as the gross income received by all household members aged under 16 during the income reference period.
It does not include: - transfers between household members, - income collected at household level (i.e.
Interest payments 2.7.1.
Taxes on income include: - taxes on individual, household or tax-unit income (income from employment, property, entrepreneurship, pensions, etc.), including taxes deducted by employers (pay-as-you-earn taxes), other taxes at source and taxes on the income of owners of unincorporated enterprises paid during the income reference period, - by way of exception, Member States using data from registers, and other Member States for which this is the most suitable approach, may report taxes on %quot%income received%quot% in the income reference year, if it only marginally affects comparability, - any tax repayment received during the income reference period relating to tax paid on the income received during the income reference period or previous years.
Regular taxes on wealth (HY120G) Regular taxes on wealth refers to taxes that are payable periodically on the ownership or use of land or buildings by owners and current taxes on net wealth and on other assets (jewellery, other external signs of wealth).
Regular inter-household transfers paid include: - compulsory alimony and child support, - voluntary alimony and child support paid on a regular basis, - regular cash support to persons other than household members, - regular cash support to households in other countries. 3.
NET INCOME COMPONENTS The net income components are derived from the corresponding gross income components after deducting income tax at source and social insurance contributions.
TOTAL GROSS AND DISPOSABLE HOUSEHOLD INCOME 4.1.
Total gross household income (HY010) is computed as: The sum for all household members of gross personal income components (gross cash or near-cash employee income (PY010G); gross non-cash employee income (PY020G); employers' social insurance contributions (PY030G); gross cash profits or losses from self-employment (including royalties) (PY050G); value of goods produced for own consumption (PY070G); unemployment benefits (PY090G); old-age benefits (PY100G); survivors' benefits (PY110G); sickness benefits (PY120G); disability benefits (PY130G) and education-related allowances (PY140G)) plus gross income components at household level (imputed rent (HY030G); income from rental of a property or land (HY040G); family/children-related allowances (HY050G); social exclusion not elsewhere classified (HY060G); housing allowances (HY070G); regular inter-household cash transfers received (HY080G); interests, dividends, profit from capital investments in unincorporated business (HY090G); income received by people aged under 16 (HY110G)) less interest paid on mortgage (HY100G). 4.2.
Total disposable household income (HY020) can be computed as: The sum for all household members of gross personal income components (gross cash or near-cash employee income (PY010G); gross non-cash employee income (PY020G); employers' social insurance contributions (PY030G); gross cash profits or losses from self-employment (including royalties) (PY050G); value of goods produced for own consumption (PY070G); unemployment benefits (PY090G); old-age benefits (PY100G); survivors' benefits (PY110G); sickness benefits (PY120G); disability benefits (PY130G) and education-related allowances (PY140G)) plus gross income components at household level (imputed rent (HY030G); income from rental of a property or land (HY040G); family/children-related allowances (HY050G); social exclusion not elsewhere classified (HY060G); housing allowances (HY070G); regular inter-household cash transfers received (HY080G); interests, dividends, profit from capital investments in unincorporated business (HY090G); income received by people aged under 16 (HY110G)) minus (employer's social insurance contributions (PY030G); interest paid on mortgage (HY100G); regular taxes on wealth (HY120G); regular inter-household cash transfer paid (HY130G); tax on income and social insurance contributions (HY140G)).
Or as: The sum for all household members of net (of income tax at source and of social contributions) personal income components (cash or near-cash employee income (PY010N); non-cash employee income (PY020N); cash profits or losses from self-employment (PY050N); value of goods produced for own consumption (PY070N); unemployment benefits (PY090N); old-age benefits (PY100N); survivors' benefits (PY110N); sickness benefits (PY120N); disability benefits (PY130N) and education-related allowances (PY140N)) plus net (of income tax at source and of social contributions) income components at household level (imputed rent (HY030G); income from rental of a property or land (HY040N); family/children-related allowances (HY050N); social exclusion not elsewhere classified (HY060N); housing allowances (HY070N); regular inter-household cash transfers received (HY080N); interests, dividends, profit from capital investments in unincorporated business (HY090N); income received by people aged under 16 (HY110N)) minus (interest paid on mortgage (HY100N); regular taxes on wealth (HY120G); regular inter-household cash transfer paid (HY130N); repayment/receipt for tax adjustments on income (HY145N)).
Or as: The sum for all household members of personal income components plus income components at household level, of which some are net (net of income tax, net of social contributions or net of both) and others gross, or all of them net but some of them net of tax at source, others net of social contributions or net of both, once the tax on income and social insurance contributions (HY140N), the regular taxes on wealth, the regular inter-household cash transfer paid and the employers' social insurance contributions are deducted.
In this case, HY140N could include repayment/receipt for tax adjustments, income tax at source and social insurance contributions for some income components. 4.3.
TABLE 1 Gross income target variables at component level %gt%TABLE%gt% TABLE 2 Net income target variables at component level %gt%TABLE%gt% If from an income component neither taxes nor social contributions have been deducted at source, this income component is considered as %quot%gross%quot%.
Should Greece, Spain, France, Italy or Portugal be unable to deliver a gross income data component as from the first year of their operation, the corresponding net income component will be required.
