Safety devices, controlling devices and regulating devices intended for use outside potentially explosive atmospheres but required for or contributing to the safe functioning of equipment and protective systems with respect to the risks of explosion are also covered by the scope of this Directive. 3.
Member States shall not prohibit, restrict or impede the placing on the market and putting into service in their territory of equipment, protective systems, or devices referred to in Article 1 (2) which comply with this Directive. 2.
Member States shall regard as conforming to all the provisions of this Directive, including the relevant conformity assessment procedures laid down in chapter II: - equipment, protective systems, and devices referred to in Article 1 (2) accompanied by the EC declaration of conformity referred to in Annex X and bearing the CE marking provided for in Article 10, - the components referred to in Article 4 (2), accompanied by the certificate of conformity referred to in Article 8 (3).
The Commission may adopt any appropriate measure with a view to ensuring the practical application in a uniform manner of this Directive in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 3. 3.
Whee a Member State ascertains that equipment, protective systems or devices referred to in Article 1 (2) bearing the CE conformity marking and used in accordance with their intended use are liable to endanger the safety of persons and, where appropriate, domestic animals or property, it shall take all appropriate meaures to withdraw such equipment or protective systems from the market, to prohibit the placing on the market, putting into service or use thereof, or to restrict free movement thereof.
The Member State shall immediately inform the Commission of any such measure, indicating the reasons for its decision and, in particular, whether non-conformity is due to: (a) failure to satisfy the essential requirements referred to in Article 3; (b) incorrect application of the standards referred to in Article 5 (2); (c) shortcomings in the standards referred to in Article 5 (2). 2.
Where equipment or a protective system which does not comply bears the CE conformity marking, the competent Member State shall take appropriate action against the person(s) having affixed the marking and shall so inform the Commission and the other Member States. 4.
CHAPTER II Conformity assessment procedures Article 8 1.
In addition, the manufacturer or his authorized representative established in the Community may, in order to affix the CE marking, follow the procedure relating to internal control of production (referred to in Annex VIII) with regard to the safety aspects referred to in point 1.2.7 of Annex II. 5.
A Member State which has approved a body must withdraw its notification if it finds that the body no longer meets the criteria referred to in Annex XI.
It shall immediately inform the Commission and the other Member States accordingly.
CHAPTER III CE conformity marking Article 10 1.
Article 11 Without prejudice to Article 7: (a) where a Member State establishes that the CE marking has been incorrectly affixed, the manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community shall be obliged to make the product conform as regards the provisions concerning the CE marking and to end the infringement under the conditions imposed by the Member State; (b) in the event of continuing non-conformity, the Member State must take all appropriate measures to restrict or prohibit the placing on the market of the product in question or to ensure that it is withdrawn from the market in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 7.
Article 13 Member States shall ensure that all the parties involved in the application of the Directive are bound to observe confidentiality in respect of all information obtained in the performance of carrying out their tasks.
However, Member States shall allow the placing on the market and the putting into service of equipment and protective systems conforming with the national regulations in force in their territory at the date of adoption of this Directive for the period until 30 June 2003.
Article 16 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 23 March 1994.
PANGALOS (1) OJ No C 46, 20. 2. 1992, p. 19. (2) OJ No C 106, 27. 4. 1992, p. 9. (3) OJ No C 136, 4. 6. 1985, p. 1. (1) OJ No L 109, 26. 4. 1983, p. 8.
Directive as last amended by Directive 88/182/EEC (OJ No L 81, 26. 3. 1988, p. 75). (2) OJ No L 220, 30. 8. 1993, p. 23. (3) OJ No L 24, 31. 1. 1976, p. 45.
Directive as last amended by Directive 90/487/EEC (OJ No L 270, 2. 10. 1990, p. 23). (4) OJ No L 59, 2. 3. 1982, p. 10. (1) OJ No L 399, 30. 12. 1989, p. 18. (1) OJ No L 43, 20. 2. 1979, p. 20.
Directive as last amended by Directive 90/487/EEC (OJ No L 270, 2. 10. 1990, p. 23).
ANNEX I CRITERIA DETERMINING THE CLASSIFICATION OF EQUIPMENT-GROUPS INTO CATEGORIES 1.
Equipment in this category is intended for use in underground parts of mines as well as those parts of surface installations of such mines endangered by firedamp and/or combustible dust.
Equipment in this category is required to remain functional, even in the event of rare incidents relating to equipment, with an explosive atmosphere present, and is characterized by means of protection such that: - either, in the event of failure of one means of protection, at least an independent second means provides the requisite level of protection, - or the requisite level of protection is assured in the event of two faults occurring independently of each other.
Equipment in this category is intended for use in underground parts of mines as well as those parts of surface installations of such mines likely to be endangered by firedamp and/or combustible dust.
Equipment in this category must comply with the supplementary requirements referred to in Annex II, 2.0.2. 2.
Equipment in this category is intended for use in areas in which explosive atmospheres caused by mixtures of air and gases, vapours or mists or by air/dust mixtures are present continuously, for long periods or frequently.
Equipment in this category must ensure the requisite level of protection, even in the event of rare incidents relating to equipment, and is characterized by means of protection such that: - either, in the event of failure of one means of protection, at least an independent second means provides the requisite level of protection, - or the requisite level of protection is assured in the event of two faults occurring independently of each other.
Equipment in this category is intended for use in areas in which explosive atmospheres caused by gases, vapours, mists or air/dust mixtures are likely to occur.
Equipment in this category is intended for use in areas in which explosive atmospheres caused by gases, vapours, mists, or air/dust mixtures are unlikely to occur or, if they do occur, are likely to do so only infrequently and for a short period only.
General requirements 1.0.1.
Principles of integrated explosion safety Equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres must be designed from the point of view of integrated explosion safety.
Marking All equipment and protective systems must be marked legibly and indelibly with the following minimum particulars; - name and address of the manufacturer, - CE marking (see Annex X, point A), - designation of series or type, - serial number, if any, - year of construction, - the specific marking of explosion protection %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% followed by the symbol of the equipment group and category, - for equipment-group II, the letter 'G' (concerning explosive atmospheres caused by gases, vapours or mists), and/or the letter 'D' (concerning explosive atmospheres caused by dust).
Selection of materials 1.1.1.
Design and Construction 1.2.1.
Components to be incorporated into or used as replacements in equipment and protective systems must be so designed and constructed that they function safely for their intended purpose of explosion protection when they are installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. 1.2.3.
Potential ignition sources 1.3.1.
When equipment and protective systems are intended for use in combination with other equipment and protective systems, the interface must be safe. 1.6.5.
Requirements applicable to equipment in category M 1 of equipment-group I 2.0.1.1.
The surface temperatures of equipment parts must be kept clearly below the ignition temperature of the foreseeable air/dust mixtures in order to prevent the ignition of suspended dust. 2.0.1.4.
Equipment must be so designed that the opening of equipment parts which may be sources of ignition is possible only under non-active or intrinsically safe conditions.
Requirements applicable to equipment in category M 2 of equipment-group I 2.0.2.1.
Equipment must be so designed that the opening of equipment parts which may be sources of ignition is possible only under non-active conditions or via appropriate interlocking systems.
The requirements regarding explosion hazards arising from dust applicable to category M 1 must be applied. 2.1.
Requirements applicable to equipment in category 1 of equipment-group II 2.1.1.
Equipment must be so designed and constructed that sources of ignition do not become active, even in event of rare incidents relating to equipment.
Equipment must be so designed that the opening of equipment parts which might be sources of ignition is possible only under non-active or intrinsically safe conditions.
The surface temperatures of equipment parts must be kept well below the ignition temperature of the foreseeable air/dust mixtures in order to prevent the ignition of suspended dust. 2.1.2.4.
Requirements for category 2 of equipment-group II 2.2.1.
Equipment parts must be so designed and constructed that their stated surface temperatures are not exceeded, even in the case of risks arising from abnormal situations anticipated by the manufacturer. 2.2.1.3.
Equipment must be so designed that the opening of equipment parts which might be sources of ignition is possible only under non-active conditions or via appropriate interlocking systems.
With regard to protection against dust, requirement 2.1.2.2 applies. 2.2.2.4.
Requirements applicable to equipment in category 3 of equipment-group II 2.3.1.
Equipment must be so designed and constructed as to prevent foreseeable ignition sources which can occur during normal operation. 2.3.1.2.
Equipment must be so designed and constructed that air/dust mixtures cannot be ignited by foreseeable ignition sources likely to exist during normal operation. 2.3.2.2.
General requirements 3.0.1.
ANNEX III MODULE EC-TYPE EXAMINATION 1.
The application for the EC-type examination shall be lodged by the manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community with a notified body of his choice.
The application shall include: - the name and address of the manufacturer and, if the application is lodged by the authorized representative, his name and address in addition; - a written declaration that the same application has not been lodged with any other notified body; - the technical documentation, as described in point 3.
It shall, to the extent necessary for such assessment, cover the design, manufacture and operation of the product and shall to that extent contain: - a general type-description; - design and manufacturing drawings and layouts of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc.; - descriptions and explanations necessary for the understanding of said drawings and layouts and the operation of the product; - a list of the standards referred to in Article 5, applied in full or in part, and descriptions of the solutions adopted to meet the essential requirements of the Directive where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied; - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc.; - test reports. 4.
The notified body shall: 4.1.
examine the technical documentation, verify that the type has been manufactured in conformity with the technical documentation and identify the elements which have been designed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the standards referred to in Article 5, as well as the components which have been designed without applying the relevant provisions of those standards; 4.2.
perform or have performed the appropriate examinations and necessary tests to check whether the solutions adopted by the manufacturer meet the essential requirements of the Directive where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not ben applied; 4.3.
Where the type meets the provisions of the Directive, the notified body shall issue an EC-type-examination certificate to the applicant.
Each notified body shall communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the EC-type-examination certificates and additions issued and withdrawn. 8.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative established in the Community shall keep with the technical documentation copies of EC-type-examination certificates and their additions for a period ending at least 10 years after the last equipment or protective system was manufactured.
Where neither the manufacturer nor his authorized representative is established within the Community, the obligation to keep the technical documentation available shall be the responsibility of the person who places the product on the Community market.
ANNEX IV MODULE: PRODUCTION QUALITY ASSURANCE 1.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established in the Community, shall affix the CE marking to each piece of equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity.
The CE marking shall be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for EC monitoring, as specified in Section 4. 2.
The manufacturer shall operate an approved quality system for production, final equipment inspection and testing as specified in Section 3 and shall be subject to monitoring as specified in Section 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application shall include: - all relevant information for the product category envisaged; - the documentation concerning the quality system; - technical documentation on the approved type and a copy of the EC-type-examination certificate. 3.2.
The quality system shall ensure compliance of the equipment with the type as described in the EC-type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the Directive which apply to them.
The notified body shall evaluate the modifications proposed and decide whether the amended quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in Section 3.2 or whether a re-assessment is required.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 4.1.
The manufacturer shall, for inspection purposes, allow the notified body access to the manufacture, inspection, testing and storage premises and shall provide it with all necessary information, in particular - the quality system documentation - the quality records, such as inspection reports and text data, calibration data, reports on the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The manufacturer shall, for a period ending at least 10 years after the last piece of equipment was manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of Section 3.1; - the updating referred to in the second paragraph of Section 3.4; - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in Section 3.4, last paragraph, Section 4.3 and Secton 4.4. 6.
ANNEX V MODULE: PRODUCT VERIFICATION 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby a manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community checks and attests that the equipment subject to the provisions of point 3 are in conformity with the type as described in the EC-type-examination certificate and satisfy the relevant requirements of the Directive. 2.
The manufacturer shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the manufacturing process guarantees conformity of the equipment with the type as described in the EC-type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the Directive which apply to them.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative established in the Community shall affix the CE marking to each piece of equipment and shall draw up a declaration of conformity. 3.
The notified body shall carry out the appropriate examinations and tests in order to check the conformity of the equipment, protective system or device referred to in Article 1 (2), with the relevant requirements of the Directive, by examining and testing every product as specified in Section 4.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative shall keep a copy of the declaration of conformity for a period ending at least 10 years after the last piece of equipment was manufactured. 4.
All equipment shall be individually examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5 or equipment tests shall be carried out in order to verify their conformity with the type as described in the EC-type-examination certificate and the relevant requirements of the Directive. 4.2.
The notified body shall affix or have affixed its identification number to each approved item of equipment and shall draw up a written certificate of conformity relating to the tests carried out. 4.3.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative shall ensure that he is able to supply the notified body's certificates of conformity on request.
ANNEX VI MODULE: CONFORMITY TO TYPE 1.
This module describes that part of the procedure whereby the manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community ensures and declares that the equipment in question is in conformity with the type as described in the EC-type-examination certificate and satisfy the requirements of the Directive applicable to them.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community shall affix the CE marking to each piece of equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity. 2.
The manufacturer shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the manufacturing process assures compliance of the manufactured equipment or protective systems with the type as described in the EC-type-examination certificate and with the relevant requirements of the Directive. 3.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative shall keep a copy of the declaration of conformity for a period ending at least 10 years after the last piece of equipment was manufactured.
ANNEX V MODULE: PRODUCT VERIFICATION 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby a manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community checks and attests that the equipment subject to the provisions of point 3 are in conformity with the type as described in the EC-type-examination certificate and satisfy the relevant requirements of the Directive. 2.
The manufacturer shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the manufacturing process guarantees conformity of the equipment with the type as described in the EC-type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the Directive which apply to them.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative established in the Community shall affix the CE marking to each piece of equipment and shall draw up a declaration of conformity. 3.
The notified body shall carry out the appropriate examinations and tests in order to check the conformity of the equipment, protective system or device referred to in Article 1 (2), with the relevant requirements of the Directive, by examining and testing every product as specified in Section 4.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative shall keep a copy of the declaration of conformity for a period ending at least 10 years after the last piece of equipment was manufactured. 4.
All equipment shall be individually examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5 or equipment tests shall be carried out in order to verify their conformity with the type as described in the EC-type-examination certificate and the relevant requirements of the Directive. 4.2.
The notified body shall affix or have affixed its identification number to each approved item of equipment and shall draw up a written certificate of conformity relating to the tests carried out. 4.3.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative shall ensure that he is able to supply the notified body's certificates of conformity on request.
ANNEX VI MODULE: CONFORMITY TO TYPE 1.
This module describes that part of the procedure whereby the manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community ensures and declares that the equipment in question is in conformity with the type as described in the EC-type-examination certificate and satisfy the requirements of the Directive applicable to them.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community shall affix the CE marking to each piece of equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity. 2.
The manufacturer shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the manufacturing process assures compliance of the manufactured equipment or protective systems with the type as described in the EC-type-examination certificate and with the relevant requirements of the Directive. 3.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative shall keep a copy of the declaration of conformity for a period ending at least 10 years after the last piece of equipment was manufactured.
ANNEX VII MODULE: PRODUCT QUALITY ASSURANCE 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of Section 2 ensures and declares that the equipment is in conformity with the type as described in the EC-type-examination certificate.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community shall affix the CE marking to each product and draw up a written declaration of conformity.
The CE marking shall be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for surveillance as specified in Section 4. 2.
The manufacturer shall operate an approved quality system for the final inspection and testing of equipment as specified in Section 3 below and shall be subject to surveillance as specified in Section 4 below. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application shall include: - all relevant information for the product category envisaged; - documentation on the quality system; - technical documentation on the approved type and a copy of the EC-type-examination certificate. 3.2.
Under the quality system, each piece of equipment shall be examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5 or equivalent tests shall be carried out in order to ensure its conformity with the relevant requirements of the Directive.
It shall contain, in particular, an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organizational structure, responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to product quality; - the examinations and tests which will be carried out after manufacture; - the means to monitor the effective operation of the quality system; - quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports on the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 3.3.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative shall inform the notified body which has approved the quality system of any intended updating of the quality system.
The notified body shall evaluate the modifications proposed and decide whether the modified quality system will still satisfy the requirements referred to in Section 3.2 or whether a re-assessment is required.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 4.1.
The manufacturer shall for inspection purposes allow the notified body access to the inspection, testing and storage premises and shall provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - quality system documentation; - technical documentation; - quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports on the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The manufacturer shall, for a period ending at least 10 years after the last piece of equipment was manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the third indent of Section 3.1; - the updating referred to in the second paragraph of Section 3.4; - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in Section 3.4, last paragraph, Section 4.3 and Section 4.4. 6.
ANNEX VIII MODUL: INTERNAL CONTROL OF PRODUCTION 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community, who carries out the obligations laid down in Section 2, ensures and declares that the equipment satisfy the requirements of the Directive applicable to it.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community shall affix the CE marking to each piece of equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity. 2.
It shall contain: - a general description of the equipment, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and schemes of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for the understanding of said drawings and schemes and the operation of the equipment, - a list of the standards applied in full or in part, and descriptions of the solutions adopted to meet the safety aspects of the Directive where the standards have not been applied, - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports. 4.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative shall keep a copy of the declaration of conformity with the technical documentation. 5.
ANNEX IX MODULE: UNIT VERIFICATION 1.
The manufacturer or his authorized representative in the Community shall affix the CE marking to the equipment or protective system and draw up a declaration of conformity. 2.
The notified body shall examine the individual equipment or protective system and carry out the appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5, or equivalent tests, to ensure its conformity with the relevant requirements of the Directive.
The notified body shall affix, or cause to be affixed, its identification number on the approved equipment or protective system and shall draw up a certificate of conformity concerning the tests carried out. 3.
The documentation shall contain: - a general description of the product; - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and layouts of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc.; - descriptions and explanations necessary for the understanding of said drawings and layouts and the operation of the equipment or protective system; - a list of the standards referred to in Article 5, applied in full or in part, and descriptions of the solutions adopted to meet the essential requirements of the Directive where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied; - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc.; - test reports.
The various components of the CE marking must have substantially the same vertical dimension, which may not be less than 5 mm.
