Existing measures and former investigations (1) By Regulation (EC) No 1470/2001 [2], (the "original Regulation"), the Council imposed definitive anti-dumping duties ranging from 0 to 66,1 % on imports of integrated electronic compact fluorescent lamps ("CFL-i") originating in the People’s Republic of China ("the original investigation"). (2) In October 2002, the Commission initiated an absorption investigation [3] pursuant to Article 12 of the basic Regulation with regard to the above anti-dumping measures.
This investigation was terminated in March 2004 after the applicant formally withdrew its request [4]. 2.
Request (3) On 16 August 2004, the Commission received a request pursuant to Article13(3) of the basic Regulation to investigate the alleged circumvention of the anti-dumping measures imposed on CFL-i originating in the People’s Republic of China ("the PRC" or "China").
The request was submitted by the Lighting Industry and Trade in Europe ("LITE") on behalf of producers and importers of CFL-i in the Community ("the applicant").
The request alleged that the anti-dumping measures in force on imports of CFL-i originating in the PRC were being circumvented by means of transhipment and/or assembly operations via Vietnam, Pakistan and/or the Philippines. (4) The request further alleged that since the imposition of the anti-dumping measures, there had been a change in the pattern of trade (with decreasing Chinese imports and increasing imports from the abovementioned countries), for which there is insufficient due cause or economic justification other than the imposition of the anti-dumping measures and that the remedial effects of the existing anti-dumping measures on imports of CFL-i originating in the PRC were being undermined both in terms of quantity and price.
In addition, there was sufficient evidence that these increased imports from Vietnam, Pakistan and the Philippines were made at prices below the non-injurious price established in the investigation that led to the existing measures. (5) Finally, the applicant alleged that the prices of CFL-i consigned from Vietnam, Pakistan and the Philippines were dumped in relation to the normal value established for the like product during the original investigation. 3.
Initiation (6) Having determined, after consulting the Advisory Committee, that sufficient prima facie evidence existed for the initiation of an investigation pursuant to Article 13 of the basic Regulation, the Commission initiated an investigation by Regulation (EC) No 1582/2004 [5] (the "initiating Regulation").
Pursuant to Articles 13(3) and 14(5) of the basic Regulation, the Commission, by means of the initiating Regulation, also instructed the customs authorities to register imports of CFL-i consigned from Vietnam, Pakistan and the Philippines whether declared as originating in Vietnam, Pakistan or the Philippines or not, as from 11 September 2004. 4.
Questionnaires were sent to the exporters/ producers in Vietnam, Pakistan and the Philippines, to the exporters/producers in the PRC, to the importers in the Community named in the request, which were known to the Commission from the original investigation or which made themselves known within the deadlines specified in Article 3(1) of the initiating Regulation.
Interested parties were given the opportunity to make their views known in writing and to request a hearing within the time limit set in the initiating Regulation. (8) Four producers/exporters in Vietnam, one producer/exporter in Pakistan and five producers/exporters in China submitted a reply to the questionnaire whilst no reply was received from the producers/exporters in the Philippines.
Replies to the questionnaire were also submitted by two related and two unrelated importers in the Community. (9) The following companies cooperated in the investigation and submitted replies to the questionnaires: Unrelated importers: - Elektro Cirkel BV, the Netherlands - Carrefour SA, France Related importers: - Energy Research 2000 BV, the Netherlands, - e3light A/S, Denmark, Vietnamese producers/exporters: - Eco Industries Vietnam Co., Ltd, Haiphong (related to e3light A/S) - Energy Research Vietnam Co., Ltd, Haiphong (related to Energy Research 2000 BV) - Halong service and import export company (Halong Simexco), Haiphong - Rang Dong Light Source and Vacuum Flask Joint Stock Company (Ralaco), Hanoi Pakistani producer/exporter: - Ecopak Lighting, Karachi Chinese producers/exporters: - Firefly Lighting Co.
Ltd, Shangyu (10) Verification visits were carried out at the premises of the following companies: - Ecopak Lighting, Karachi (Pakistan) - Eco Industries Vietnam Co., Ltd, Haiphong and its related company e3light in Denmark - Energy Research Vietnam Co., Ltd, Haiphong - Rang Dong Light Source and Vacuum Flask Joint Stock Company (Ralaco), Hanoi - Carrefour SA, France. 5.
Investigation period (11) The investigation period (the "IP") covered the period from 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004.
Degree of cooperation and determination of the import volume (15) As stated above in recital 9, four exporters/producers in Vietnam, of which only one company exported CFL-i to the Community, one exporting producer in Pakistan and five exporting producers in China cooperated by submitting questionnaire replies.
No cooperation was obtained from the Philippines. (16) The import volume recorded in Eurostat covered a larger product group than CLF-i, i.e.
Therefore, it was considered that the data provided by the cooperating exporter did not sufficiently reflect the overall import volume of CFL-i from Vietnam. (18) With regard to Pakistan, and as mentioned below in recital 52, it was found that the data reported by the cooperating exporter were unreliable.
Therefore, on the basis of the information submitted by the cooperating parties no reasonable determination could be made as to import volumes of CFL-i into the Community. (19) Given the above, findings in respect of exports of CFL-I into the Community had to be made partially on the basis of facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
Findings in this regard were therefore based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation. (23) To assess whether the operation started or substantially increased after, or just prior to, the initiation of the anti-dumping investigation, an analysis of the trade flow of the imports into the Community which occurred after the imposition of definitive measures on imports originating in China was made. (24) To assess whether the imported products had, in terms of quantities and prices, undermined the remedial effects of the measures in force on imports of CFL-i from China, the quantities and prices to unrelated customers in the Community of the imports consigned from the three countries under investigation were used where available.
In the original investigation normal value was established on the basis of prices or constructed value in Mexico, which was found to be an appropriate market economy analogue country for the PRC. (26) For the purpose of a fair comparison between the normal value and the export price, due allowance, in the form of adjustments, was made for differences which affect prices and price comparability.
Therefore, it was deemed appropriate to grant an adjustment for differences in physical differences in accordance with Article 2(10)(a) of the basic Regulation. (27) In accordance with Article 2(11) and (12) of the basic Regulation, dumping was calculated by comparing the weighted average normal value as established in the original investigation and the weighted average export prices during this investigation’s IP, expressed as a percentage of the CIF price at the Community frontier, duty unpaid. 4.
Change in the pattern of trade (30) Imports from China more than halved after the imposition of measures in 2001, i.e.
Although imports recovered partially after 2002, their level in 2004 was still more than 20 % below the level of 2000, i.e.
In 2001, after the imposition of the duties, they almost doubled, however, and increased further from 1,4 million units in 2001 to 2,9 million units in 2002.
During the IP imports amounted to 3,9 million units, i.e.
Pakistan (38) As indicated in recital 18 and as explained below in recital 52, the information submitted by the sole cooperating exporter in Pakistan, Ecopak Lighting, was unreliable, inter alia, with regard to its export sales to the Community and had therefore to be disregarded.
Vietnam (39) As mentioned above in recitals 17 and 19, import volumes with regard to Vietnam were established on the basis of Eurostat statistics.
Thus, imports started after the imposition of definitive measures in 2001 and doubled in 2002.
Conclusion on the change in the pattern of trade (40) The overall decrease of Chinese exports to the Community and the parallel increase of exports from Vietnam, Pakistan and the Philippines after the imposition of the definitive measures constituted a change in the pattern of trade between the above mentioned countries, on the one hand, and the Community, on the other hand. (41) It was considered also that the increase of imports from the PRC from 2002 up to the end of the IP is mainly due to an increase of imports of Lisheng and Shenzhen which were subject to no, or to low, duty rates and which should therefore normally have no, or at least a lower, interest in circumventing the measures in force by transhipment via and/or assembly operations in third countries.
The Philippines (a) Nature of the circumvention practice (42) Since no Philippine company cooperated in the present investigation, the assessment was based on information available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation, including information provided in the request.
It was therefore concluded that this increase of imports in terms of quantities has undermined the remedial effects of the anti-dumping measures in the Community market. (45) With regard to prices of the products consigned from the Philippines and in the absence of any cooperation from exporters in the Philippines, export prices were established on the basis of data recorded in Eurostat in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
Pakistan (a) Nature of the circumvention practice (49) The investigation revealed that Ecopak Lighting had a production/assembly facility for CFL-i in Pakistan.
Ecopak Lighting is related to a Chinese company subject to the definitive anti-dumping duty, namely Firefly Lighting Co.
Ltd. (50) Ecopak Lighting was registered at the beginning of 2001 (during the original investigation) and started actual operation in May 2001, after the imposition of provisional measures in the original investigation.
The investigation revealed, however, that Ecopak Lighting did not start the production of CFL-i in Pakistan, but only carried out assembly operations.
Indeed, evidence was found showing that CFL-i components were manufactured by the related company located in the PRC and imported in semi-assembled "kits".
On this basis, the existence of a production capacity could not be established. (52) Moreover, it was found that Ecopak Lighting had two sets of accounting documents.
Customers of Ecopak Lighting in the Community ordered CLF-i directly from the related company in China. (56) The exporter claimed that the reason for starting the operation in Pakistan was in particular the favourable environment for foreign investments, improved infrastructure and low labour costs in Pakistan.
Vietnam (a) General considerations (63) The request contained sufficient prima facie evidence of the existence of circumvention practices by means of transhipment and assembly of the anti-dumping measures in force by imports consigned in Vietnam. (64) Four exporters/producers in Vietnam submitted a reply to the questionnaire.
Findings with regard to this company were based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
On this basis it was concluded that there was no reason to believe that the operations of this company did not constitute circumvention as defined in Article 13 of the basic Regulation. (65) As regards the remaining three companies, all established assembly/production lines of CFL-i in Vietnam.
Energy Research Vietnam started exporting after the IP, and therefore requested to be granted an exemption as a newcomer on the basis of Articles 11(4) and 13(4) of the basic Regulation. (66) Finally, Rang Dong Light Source and Vacuum Flask Joint Stock Company (Ralaco) did not export the product concerned at all during the IP or after this period.
On that basis, and in particular the evidence submitted by the complainant and the fact that the information provided in the questionnaire reply was largely deficient, it was concluded that the request of the company to be granted a newcomer status could not be assessed. (70) Subsequent to disclosure, the company argued that it had been fully cooperating and denied most of the findings detailed in recital 68.
Therefore, the conclusions in recital 69 are confirmed. (71) Eco Industries Vietnam, a company mentioned in recital 65, is part of a group whose parent company, Eco International Inc., is located in the United States of America (USA).
The production facilities for CFL-i were established in August 2003 and exports to the Community started the same year.
e3-light, the related Danish company, also purchased CFL-i via a related trader (Eco Industries China) from China and resold the product in the USA. (72) The investigation revealed that the company’s accounts were not in line with international GAAP and that the accounts as a whole showed serious deficiencies and had therefore to be considered unreliable.
The same conclusion was reached when analysing the export prices of Eco Industries Vietnam. (81) Eco Industries Vietnam claimed that the normal values of the original investigation did not reflect the market characteristics in terms of prices during the IP and should therefore be recalculated or adjusted accordingly without further substantiating its claim.
The companies which were willing to cooperate submitted unreliable information; therefore the findings had to a large extent to be based on facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation. (83) The above findings showed that there is circumvention of the measures on CFL-i from the PRC within the meaning of Article 13(1) and (2) of the basic Regulation via the three countries.
In view of the above, the existing anti-dumping measures imposed on imports of the product concerned originating in the PRC should be extended to the same product consigned from Vietnam, Pakistan and/or the Philippines, whether declared as originating in Vietnam, Pakistan or the Philippines or not. (84) The measures to be extended should be those established in Article 1(2) of the original Regulation for "all other companies". (85) In accordance with Article 14(5) of the basic Regulation, which provides that any extended measures should apply to imports which entered the Community under registration imposed by the initiating Regulation, duties should be collected on those registered imports of CFL-i consigned from Pakistan, Vietnam and the Philippines.
REQUESTS FOR EXEMPTION (86) The four companies in Vietnam and the one company in Pakistan which submitted a questionnaire reply requested an exemption in accordance with Article 13(4) of the basic Regulation. (87) As mentioned in recital 64, one of these companies (Halong Simexco) subsequently ceased cooperation and in the absence of any other more reliable information, it had to be concluded that this company was circumventing the anti-dumping measures in force.
An exemption in accordance with Article 13(4) had therefore to be rejected. (88) A second company in Vietnam, Ralaco, as mentioned in recital 66, did not export the product either during the IP or after that period and no conclusions could be drawn as to the nature of its operations.
However, parts for the production of CFL-i were almost in their entirety imported from China.
Likewise, an exemption in accordance with Article 13(4) could therefore not be granted. (91) Finally, as explained in recital 49 and following, the company in Pakistan was found to be circumventing the anti-dumping duty in force pursuant to Article 13(2) of the basic Regulation.
Moreover, this company is related to a company subject to measures, Firefly Lighting Co.
The definitive anti-dumping duty of 66,1 % imposed by Regulation (EC) No 1470/2001 on imports of electronic compact fluorescent discharge lamps with one or more glass tubes, with all lighting elements and electronic components fixed to the lamp foot or integrated in the lamp foot, falling within CN code ex85393190 originating in the People’s Republic of China, is hereby extended to electronic compact fluorescent discharge lamps with one or more glass tubes, with all lighting elements and electronic components fixed to the lamp foot or integrated in the lamp foot consigned from Vietnam, Pakistan and/or the Philippines whether declared as originating in Vietnam, Pakistan or the Philippines or not (TARIC code 85393190*92). 2.
The duties extended by paragraph 1 of this Article shall be collected on imports registered in accordance with Articles 13(3) and 14(5) of Regulation (EC) No 384/96. 3.
Requests for exemption from the duty extended by Article 1 shall be made in writing in one of the official languages of the Community and must be signed by a person authorised to represent the applicant.
The request must be sent to the following address: European Commission Directorate-General for Trade Directorate B Office: J-79 05/17 B-1049 Brussels Fax (32-2) 295 65 05 2.
Article 3 Customs authorities are hereby directed to discontinue the registration of imports established in accordance with Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 1582/2004.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Luxembourg, 6 June 2005.
Krecké [1] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 461/2004 (OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 12). [2] OJ L 195, 19.7.2001, p. 8. [3] OJ C 244, 10.10.2002, p. 2. [4] OJ L 71, 10.3.2004, p. 35. [5] OJ L 289, 10.9.2004, p. 54. --------------------------------------------------
