For that reason, Regulations (EEC), No 3943/90 and (EC) No 66/98 should be repealed by Council Regulation (EC) No 601/2004 of 22 March 2004 laying down certain control measures applicable to fishing activities in the area covered by the Convention on the conservation of Antarctic marine living resources(5), and the Community arrangements should be supplemented by this Regulation.
CHAPTER II FISHING GEAR Article 3 Permitted fishing gear in specific fisheries 1.
The fishery for Dissostichus eleginoides in FAO statistical sub-area 48.3 shall be conducted by vessels using longlines and pots only. 2.
The fishery for Dissostichus eleginoides in FAO statistical division 58.5.2 shall be conducted by vessels using trawls or longlines only. 3.
The fishery for Champsocephalus gunnari in FAO statistical sub-area 48.3 shall be conducted by vessels using trawls only.
The use of bottom trawls in the directed fishery for Champsocephalus gunnari in that sub-area is prohibited. 4.
The fishery for Champsocephalus gunnari in FAO statistical sub-area 58.5.2 shall be conducted by vessels using trawls only. 5.
The fishery for crab in FAO statistical sub-area 48.3 shall be conducted by vessels using pots only.
Article 4 Mesh sizes 1.
No trawl, Danish seine or similar net, any part of which is composed of meshes of a size smaller than the minimum mesh sizes laid down in Annex I, shall be used when engaging in directed fishing for the species or groups of species below: (a) Champsocephalus gunnari (b) Dissostichus eleginoides (c) Gobionotothen gibberifrons (d) Lepidonotothen squamifrons (e) Notothenia rossii (f) Notothenia kempi. 2.
Article 5 Control of mesh sizes For the nets referred to in Article 4, the minimum mesh size provided for in Annex I shall be determined in accordance with the rules laid down in Annex II.
Article 6 Crab fisheries in FAO statistical sub-area 48.3 1.
In the case of Paralomis spinosissima and Paralomis formosa, males with a minimum carapace width of 94 mm and 90 mm, respectively, may be retained in the catch. 2.
Article 7 Use and disposal of plastic packaging bands on Community fishing vessels 1.
All plastic residue shall be stored on board a vessel until reaching port and in no case discarded at sea. 4.
Article 8 Incidental mortality of seabirds in the course of longline fishing 1.
For vessels using the Spanish method of longline fishing, weights shall be released before line tension occurs; weights of at least 8,5 kg mass shall be used, spaced at intervals of no more than 40 m, or weights of at least 6 kg mass shall be used, spaced at intervals of no more than 20 m.
Member States shall report to the CCAMLR on the results of technical controls carried out to this end on each licensed vessel; (ii) the arrangements made to ensure the presence of the scientific observers it is required to carry on board in accordance with Article 14(2); (b) the vessel concerned demonstrates a consistent minimum line sink rate of 0,3 m/s during its fishing operations; (c) the vessel concerned does not catch more that two seabirds.
By derogation to paragraph 3, there shall be no offal discharge in the fisheries referred to in paragraph 7. 9.
Article 9 Incidental mortality of seabirds and marine mammals in the course of trawl fishing 1.
CHAPTER III CONDUCT OF FISHING ACTIVITIES Article 10 Movement of vessels in relation to their level of by-catch 1.
Article 11 Special measures applicable to the exploratory fisheries for Dissostichus spp. 1.
Community fishing vessels participating in the exploratory fishery for Dissostichus spp.
using the trawl or longline methods in the Convention area, except for such fisheries where the CCAMLR has given specific exemptions, shall operate in accordance with the rules set out in paragraphs 3 to 6. 2.
Each haul of a longline shall have, except in exceptional circumstances beyond the control of the vessel (such as ice and weather conditions), a soak time not exceeding 48 hours, measured from the completion of the setting process to the beginning of the hauling process. 6.
Article 12 Special measures applicable to the fishery for Champsocephalus gunnari in FAO statistical sub-area 48.3 1.
Fishing for Champsocephalus gunnari shall be prohibited within 12 nautical miles of the coast of South Georgia during the period between 1 March and 31 May (spawning period). 2.
Where any haul contains more than 100 kg of Champsocephalus gunnari, and more than 10 % of the Champsocephalus gunnari by number are smaller than 240 mm total length, the fishing vessel shall move to another fishing location at least five nautical miles distant.
The fishing vessel shall not return to any point within five nautical miles of the location where the catch of small Champsocephalus gunnari exceeds 10 % for a period of at least five days.
The location where the incidental catch of small Champsocephalus gunnari exceeds 10 % is defined as the path followed by the fishing vessel from the point at which the fishing gear is first deployed to the point at which the fishing gear is retrieved by the fishing vessel. 3.
When a vessel has caught a total of 20 seabirds, it shall cease fishing and shall be excluded from further participation in the fishery in that season. 4.
Vessels participating in this fishery during the period 1 March to 31 May shall carry out not less than 20 research trawls as described in Annex VI. 5.
CHAPTER IV SCIENTIFIC OBSERVATION ON BOARD VESSELS OPERATING IN THE CONVENTION AREA Article 13 Object and scope The scientific observation system adopted by the CCAMLR under Article XXIV of the Convention shall apply, in accordance with this Chapter, to Community fishing vessels carrying on fishing and research operations in the Convention area.
Article 14 Activities subject to scientific observation 1.
Community fishing vessels shall also carry on board at least two scientific observers, one of whom shall be a CCAMLR Scientific observer designated in accordance with Article 15, when participating in an exploratory fishery as referred to in Article 11 of this Regulation or in another exploratory fishery authorised in accordance with Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 601/2004. 3.
By way of derogation from paragraph 2, vessels participating in exploratory fisheries for Dissostichus spp.
in FAO statistical divisions 48.3.a) and 48.3.b) shall carry on board at least one CCAMLR scientific observer and, where possible, one additional scientific observer. 4.
Article 15 Scientific observers 1.
Article 16 Arrangements on the placing of observers on board vessels 1.
The placing of scientific observers on board Community fishing vessels conducting fishing or scientific research operations shall take place in accordance with the bilateral arrangements concluded to that end with another CCAMLR member. 2.
The bilateral arrangements referred to in paragraph 1 shall be based on the following principles: (a) Scientific observers shall be accorded the status of ship's officer while on board.
Article 17 Reporting of information 1.
CHAPTER V FINAL PROVISIONS Article 18 Amendment of annexes Annexes I to VII shall be amended in line with the conservation measures that become binding on the Community, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 20(3).
Article 19 Implementation The measures necessary for the implementation of Articles 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16 and 17 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 20(2).
Article 20 Committee procedure 1.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Article 21 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the seventh day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 22 March 2004.
The net shall be stretched in the direction of the long diagonal of the meshes. 2.
The portion of net to be measured shall form a series of 20 consecutive meshes running in the direction of the long axis of the net. 2.
Meshes situated less than 50 cm from lacings, ropes or codline shall not be measured.
The total number of meshes to be measured is specified in paragraph F.
The inspector shall measure one series of 20 meshes, selected in accordance with paragraph C, inserting the gauge manually without using a weight or dynamometer.
The mesh size of the net shall then be determined in accordance with paragraph E.
If the calculation of the mesh size shows that the mesh size does not appear to comply with the rules in force, two additional series of 20 meshes selected in accordance with paragraph C shall be measured.
For nets of a mesh size of 35 mm or less as determined in accordance with 1, a force of 19,61 newtons (equivalent to a mass of two kilograms) shall be applied and a force of 49,03 newtons (equivalent to a mass of five kilograms), shall be applied for other nets.
For the purposes of determining the mesh size in accordance with paragraph E, only one series of 20 meshes shall be measured wherever a weight or dynamometer is used.
The streamer line is to be approximately 3 mm diameter, have a minimum length of 150 m and have a device at the end to create tension so that the main line streams directly behind the vessel even in cross winds. 3.
The vessel shall, under observation by a scientific observer: (a) set a minimum of five longlines with a minimum of four time depth recorders (TDR) on each line; (b) place TDRs at random on the longline within and between sets; (c) calculate an individual sink rate for each TDR when returned to the vessel, where: (i) the sink rate shall be measured as an average of the time taken to sink from the surface (0 m) to 15 m; and (ii) this sink rate shall be at a minimum rate of 0,3 m/s; (d) if the minimum sink rate (0,3 m/s) is not achieved at all 20 sample points, repeat the test until such time as a total of 20 tests with a minimum sink rate of 0,3 m/s are recorded; and (e) all equipment and fishing gear used in the tests is to be the same as that to be used in the Convention area.
The vessel shall cooperate with the CCAMLR observer who shall: (a) seek to place a TDR on every longline set during the observer's shift; (b) every seven days place all available TDRs on a single longline to determine any sink rate variation along the line; (c) place TDRs at random on the longline within and between sets; (d) calculate an individual rate for each TDR when returned to the vessel; and (e) measure the sink rate as an average of the time taken to sink from the surface (0 m) to 15 m.
The vessel shall, under observation by a scientific observer: (a) set a minimum of five longlines of the maximum length to be used in the Convention area with a minimum of four bottle tests (see paragraphs B5 to B9) on the middle one-third of the longline; (b) place test bottles at random on the longline within and between sets, noting that all tests should be applied halfway between weights; (c) calculate an individual sink rate for each bottle test where the sink rate shall be measured as the time taken for the longline to sink from the surface (0 m) to 10 m; (d) this sink rate shall be at a minimum rate of 0,3 m/s; (e) if the minimum sink rate is not achieved at all 20 sample points (four tests on five lines), continue testing until such time as a total of 20 tests with a minimum sink rate of 0,3 m/s are recorded; and (f) all equipment and fishing gear used in the tests is to be to the same specifications as that to be used in the Convention area.
The vessel shall cooperate with the CCAMLR observer who shall: (a) aim to conduct a bottle test on every longline set during the observer's shift, noting that the test should be undertaken on the middle one-third of the line; (b) every seven days place at least four test bottles on a single longline to determine any sink rate variation along the line; (c) place test bottles at random on the longline within and between sets, noting that all bottles should be attached halfway between weights; (d) calculate an individual sink rate for each bottle test; and (e) measure the line sink rate as the time taken for the line to sink from the surface (0 m) to 10 m.
The result of the test is calculated as follows: Line sink rate = 10/(t2 - t1) B9.
ANNEX V RULES CONCERNING BY-CATCHES IN THE FISHERIES CARRIED OUT IN THE CONVENTION AREA A.
Regulated fisheries 1.
If, in the course of the directed fishery for Champsocephalus gunnari in FAO statistical sub-area 48.3, the by-catch in any one haul of any of the following species: Chaenocephalus aceratus, Gobionotothen gibberifrons, Lepidonotothen squamifrons, Notothenia rossii, or Pseudochaenichthys georgianus, (a) is greater than 100 kg and exceeds five percent of the total catch of all fish by weight, or (b) is two tonnes or more, then the fishing vessel shall move to another location at least five nautical miles distant.
It shall not return to any point within a radius of five nautical miles of the location where the by-catch of the above species exceeded five percent for a period of at least five days. 3.
If, in the course of the directed fishery for Electrona carlsbergi in FAO statistical sub-area 48.3, the by-catch in any one haul of a species other than the target species: (a) is greater than 100 kg and exceeds five percent of the total catch of all fish by weight, or (b) is two tonnes or more, then the fishing vessel shall move to another location at least five nautical miles distant.
If the by-catch of any one species is equal to or greater than one tonne in any one haul or set, then the fishing vessel shall move to another location at least five nautical miles distant.
ANNEX VI RESEARCH HAULS IN THE FISHERY FOR CHAMPSOCEPHALUS GUNNARI IN FAO STATISTICAL SUB-AREA 48.3 DURING THE SPAWNING SEASON 1.
A further eight research hauls shall be conducted on the north-western shelf of South Georgia over water less than 300 m deep, as illustrated in Figure 1. 2.
Samples should aim to comprise at least 100 fish, sampled using standard random sampling techniques.
Figure 1: Distribution of 20 exploratory fishing hauls on Champsocephalus gunnari at Shag Rocks (12) and South Georgia (8) from 1 March to 31 May.
The function of scientific observers on board vessels engaged in scientific research or harvesting of marine living resources is to observe and report on the operation of fishing activities in the Convention area with the objectives and principles of the Convention in mind.
