equipment covered by Directive 87/404/EEC on simple pressure vessels; 3.4.
equipment classified as no higher than category I under Article 9 of this Directive and covered by one of the following Directives: - Council Directive 89/392/EEC of 14 June 1989 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to machinery (14), - European Parliament and Council Directive 95/16/EC of 29 June 1995 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to lifts (15), - Council Directive 73/23/EEC of 19 February 1973 on the harmonization of the laws of the Member States relating to electrical equipment designed for use within certain voltage limits (16), - Council Directive 93/42/EEC of 14 June 1993 concerning medical devices (17), - Council Directive 90/396/EEC of 29 June 1990 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to appliances burning gaseous fuels (18), - Directive 94/9/EC of the European Parliament and the Council of 23 March 1994 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States concerning equipment and protective systems intended for use in potentially explosive atmospheres (19); 3.7.
equipment covered by Article 223 (1) (b) of the Treaty; 3.8.
vessels designed for the transport and distribution of drinks having a PS 7V of not more than 500 bar 7L and a maximum allowable pressure not exceeding 7 bar; 3.19.
equipment covered by the ADR (20), the RID (21), the IMDG (22) and the ICAO Convention (23); 3.20.
vessels designed to contain liquids with a gas pressure above the liquid of not more than 0,5 bar.
Article 2 Market surveillance 1.
Article 3 Technical requirements 1.
The pressure equipment referred to in 1.1, 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4 must satisfy the essential requirements set out in Annex I: 1.1.
Vessels, except those referred to in 1.2 for: (a) gases, liquefied gases, gases dissolved under pressure, vapours and also those liquids whose vapour pressure at the maximum allowable temperature is greater than 0,5 bar above normal atmospheric pressure, (1 013 mbar) within the following limits: - for fluids in Group 1 with a volume greater than 1 L and a product of PS and V greater than 25 bar 7L, or with a pressure PS greater than 200 bar (Annex II, table 1), - for fluids in Group 2, with a volume greater than 1 L and a product of PS and V is greater than 50 bar 7L, or with a pressure PS greater than 1 000 bar, and all portable extinguishers and bottles for breathing apparatus (Annex II, table 2); (b) liquids having a vapour pressure at the maximum allowable temperature of not more than 0,5 bar above normal atmospheric pressure (1 013 mbar) within the following limits: - for fluids in Group 1 with a volume greater than 1 L and a product of PS and V greater than 200 bar 7L, or with a pressure PS greater than 500 bar (Annex II, table 3), - for fluids in Group 2 with a pressure PS greater than 10 bar and a product of PS and V greater than 10 000 bar 7L, or with a pressure PS greater than 1 000 bar (Annex II, table 4). 1.2.
Piping intended for: (a) gases, liquified gases, gases dissolved under pressure, vapours and those liquids whose vapour pressure at the maximum allowable temperature is greater than 0,5 bar above normal atmospheric pressure (1 013 mbar) within the following limits: - for fluids in Group 1 with a DN greater than 25 (Annex II, table 6), - for fluids in Group 2 with a DN greater than 32 and a product of PS and DN greater than 1 000 bar (Annex II, table 7); (b) liquids having a vapour pressure at the maximum allowable temperature of not more than 0,5 bar above normal atmospheric pressure (1 013 mbar), within the following limits: - for fluids in Group 1 with a DN greater than 25 and a product of PS and DN greater than 2 000 bar (Annex II, table 8), - for fluids in Group 2 with a PS greater than 10 bar, a DN greater than 200 and a product of PS and DN greater than 5 000 bar (Annex II, table 9). 1.4.
The assemblies defined in Article 1, section 2.1.5, which include at least one item of pressure equipment covered by section 1 of this Article and which are listed in 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3 of this Article must satisfy the essential requirements set out in Annex I. 2.1.
Assemblies intended for generating steam or superheated water at a temperature higher than 100 °C comprising at least one item of fired or otherwise heated pressure equipment presenting a risk of overheating. 2.2.
Assemblies other than those referred to in 2.1, if the manufacturer intends them to be placed on the market and put into service as assemblies. 2.3.
By way of derogation from the introductory paragraph to this section, assemblies intended for generating warm water at temperatures not greater than 110 °C which are manually fed with solid fuels and have a PS 7V greater than 50 bar 7L must comply with the essential requirements referred to in 2.10, 2.11, 3.4, 5 (a) and 5 (d) of Annex I. 3.
Pressure equipment and/or assemblies below or equal to the limits in sections 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3 and section 2 respectively must be designed and manufactured in accordance with the sound engineering practice of a Member State in order to ensure safe use.
Article 4 Free movement 1.1.
Member States shall not, on grounds of the hazards due to pressure, prohibit, restrict or impede the placing on the market or putting into service of pressure equipment or assemblies which comply with Article 3 (3). 2.
Article 5 Presumption of conformity 1.
Member States shall regard pressure equipment and assemblies bearing the CE marking provided for in Article 15 and the EC declaration of conformity provided for in Annex VII as conforming to all the provisions of this Directive, including the conformity assessment provided for in Article 10. 2.
Article 6 Committee on technical standards and regulations Where a Member State or the Commission considers that the standards referred to in Article 5 (2) do not entirely meet the essential requirements referred to in Article 3, the Member State concerned or the Commission shall inform the Standing Committee set up by Article 5 of Directive 83/189/EEC giving the reasons therefor.
Article 7 Committee on Pressure Equipment 1.
Article 8 Safeguard clause 1.
Where a Member State ascertains that pressure equipment or assemblies referred to in Article 1, bearing the CE marking and used in accordance with their intended use are liable to endanger the safety of persons and, where appropriate, domestic animals or property, it shall take all appropriate measures to withdraw such equipment or assemblies from the market, prohibit the placing on the market, putting into service or use thereof, or restrict free movement thereof.
The Member State shall immediately inform the Commission of any such measure, indicating the reasons for its decision and, in particular, whether non-conformity is due to: (a) failure to satisfy the essential requirements referred to in Article 3; (b) incorrect application of the standards referred to in Article 5 (2); (c) shortcomings in the standards referred to in Article 5 (2); (d) shortcomings in the European approval of pressure equipment materials as referred to in Article 11. 2.
Where the decision referred to in paragraph 1 is based on a shortcoming in the standards or in European approvals for materials and where the Member State at the origin of the decision maintains its position the Commission shall immediately inform the Committee referred to in Article 6 in order to initiate the procedure referred to in the first paragraph of Article 6. 3.
Where pressure equipment or an assembly which does not comply bears the CE marking, the competent Member State shall take appropriate action against the person(s) having affixed the CE marking and shall so inform the Commission and the other Member States. 4.
Article 9 Classification of pressure equipment 1.
For the purposes of such classification fluids shall be divided into two groups in accordance with 2.1 and 2.2. 2.1.
Group 1 comprises fluids defined as: - explosive, - extremely flammable, - highly flammable, - flammable (where the maximum allowable temperature is above flashpoint), - very toxic, - toxic, - oxidizing. 2.2.
Group 2 comprises all other fluids not referred to in 2.1. 3.
Article 10 Conformity assessment 1.1.
The conformity assessment procedures to be applied for the various categories are as follows: - category I Module A - category II Module A1 Module D1 Module E1 - category III Module B1 + D Module B1 + F Module B + E Module B + C1 Module H - category IV Module B + D Module B + F Module G Module H1 1.4.
Assemblies referred to in Article 3 (2) shall be subjected to a global conformity assessment procedure comprising: (a) assessment of each item of pressure equipment making up the assembly and referred to in Article 3 (1) which has not been previously subjected to a conformity assessment procedure and to a separate CE marking; the assessment procedure shall be determined by the category of each item of equipment; (b) the assessment of the integration of the various components of the assembly as referred to in sections 2.3, 2.8 and 2.9 of Annex I which shall be determined by the highest category applicable to the equipment concerned other than that applicable to any safety accessories; (c) the assessment of the protection of an assembly against exceeding the permissible operating limits as referred to in sections 2.10 and 3.2.3 of Annex I shall be conducted in the light of the highest category applicable to the items of equipment to be protected. 3.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 and 2, the competent authorities may, where justified, allow the placing on the market and putting into service in the territory of the Member State concerned of individual pressure equipment items and assemblies referred to in Article 1 (2), in respect of which the procedures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article have not been applied and the use of which is in the interests of experimentation. 4.
Article 11 European approval for materials 1.
Within three months, a Member State or the Commission may refer the matter to the Standing Committee set up by Article 5 of Directive 83/189/EEC, giving its reasons.
Article 12 Notified bodies 1.
Member States shall notify the Commission and the other Member States of the bodies which they have appointed to carry out the procedures referred to in Article 10 and Article 11, together with the specific tasks which those bodies have been appointed to carry out and the identification numbers assigned to them beforehand by the Commission.
Bodies meeting the criteria laid down in the relevant harmonized standards shall be presumed to fulfil the corresponding criteria in Annex IV. 3.
A Member State which has notified a body must withdraw such notification if it finds that the body no longer meets the criteria referred to in paragraph 2.
Article 13 Recognized third-party organizations 1.
Organizations meeting the criteria laid down in the relevant harmonized standards shall be presumed to fulfil the corresponding criteria in Annex IV. 3.
A Member State which has recognized an organization must withdraw such recognition if it finds that the organization no longer meets the criteria referred to in paragraph 2.
Article 14 User inspectorates 1.
By way of derogation from the provisions relating to the tasks carried out by the notified bodies, Member States may authorize in their territory the placing on the market, and the putting into service by users, of pressure equipment or assemblies referred to in Article 1 of which conformity with the essential requirements has been assessed by a user inspectorate designated in accordance with the criteria referred to in paragraph 8. 2.
When a Member State has designated a user inspectorate in accordance with the criteria set out in this Article, it may not, on grounds of the hazards due to pressure, prohibit, restrict or impede the placing on the market or putting into service under the conditions provided for in this Article of pressure equipment or assemblies the conformity of which has been assessed by a user inspectorate designated by another Member State in accordance with the criteria set out in this Article. 3.
Pressure equipment and assemblies the conformity of which has been assessed by a user inspectorate shall not bear the CE marking. 4.
The conformity assessment procedures applicable by user inspectorates shall be modules A1, C1, F and G, as described in Annex III. 7.
It shall inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof. 10.
Article 15 CE marking 1.
The CE marking consists of the initials 'CE` in accordance with the model in Annex VI.
The CE marking shall be affixed in a visible, easily legible and indelible fashion to each - item of pressure equipment referred to in Article 3 (1), or - assembly referred to in Article 3 (2) which is complete or is in a state permitting final assessment as described in section 3.2 of Annex I. 3.
Article 16 Unduly affixed CE marking Without prejudice to Article 8: (a) where a Member State establishes that the CE marking has been affixed unduly, the manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, shall be obliged to make the product conform as regards the provisions concerning the CE marking and to end the infringement under the conditions imposed by the Member State; (b) should non-conformity persist, the Member State must take all appropriate measures to restrict or prohibit the placing on the market of the product in question or to ensure that it is withdrawn from the market in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 8.
Article 17 Member States shall take appropriate measures in order to encourage the authorities responsible for implementing this Directive to cooperate with each other and provide each other and the Commission with information in order to assist the functioning of this Directive.
Article 18 Decisions entailing refusal or restriction Any decision taken pursuant to this Directive which restricts the placing on the market and the putting into service or requires the withdrawal from the market of pressure equipment or assemblies shall state the exact grounds on which it is based.
Article 19 Repeal Article 22 of Directive 76/767/EEC shall cease to apply as from 29 November 1999 in respect of pressure equipment and assemblies covered by this Directive.
Article 20 Transposition and transitional provisions 1.
Before 29 May 1999 Member States shall adopt and publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive.
Member States shall apply such provisions as from 29 November 1999. 2.
Article 21 Addressees of the Directive This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 29 May 1997.
GIL-ROBLES For the Council The President A.
JORRITSMA LEBBINK (1) OJ No C 246, 9. 9. 1993, p. 1 and OJ No C 207, 27. 7. 1994, p. 5. (2) OJ No C 52, 19. 2. 1994, p. 10. (3) Opinion of the European Parliament of 19 April 1994 (OJ No C 128, 9. 5. 1994, p. 61), common position of the Council of 29 March 1996 (OJ No C 147, 21. 5. 1996, p. 1), Decision of the European Parliament of 17 July 1996 (OJ No C 261, 9. 9. 1996, p. 68).
Council Decision of 17 April 1997. (4) OJ No C 136, 4. 6. 1985, p. 1. (5) OJ No L 220, 8. 8. 1987, p. 48.
Directive as last amended by Directive 93/68/EEC (OJ No L 220, 30. 8. 1993, p. 1). (6) OJ No L 262, 27. 9. 1976, p. 153.
Directive as last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (7) OJ No L 109, 26. 4. 1983, p. 8.
Directive at last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (8) OJ No L 220, 30. 8. 1993, p. 23. (9) OJ No C 102, 4. 4. 1996, p. 1. (10) OJ No L 147, 9. 6. 1975, p. 40.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 94/1/EC (OJ No L 23, 28. 1. 1994, p. 28). (11) OJ No L 42, 23. 2. 1970, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 95/54/EC (OJ No L 266, 8. 11. 1995, p. 1). (12) OJ No L 84, 28. 3. 1974, p. 10.
Directive as last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (13) OJ No L 225, 10. 8. 1992, p. 72.
Directive as last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (14) OJ No L 183, 29. 6. 1989, p. 9.
Directive as last amended by Directive 93/68/EEC (OJ No L 220, 30. 8. 1993, p. 1). (15) OJ No L 213, 7. 9. 1995, p. 1. (16) OJ No L 77, 26. 3. 1973, p. 29.
Directive as last amended by Directive 93/68/EEC (OJ No L 220, 30. 8. 1993, p. 1). (17) OJ No L 169, 12. 7. 1993, p. 1. (18) OJ No L 196, 26. 7. 1990, p. 15.
Directive as last amended by Directive 93/68/EEC (OJ No L 220, 30. 8. 1993, p. 1). (19) OJ No L 100, 19. 4. 1994, p. 1. (20) ADR = European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road. (21) RID = Regulations concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Rail. (22) IMDG = International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code. (23) ICAO = International Civil Aviation Organization. (24) OJ No 196, 16. 8. 1967, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 94/69/EC (OJ No L 381, 31. 12. 1994, p. 1).
ANNEX I ESSENTIAL SAFETY REQUIREMENTS PRELIMINARY OBSERVATIONS 1.
General The pressure equipment must be properly designed taking all relevant factors into account in order to ensure that the equipment will be safe throughout its intended life.
In particular, the following factors must be taken into account: - internal/external pressure, - ambient and operational temperatures, - static pressure and mass of contents in operating and test conditions, - traffic, wind, earthquake loading, - reaction forces and moments which result from the supports, attachments, piping, etc., - corrosion and erosion, fatigue, etc., - decomposition of unstable fluids.
Design for adequate strength must be based on: - as a general rule, a calculation method, as described in 2.2.3, and supplemented if necessary by an experimental design method as described in 2.2.4, or - an experimental design method without calculation, as described in 2.2.4, when the product of the maximum allowable pressure PS and the volume V is less than 6 000 bar 7L or the product PS 7DN less than 3 000 bar. 2.2.3.
Where a vessel is separated into individual pressure-containing chambers, the partition wall must be designed on the basis of the highest possible chamber pressure relative to the lowest pressure possible in the adjoining chamber, - the calculation temperatures must allow for appropriate safety margins, - the design must take appropriate account of all possible combinations of temperature and pressure which might arise under reasonably foreseeable operating conditions for the equipment, - the maximum stresses and peak stress concentrations must be kept within safe limits, - the calculation for pressure containment must utilize the values appropriate to the properties of the material, based on documented data, having regard to the provisions set out in section 4 together with appropriate safety factors.
Assemblies Assemblies must be so designed that: - the components to be assembled together are suitable and reliable for their duty, - all the components are properly integrated and assembled in an appropriate manner. 2.9.
Safety accessories 2.11.1.
Safety accessories must: - be so designed and constructed as to be reliable and suitable for their intended duty and take into account the maintenance and testing requirements of the devices, where applicable, - be independent of other functions, unless their safety function cannot be affected by such other functions, - comply with appropriate design principles in order to obtain suitable and reliable protection.
MANUFACTURING 3.1.
For pressure equipment in categories II, III and IV, operating procedures and personnel must be approved by a competent third party which, at the manufacturer's discretion, may be: - a notified body, - a third-party organization recognized by a Member State as provided for in Article 13.
To carry out these approvals the third party must perform examinations and tests as set out in the appropriate harmonized standards or equivalent examinations and tests or must have them performed. 3.1.3.
For pressure equipment in categories III and IV, the personnel must be approved by a third-party organization recognized by a Member State pursuant to Article 13. 3.1.4.
Welding consumables and other joining materials need fulfil only the relevant requirements of 4.1, 4.2 (a) and the first paragraph of 4.3, in an appropriate way, both individually and in a joined structure. 4.1.
For the main pressure-bearing parts of equipment in categories II, III and IV, this must take the form of a certificate of specific product control.
The provisions laid down in this section supplement the essential requirements of sections 1 to 6 for the pressure equipment to which they apply. 7.1.
Allowable stresses 7.1.1.
Symbols Re/t , yield limit, indicates the value at the calculation temperature of: - the upper flow limit for a material presenting upper and lower flow limits, - the 1,0 % proof strength of austenitic steel and non-alloyed aluminium, - the 0,2 % proof strength in other cases.
Rm/20 indicates the minimum value of the ultimate strength 20 °C.
Rm/t designates the ultimate strength at the calculation temperature. 7.1.2.
The permissible general membrane stress for predominantly static loads and for temperatures outside the range in which creep is significant must not exceed the smaller of the following values, according to the material used: - in the case of ferritic steel including normalized (normalized rolled) steel and excluding fine-grained steel and specially heat-treated steel, of Re/t and %gt%NUM%gt%5/ %gt%DEN%gt%12 of Rm/20 ; - in the case of austenitic steel: - if its elongation after rupture exceeds 30 %, of Re/t - or, alternatively, and if its elongation after rupture exceeds 35 %, of Re/t and of Rm/t ; - in the case of non-alloy or low-alloy cast steel, %gt%NUM%gt%10/ %gt%DEN%gt%19 of Re/t and of Rm/20 ; - in the case of aluminium, of Re/t ; - in the case of aluminium alloys excluding precipitation hardening alloys of Re/t and %gt%NUM%gt%5/ %gt%DEN%gt%12 of Rm/20 . 7.2.
Hydrostatic test pressure For pressure vessels, the hydrostatic test pressure referred to in 3.2.2 must be no less than: - that corresponding to the maximum loading to which the pressure equipment may be subject in service taking into account its maximum allowable pressure and its maximum allowable temperature, multiplied by the coefficient 1,25, or - the maximum allowable pressure multiplied by the coefficient 1,43, whichever is the greater. 7.5.
Material characteristics Unless other values are required in accordance with other criteria that must be taken into account, a steel is considered as sufficiently ductile to satisfy 4.1 (a) if, in a tensile test carried out by a standard procedure, its elongation after rupture is no less than 14 % and its bending rupture energy measured on an ISO V test-piece is no less than 27 J, at a temperature not greater than 20 °C but not higher than the lowest scheduled operating temperature.
ANNEX II CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT TABLES 1.
The references in the tables to categories of modules are the following: I = Module A II = Module A1, D1, E1 III = Modules B1 + D, B1 + F, B + E, B + C1, H IV = Modules B + D, B + F, G, H1 2.
The safety accessories defined in Article 1, Section 2.1.3, and referred to in Article 3, Section 1.4, are classified in category IV.
The pressure accessories defined in Article 1, Section 2.1.4, and referred to in Article 3, Section 1.4, are classified on the basis of: - their maximum allowable pressure PS, and - their volume V or their nominal size DN, as appropriate, and - the group of fluids for which they are intended, and the appropriate table for vessels or piping is to be used to determine the conformity assessment category.
The demarcation lines in the following conformity assessment tables indicate the upper limit for each category. %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Table 1 Vessels referred to in Article 3, Section 1.1 (a), first indent %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% Exceptionally, vessels intended to contain an unstable gas and falling within categories I or II on the basis of table 1 must be classified in category III.%gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Table 2 Vessels referred to in Article 3, Section 1.1 (a), second indent %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% Exceptionally, portable extinguishers and bottles for breathing equipment must be classified at least in category III.%gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Table 3 Vessels referred to in Article 3, Section 1.1 (b), first indent %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Table 4 Vessels referred to in Article 3, Section 1.1 (b), second indent %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% Exceptionally, assemblies intended for generating warm water as referred to in Article 3, Section 2.3, must be subject either to an EC design examination (Module B1) with respect to their conformity with the essential requirements referred to in Sections 2.10, 2.11, 3.4, 5 (a) and 5 (d) of Annex I, or to full quality assurance (Module H).%gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Table 5 Pressure equipment referred to in Article 3, Section 1.2 %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% Exceptionally, the design of pressure-cookers must be subject to a conformity assessment procedure equivalent to at least one of the category III modules.%gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Table 6 Piping referred to in Article 3, Section 1.3 (a), first indent %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% Exceptionally, piping intended for unstable gases and falling within categories I or II on the basis of Table 6 must be classified in category III.%gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Table 7 Piping referred to in Article 3, Section 1.3 (a), second indent %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% Exceptionally, all piping containing fluids at a temperature greater than 350 °C and falling within category II on the basis of Table 7 must be classified in category III.%gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Table 8 Piping referred to in Article 3, Section 1.3 (b), first indent %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Table 9 Piping referred to in Article 3, Section 1.3 (b), second indent %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% ANNEX III CONFORMITY ASSESSMENT PROCEDURES The obligations arising from the provisions on pressure equipment in this Annex also apply to assemblies.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community who carries out the obligations laid down in section 2 ensures and declares that pressure equipment satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must affix the CE marking to each item of pressure equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity. 2.
The manufacturer must draw up the technical documentation described in section 3 and either the manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community must keep it at the disposal of the relevant national authorities for inspection purposes for a period of ten years after the last of the pressure equipment has been manufactured.
It must, as far as is relevant for such assessment, cover the design, manufacture and operation of the pressure equipment and contain: - a general description of the pressure equipment, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and diagrams of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for an understanding of the said drawings and diagrams and the operation of the pressure equipment, - a list of the standards referred to in Article 5, applied in full or in part, and a description of the solutions adopted to meet the essential requirements of the Directive where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied, - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports. 4.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must keep a copy of the declaration of conformity with the technical documentation. 5.
The manufacturer must take all measures necessary to ensure that the manfacturing process requires the manufactured pressure equipment to comply with the technical documentation referred to in section 2 and with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
Module B (EC type-examination) 1.
This module describes the part of the procedure by which a notified body ascertains and attests that a representative example of the production in question meets the provisions of the Directive which apply to it. 2.
The application for EC type-examination must be lodged by the manufacturer or by his authorized representative established within the Community with a single notified body of his choice.
The application must include: - the name and address of the manufacturer and, if the application is lodged by the authorized representative, his name and address as well, - a written declaration that the same application has not been lodged with any other notified body, - the technical documentation described in section 3.
It must, as far as is relevant for such assessment, cover the design, manufacture and operation of the pressure equipment and contain: - a general description of the type, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and diagrams of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for an understanding of the said drawings and diagrams and the operation of the pressure equipment, - a list of the standards referred to in Article 5, applied in full or in part, and descriptions of the solutions adopted to meet the essential requirements of the Directive where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied, - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports, - information concerning the tests provided for in manufacture, - information concerning the qualifications or approvals required under sections 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of Annex I. 4.
The notified body must: 4.1.
examine the technical documentation, verify that the type has been manufactured in conformity with it and identify the components designed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the standards referred to in Article 5, as well as those designed without applying the provisions of those standards.
In particular, the notified body must: - examine the technical documentation with respect to the design and the manufacturing procedures, - assess the materials used where these are not in conformity with the relevant harmonized standards or with a European approval for pressure equipment materials, and check the certificate issued by the material manufacturer in accordance with section 4.3 of Annex I, - approve the procedures for the permanent joining of pressure equipment parts, or check that they have been previously approved in accordance with section 3.1.2 of Annex I, - verify that the personnel undertaking the permanent joining of pressure equipment parts and the non-destructive tests are qualified or approved in accordance with sections 3.1.2 or 3.1.3 of Annex I. 4.2.
perform or have performed the appropriate examinations and necessary tests to establish whether the solutions adopted by the manufacturer meet the essential requirements of the Directive where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied. 4.3.
Provision must be made for an appeals procedure. 6.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning EC type-examination certificates which it has withdrawn, and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the EC type-examination certificates it has withdrawn or refused. 8.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must keep with the technical documentation copies of EC type-examination certificates and their additions for a period of ten years after the last of the pressure equipment has been manufactured.
Module B1 (EC design-examination) 1.
The application must include: - the name and address of the manufacturer and, if the application is lodged by the authorized representative, his name and address as well, - a written declaration that the same application has not been lodged with any other notified body, - the technical documentation described in section 3.
The notified body must: 4.1.
examine the technical documentation and identify the components which have been designed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the standards referred to in Article 5, as well as those which have been designed without applying the relevant provisions of those standards.
perform the necessary examinations to establish whether the solutions adopted by the manufacturer meet the essential requirements of the Directive where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied. 4.3.
Provision must be made for an appeals procedure. 6.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning EC design-examination certificates which it has withdrawn, and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the EC design-examination certificates it has withdrawn or refused. 8.
The other notified bodies may on request obtain the relevant information concerning: - the EC design-examination certificates and additions granted, - the EC design-examination certificates and additions withdrawn. 9.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must keep with the technical documentation referred to in section 3 copies of EC design-examination certificates and their additions for a period of ten years after the last of the pressure equipment has been manufactured.
This module describes that part of the procedure whereby the manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, ensures and declares that pressure equipment is in conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must affix the CE marking to each item of pressure equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity. 2.
The manufacturer must take all measures necessary to ensure that the manufacturing process requires the manufactured pressure equipment to comply with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it. 3.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must keep a copy of the declaration of conformity for a period of ten years after the last of the pressure equipment has been manufactured.
Module D (production quality assurance) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of section 2 ensures and declares that the pressure equipment concerned is in conformity with the type described in the EC type-examination certificate or EC design-examination certificate and satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must affix the CE marking to each item of pressure equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity.
The CE marking must be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for surveillance as specified in section 4. 2.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for production, final inspection and testing as specified in section 3 and be subject to surveillance as specified in section 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information on the pressure equipment concerned, - the documentation concerning the quality system, - the technical documentation for the approved type and a copy of the EC type-examination certificate or EC design-examination certificate. 3.2.
The quality system must ensure compliance of the pressure equipment with the type described in the EC type-examination certificate or EC design-examination certificate and with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
This quality system documentation must permit a consistent interpretation of the quality programmes, plans, manuals and records.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organizational structure, responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to the quality of the pressure equipment, - the manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic measures that will be used, particularly the procedures used for the permanent joining of parts as approved in accordance with section 3.1.2 of Annex I, - the examinations and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications or approvals of the personnel concerned, particularly those of the personnel undertaking the joining of parts and the non-destructive tests in accordance with sections 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of Annex I, - the means of monitoring the achievement of the required quality and the effective operation of the quality system. 3.3.
The elements of the quality system which conform to the relevant harmonized standard are presumed to comply with the corresponding requirements referred to in 3.2.
Provision must be made for an appeals procedure. 3.4.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must inform the notified body that has approved the quality system of any intended adjustment to the quality system.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 4.1.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body access for inspection purposes to the locations of manufacture, inspection, testing and storage and provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The frequency of periodic audits must be such that a full reassessment is carried out every three years. 4.4.
The manufacturer must, for a period of ten years after the last of the pressure equipment has been manufactured, hold at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of 3.1; - the adjustments referred to in the second paragraph of 3.4; - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the last paragraph of 3.3, the last paragraph of 3.4, and in 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals which it has withdrawn, and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals it has withdrawn or refused.
Module D1 (production quality assurance) 1.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must affix the CE marking to each item of pressure equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity.
The CE marking must be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for surveillance as specified in section 5. 2.
It must, as far as is relevant for such assessment, cover the design, manufacture and operation of the pressure equipment and contain: - a general description of the pressure equipment, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and diagrams of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for an understanding of the said drawings and diagrams and the operation of the pressure equipment, - a list of the standards referred to in Article 5, applied in full or in part, and descriptions of the solutions adopted to meet the essential requirements of the Directive where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied, - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports. 3.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for production, final inspection and testing as specified in section 4 and be subject to surveillance as specified in section 5. 4.
Quality system 4.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information on the pressure equipment concerned, - the documentation concerning the quality system. 4.2.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organizational structure, responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to the quality of the pressure equipment, - the manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic measures that will be used, particularly the procedures used for the permanent joining of parts as approved in accordance with section 3.1.2 of Annex I, - the examinations and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications or approvals of the personnel concerned, particularly those of the personnel undertaking the permanent joining of parts in accordance with section 3.1.2 of Annex I, - the means of monitoring the achievement of the required quality and the effective operation of the quality system. 4.3.
Provision must be made for an appeals procedure. 4.4.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must inform the notified body that has approved the quality system of any intended adjustment to the quality system.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 5.1.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body access for inspection purposes to the locations of manufacture, inspection, testing and storage and provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 5.3.
The frequency of periodic audits must be such that a full reassessment is carried out every three years. 5.4.
The manufacturer must, for a period of ten years after the last of the pressure equipment has been manufactured, hold at the disposal of the national authorities: - the technical documentation referred to in section 2, - the documention referred to in the second indent of 4.1, - the adjustments referred to in the second paragraph of 4.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the last paragraph of 4.3, the last paragraph of 4.4, and in 5.3 and 5.4. 7.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals which it has withdrawn, and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals it has withdrawn or refused.
Module E (product quality assurance) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of section 2 ensures and declares that the pressure equipment is in conformity with the type as described in the EC type-examination certificate and satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must affix the CE marking to each product and draw up a written declaration of conformity.
The CE marking must be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for surveillance as specified in section 4. 2.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for the final pressure equipment inspection and testing as specified in section 3 and be subject to surveillance as specified in section 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information on the pressure equipment concerned, - the documentation concerning the quality system, - the technical documentation for the approved type and a copy of the EC type-examination certificate. 3.2.
Under the quality system, each item of pressure equipment must be examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5, or equivalent tests, particularly final assessment as referred to in section 3.2 of Annex I, must be carried out in order to ensure its conformity with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organizational structure, responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to the quality of the pressure equipment, - the examinations and tests to be carried out after manufacture, - the means of monitoring the effective operation of the quality system, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications or approvals of the personnel concerned, particularly those of the personnel undertaking the permanent joining of parts and the non-destructive tests in accordance with sections 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of Annex I. 3.3.
The notification must contain the conclusions of the examination and the reasoned assessment decision. 3.4.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must inform the notified body which has approved the quality system of any intended adjustment to the quality system.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 4.1.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body access for inspection purposes to the locations of inspection, testing and storage and provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the technical documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The frequency of periodic audits must be such that a full reassessment is carried out every three years. 4.4.
The manufacturer must, for a period of ten years after the last of the pressure equipment has been manufactured, hold at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of 3.1, - the adjustments referred to in the second paragraph of 3.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the last paragraph of 3.3, the last paragraph of 3.4, and in 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals which it has withdrawn and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals it has withdrawn or refused.
Module E1 (product quality assurance) 1.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must affix the CE marking to each item of pressure equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity.
The CE marking must be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for surveillance as specified in section 5. 2.
It must, as far as is relevant for such assessment, cover the design, manufacture and operation of the pressure equipment and contain: - a general description of the pressure equipment, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and diagrams of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for an understanding of the said drawings and diagrams and the operation of the pressure equipment, - a list of the standards referred to in Article 5, applied in full or in part, and descriptions of the solutions adopted to meet the essential requirements of the Directive where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied, - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports. 3.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for the final pressure equipment inspection and testing as specified in section 4 and be subject to surveillance as specified in section 5. 4.
Quality system 4.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information on the pressure equipment concerned, - the documentation concerning the quality system. 4.2.
Under the quality system, each item of pressure equipment must be examined and appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5, or equivalent tests, and particularly final assessment as referred to in section 3.2 of Annex I, must be carried out in order to ensure its conformity with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organizational structure, responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to the quality of the pressure equipment, - the procedures used for the permanent joining of parts as approved in accordance with section 3.1.2 of Annex I, - the examinations and tests to be carried out after manufacture, - the means of monitoring the effective operation of the quality system, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications or approvals of the personnel concerned, particularly those of the personnel undertaking the permanent joining of parts in accordance with section 3.1.2 of Annex I. 4.3.
The elements of the quality system which conform to the relevant harmonized standard are presumed to comply with the corresponding requirements referred to in 4.2.
Provision must be made for an appeals procedure. 4.4.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must inform the notified body which has approved the quality system of any intended adjustment to the quality system.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 5.1.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body access for inspection purposes to the locations of inspection, testing and storage and provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the technical documentation, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 5.3.
The frequency of periodic audits must be such that a full reassessment is carried out every three years. 5.4.
The manufacturer must, for a period of ten years after the last of the pressure equipment has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the technical documentation referred to in section 2, - the documentation referred to in the second indent of 4.1, - the adjustments referred to in the second paragraph of 4.4, - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the last paragraph of 4.3, the last paragraph of 4.4 and in 5.3 and 5.4. 7.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals which it has withdrawn and, on request, those is has issued.
Each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals it has withdrawn or refused.
Module F (product verification) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby a manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, ensures and declares that the pressure equipment subject to the provisions of section 3 is in conformity with the type described: - in the EC type-examination certificate, or - in the EC design-examination certificate and satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it. 2.
The manufacturer must take all measures necessary to ensure that the manufacturing process requires the pressure equipment to comply with the type described - in the EC type-examination certificate, or - in the EC design-examination certificate and with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must affix the CE marking to all pressure equipment and draw up a declaration of conformity. 3.
The notified body must perform the appropriate examinations and tests in order to check the conformity of the pressure equipment with the relevant requirements of the Directive by examining and testing every product in accordance with section 4.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must keep a copy of the declaration of conformity for a period of ten years after the last of the pressure equipment has been manufactured. 4.
Each item of pressure equipment must be individually examined and must undergo appropriate examinations and tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5 or equivalent examinations and tests in order to verify that it conforms to the type and the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
In particular, the notified body must: - verify that the personnel undertaking the permanent joining of parts and the non-destructive tests are qualified or approved in accordance with sections 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of Annex I, - verify the certificate issued by the materials manufacturer in accordance with section 4.3 of Annex I, - carry out or have carried out the final inspection and proof test referred to in section 3.2 of Annex I and examine the safety devices, if applicable. 4.2.
Module G (EC unit verification) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer ensures and declares that pressure equipment which has been issued with the certificate referred to in section 4.1 satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The technical documentation must contain: - a general description of the pressure equipment, - conceptual design and manufacturing drawings and diagrams of components, sub-assemblies, circuits, etc., - descriptions and explanations necessary for an understanding of the said drawings and diagrams and the operation of the pressure equipment, - a list of the standards referred to in Article 5, applied in full or in part, and descriptions of the solutions adopted to meet the essential requirements of the Directive where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied, - results of design calculations made, examinations carried out, etc., - test reports, - appropriate details relating to the approval of the manufacturing and test procedures and of the qualifications or approvals of the personnel concerned in accordance with sections 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of Annex I. 4.
The notified body must examine the design and construction of each item of pressure equipment and during manufacture perform appropriate tests as set out in the relevant standard(s) referred to in Article 5 of the Directive, or equivalent examinations and tests, to ensure its conformity with the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
In particular the notified body must: - examine the technical documentation with respect to the design and the manufacturing procedures, - assess the materials used where these are not in conformity with the relevant harmonized standards or with a European approval for pressure equipment materials, and check the certificate issued by the material manufacturer in accordance with section 4.3 of Annex I, - approve the procedures for the permanent joining of parts or check that they have been previously approved in accordance with section 3.1.2 of Annex I, - verify the qualifications or approvals required under sections 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of Annex I, - carry out the final inspection referred to in section 3.2.1 of Annex I, perform or have performed the proof test referred to in section 3.2.2 of Annex I, and examine the safety devices, if applicable. 4.1.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must ensure that the declaration of conformity and certificate of conformity issued by the notified body can be made available on request.
Module H (full quality assurance) 1.
This module describes the procedure whereby the manufacturer who satisfies the obligations of section 2 ensures and declares that the pressure equipment in question satisfies the requirements of the Directive which apply to it.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must affix the CE marking to each item of pressure equipment and draw up a written declaration of conformity.
The CE marking must be accompanied by the identification number of the notified body responsible for surveillance as specified in section 4. 2.
The manufacturer must implement an approved quality system for design, manufacture, final inspection and testing as specified in section 3 and be subject to surveillance as specified in section 4. 3.
Quality system 3.1.
The application must include: - all relevant information concerning the pressure equipment in question, - the documentation concerning the quality system. 3.2.
It must contain in particular an adequate description of: - the quality objectives and the organizational structure, responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to the quality of the design and to product quality, - the technical design specifications, including standards, that will be applied and, where the standards referred to in Article 5 are not applied in full, the means that will be used to ensure that the essential requirements of the Directive which apply to the pressure equipment will be met, - the design control and design verification techniques, processes and systematic measures that will be used when designing the pressure equipment, particularly with regard to materials in accordance with section 4 of Annex I, - the corresponding manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic measures that will be used, particularly the procedures for the permanent joining of parts as approved in accordance with section 3.1.2 of Annex I, - the examinations and tests to be carried out before, during, and after manufacture, and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications or approvals of the personnel concerned, particularly those of the personnel undertaking the permanent joining of parts and the non-destructive tests in accordance with sections 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of Annex I, - the means of monitoring the achievement of the required pressure equipment design and quality and the effective operation of the quality system. 3.3.
The elements of the quality system which conform to the relevant harmonized standard are presumed to comply with the corresponding requirements referred to in 3.2.
Provision must be made for an appeals procedure. 3.4.
The manufacturer, or his authorized representative established within the Community, must inform the notified body that has approved the quality system of any intended adjustment to the quality system.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 4.1.
The manufacturer must allow the notified body access for inspection purposes to the locations of design, manufacture, inspection, testing and storage and provide it with all necessary information, in particular: - the quality system documentation, - the quality records provided for in the design part of the quality system, such as results of analyses, calculations, tests, etc., - the quality records provided for in the manufacturing part of the quality system, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, reports concerning the qualifications of the personnel concerned, etc. 4.3.
The frequency of periodic audits must be such that a full reassessment is carried out every three years. 4.4.
The manufacturer must, for a period of ten years after the last of the pressure equipment has been manufactured, keep at the disposal of the national authorities: - the documentation referred to in the second indent of the second subparagraph of 3.1; - the adjustments referred to in the second subparagraph of 3.4; - the decisions and reports from the notified body which are referred to in the last subparagraph of 3.3, the last subparagraph of 3.4, and in 4.3 and 4.4. 6.
Each notified body must communicate to the Member States the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals which it has withdrawn, and, on request, those it has issued.
Each notified body must also communicate to the other notified bodies the relevant information concerning the quality system approvals it has withdrawn or refused.
It must include: - the technical design specifications, including standards, which have been applied, - the necessary supporting evidence for their adequacy, in particular where the standards referred to in Article 5 have not been applied in full.
Final assessment as referred to in section 3.2 of Annex I is subject to increased surveillance in the form of unexpected visits by the notified body.
ANNEX IV MINIMUM CRITERIA TO BE MET WHEN DESIGNATING THE NOTIFIED BODIES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 12 AND THE RECOGNIZED THIRD-PARTY ORGANIZATIONS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 13 1.
The body and its personnel must carry out the assessments and verifications with the highest degree of professional integrity and technical competence and must be free from all pressures and inducements, particularly financial, which might influence their judgment or the results of the inspection, especially from persons or groups of persons with an interest in the results of verifications. 3.
The body must have at its disposal the necessary personnel and possess the necessary facilities to enable it to perform properly the technical and administrative tasks connected with the inspection and surveillance operations, it must also have access to the equipment required to perform special verifications. 4.
ANNEX V CRITERIA TO BE MET WHEN AUTHORIZING USER INSPECTORATES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 14 1.
The various components of the CE marking must have substantially the same vertical dimension, which may not be less than 5 mm.
ANNEX VII DECLARATION OF CONFORMITY The EC declaration of conformity must contain the following particulars: - name and address of the manufacturer or of his authorized representative established within the Community, - description of the pressure equipment or assembly, - conformity assessment procedure followed, - in the case of assemblies, description of the pressure equipment constituting the assembly, and the conformity assessment procedures followed, - where appropriate, name and address of the notified body which carried out the inspection, - where appropriate, a reference to the EC type-examination certificate, EC design-examination certificate or EC certificate of conformity, - where appropriate, name and address of the notified body monitoring the manufacturer's quality assurance system, - where appropriate, the references of the harmonized standards applied, - where appropriate, other technical standards and specifications used, - where appropriate, the references of the other Community Directives applied, - particulars of the signatory authorized to sign the legally binding declaration for the manufacturer or his authorized representative established within the Community.
