A market-driven funding programme for intermodality is a central instrument to further develop intermodality and should specifically support the set-up of Motorways of the Sea, ensuring, inter alia, an improvement in economic, social and territorial cohesion, and in rail and inland waterway transport. (2) If no decisive action is taken, total road freight transport in Europe is set to grow by more than 60 % by 2013.
The Marco Polo Programme established by Regulation (EC) No 1382/2003 should therefore be replaced. (5) The Marco Polo II Programme features different types of action which should contribute to a measurable and sustained modal shift and better cooperation in the intermodal market.
Furthermore, actions under the Marco Polo II Programme should also contribute to an actual reduction in international road freight transport. (6) Actions to be funded under the Marco Polo II Programme should be international in geographic scope.
Special care should be taken to avoid such distortions, so that actions contribute to shifting freight from road transport to alternative modes, rather than withdrawing freight from an existing rail, short sea shipping or inland waterway service. (15) Since the objective of the Marco Polo II Programme cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scope of the Programme, be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
Article 3 Scope 1.
Where an action involves the territory of a third country, costs arising in the territory of that country shall not be covered by the Programme, except in the circumstances set out in paragraphs 3 and 4. 3.
Participation shall be governed by the conditions laid down in the Association Agreements with those countries, and on the basis of the rules laid down in the decision of the Association Council for each country concerned. 4.
CHAPTER II ELIGIBLE APPLICANTS AND ACTIONS Article 4 Eligible applicants 1.
Actions shall be submitted by a consortium of two or more undertakings, established in at least two different Member States or in at least one Member State and one close third country, or may in the case of a transport link with a close third country, in exceptional cases, be submitted by a single undertaking established in a Member State. 2.
Article 5 Eligible actions and funding conditions 1.
The funding conditions for ancillary infrastructures within the meaning of Article 2(h) are set out in Annex II. 3.
Without prejudice to the overall policy objectives referred to in Article 1, annual priorities in the call for applications relating to catalyst actions and common learning actions shall be established and, if necessary, reviewed, by the Commission, assisted by the Committee referred to in Article 10 and in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10(2).
Article 6 Detailed rules Detailed rules concerning the procedure for submission and selection of actions under the Programme shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10(2).
Article 7 State aid Community financial assistance for the actions covered by the Programme shall not prevent those actions from being granted State aid at national, regional or local level, insofar as such aid is compatible with the State-aid arrangements laid down in the Treaty and within the cumulative limits established for each type of action set out in Annex I.
The total aid granted in the form of State aid and Community financial assistance in respect of ancillary infrastructure shall not exceed 50 % of eligible costs.
CHAPTER III SUBMISSION AND SELECTION OF ACTIONS Article 8 Submission of actions Actions shall be submitted to the Commission in accordance with the detailed rules issued under Article 6.
Article 9 Selection of actions for financial assistance Submitted actions shall be evaluated by the Commission.
CHAPTER IV FINAL PROVISIONS Article 10 Committee 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by a committee. 2.
The period laid down in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. 3.
Article 11 Budget The financial envelope for the implementation of the Marco Polo II Programme, for the period 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013, shall be EUR 400 million [8].
Article 12 Reserve for accompanying measures and Programme evaluation Up to 5 % of the budget provided for in this Regulation shall be set aside for accompanying measures and independent evaluation of the implementation of Article 5.
Article 13 Protection of the European Communities' financial interests 1.
For the actions financed under this Regulation, the notion of irregularity referred to in Article 1 of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 shall mean any infringement of a provision of Community law or any breach of a contractual obligation resulting from an act or omission by an economic operator, which has, or might have, the effect of prejudicing the general budget of the European Union or budgets managed by it, by an unjustified item of expenditure. 3.
Article 14 Evaluation 1.
The Commission shall present to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions an evaluation report on the results achieved by the Marco Polo Programme for the period 2003 to 2006 by 30 June 2007.
The entire evaluation and selection procedure for the year 2006 shall also be governed by Regulation (EC) No 1382/2003, even if that procedure ends in the year 2007.
Done at Strasbourg, 24 October 2006.
For the European Parliament The President J.
Borell Fontelles For the Council The President P.
LehtomĂ¤ki [1] OJ C 234, 22.9.2005, p. 19. [2] Opinion of the European Parliament of 17 May 2006 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and Decision of the Council of 12 October 2006. [3] OJ L 196, 2.8.2003, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC) No 788/2004 (OJ L 138, 30.4.2004, p. 17). [4] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23.
Decision as last amended by Decision 2006/512/EC (OJ L 200, 22.7.2006, p. 11). [5] OJ C 139, 14.6.2006, p. 1. [6] OJ L 228, 9.9.1996, p. 1.
Motorways of the sea | C.
Common learning | | Article 5(1)(a) | Article 5(1)(b) | Article 5(1)(c) | Article 5(1)(d) | Article 5(1)(e) | 1.
Such expenditure shall be eligible for Community financial assistance, to the extent to which it relates directly to the implementation of the action; | (a)Community financial assistance for MoS actions shall be limited to a maximum of 35 % of the total expenditure necessary to achieve the objectives of the action and incurred as a result of the action, including preparatory measures and ancillary infrastructure.
Such expenditure shall be eligible for Community financial assistance, to the extent to which it relates directly to the implementation of the action; | (a)Community financial assistance for modal shift actions shall be limited to a maximum of 35 % of the total expenditure necessary to achieve the objectives of the action and incurred as a result of the action.
Such expenditure shall be eligible for Community financial assistance to the extent to which it relates directly to the implementation of the action; | (a)Community financial assistance for traffic avoidance actions shall be limited to a maximum of 35 % of the total expenditure necessary to achieve the objectives of the action and incurred as a result of the action, including preparatory measures and ancillary infrastructure and equipment.
Such expenditure shall be eligible for Community financial assistance, to the extent to which it relates directly to the implementation of the action; | (a)Community financial assistance for common learning actions shall be limited to a maximum of 50 % of the total expenditure necessary to achieve the objectives of the action and incurred as a result of the action.
A contribution towards the costs of movable assets shall be contingent on the obligation to use such assets for the duration of the assistance, principally for the action, as defined by the subsidy agreement; | Expenditure incurred on or after the date of the submission of an application under the selection procedure shall be eligible for Community financial assistance provided that final approval for Community funding is given; | | | | | (b)Community financial assistance for traffic avoidance actions must not be used to support business or production activities which bear no direct relation to transport or distribution; | | | (b)The funding conditions for ancillary infrastructure are set out in Annex II; | (b)The Community financial assistance, except for preparatory measures and ancillary infrastructure, determined by the Commission on the basis of the tonne-kilometres shifted from road to short sea shipping, rail, inland waterways, shall initially be set at EUR 1 for each shift of 500 tonne-kilometres of road freight.
This indicative amount could be adjusted, in particular, in accordance with the quality of the project or the real environmental benefit obtained; | (b)The Community financial assistance, except for ancillary infrastructure, determined by the Commission on the basis of the tonne-kilometres shifted from road to short sea shipping, rail, inland waterways shall initially be set at EUR 1 for each shift of 500 tonne-kilometres of road freight.
This indicative amount could be adjusted, in particular, in accordance with the quality of the project or the real environmental benefit obtained; | (c)The Community financial assistance, except for preparatory measures, ancillary infrastructure and equipment, shall initially be set at EUR 1 for every avoidance of 500 tonne-kilometres or 25 vehicle-kilometres of road freight.
As a rule, the maximum duration of these agreements shall be 62 months; | Community financial assistance for MoS actions shall be granted on the basis of subsidy agreements, with appropriate provisions for steering and monitoring.
As a rule, the maximum duration of these agreements shall be 62 months; | Community financial assistance for modal shift actions shall be granted on the basis of subsidy agreements.
As a rule, the maximum duration of these agreements shall be 38 months; | Community financial assistance for traffic avoidance actions shall be granted on the basis of subsidy agreements, with appropriate provisions for steering and monitoring.
As a rule, the maximum duration of these agreements shall be 62 months; | Community financial assistance for common learning actions shall be granted on the basis of subsidy agreements, with appropriate provisions for steering and monitoring.
