This Directive shall not affect the national rules applicable to pet animals, although their retention may not jeopardize the abolition of veterinary checks at the frontiers between Member States. (¹) OJ No L 373, 31. 12. 1990, p. 1.
Amended by Directive 91/496/EEC (OJ No L 268, 24. 9. 1991, p. 56).
For the purposes of this Directive: (a) 'trade' means trade as defined by Article 2 (3) of Directive 90/425/EEC; (b) 'animals' means specimens of animal species other than those referred to in Directives 64/432/EEC, 90/426/EEC (²), 90/539/EEC (³), 91/67/EEC (%amp% {È%};), 91/68/EEC (%amp% {È%amp% };), 91/492/EEC (%amp% {È(};) and 91/493/EEC (%amp% {È)};); (c) 'approved body, institute or centre' means any permanent, geographically limited establishment, approved in accordance with Article 13, where one or more species of animal are habitually kept or bred, whether or not for commercial ends, and exclusively for one or more of the following purposes: - display of the animals and education of the public - conservation of the species; - basic or applied scientific research or breeding of animals for the purposes of such research; (d) 'notifiable diseases' means the diseases listed in Annex A. 2.
Article 4 Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that, for the purposes of applying Article 4 (1) (a) of Directive 90/425/EEC, the animals referred to in Articles 5 to 10 of this Directive may without prejudice to Article 13 and to the particular provisions to be adopted in implementation of Article 24, be the subject of trade only if they satisfy the conditions laid down in Articles 5 to 10 and come from the holdings or businesses referred to in Article 12 (1) and (3) of this Directive which are registered by the competent authority and which undertake to: - have the animals held examined regularly in accordance with Article 3 (3) of Directive 90/425/EEC, - notify the competent authority, aside from the outbreak of notifiable diseases, of the outbreak of the diseases referred to in Annex B for which the Member State concerned has drawn up a control or monitoring programme, - comply with the specific national measures to control a disease which is of particular importance to a given Member State and is covered by a programme drawn up in accordance with Article 14 or a decision under Articles 15 (2), - place on the market for the purposes of trade only animals which show no signs of disease and which come from holdings or areas not subject to any ban on animal health grounds and with respect to animals not accompanied by a health certificate or a commercial document provided for in Articles 5 to 11, only animals accompanied by self-certification by the operator stating that the animals in question do not at the time of dispatch show any obvious signs of disease and that his holding is not subject to any animal-health restrictions, - comply with the requirements ensuring the welfare of the animals held.
Member States shall ensure that trade in apes (simiae and prosimiae) is restricted solely to animals consigned from and to a body, institute or centre approved by the competent authorities of the Member States in accordance with Article 13 and that such animals are accompanied by a veterinary certificate corresponding to the specimen in Annex E, the declaration in which must be completed by the official veterinarian of the body, institute or centre of origin to guarantee the animals' health. 2.
The requirements as regards these tests and the definition of the tuberculosis and brucellosis status of these holdings shall be established in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 26 of this Directive.
Article 8 Member States shall ensure that bees (Apis melifera) may be the subject of trade only if they meet the following requirements: (a) come from an area which is not the subject of a prohibition order associated with an occurrence of American foulbrood.
Ireland and the United Kingdom may without prejudice to paragraphs 2 and 3, retain their national regulations on quarantine for all carnivores, primates, bats and other animals susceptible to rabies covered by this Directive which cannot be shown to have been born on the holding of origin and kept in captivity since birth, although the retention of those regulations may not jeopardize the abolition of veterinary checks at the frontiers between Member States. 5.
This region or these regions must cover at least 6 000 km² or the total national area of a Member State and may include adjacent areas of a third country; (c) detailed information regarding the vaccines to be used, the distribution system, the density and frequency of bait-laying; (d) where appropriate, all details and the cost and purpose of schemes to conserve or preserve flora and fauna undertaken by voluntary organizations on the territory covered by these projects.' 6.
Semen of the ovine, caprine and equine species must, without prejudice to any criteria to be complied with for the entry of equids in stud books for certain specific breeds: - have been collected and processed with a view to artificial insemination in a centre approved from the health point of view in accordance with Annex D (I), or, in the case of ovine and caprine animals by way of derogation from the above, in a holding satisfying the requirements of Directive 91/68/EEC, - have been collected from animals meeting the conditions laid down in Annex D (II) (admission and routine checks on animals), - have been collected, processed and preserved in accordance with Annex D (III), - have been accompanied during transport to another Member State by a health certificate corresponding to a specimen to be determined under the procedure provided for in Article 26. 3.
Semen used for the insemination of donor females must comply with the provisions of paragraph 2 in the case of sheep, goats and equids and with the provisions of Directive 90/429/EEC for swine.
Article 10 of Directive 90/425/EEC shall apply to animals, semen, ova and embryos covered by this Directive. 3.
For the purpose of trade, Article 12 of Directive 90/425/EEC shall extend to dealers who keep, on a permanent or occasional basis, animals referred to in Articles 7, 9 and 10. 4.
The communication of the place of destination as provided for in Article 4 (2) of Directive 90/425/EEC shall, in respect of animals, semen, ova or embryos accompanied by a health certificate in accordance with this Directive, take place using the Animo system. 5.
Trade in animals of species susceptible to the diseases listed in Annex A or to the diseases listed in Annex B, where the Member State of destination applies the guarantee provided for in Articles 14 and 15, and trade in semen, ova or embryos of such animals consigned to and from bodies, institutes or centres approved in accordance with Annex C shall be subject to production of a transport document corresponding to the specimen in Annex E.
Programmes may be approved under the procedure provided for in Article 26 in compliance with the criteria laid down in paragraph 1.
Under the same procedure, amendments may be made to the guarantees referred to in paragraph 2.
CHAPTER III Provisions applicable to imports into the Community Article 16 The conditions applicable to imports of animals, semen, ova and embryos covered by this Directive must be at least equivalent to those laid down in Chapter II.
Article 19 The following shall be decided under the procedure laid down in Article 26: (a) specific animal health requirements, for imports into the Community, and the nature and content of accompanying documents for animals intended for zoos, circuses, amusement parks or experimental laboratories, according to the species; (b) additional guarantees to those provided for in respect of the various animal species covered by this Directive, to protect the Community species concerned.
Article 20 The principles and rules laid down in Directive 90/675/EEC shall apply, with particular reference to the organization of and follow-up to the inspections to be carried out by the Member States and the safeguard measures to be implemented.
CHAPTER IV Common final provisions Article 21 Any specimens of certificates applicable to trade and the animal health conditions to be met in order for it to be possible to trade in animals, semen, ova and embryos other than those covered by Article 5 to 11 shall, where the need arise, be determined under the procedure laid down in Article 26.
Article 22 The Annexes to this Directive shall, where the need arises, be amended under the procedure laid down in Article 26.
Article 23 Under the procedure laid down in Article 26, special requirements may be laid down, if appropriate, by way of derogation from Article 6 (A) (1) (e) and from Chapter II, for the movement of circus and fairground animals and for trade in animals, semen, ova and embryos intended for zoos.
Article 27 Member States which implement an alternative control system providing guarantees equivalent to those laid down in this Directive as regards movements within their terrritory of the animals, semen, ova and embryos which it covers, may grant one another derogations from Article 6 (A) (1) (f), Article 8 (b) and Article 11 (1) (d) on a reciprocal basis.
The methods of making such a reference shall be laid down by the Member States. 2.
Article 30 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 13 July 1992.
Last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 197/90 (OJ No L 29, 31. 1. 1990, p. 1).(5) OJ No 121, 29. 7. 1964, p. 1977/64.
Last amended by Directive 91/499/EEC (OJ No L 268, 24. 9. 1991, p. 107).(6) OJ No L 315, 26. 11. 1985, p. 11.
Amended by Directive 90/423/EEC (OJ No L 224, 18. 8. 1990, p. 13.).(7) OJ No L 224, 18. 8. 1990, p. 29.
ANNEX A NOTIFIABLE DISEASES IN THE CONTEXT OF THIS DIRECTIVE (a) Diseases Species concerned Newcastle disease, avian influenza Birds Psittacosis Psittacidae American foulbrood Bees Foot-and-mouth disease Ruminants Brucellosis (Brucella ssp.) Tuberculosis Classical swine fever Suidae African swine fever Foot-and-mouth disease Rabies (b) All susceptible species (a) Without prejudice to the notifiable diseases provided for in Annex I to Directive 82/894/EEC. (b) In accordance with Article 2 of Directive 89/455/EEC.
Approval may be suspended, restored or withdrawn in the following circumstances: (a) where notification is given within the meaning of 2 (d) of this Annex, the competent authority shall temporarily suspend approval of the approved centre, body or institute; (b) a sample taken from a suspect animal is forwarded to the approved laboratory to test for the presence of the pathogens in question.
SHEEP AND GOATS 1.
Only sheep and goats from centres or holdings which, to the satisfaction of the official veterinarian, meet the following requirements may be used for the collection of semen: (a) they are in good health on the day the semen is collected; (b) they meet the requirements laid down in Articles 4, 5 and 6 of Directive 91/68/EEC on intra-Community trade.
CHAPTER III Requirements applicable to semen, ova and embryos Semen, ova and embryos must have been collected, processed, washed and preserved with a biological product free of living micro-organisms in accordance with the following principles: (a) the washing of ova and embryos must be carried out in accordance with Article 11 (3) of this Directive.
ANNEX E CERTIFICATE
