CHAPTER I CONTROL AND INSPECTION MEASURES APPLICABLE IN ZONE 1 Section 1 Control measures Article 4 Catch sampling 1.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2).
Article 5 Catch notification 1.
Member States shall transmit to the Commission, which in turn will transmit to the ICCAT Executive Secretariat, the annual nominal catch data (task I as defined by ICCAT), for those species that are indicated in Annex II.
In order to fulfil the requirements of ICCAT, the data transmission from the Member States to the Commission shall be not later than: 1 March of following year: preliminary estimates for entire year; 15 April of following year: definitive estimates. 2.
Member States shall transmit the following data (task II as defined by ICCAT) annually before 31 July to the ICCAT Executive Secretariat with electronic access for the Commission: (a) catch and fishing effort data for the previous year, giving a detailed spatio-temporal breakdown; (b) any data they have on sport fishing catches of fish of the species listed in Annex I. 3.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2).
Article 6 Information on shark catches 1.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2).
Article 7 Undeclared catches For imports of frozen bluefin tuna and bigeye tuna products fished by long liners greater than 24 metres overall in length, at the Commission's request Member States shall collect and examine as much import data as possible and all related information such as vessel names, their registration and owner, species fished and weight, fishing zone and place of export.
Article 8 Observation of vessels 1.
For the purposes of this Article %quot%observation%quot% means any observation, by a Member State's vessel, aircraft or competent authority responsible for inspection at sea, of: - a stateless vessel likely to be fishing for species listed in Annex I, - or a vessel flying the flag of another Contracting Party and likely to be fishing in breach of ICCAT conservation measures, - or a vessel flying the flag of a non-Contracting Party, entity or fishing entity and likely to be fishing in breach of ICCAT conservation measures. 2.
The Commission shall immediately transmit observation forms to the ICCAT Executive Secretariat. 4.
Member States shall notify these observations as soon as possible to the Commission, which shall inform the ICCAT Executive Secretariat. 6.
Article 9 Annual report 1.
Before 15 June each year Member States shall send the Commission a national report, using the layout adopted by ICCAT and including (a) information on implementation of the satellite surveillance system and (b) an %quot%ICCAT declaration table%quot% for each fishery accompanied by comments, inter alia on breaches of the tolerance margins set by ICCAT for the minimum sizes of certain species and the action taken or to be taken.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2).
Article 11 Inspectors 1.
Article 12 Inspection procedures 1.
Member States shall ensure that their ICCAT inspectors: - in making their inspections cause minimum disturbance to the vessel's activities and cause no deterioration in fish quality, - draw up an inspection report in line with rules laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2) and transmit it to their authority. 2.
Article 14 Procedure in event of infringement 1.
Article 15 Follow-up of infringements 1.
Article 16 Treatment of inspection reports 1.
Section 3 Stateless and non-contracting parties' vessels Article 17 Transhipment 1.
Article 18 Control measures for fishing activities 1.
The Commission shall send this information as soon as possible to the ICCAT Executive Secretariat. 2.
The prohibition referred to in paragraph 3 shall not be issued if the master of the inspected vessel or his representative demonstrates to the competent authority's satisfaction that: (a) the catches on board were taken outside the zone; or (b) the catches on board were taken without infringing the conservation measures in force.
Article 19 Member States' nationals Each Member State shall try, as its national legislation permits, to deter its nationals from participating in activities of non-Contracting Parties that conflict with implementation of the ICCAT conservation and management measures.
CHAPTER II CONTROL AND SURVEILLANCE MEASURES APPLICABLE IN ZONE 2 Article 20 General Each Member State shall take the action necessary in order that vessels flying its flag respect the measures applicable in the zone.
CHAPTER III CONTROL AND SURVEILLANCE MEASURES APPLICABLE IN ZONE 3 Article 22 General Each Member State shall take the action necessary in order that vessels flying its flag respect the IATTC measures transposed into Community law and the International Dolphin Conservation Programme Agreement measures applicable.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Committee established by Article 17 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 3760/92. 2.
Where reference is made to this paragraph Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
References made to the repealed Regulation (EC) No 1351/1999 shall be construed as being made to this Regulation, and should be read in accordance with the correlation table in Annex III.
Article 26 This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 27 September 2001.
ANNEX I LIST OF SPECIES REFERRED TO IN THIS REGULATION - Albacore: Thunnus alalunga - Bluefin tuna: Thunnus thynnus - Bigeye tuna: Thunnus obesus - Skipjack: Katsuwonus pelamis - Atlantic bonito: Sarda sarda - Yellowfin tuna: Thunnus albacares - Blackfin tuna: Thunnus atlanticus - Little tuna: Euthynnus spp. - Southern bluefin tuna: Thunnus maccoyii - Frigate tuna: Auxis spp. - Oceanic sea bream: Bramidae - Marlin: Tetrapturus spp.; Makaira spp. - Sailfish: Istiophorus spp. - Swordfish: Xiphias gladius - Sauries: Scomberesox spp.; Cololabis spp - Dolphinfish; common dolphinfish: Coryphaena hippurus; Coryphaena equiselis. - Shark: Hexanchus griseus; Cetorhinus maximus; Alopiidae; Rhincodon typus; Carcharhinidae; Sphyrnidae; Isuridae; Lamnidae - Cetaceans (whales and porpoises): Physeteridae; Belaenopteridae; Balenidae; Eschrichtiidae; Monodontidae; Ziphiidae; Delphinidae.
