PROVISIONAL MEASURES (1) The Commission, by Regulation (EC) No 540/2002(2) (hereinafter referred to as the Provisional Regulation), imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of certain welded tubes and pipes, of iron or non-alloy steel falling within CN codes ex 7306 30 51, ex 7306 30 59, ex 7306 30 71 and ex 7306 30 78 (TARIC-codes 7306 30 51 10, 7306 30 59 10, 7306 30 71 10, 7306 30 71 20, 7306 30 78 10 and 7306 30 78 20 ), originating in the Czech Republic, Poland, Thailand, Turkey and the Ukraine.
PRODUCT CONCERNED AND LIKE PRODUCT (6) In the absence of any comment received after the disclosure of the provisional findings on the product concerned and the like product, the provisional findings as described in recitals 12 to 15 of the Provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed.
DUMPING Poland and Ukraine (7) In the absence of any new argument on dumping, the provisional findings as described in recitals 37 to 43 for Poland and 60 to 85 for Ukraine of the Provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed.
Thailand (17) An on-the-spot investigation was carried out after publication of the Provisional Regulation at the premises of Saha Thai Steel Pipe Co.
Normal value (18) As far as normal value is concerned, the general methodology set out in recitals 17 to 24 of the Provisional Regulation for all market economy countries concerned has been applied for this sole cooperating Thai producer. (19) The following describes only the findings that are specific to that company. (20) Normal value was established on the basis of domestic sales for those types of the product concerned which were directly comparable to the types of tubes exported to the Community.
Comparison (22) In accordance with the methodologies followed in recital 26 of the Provisional Regulation, adjustments were made for transport, ancillary costs (bank charges), insurance and credit costs, for differences in physical characteristics and for duty drawback.
Dumping margin (23) In accordance with the methodologies followed in recital 27 of the Provisional Regulation, the comparison between the normal value and the export price on a weighted to weighted average basis was applied and this method showed the existence of dumping in respect of the sole cooperating exporting producer. (24) The definitive dumping margin expressed as a percentage of the cif import price at the Community border for this company is: %gt%TABLE%gt% (25) With regard to the determination of the residual duty, as the level of cooperation for Thailand was very low, the methodology described in recitals 28 and 48 of the Provisional Regulation is hereby confirmed.
The residual dumping margin expressed as a percentage of the cif import price at the Community border is 37,6 %.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (26) In the absence of any new argument on the Community production and on the definition of the Community industry, the provisional findings as described in recitals 83 to 85 of the Provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed.
Moreover, it should be noted that although according to Eurostat average prices of imports originating in the Czech Republic increased constantly since 1999, they were found substantially to undercut Community industry's prices in the IP, as were imports originating in the other investigated countries.
It has been found that the Community industry as well as exporters situated in all the investigated countries are all in part selling to Germany.
This argument is therefore rejected. (35) Some exporters reiterated the request that imports originating in the Czech Republic should be decumulated as they are not causing injury or any threat of injury to the Community industry due to their volume being below the ceiling quota imposed by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1968/93(4).
It should be noted that the quota imposed by Regulation (EEC) No 1968/93 was in force only until the end of 1995 and that in the present investigation the period considered for the injury analysis is 1997 to the IP.
This submission is therefore rejected. (36) It was argued that as the Czech Republic was subject to the surveillance of exports under the double-checking system established by Council Regulation (EC) No 87/98(5), it should be excluded from the present anti dumping proceeding.
These submissions are therefore rejected. (39) It was also argued that imports from Ukraine should not be cumulated with imports originating in the other countries concerned given the low volume of imports involved. (40) In this respect it is stressed that even if Ukraine's market share was lower than the ones held by the other investigated countries, it cannot be considered as negligible as defined in Article 5(7) of the Basic Regulation and Article 5(8) of the Agreement on implementation of Article VI of the of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994.
Furthermore, all the other conditions for cumulation as set out in Article 3(4) of the Basic Regulation were met. (41) In view of the above, as there were no new facts showing that the conditions for cumulation for the countries concerned were not met, the provisional findings concerning the cumulative assessment of the effects of the imports concerned, as described in recitals 89 to 97 of the Provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed. 3.
Imports originating in the countries concerned (i) Volume, market share, price evolution (42) In the absence of any new argument, the provisional findings concerning the volume, the market share and the price evolution of the imports originating in the countries concerned, as described in recitals 98 to 104 of the Provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. (43) It should be noted that after the publication of the Provisional Regulation, two additional Turkish companies were found not to have dumped.
If the imports from these exporting producers were excluded, the increase in volume of dumped imports would remain significant, as shown in the table below, namely an increase of 20 %.
The dumped imports still represented more than 24 % of the Community market during the IP. %gt%TABLE%gt% (ii) Price undercutting (44) Concerning imports originating in Turkey, it is confirmed that the level of undercutting found was on average 14,0 %.
This comparison did show undercutting, and accordingly, this argument had to be rejected. (47) It was argued that, as Eurostat statistics indicate lower prices in Germany than in the other Member States, the undercutting calculation should be performed comparing prices of the exporting producers with the prices charged by the Community industry in each Member State. (48) In this respect it should be noted that the Community is considered as one single market for the purpose of anti-dumping investigations and it is normal practice that, in order fully to reflect the undercutting level, the undercutting calculation is made comparing the prices of each exporting producer to the average prices of the Community industry as a whole.
The request is therefore rejected. (51) In the absence of any new element concerning the methodology used for the undercutting calculation and taking into account the correction of clerical errors, the products concerned originating in the countries concerned were sold in the Community in the IP at prices which on average undercut the Community industry's prices, when expressed as a percentage of the latter, as follows: the Czech Republic 14,8 %, Poland 14,5 %, Thailand 21,4 %, Turkey 14,0 % and Ukraine 33,0 %. 4.
Situation of the Community industry (52) In the absence of any new information affecting the findings of the situation of the Community industry, the provisional findings as described in recitals 107 to 139 of the Provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 5.
Conclusion on injury (53) In the absence of any new information on the situation of the Community industry, the provisional findings on the injury suffered by the Community industry as described in recitals 140 to 142 of the Provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed, with the exception of the average level of undercutting indicated in recital 140 which has been revised to 16,6 %.
Nevertheless, the effects on the injury suffered by the Community industry by the impact of trade protective measures imposed by third countries and by imports originating in other third countries were further investigated. (55) Concerning the trade protective measures imposed by third countries, it was found that even had the level of total exports of the Community industry remained stable at 1997 level, the decrease in production and in the capacity utilisation of the Community industry between 1997 and the IP would nevertheless have remained substantial.
In addition, stable exports would not have changed the decreasing trend in profitability. (56) Concerning imports originating in Romania and Hungary and non-dumped imports originating in Turkey, it was found that in terms of volumes they cumulatively decreased by 25 % between 1997 and the IP.
This negative trend is similar to the one observed for sales by the Community industry to unrelated customers, which decreased by 17 %.
It is also opposite to the increase by 20 % in dumped imports originating in the five investigated countries.
DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
It was thus requested that the methodology be reviewed. (64) The methodology used at the provisional stage to establish non-injurious prices per model and per level of trade involved the following: - to establish the break even point, the weighted average actual sales prices charged by each Community industry company was adjusted upward or downward according to its actual loss or profits, - to that break even point, a profit margin of 5 % was added.
At the definitive stage, the methodology was reviewed and the non-injurious prices per model and per level of trade were calculated as follows: - to establish the break even point, the weighted average actual sales prices charged by each Community industry company was adjusted downward according to the Community industry's average actual profit, - to that break even point, a profit margin of 5 % was added. (65) It should also be noted that by using the profits of the Community industry on a weighted average basis as was done at the definitive stage, the situation of the Community industry in terms of prices, profitability and quantities involved is fully reflected. (66) It was also argued that the reviewed methodology led for certain models to discrepancies between cost of production and non-injurious prices.
It should also be noted that the methodology used in order to determine the non-injurious prices for the Community industry reflects the found target profit of 5 % but that it is the difference between the actual level of prices charged by the exporters and the non-injurious prices of the Community industry which determines the level of injury found.
The request is therefore rejected. (72) In the light of the foregoing, it is considered that, in accordance with Article 9(4) of the Basic Regulation, a definitive anti-dumping duty should be imposed in respect of imports originating in the Czech Republic, Poland, Thailand, Turkey and Ukraine at the level of the dumping margins found, or at the level of the injury margins found, where these are lower. (73) On the basis of the above, the proposed definitive duty rates, expressed as a percentage of the cif Community border price, before duty, are as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% (74) The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of the findings of the present investigation.
Undertaking (76) After provisional measures had been imposed, a number of exporting producers, namely Jäkl Karvina and Zelezárny Veselí in the Czech Republic, Saha Thai in Thailand and Borusan Birlesik Boru Fabrikalari/Mannesmann Boru Endustrisi in Turkey, offered price undertakings in accordance with Article 8(1) of the Basic Regulation. (77) In this respect, the Commission has noted that: - the product concerned is a commodity product with a considerable volatility in prices even in the very short term, and therefore not very suitable for a fixed price undertaking, - the volatility is due to the variation in prices of raw materials, namely hot rolled coils and zinc, which constitute major but variable components of the cost of production.
For this reason, should a review formula system be implemented, it would be necessary to establish between 3 and 4 sub-formulae for each category of product according to the size range. (78) Moreover, some of the producers who offered price undertakings export a variety of steel products such as welded tubes, structural pipes, carbon steel tubes, square tubing, rectangular tubing, etc., which are only partially subject to the anti-dumping investigation.
Article 2 The amounts secured by way of the provisional anti-dumping duty imposed pursuant to the Provisional Regulation shall be definitively collected at the rate of the duties set out in Article 1, or at the rate of the provisional duty where this is lower.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 23 September 2002.
