Article 3 The standardisation bodies referred to in Annexes I and II, and the Commission, shall be sent all draft standards on request; they shall be kept informed by the body concerned of the action taken on any comments they have made relating to drafts.
Member States shall take all necessary steps to ensure that their standardisation bodies: - communicate information in accordance with Articles 2 and 3, - publish the draft standards in such a way that comments may also be obtained from parties established in other Member States, - grant the other bodies referred to in Annex II the right to be involved passively or actively (by sending an observer) in the planned activities, - do not object to a subject for standardisation in their work programme being discussed at European level in accordance with the rules laid down by the European standardisation bodies and undertake no action which may prejudice a decision in this regard. 2.
Article 5 A Standing Committee shall be set up consisting of representatives appointed by the Member States who may call on the assistance of experts or advisers; its chairman shall be a representative of the Commission.
The Committee shall express its opinion on the communications and proposals referred to in paragraph 2 and may in this connection propose, in particular, that the Commission: - request the European standards institutions to draw up a European standard within a given time limit, - ensure where necessary, in order to avoid the risk of barriers to trade, that initially the Member States concerned decide amongst themselves on appropriate measures, - take all appropriate measures, - identify the areas where harmonisation appears necessary, and, should the case arise, undertake appropriate harmonisation in a given sector. 4.
In cases of this kind, if necessary precautions are taken, the Committee referred to in Article 5 and the national authorities may seek expert advice from physical or legal persons in the private sector. 5.
The obligations referred to in paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 shall lapse: - when the Commission informs the Member States that it no longer intends to propose or adopt a binding Community act, - when the Commission informs the Member States of the withdrawal of its draft or proposal, - when the Commission or the Council has adopted a binding Community act. 7.
Article 9 shall not apply to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States prohibiting manufacture insofar as they do not impede the free movement of products. 3.
Article 11 The Commission shall report every two years to the European Parliament, the Council and the Economic and Social Committee on the results of the application of this Directive.
Article 12 When Member States adopt a technical regulation, it shall contain a reference to this Directive or shall be accompanied by such reference on the occasion of its official publication.
Article 14 This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 15 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 22 June 1998.
GIL-ROBLES For the Council The President J.
ANNEX I EUROPEAN STANDARDISATION BODIES CEN European Committee for Standardisation Cenelec European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardisation ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute ANNEX II NATIONAL STANDARDISATION BODIES 1.
BELGIUM IBN/BIN Institut belge de normalisation Belgisch Instituut voor Normalisatie CEB/BEC Comité électrotechnique belge Belgisch Elektrotechnisch Comité 2.
DENMARK DS Dansk Standard NTA Telestyrelsen, National Telecom Agency 3.
GERMANY DIN Deutsches Institut für Normung e.V.
GREECE ÅËÏÔ Åëëçíéêüò Ïñãáíéóìüò Ôõðïðïßçóçò 5.
SPAIN AENOR Asociación Española de Normalización y Certificación 6.
IRELAND NSAI National Standards Authority of Ireland ETCI Electrotechnical Council of Ireland 8.
ITALY UNI (1) Ente nazionale italiano di unificazione CEI (2) Comitato elettrotecnico italiano 9.
NETHERLANDS NNI Nederlands Normalisatie InstituutNEC Nederlands Elektrotechnisch Comité 11.
AUSTRIA ON Österreichisches Normungsinstitut ÖVE Österreichischer Verband für Elektrotechnik 12.
UNITED KINGDOM BSI British Standards Institution BEC British Electrotechnical Committee 14.
FINLAND SFS Suomen Standardisoimisliitto SFS ry Finlands Standardiseringsförbund SFS rf THK/TFC Telehallintokeskus Teleförvaltningscentralen SESKO Suomen Sähköteknillinen Standardisoimisyhdistys SESKO ry Finlands Elektrotekniska Standardiseringsförening SESKO rf 15.
SWEDEN SIS Standardiseringen i Sverige SEK Svenska elektriska kommissionen ITS Informationstekniska standardiseringen (1) UNI and CEI, in cooperation with the Istituto superiore delle Poste e Telecommunicazioni and the ministero dell'Industria, have allocated the work within ETSI to CONCIT, Comitato nazionale di coordinamento per le tecnologie dell'informazione.
