It should be coherent with the European Strategy for Space endorsed by the Council on 16 November 2000. (4) The European Union Satellite Centre should have legal personality, while maintaining close links with the Council and having due regard for the general political responsibilities of the European Union and its institutions. (5) In conformity with Article 6 of the Protocol on the position of Denmark annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Denmark does not participate in the elaboration and implementation of decisions and actions of the European Union which have defence implications.
It shall be operational as from 1 January 2002. 2.
The Centre shall have its headquarters at Torrej贸n de Ardoz, Spain. 3.
The Centre shall support the decision-making of the Union in the context of the CFSP, in particular of the ESDP, by providing material resulting from the analysis of satellite imagery and collateral data, including aerial imagery as appropriate, in accordance with Articles 3 and 4. 2.
A Member State or the Commission may address requests to the Secretary-General/High Representative, who, if the capacity of the Centre allows, will direct the Centre accordingly, in conformity with Article 4. 3.
Third States having agreed to the Provisions set out in the Annex on the association with the Centre's activities may also address requests to the Secretary-General/High Representative, who, if the capacity of the Centre allows, will direct the Centre accordingly, in conformity with Article 4. 4.
Article 3 Political supervision The Political and Security Committee (PSC) will, in accordance with its responsibilities for CFSP and in particular for the ESDP, exercise political supervision over the activities of the Centre and issue guidance to the Secretary-General/High Representative on the Centre's priorities.
The Secretary-General/High Representative shall give operational direction to the Centre, without prejudice to the responsibilities of the Board and of the Director of the Centre, respectively, as set out in this Joint Action. 2.
Article 5 Products of the Centre 1.
The products of the Centre in response to requests made in accordance with Articles 2(1), 2(3) and 2(4) shall be made available at the General Secretariat of the Council to Member States, the Commission, and the requesting party, in accordance with applicable security Provisions.
They shall be made available to Third States having agreed to the Provisions set out in the Annex and in accordance with those Provisions. 2.
The products of the Centre resulting from requests made in accordance with Article 2(2) shall be made available to the Member States, the Commission and/or Third States having agreed to the Provisions set out in the Annex, upon decision of the requesting Party.
Article 6 Legal personality The Centre shall have the legal personality necessary to perform its functions and attain its objectives.
The Secretary-General/High Representative shall report to the Council on the work of the Board. 3.
The Director of the Centre or its representative shall, as a rule, attend Board meetings.
The Board shall be convened by the Chairman at least twice a year and at the request of at least one third of its members. 7.
Article 8 Director 1.
The Director shall be responsible for recruiting all other staff of the Centre. 3.
The Director shall ensure the execution of the mission of the Centre in accordance with Article 2.
The Director shall prepare an annual report on the Centre's activities by 31 March the following year.
The Director shall be the legal representative of the Centre.
Article 9 Staff 1.
The staff of the Centre, including the Director, shall consist of contract staff members recruited on the broadest possible basis from among nationals of the Member States.
Article 10 Security 1.
The Centre shall apply the Council's security regulations set out in Decision 2001/264/EC(1). 2.
Article 11 Work programme No later than 30 November each year, the Board shall, on the basis of a draft submitted by the Director of the Centre, adopt the Centre's annual work programme for the following year.
Tasking requests from a Member State, the Commission, international organisations or from Third States having agreed to the Provisions set out in the Annex shall be subject to cost recovery charges in accordance with Guidelines set out in the Financial Rules referred to in Article 15. 5.
By way of derogation from paragraph 4, until 31 December 2003, products resulting from tasking requests made in accordance with Article 2(2) shall be free of charge.
By way of derogation from Article 5(3), products resulting from these requests shall be made available to all Member States, to the Commission and, upon decision of the requesting party, to Third States having agreed to the Provisions set out in the Annex and in accordance with those Provisions,.
Article 13 Budgetary procedure 1.
The Director shall establish by 30 June each year a draft budget for the Centre covering administrative expenditure, operational expenditure and expected income for the following financial year and shall submit it to the Board.
The Director shall send the draft budget to the Council for information. 2.
The Board shall adopt the budget of the Centre by unanimity of the representatives of Member States by 15 December of each year. 3.
Article 14 Control of the budget 1.
By 31 March each year at the latest, the Director shall submit to the Council for information, and to the Board the detailed accounts of all income and expenditure from the previous financial year and the report on the Centre's activities. 3.
Article 15 Financial rules The Board, with the assent of the Council, shall draw up, on a proposal from the Director, detailed financial rules specifying in particular the procedure to be followed for establishing and implementing the budget of the Centre.
Article 16 Privileges and immunities Privileges and immunities necessary for the performance of the duties of the Centre, the Director of the Centre and its staff, shall be provided for in an agreement between the Member States.
Article 17 Seconded personnel 1.
The detailed rules for secondment shall be laid down by the Director of the Centre. 2.
Article 18 Legal liability 1.
Article 20 The position of Denmark The Danish member of the Board shall take part in the work of the Board in full respect of Article 6 of the Protocol on the position of Denmark annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty establishing the European Community.
Denmark may address requests not having defence implications to the Secretary-General/High Representative in accordance with Article 2(2).
Article 21 Association of Third States Non-EU European NATO members and other States which are candidates for accession to the EU shall be entitled to be involved in the Centre's activities in accordance with the Provisions set out in the Annex.
Article 22 Review The Secretary-General/High Representative shall present no later than five years from its entry into force, a report to the Council on the implementation of this Joint Action with a view to its possible review.
Article 23 Transitional provisions 1.
The first Board of the Centre shall be appointed, and the Director shall be designated, by 31 July 2001.
The designated Director shall present a draft budget for the year 2002 by 15 September 2001.
The Board shall adopt the budget by 15 November 2001. 3.
The Centre shall be substituted for the WEU as the employer of the staff serving on 31 December 2001.
Tasks already requested under the WEU regime up to 31 December 2001 will be completed, free of charge for the requesting party. 6.
The budget for expenditure borne by the Member States for the financial year 2002 shall be EUR 9,3 million, which will include a voluntary contribution from Denmark.
Article 24 This Joint Action shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
Article 25 This Joint Action shall be published in the Official Journal.
Done at Brussels, 20 July 2001.
Vande Lanotte (1) OJ L 101, 11.4.2001, p. 1. (2) OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43.
Article 2 Scope Third States mentioned in Article 21 of the Joint Action shall be entitled: - to submit national requests for imagery analysis to be implemented by the Centre; - to submit candidates for secondment as image analysts to the Centre for a limited time; - to have access to products of the Centre in accordance with Article 5 of these Provisions.
Article 3 Task requests 1.
Any requests for imagery analysis tasks to be implemented by the Centre may be submitted by Third States to the Secretary-General/High Representative in accordance with Article 2(3) of the Joint Action. 2.
If the capacity of the Centre allows, the Secretary-General/High Representative, will direct the Centre accordingly, in conformity with Article 4 of the Joint Action. 3.
Article 4 Secondment of image analysts 1.
Third States shall cover the salary of its seconded image analyst, all related costs such as allowances, social charges, installation and travel costs, as well as any additional costs to the budget of the Centre as determined in the detailed rules referred to in paragraph 8. 7.
The detailed rules for the secondment shall be established by the Director of the Centre.
Article 5 Availability of the Centre's products 1.
The Secretary-General/High Representative shall inform Third States when products requested in accordance with Article 2 of the Joint Action are available at the General Secretariat of the Council. 2.
Tasking requests and products made in accordance with Article 2(1) of the Joint Action shall be made available to Third States when the Secretary-General/High Representative judges it relevant for the dialogue, consultation and cooperation with the European Union on ESDP. 3.
Tasking requests and products of the Centre resulting from requests made in accordance with Article 2(2), (3) and (4) of the Joint Action shall be made available to Third States upon decision of the requesting Party.
Article 6 Security In their relations with the Centre and with respect to its products, the Third States shall, in an Exchange of Letters with the Centre, confirm that they apply the security standards defined in Council Decision 2001/264/EC, as well as those set out by possible providers of classified data.
Article 7 Consultative Committee 1.
Article 8 Entry into force 1.
These Provisions shall become effective with regard to each Third State on the first day of the month following a notification to the Secretary-General/High Representative by the competent authority of the Third State on acceptance of the terms set out in these Provisions. 2.
