Market abuse harms the integrity of financial markets and public confidence in securities and derivatives. (3) The Commission Communication of 11 May 1999 entitled %quot%Implementing the framework for financial markets: action plan%quot% identifies a series of actions that are needed in order to complete the single market for financial services.
The action plan stresses the need to draw up a Directive against market manipulation. (4) At its meeting on 17 July 2000, the Council set up the Committee of Wise Men on the Regulation of European Securities Markets.
A new Directive is also needed to avoid loopholes in Community legislation which could be used for wrongful conduct and which would undermine public confidence and therefore prejudice the smooth functioning of the markets. (14) This Directive meets the concerns expressed by the Member States following the terrorist attacks on 11 September 2001 as regards the fight against financing terrorist activities. (15) Insider dealing and market manipulation prevent full and proper market transparency, which is a prerequisite for trading for all economic actors in integrated financial markets. (16) Inside information is any information of a precise nature which has not been made public, relating, directly or indirectly, to one or more issuers of financial instruments or to one or more financial instruments.
The organisation of supervision and of investigatory powers in each Member State should not hinder cooperation between the competent national authorities. (41) Since the objective of the proposed action, namely to prevent market abuse in the form of insider dealing and market manipulation, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale and effects of the measures, be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
Where the person referred to in paragraph 1 is a legal person, the prohibition laid down in that paragraph shall also apply to the natural persons who take part in the decision to carry out the transaction for the account of the legal person concerned. 3.
Article 4 Member States shall ensure that Articles 2 and 3 also apply to any person, other than the persons referred to in those Articles, who possesses inside information while that person knows, or ought to have known, that it is inside information.
Article 5 Member States shall prohibit any person from engaging in market manipulation.
With a view to ensuring compliance with paragraphs 1 to 5, the competent authority may take all necessary measures to ensure that the public is correctly informed. 8.
Article 7 This Directive shall not apply to transactions carried out in pursuit of monetary, exchange-rate or public debt-management policy by a Member State, by the European System of Central Banks, by a national central bank or by any other officially designated body, or by any person acting on their behalf.
Article 9 This Directive shall apply to any financial instrument admitted to trading on a regulated market in at least one Member State, or for which a request for admission to trading on such a market has been made, irrespective of whether or not the transaction itself actually takes place on that market.
Articles 2, 3 and 4 shall also apply to any financial instrument not admitted to trading on a regulated market in a Member State, but whose value depends on a financial instrument as referred to in paragraph 1.
Article 10 Each Member State shall apply the prohibitions and requirements provided for in this Directive to: (a) actions carried out on its territory or abroad concerning financial instruments that are admitted to trading on a regulated market situated or operating within its territory or for which a request for admission to trading on such market has been made; (b) actions carried out on its territory concerning financial instruments that are admitted to trading on a regulated market in a Member State or for which a request for admission to trading on such market has been made.
Article 11 Without prejudice to the competences of the judicial authorities, each Member State shall designate a single administrative authority competent to ensure that the provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive are applied.
It shall exercise such powers: (a) directly; or (b) in collaboration with other authorities or with the market undertakings; or (c) under its responsibility by delegation to such authorities or to the market undertakings; or (d) by application to the competent judicial authorities. 2.
Article 13 The obligation of professional secrecy shall apply to all persons who work or who have worked for the competent authority or for any authority or market undertaking to whom the competent authority has delegated its powers, including auditors and experts instructed by the competent authority.
Without prejudice to the right of Member States to impose criminal sanctions, Member States shall ensure, in conformity with their national law, that the appropriate administrative measures can be taken or administrative sanctions be imposed against the persons responsible where the provisions adopted in the implementation of this Directive have not been complied with.
In accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17(2), the Commission shall, for information, draw up a list of the administrative measures and sanctions referred to in paragraph 1. 3.
Article 15 Member States shall ensure that an appeal may be brought before a court against the decisions taken by the competent authority.
The competent authorities may refuse to act on a request for information where: - communication might adversely affect the sovereignty, security or public policy of the Member State addressed, - judicial proceedings have already been initiated in respect of the same actions and against the same persons before the authorities of the Member State addressed, or - where a final judgment has already been delivered in relation to such persons for the same actions in the Member State addressed.
Without prejudice to Article 226 of the Treaty, a competent authority whose request for information is not acted upon within a reasonable time or whose request for information is rejected may bring that non-compliance to the attention of the Committee of European Securities Regulators, where discussion will take place in order to reach a rapid and effective solution.
Without prejudice to the obligations to which they are subject in judicial proceedings under criminal law, the competent authorities which receive information pursuant to paragraph 1 may use it only for the exercise of their functions within the scope of this Directive and in the context of administrative or judicial proceedings specifically related to the exercise of those functions.
The competent authorities of the various Member States that are competent for the purposes of Article 10 shall consult each other on the proposed follow-up to their action. 4.
The competent authorities may refuse to act on a request for an investigation to be conducted as provided for in the first subparagraph, or on a request for its personnel to be accompanied by personnel of the competent authority of another Member State as provided for in the second subparagraph, where such an investigation might adversely affect the sovereignty, security or public policy of the State addressed, or where judicial proceedings have already been initiated in respect of the same actions and against the same persons before the authorities of the State addressed or where a final judgment has already been delivered in relation to such persons for the same actions in the State addressed.
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 226 of the Treaty, a competent authority whose application to open an inquiry or whose request for authorisation for its officials to accompany those of the other Member State's competent authority is not acted upon within a reasonable time or is rejected may bring that non-compliance to the attention of the Committee of European Securities Regulators, where discussion will take place in order to reach a rapid and effective solution. 5.
On a proposal from the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council may renew the provisions concerned in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty and, to that end, they shall review them prior to the expiry of the period referred to above.
Article 18 Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than 12 October 2004.
Article 19 Article 11 shall not prejudge the possibility for a Member State to make separate legal and administrative arrangements for overseas European territories for whose external relations that Member State is responsible.
Article 21 This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 22 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 28 January 2003.
Cox For the Council The President G.
Papandreou (1) OJ C 240 E, 28.8.2001, p. 265. (2) OJ C 80, 3.4.2002, p. 61. (3) OJ C 24, 26.1.2002, p. 8. (4) Opinion of the European Parliament of 14 March 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal), Council Common Position of 19 July 2002 (OJ C 228 E, 25.9.2002, p. 19) and Decision of the European Parliament of 24 October 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (5) OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. (6) OJ L 334, 18.11.1989, p. 30. (7) OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31. (8) OJ L 191, 13.7.2001, p. 45. (9) OJ L 141, 11.6.1993, p. 27.
