Council Directive 2003/96/EC of 27 October 2003 restructuring the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity (Text with EEA relevance) Council Directive 2003/96/EC of 27 October 2003 restructuring the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity (Text with EEA relevance) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 93 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament, Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee, Whereas: (1) The scope of Council Directive 92/81/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the harmonisation of the structures of excise duties on mineral oils(1) and of Council Directive 92/82/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the approximation of the rates of excise duties on mineral oils(2) is restricted to mineral oils. (2) The absence of Community provisions imposing a minimum rate of taxation on electricity and energy products other than mineral oils may adversely affect the proper functioning of the internal market. (3) The proper functioning of the internal market and the achievement of the objectives of other Community policies require minimum levels of taxation to be laid down at Community level for most energy products, including electricity, natural gas and coal. (4) Appreciable differences in the national levels of energy taxation applied by Member States could prove detrimental to the proper functioning of the internal market. (5) The establishment of appropriate Community minimum levels of taxation may enable existing differences in the national levels of taxation to be reduced. (6) In accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty, environmental protection requirements must be integrated into the definition and implementation of other Community policies. (7) As a party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Community has ratified the Kyoto Protocol.
Distortions of competition should be limited and the incentive of a reduction in the basic costs for producers and distributors of biofuels should be maintained through, inter alia, the adjustments by Member States taking into account changes in raw material prices. (27) This Directive shall be without prejudice to the application of the relevant provisions of Council Directive 92/12/EEC of 25 February 1992 on the general arrangements for products subject to excise duty and on the holding, movement and monitoring of such products(3), and Council Directive 92/83/EEC of 19 October 1992 on the harmonization of the structures of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages(4), when the product intended for use, offered for sale or used as motor fuel or fuel additive is ethyl alcohol as defined in Directive 92/83/EEC. (28) Certain exemptions or reductions in the tax level may prove necessary; notably because of the lack of a stronger harmonisation at Community level, because of the risks of a loss of international competitiveness or because of social or environmental considerations. (29) Businesses entering into agreements to significantly enhance environmental protection and energy efficiency deserve attention; among these businesses, energy intensive ones merit specific treatment. (30) Transitional periods and arrangements may be required in order to allow Member States to smoothly adapt to the new levels of taxation, thus limiting possible negative side effects. (31) It is necessary to provide for a procedure authorising the introduction by Member States, for a set period, of other exemptions or reduced levels of taxation.
For the purposes of this Directive, the term %quot%energy products%quot% shall apply to products: (a) falling within CN codes 1507 to 1518, if these are intended for use as heating fuel or motor fuel; (b) falling within CN codes 2701, 2702 and 2704 to 2715; (c) falling within CN codes 2901 and 2902; (d) falling within CN code 2905 11 00, which are not of synthetic origin, if these are intended for use as heating fuel or motor fuel; (e) falling within CN code 3403; (f) falling within CN code 3811; (g) falling within CN code 3817; (h) falling within CN code 3824 90 99 if these are intended for use as heating fuel or motor fuel. 2.
This Directive shall also apply to: Electricity falling within CN code 2716. 3.
In addition to the taxable products listed in paragraph 1, any other hydrocarbon, except for peat, intended for use, offered for sale or used for heating purposes shall be taxed at the rate for the equivalent energy product. 4.
This Directive shall not apply to: (a) output taxation of heat and the taxation of products falling within CN-codes 4401 and 4402; (b) the following uses of energy products and electricity: - energy products used for purposes other than as motor fuels or as heating fuels, - dual use of energy products An energy product has a dual use when it is used both as heating fuel and for purposes other than as motor fuel and heating fuel.
However, Article 20 shall apply to these energy products. 5.
References in this Directive to codes of the combined nomenclature shall be to those of Commission Regulation (EC) No 2031/2001 of 6 August 2001, amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff(7).
Article 5 Provided that they respect the minimum levels of taxation prescribed by this Directive and that they are compatible with Community law, differentiated rates of taxation may be applied by Member States, under fiscal control, in the following cases: - when the differentiated rates are directly linked to product quality; - when the differentiated rates depend on quantitative consumption levels for electricity and energy products used for heating purposes; - for the following uses: local public passenger transport (including taxis), waste collection, armed forces and public administration, disabled people, ambulances; - between business and non-business use, for energy products and electricity referred to in Articles 9 and 10.
As from 1 January 2004, notwithstanding Article 7, the minimum levels of taxation applicable to products used as motor fuel for the purposes set out in paragraph 2 shall be fixed as set out in Annex I Table B. 2.
States, regional and local government authorities and other bodies governed by public law shall not be considered as business entities in respect of the activities or transactions in which they engage as public authorities.
However, when they engage in such activities or transactions, they shall be considered as a business in respect of these activities or transactions where treatment as non-business would lead to significant distortions of competition. 2.
Member States may express their national levels of taxation in units other than those specified in Articles 7 to 10 provided that the corresponding levels of taxation, following conversion into those units, are not below the minimum levels specified in this Directive. 2.
Member States may maintain the amounts of taxation in force at the time of the annual adjustment provided for in paragraph 1 if the conversion of the amounts of the level of taxation expressed in euro would result in an increase of less than 5 % or EUR 5, whichever is the lower amount, in the level of taxation expressed in national currency.
Member States may limit the scope of this exemption to supplies of jet fuel (CN code 2710 19 21 ); (c) energy products supplied for use as fuel for the purposes of navigation within Community waters (including fishing), other than private pleasure craft, and electricity produced on board a craft.
Without prejudice to other Community provisions, Member States may apply under fiscal control total or partial exemptions or reductions in the level of taxation to: (a) taxable products used under fiscal control in the field of pilot projects for the technological development of more environmentally-friendly products or in relation to fuels from renewable resources; (b) electricity: - of solar, wind, wave, tidal or geothermal origin; - of hydraulic origin produced in hydroelectric installations; - generated from biomass or from products produced from biomass; - generated from methane emitted by abandoned coalmines; - generated from fuel cells; (c) energy products and electricity used for combined heat and power generation; (d) electricity produced from combined heat and power generation, provided that the combined generators are environmentally friendly.
However, as soon as the national share of natural gas in final energy consumption reaches 20 %, the Member States concerned shall apply a strictly positive level of taxation, which shall increase on a yearly basis in order to reach at least the minimum rate at the end of the period referred to above.
If a use is insignificant, it may be treated as nil; (i) natural gas and LPG used as propellants; (j) motor fuels used in the field of the manufacture, development, testing and maintenance of aircraft and ships; (k) motor fuels used for dredging operations in navigable waterways and in ports; (l) products falling within CN code 2705 used for heating purposes. 2.
Member States may, without prejudice to paragraph 5, apply an exemption or a reduced rate of taxation under fiscal control on the taxable products referred to in Article 2 where such products are made up of, or contain, one or more of the following products: - products falling within CN codes 1507 to 1518; - products falling within CN codes 3824 90 55 and 3824 90 80 to 3824 90 99 for their components produced from biomass; - products falling within CN codes 2207 20 00 and 2905 11 00 which are not of synthetic origin; - products produced from biomass, including products falling within CN codes 4401 and 4402.
The exemption or reduction in taxation applied by Member States shall be adjusted to take account of changes in raw material prices to avoid over-compensating for the extra costs involved in the manufacture of the products referred to in paragraph 1. 4.
Until 31 December 2003, Member States may exempt or continue to exempt products solely or almost solely made up of the products referred to in paragraph 1. 5.
No later than 31 December 2009, the Commission shall report to the Council on the fiscal, economic, agricultural, energy, industrial and environmental aspects of the reductions granted in accordance with this Article.
Notwithstanding Article 4(1), Member States may apply a level of taxation down to 50 % of the minimum levels in this Directive to energy products and electricity as defined in Article 2, when used by business entities as defined in Article 11, which are not energy-intensive as defined in paragraph 1 of this Article. 4.
By way of derogation from the provisions of the present directive, Member States are hereby authorised to continue to apply the reductions in the levels of taxation or exemptions set out in Annex II.
Subject to a prior review by the Council, on the basis of a proposal from the Commission, this authorisation shall expire on 31 December 2006 or on the date specified in Annex II. 2.
The special reduced rate on commercial use of gas oil used as propellant may also be applied for taxis until 1 January 2012.
With respect to Article 7(3)(a), it may apply, until 1 January 2008, a maximum permissible gross laden weight of not less than 3,5 tonnes in the definition of commercial purposes. 4.
The Republic of Austria may apply a transitional period until 1 January 2007 to adjust its national level of taxation on gas oil used as propellant to the new minimum level of EUR 302 and until 1 January 2012 to reach EUR 330.
The differentiated rate on commercial use of gas oil used as propellant may also be applied for taxis until 1 January 2012.
The Portuguese Republic may apply total or partial exemptions in the level of taxation of electricity until 1 January 2010. 8.
The Hellenic Republic may apply levels of taxation up to EUR 22 per 1000 l lower than the minimum rates laid down in this Directive on gas oil used as propellant and on petrol consumed in the departments of Lesbos, Chios, Samos, the Dodecanese and the Cyclades and on the following islands in the Aegean: Thasos, North Sporades, Samothrace and Skiros.
The differentiated rate on commercial use of gas oil used as propellant may also be applied for taxis until 1 January 2012.
With respect to Article 7(3)(a) it may apply, until 1 January 2008, a maximum permissible gross laden weight of not less than 3,5 tonnes in the definition of commercial purposes. 9.
Ireland may apply total or partial exemptions or reductions in the level of taxation of electricity until 1 January 2008. 10.
The French Republic may apply total or partial exemptions or reductions for energy products and electricity used by the State, regional and local government authorities or other bodies governed by public law, in respect of the activities or transactions in which they engage as public authorities until 1 January 2009.
The Italian Republic may apply, until 1 January 2008, a maximum permissible gross laden weight of not less than 3,5 tonnes in the definition of commercial purposes as given in Article 7(3)(a). 12.
The Federal Republic of Germany may apply, until 1 January 2008, a maximum permissible gross laden weight of 12 tonnes in the definition of commercial purposes as given in Article 7(3)(a). 13.
In addition to the provisions set out in the previous Articles, in particular in Articles 5, 15 and 17, the Council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission, may authorise any Member State to introduce further exemptions or reductions for specific policy considerations.
The authorisations referred to in paragraph 1 shall be granted for a maximum period of 6 years, with the possibility of renewal in accordance with the procedure set out in paragraph 1. 3.
However, for products falling within CN codes 2710 11 21, 2710 11 25 and 2710 19 29, the control and movement provisions shall only apply to bulk commercial movements; (d) products falling within CN codes 2711 (except 2711 11, 2711 21 and 2711 29 ); (e) products falling within CN code 2901 10; (f) products falling within CN codes 2902 20, 2902 30, 2902 41, 2902 42, 2902 43 and 2902 44; (g) products falling within CN code 2905 11 00, which are not of synthetic origin, if these are intended for use as heating fuel or motor fuel; (h) products falling within CN code 3824 90 99 if these are intended for use as heating fuel or motor fuel. 2.
If a Member State finds that energy products other than those referred to in paragraph 1 are intended for use, offered for sale or used as heating fuel, motor fuel or are otherwise giving rise to evasion, avoidance or abuse, it shall advise the Commission forthwith.
For the purpose of applying Articles 5 and 6 of Directive 92/12/EEC, electricity and natural gas shall be subject to taxation and shall become chargeable at the time of supply by the distributor or redistributor.
Where the delivery to consumption takes place in a Member State where the distributor or redistributor is not established, the tax of the Member States of delivery shall be chargeable to a company that has to be registered in the Member State of delivery.
For the purpose of applying Articles 5 and 6 of Directive 92/12/EEC, coal, coke and lignite shall be subject to taxation and shall become chargeable at the time of delivery by companies, which have to be registered for that purpose by the relevant authorities.
Article 22 When taxation rates are changed, stocks of energy products already released for consumption may be subject to an increase in, or a reduction of, the tax.
Article 23 Member States may refund the amounts of taxation already paid on contaminated or accidentally mixed energy products sent back to a tax warehouse for recycling.
Energy products released for consumption in a Member State, contained in the standard tanks of commercial motor vehicles and intended to be used as fuel by those same vehicles, as well as in special containers, and intended to be used for the operation, during the course of transport, of the systems equipping those same containers shall not be subject to taxation in any other Member State. 2.
Where the levels of taxation applied by the Member States are expressed in units of measurement other than those specified for each product in Articles 7 to 10, Member States shall also notify the corresponding levels of taxation following conversion into these units.
Member States shall inform the Commission of measures taken pursuant to Articles 5, 14(2), 15 and 17. 2.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Member States shall adopt and publish the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than 31 December 2003.
Article 29 The Council, acting on the basis of a report and, where appropriate, a proposal from the Commission, shall periodically examine the exemptions and reductions and the minimum levels of taxation laid down in this Directive and, acting unanimously after consulting the European Parliament, shall adopt the necessary measures.
Article 30 Notwithstanding Article 28(2), Directives 92/81/EEC and 92/82/EEC shall be repealed as from 31 December 2003.
Article 31 This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 32 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 27 October 2003.
ANNEX I Table A. - Minimum levels of taxation applicable to motor fuels %gt%TABLE%gt% Table B. - Minimum levels of taxation applicable to motor fuels used for the purpose set out in Article 8(2) %gt%TABLE%gt% Table C. - Minimum levels of taxation applicable to heating fuels and electricity %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX II Reduced rates of taxation and exemptions from such taxation referred to in Article 18(1) 1.
GERMANY: - for a differentiated rate on excise duty on fuels with a maximum sulphur content of 10 ppm from 1 January 2003 until 31 December 2005; - for the use of waste hydrocarbon gases as heating fuel; - for a differentiated rate of excise duty on mineral oils used as fuel in local public passenger transport vehicles, subject to compliance with the obligations laid down in Directive 92/82/EEC; - for samples of mineral oils intended for analysis, tests on production or for other scientific purposes; - for a differentiated rate of excise duty on heating oils used by manufacturing industries, provided that the differentiated rates are in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive; - for waste oils which are reused as fuel, either directly after recovery or following a recycling process for waste oils, and where the reuse is subject to duty. 4.
SPAIN: - for LPG used as fuel in local public transport vehicles; - for LPG used as fuel in taxis; - for differentiated rates of tax on unleaded petrol to reflect different environmental categories, provided that the differentiated rates are in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive, and in particular the minimum levels of taxation provided for in Article 7 thereof; - for waste oils which are reused as fuel, either directly after recovery or following a recycling process for waste oils, and where the reuse is subject to duty. 6.
The reduction specified in the authorisation may be applied after 31 December 2003 until the expiry of the authorisation, but may not be extended.
IRELAND: - for LPG, natural gas and methane used as motor fuel; - in motor vehicles used by the disabled; - for local public passenger transport vehicles; - for differentiated rates of tax on unleaded petrol to reflect different environmental categories, provided that the differentiated rates are in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive, and in particular the minimum levels of taxation provided for in Article 7 thereof; - for a differentiated rate of excise on low-sulphur diesel; - for the production of alumina in the Shannon region; - for air navigation other than that covered by Article 14(1)(b) of this Directive; - for navigation in private pleasure craft; - for waste oils which are reused as fuel, either directly after recovery or following a recycling process for waste oils, and where the reuse is subject to duty. 8.
ITALY: - for differentiated rates of excise duty on mixtures used as motor fuels containing 5 % or 25 % of biodiesel until 30 June 2004.
The reduction in excise duty shall be adjusted to take account of changes in the price of raw materials to avoid overcompensating for the extra costs involved in the manufacture of biofuels; - for a reduction in the rate of excise duty used as fuel by road transport operators, until 1 January 2005, which cannot be less than EUR 370 per 1000 l as from 1 January 2004; - for waste hydrocarbon gases used as fuel; - for a reduced rate of excise duty to water/diesel emulsions and water/heavy fuel oil emulsions from 1 October 2000 until 31 December 2005 provided that the reduced rate is in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive, and in particular with the minimum rates of excise duty; - for methane used as fuel in motor vehicles; - for the national armed forces; - for ambulances; - for local public passenger transport vehicles; - for fuel used in taxis; - in certain particularly disadvantaged geographical areas, for reduced rates of excise duty on domestic fuel and LPG used for heating and distributed through the networks of such areas, provided that the rates are in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive, and in particular the minimum rates of excise duty; - for consumption in the regions of Val d'Aosta and Gorizia; - for a reduction in the rate of excise duty on petrol consumed on the territory of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, provided that the rates are in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive, and in particular the minimum rates of excise duty; - for a reduction in the rate of excise duty on mineral oils consumed in the regions of Udine and Trieste, provided that the rates are in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive; - for an exemption from excise duty on mineral oils used as fuel for alumina production in Sardinia; - for a reduction in the rate of excise duty on fuel oil, for the production of steam, and for gas oil, used in ovens for drying and %quot%activating%quot% molecular sieves in Reggio Calabria, provided that the rates are in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive; - for air navigation other than that covered by Article 14(1)(b) of this Directive; - for waste oils which are reused as fuel, either directly after recovery or following a recycling process for waste oils, and where the reuse is subject to duty. 9.
NETHERLANDS: - for LPG, natural gas and methane; - for samples of mineral oils intended for analysis, tests on production or for other scientific purposes; - for use by the national armed forces; - for the application of differentiated rates of excise duty on LPG used as fuel in public transport; - for a differentiated rate of excise duty on LPG used as fuel for waste-collection, drain suction and by street-cleaning vehicles; - for a differentiated rate of excise duty on low sulphur (50 ppm) diesel to 31 December 2004; - for a differentiated rate of excise duty on low sulphur (50 ppm) petrol to 31 December 2004. 11.
AUSTRIA: - for natural gas and methane; - for LPG used as fuel by local public transport vehicles; - for waste oils which are reused as fuel, either directly after recovery or following a recycling process for waste oils, and where the reuse is subject to duty. 12.
SWEDEN: - for reduced tax rates for diesel in accordance with environmental classifications; - for differentiated rates of tax on unleaded petrol to reflect different environmental categories, provided that the differentiated rates are in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive, and in particular the minimum rates of excise duty; - for a differentiated rate of energy tax to alkylate-based petrol for two-stroke engines, until 30 June 2008, provided that the total excise duty applicable comply with the terms of this Directive; - for an exemption from excise duty for biologically produced methane and other waste gases; - for a reduced rate of excise duty on mineral oils used for industrial purposes, provided that the rates are in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive; - for a reduced rate of excise duty on mineral oils used for industrial purposes by introducing both a rate which is lower than the standard rate and a reduced rate for energy-intensive enterprises, provided that the rates are in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive, and do not give rise to distortions of competition; - for air navigation other than that covered by Article 14(1)(b) of the present Directive. 15.
UNITED KINGDOM: - for differentiated rates of excise duty for road fuel containing biodiesel and biodiesel used as pure road fuel, until 31 March 2007.
Community minimum rates have to be respected and no overcompensation for the extra costs involved in the manufacture of biofuels can take place; - for LPG, natural gas and methane used as motor fuel; - for a reduction in the rate of excise duty on diesel to encourage the use of more environmentally friendly fuels; - for differentiated rates of tax on unleaded petrol to reflect different environmental categories, provided that the differentiated rates are in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive, and in particular the minimum levels of taxation provided for in Article 7 thereof; - for local public passenger transport vehicles; - for a differentiated rate of excise duty on water/diesel emulsion provided that the differentiated rates are in accordance with the obligations laid down in this Directive, and in particular the minimum rates of excise duty; - for air navigation other than that covered by Article 14(1)(b) of this Directive; - for navigation in private pleasure craft; - for waste oils which are reused as fuel, either directly after recovery or following a recycling process for waste oils, and where the reuse is subject to duty.
