Article 2 Scope of application 1.
Article 3 Protection requirements 1.
Article 4 Novelty A design shall be considered new if no identical design has been made available to the public before the date of filing of the application for registration or, if priority is claimed, the date of priority.
Article 5 Individual character 1.
Article 6 Disclosure 1.
A disclosure shall not be taken into consideration for the purpose of applying Articles 4 and 5 if a design for which protection is claimed under a registered design right of a Member State has been made available to the public: (a) by the designer, his successor in title, or a third person as a result of information provided or action taken by the designer, or his successor in title; and (b) during the 12-month period preceding the date of filing of the application or, if priority is claimed, the date of priority. 3.
Paragraph 2 shall also apply if the design has been made available to the public as a consequence of an abuse in relation to the designer or his successor in title.
Article 7 Designs dictated by their technical function and designs of interconnections 1.
Notwithstanding paragraph 2, a design right shall, under the conditions set out in Articles 4 and 5, subsist in a design serving the purpose of allowing multiple assembly or connection of mutually interchangeable products within a modular system.
Article 8 Designs contrary to public policy or morality A design right shall not subsist in a design which is contrary to public policy or to accepted principles of morality.
Article 9 Scope of protection 1.
Article 11 Invalidity or refusal of registration 1.
A design shall be refused registration, or, if the design has been registered, the design right shall be declared invalid: (a) if the design is not a design within the meaning of Article 1(a); or (b) if it does not fulfil the requirements of Articles 3 to 8; or (c) if the applicant for or the holder of the design right is not entitled to it under the law of the Member State concerned; or (d) if the design is in conflict with a prior design which has been made available to the public after the date of filing of the application or, if priority is claimed, the date of priority, and which is protected from a date prior to the said date by a registered Community design or an application for a registered Community design or by a design right of the Member State concerned, or by an application for such a right. 2.
Article 12 Rights conferred by the design right 1.
Article 13 Limitation of the rights conferred by the design right 1.
Article 14 Transitional provision Until such time as amendments to this Directive are adopted on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the provisions of Article 18, Member States shall maintain in force their existing legal provisions relating to the use of the design of a component part used for the purpose of the repair of a complex product so as to restore its original appearance and shall introduce changes to those provisions only if the purpose is to liberalise the market for such parts.
Article 15 Exhaustion of rights The rights conferred by a design right upon registration shall not extend to acts relating to a product in which a design included within the scope of protection of the design right is incorporated or to which it is applied, when the product has been put on the market in the Community by the holder of the design right or with his consent.
Article 16 Relationship to other forms of protection The provisions of this Directive shall be without prejudice to any provisions of Community law or of the law of the Member State concerned relating to unregistered design rights, trade marks or other distinctive signs, patents and utility models, typefaces, civil liability or unfair competition.
Article 17 Relationship to copyright A design protected by a design right registered in or in respect of a Member State in accordance with this Directive shall also be eligible for protection under the law of copyright of that State as from the date on which the design was created or fixed in any form.
Article 18 Revision Three years after the implementation date specified in Article 19, the Commission shall submit an analysis of the consequences of the provisions of this Directive for Community industry, in particular the industrial sectors which are most affected, particularly manufacturers of complex products and component parts, for consumers, for competition and for the functioning of the internal market.
Article 19 Implementation 1.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations or administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than 28 October 2001.
Article 20 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 21 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 13 October 1998.
Statement by the Commission regarding Article 18 Immediately following the date of adoption of the Directive, and without prejudice to Article 18, the Commission proposes to launch a consultation exercise involving manufacturers of complex products and of component parts in the motor vehicles sector.
