That Article should be supplemented so as to guarantee that the Community registration procedure is available to the countries meeting those conditions. (10) Article 7 of Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92 specifies how objections are to be made and dealt with.
Specific provisions may be adopted by the procedure laid down in Article 15. 2.
The Commission shall examine admissibility in accordance with the criteria set out in Article 7(4).
The Commission shall examine the admissibility of objections in accordance with the criteria laid down in Article 7(4).
Where a designation of origin or geographical indication is registered under this Regulation, any application for registration of a trademark that is for a product of the same type and use of which will engender one of the situations indicated in Article 13 shall be refused if made after the date of submission to the Commission of the application for registration of the designation of origin or geographical indication.
Trademarks registered in breach of the first subparagraph shall be invalidated.%quot% (b) Paragraph 2 shall be replaced by the following: %quot%2.
Where reference is made to this Article, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Article 13(2) and Article 17 shall be deleted.
Without prejudice to point 16 of Article 1, Articles 5 and 17 shall continue to apply to applications for the registration of names of natural mineral and spring waters where applications for registration were made before this Regulation came into force.
Those natural mineral and spring waters which have already been registered and those which might possibly be registered by virtue of the application of the second paragraph shall continue to appear in the register provided for in Article 6(3) of Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92 and to benefit from the protection accorded by that Regulation until 31 December 2013.
Done at Luxembourg, 8 April 2003.
ANNEX I %quot%ANNEX I Foodstuffs referred to in Article 1(1): - Beer - Beverages made from plant extracts - Bread, pastry, cakes, confectionery and other baker's wares - Natural gums and resins - Mustard paste - Pasta.%quot% ANNEX II %quot%ANNEX II Agricultural products referred to in Article 1(1) - Hay - Essential oils - Cork - Cochineal (raw product of animal origin) - Flowers and ornamental plants - Wool - Osier.%quot%
