Contact points should be designated and identified. (9) Since the objectives of this framework Decision cannot be achieved adequately by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the cross-border character of the damage which may be caused by the behaviour concerned, be better achieved at Union level, the Union may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
Article 2 Criminal offences 1.
Subject to Article 4(2) of this framework Decision, each Member State shall take the measures necessary to ensure that an infringement within the meaning of Articles 4 and 5 of Directive 2005/35/EC shall be regarded as a criminal offence. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply to crew members in respect of infringements that occur in straits used for international navigation, exclusive economic zones and on the high seas where the conditions set out in Annex I, Regulation 11(b) or in Annex II, Regulation 6(b), of the Marpol 73/78 Convention are satisfied.
Article 4 Penalties 1.
Each Member State shall take the measures necessary to ensure that the offences referred to in Articles 2 and 3 are punishable by effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal penalties which shall include, at least for serious cases, criminal penalties of a maximum of at least between one and three years of imprisonment. 2.
In minor cases, where the act committed does not cause a deterioration of the quality of the water, a Member State may provide for penalties of a different type from those laid down in paragraph 1. 3.
The criminal penalties provided for in paragraph 1 may be accompanied by other penalties or measures, in particular fines, or the disqualification for a natural person from engaging in an activity requiring official authorisation or approval, or founding, managing or directing a company or a foundation, where the facts having led to his/her conviction show an obvious risk that the same kind of criminal activity may be pursued again. 4.
Each Member State shall take the measures necessary to ensure that the intentionally committed offence referred to in Article 2 is punishable by a maximum of at least between five and ten years of imprisonment where the offence caused significant and widespread damage to water quality, to animal or vegetable species or to parts of them and the death or serious injury of persons. 5.
Article 5 Liability of legal persons 1.
Apart from the cases provided for in paragraph 1, Member States shall take the measures necessary to ensure that a legal person can be held liable where lack of supervision or control by a person referred to in paragraph 1 has made possible the commission of the offence referred to in Article 2 for the benefit of the legal person by a person under its authority. 3.
The liability of a legal person under paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not exclude criminal proceedings against natural persons who are involved as perpetrators, instigators or accessories in the offences referred to in Articles 2 and 3.
Article 6 Penalties against legal persons 1.
For the purpose of the implementation of paragraph 1(a), and without prejudice to the first sentence of paragraph 1, Member States in which the euro has not been adopted shall apply the exchange rate between the euro and their currency as published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 12 July 2005. 3.
A Member State that implements the framework Decision in accordance with paragraph 3 shall notify the General Secretariat of the Council and the Commission that it intends to do so. 5.
Article 8 Notification of information 1.
Where a Member State is informed of the commission of an offence to which Article 2 applies or of the risk of the commission of such an offence which causes or is likely to cause imminent pollution, it shall immediately inform such other Member States as are likely to be exposed to this damage, and the Commission. 2.
Where a Member State is informed of the commission of an offence to which Article 2 applies or of the risk of the commission of such an offence which is likely to fall within the jurisdiction of a Member State, it shall immediately inform that other Member State. 3.
Article 9 Designation of contact points 1.
Article 10 Territorial scope This framework Decision shall have the same territorial scope as Directive 2005/35/EC.
Article 11 Implementation 1.
Member States shall adopt the measures necessary to comply with the provisions of this framework Decision by 12 January 2007. 2.
By 12 January 2007, Member States shall transmit to the General Secretariat of the Council and to the Commission the texts of the provisions transposing into their national law the obligations imposed on them by this framework Decision.
By 12 January 2012, the Commission shall, on the basis of information supplied by the Member States on the practical application of the provisions implementing this framework Decision, submit a report to the Council and make any proposals it deems appropriate which may include proposals to the effect that Member States shall, concerning offences committed in their territorial sea or in their exclusive economic zone or equivalent zone, consider a ship flying the flag of another Member State not to be a foreign ship within the meaning of Article 230 of the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
Article 12 Entry into force This framework Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 12 July 2005.
Brown [1] Opinion of the European Parliament of 13 January 2004 (OJ C 92, 16.4.2004, p. 19). [2] OJ C 19, 23.1.1999, p. 1. [3] See page 11 of this Official Journal. [4] OJ L 351, 29.12.1998, p. 1. --------------------------------------------------
