The same Article also provides that, on the basis of a Commission proposal, the general rules for that compulsory system are to be adopted before that date. (2) Council Regulation (EC) No 2772/1999 of 21 December 1999 providing for the general rules for a compulsory beef labelling system(6) provides for these general rules to apply only temporarily for a maximum period of eight months, that is to say from 1 February to 31 August 2000. (3) For the sake of clarity Regulation (EC) No 820/97 should be repealed and replaced by this Regulation. (4) Following the instability in the market in beef and beef products caused by the bovine spongiform encephalopathy crisis, the improvement in the transparency of the conditions for the production and marketing of the products concerned, particularly as regards traceability, has exerted a positive influence on consumption of beef.
The competent authority should have access to these registers on request. (22) Member States may spread the costs arising from the application of these measures over the entire beef sector. (23) The authority or authorities responsible for the application of each title in this Regulation should be designated. (24) A compulsory beef labelling system should be introduced which is obligatory in all Member States.
Under this compulsory system, operators and organisations marketing beef should indicate on the label information about the beef and the point of slaughter of the animal or animals from which that beef was derived. (25) The compulsory beef labelling system should be reinforced from 1 January 2002.
Under this compulsory system, operators and organisations marketing beef should, in addition, indicate on the label information concerning origin, in particular where the animal or animals from which the beef was derived were born, fattened and slaughtered. (26) Information additional to the information concerning where the animal or animals from which the beef was derived were born, fattened and slaughtered may be provided under the voluntary beef labelling system. (27) The system of compulsory labelling based on origin should be in force from 1 January 2002, it being understood that full information on movements made by bovine animals in the Community is only required for animals born after 31 December 1997. (28) The compulsory beef labelling system should also apply to beef imported into the Community.
Article 2 For the purposes of this title: - %quot%animal%quot% means a bovine animal within the meaning of Article 2(2)(b) and (c) of Directive 64/432/EEC(17), - %quot%holding%quot% means any establishment, construction or, in the case of an open-air farm, any place situated within the territory of the same Member State, in which animals covered by this Regulation are held, kept or handled, - %quot%keeper%quot% means any natural or legal person responsible for animals, whether on a permanent or on a temporary basis, including during transportation or at a market, - %quot%competent authority%quot% means the central authority or authorities in a Member State responsible for, or entrusted with, carrying out veterinary checks and implementing this title or, in the case of the monitoring of premiums, the authorities entrusted with implementing Regulation (EC) No 3508/92.
By way of derogation from the above requirement, animals born before 1 January 1998 which are intended for intra-Community trade after that date may be identified in accordance with Directive 92/102/EEC until 1 September 1998.
By way of derogation from the first subparagraph, animals born before 1 January 1998 which are intended for intra-Community trade after that date with a view to immediate slaughter may be identified in accordance with Directive 92/102/EEC until 1 September 1999.
However, at the request of a Member State and in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2), the Commission may determine the circumstances in which Member States may extend the maximum period.
No animal born after 31 December 1997 may be moved from a holding unless it is identified in accordance with the provisions of this Article. 3.
The original identification established by the third country shall be recorded in the computerised database provided for in Article 5 or, if this is not yet fully operational, in the registers provided for in Article 3, together with the identification code allocated to it by the Member State of destination. 4.
The ear tags shall be allocated to the holding, distributed and applied to the animals in a manner determined by the competent authority. 7.
Article 5 The competent authority of the Member States shall set up a computerised database in accordance with Articles 14 and 18 of Directive 64/432/EC.
In such cases, the passport accompanying the animal on its arrival shall be surrendered to the competent authority, which shall return it to the issuing Member State.
However, at the request of a Member State and in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2), the Commission may determine the circumstances under which the maximum period may be extended. 2.
By way of derogation from the first sentence of paragraph 1 and from paragraph 2, Member States: - which have a computerised database which the Commission deems to be fully operational in accordance with Article 5 may determine that a passport is to be issued only for animals intended for intra-Community trade and that those animals shall be accompanied by their passports only when they are moved from the territory of the Member State concerned to the territory of another Member State, in which case the passport shall contain information based on the computerised database.
In these Member States, the passport accompanying an animal imported from another Member State shall be surrendered to the competent authority on its arrival; - may until 1 January 2000 authorise the issue of collective animal passports for herds moved within the Member State concerned provided that such herds have the same origin and destination and are accompanied by a veterinary certificate. 4.
In the case of the death of an animal, the passport shall be returned by the keeper to the competent authority within seven days after the death of the animal.
The register shall be in a format approved by the competent authority, kept in manual or computerised form, and be available at all times to the competent authority, upon request, for a minimum period to be determined by the competent authority but which may not be less than three years.
Article 8 Member States shall designate the authority responsible for ensuring compliance with this title.
Article 10 The measures necessary for the implementation of this Title shall be adopted in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 23(2).
TITLE II Labelling of beef and beef products Article 11 An operator or an organisation, as defined in Article 12, which: - is required, by virtue of Section I of this title, to label beef at all stages of marketing, - wishes, by virtue of Section II of this title, to label beef at the point of sale in such a way as to provide information, other than that laid down by Article 13, concerning certain characteristics or production conditions of the labelled meat or of the animal from which it derives, shall do so in accordance with this title.
Article 12 For the purposes of this title, the following definitions shall apply: - %quot%beef%quot% means all products falling within CN codes 0201, 0202, 0206 10 95 and 0206 29 91, - %quot%labelling%quot% means the attachment of a label to an individual piece or pieces of meat or to their packaging material, or in the case of non-prewrapped products the supply of appropriate information in written and visible form to the consumer at the point of sale, - %quot%organisation%quot% means a group of operators from the same or different parts of the beef trade.
SECTION I Compulsory Community beef labelling system Article 13 General rules 1.
Article 15 Compulsory labelling of beef from third countries By way of derogation from Article 13, beef imported into the Community for which not all the information provided for in Article 13 is available, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 17, shall be labelled with the indication: %quot%Origin: non-EC%quot% and %quot%Slaughtered in: (name of third country)%quot%.
SECTION II Voluntary labelling system Article 16 General rules 1.
If, within a period to be fixed in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2), counting from the day following the date of submission of the application, approval has not been refused or given, or supplementary information has not been asked for, the specification shall be considered to be approved by the competent authority. 4.
A Member State may decide that the name of one or more of its regions may not be used, in particular where the name of a region: - could give rise to confusion or difficulties in checking, - is reserved for beef in the framework of Regulation (EEC) No 2081/92.
The Commission shall inform the other Member States within the Management Committee for Beef and Veal referred to in Article 23(1)(b) and, where necessary, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2), rules relating to those indications may be laid down and, in particular, limits may be imposed.
Article 17 Voluntary labelling system for beef from third countries 1.
Where the production of beef takes place, in full or in part, in a third country, operators and organisations shall be entitled to label beef according to this section if, in addition to complying with Article 16, they have obtained for their specifications the approval of the competent authority designated for that purpose by each of the third countries concerned. 2.
The validity within the Community of an approval granted by a third country shall be subject to prior notification by the third country to the Commission of: - the competent authority which has been designated, - the procedures and criteria to be followed by the competent authority when examining the specification, - each operator and organisation whose specification was accepted by the competent authority.
SECTION III General provisions Article 19 Detailed rules The measures necessary for the implementation of this title shall be adopted in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 23(2).
Article 20 Designation of competent authorities Member States shall designate the competent authority or authorities responsible for implementing this title, no later than 14 October 2000.
TITLE III Common provisions Article 22 1.
The controls provided for shall be without prejudice to any controls which the Commission may carry out pursuant to Article 9 of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted, where necessary, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(3).
Article 25 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall be applicable to beef from animals slaughtered on or after 1 September 2000.
Done at Brussels, 17 July 2000.
Fontaine For the Council The President J.
Directive updated by Directive 97/12/EC (OJ L 109, 25.4.1997, p. 1 ) and last amended by Directive 98/99/EC (OJ L 358, 31.12.1998, p. 107). (18) OJ L 160, 26.6.1999, p. 103. (19) OJ L 160, 26.6.1999, p. 21. (20) OJ L 255, 18.10.1968, p. 23.
