In Member States with a large sheep population a sample size sufficient to detect a prevalence of one positive in 20000 healthy slaughter animals at a 95 % confidence level is the largest that can be realistically achieved at this time.
The sample size for countries with a small sheep population should be adjusted to take account of the practicalities of numbers of eligible animals available for testing. (4) The age criteria for defining the populations for sampling should for practical reasons be broadened by making reference to dentition.
To ensure the control by Member states of its removal, specific control measures should be laid down. (9) Member States should also have the possibility to allow the removal of the vertebral column in butcher shops specifically authorised, monitored, and registered for this purpose. (10) In its opinion of 29 June 2001 on adipose tissue associated with the digestive tract of cattle, sheep and goats, the Scientific Steering Committee pointed out that potential infectivity could be found in the mesenteric nerves and the mesenteric lymph nodes situated near the arteria mesenterica in bovine animals.
Points 2 and 3 shall not apply to imports of bovine animals born and continuously reared in the following countries and to imports of embryos and ova derived from such animals: Argentina Australia Botswana Brazil Chile Costa Rica El Salvador Namibia New Zealand Nicaragua Panama Paraguay Uruguay Singapore Swaziland.%quot% Article 2 Regulation (EC) No 1326/2001 is amended as follows: 1.
Article 7 shall not apply to a Member State until the coming into force of the decision determining the BSE status of that Member State, and until the Community provisions on animal feeding relevant to transmissible spongiform encephalopathies are effectively enforced there.
However, the provisions referred to in Article 1(2)(c) and Annex XI(A)(10) to Regulation (EC) No 999/2001, as amended by Annex II to this Regulation, shall apply from 1 March 2002.
Done at Brussels, 14 February 2002.
For the Commission David Byrne Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 147, 31.5.2001, p. 1. (2) OJ L 177, 30.6.2001, p. 60. (3) OJ L 84, 23.3.2001, p. 59. (4) OJ L 306, 7.12.2000, p. 32.
ANNEX I %quot%ANNEX III MONITORING SYSTEM CHAPTER A I.
Monitoring in bovine animals 1.
Monitoring in animals slaughtered for human consumption 2.1.
All bovine animals over 24 months of age: - subject to %quot%special emergency slaughtering%quot% as defined in Article 2(n) of Council Directive 64/433/EEC(1), or - slaughtered in accordance with Annex I, Chapter VI, point 28(c), to Directive 64/433/EEC, shall be tested for BSE. 2.2.
All bovine animals over 30 months of age subject to normal slaughter for human consumption shall be tested for BSE. 2.3.
The sample shall comprise at least 10000 animals per year. 3.
Monitoring in animals not slaughtered for human consumption Bovine animals over 24 months of age which have died or been killed but which were not: - killed for destruction pursuant to Commission Regulation (EC) No 716/96(2), - killed in the framework of an epidemic, such as foot-and-mouth disease, - slaughtered for human consumption, shall be tested for BSE at random.
Monitoring in animals purchased for destruction pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 716/96 4.1.
A random sample comprising at least 50000 animals annually of animals not covered by points 4.1 or 4.2 shall be tested for BSE. 5.
All parts of the body of an animal tested for BSE including the hide shall be retained under official control until a negative result to the rapid test has been obtained, unless they are destroyed in accordance with Annex V, point 3 or 4. 6.4.
All parts of the body of an animal found positive to the rapid test including the hide shall be destroyed in accordance with Annex V, point 3 or 4, apart from material to be retained in conjunction with the records provided for in Chapter B, section III. 6.5.
Monitoring in ovine and caprine animals 1.
General Monitoring in ovine and caprine animals shall be carried out in accordance with the laboratory methods laid down in Annex X, Chapter C, point 3.2(b). 2.
Monitoring in animals slaughtered for human consumption Animals over 18 months of age or which have more than two permanent incisors erupted through the gum and which are slaughtered for human consumption shall be tested in accordance with the sample size indicated in the table.
The sampling shall be representative for each region and season.
Monitoring in animals not slaughtered for human consumption Animals over 18 months of age or which have more than two permanent incisors erupted through the gum which have died or been killed, but which were not: - killed in the framework of an epidemic, such as foot-and-mouth disease, - slaughtered for human consumption, shall be tested in accordance with the sample size indicated in the table.
The sampling shall be representative for each region and season.
Monitoring in other animals In addition to the monitoring programmes set out in points 2 and 3, Member States may on a voluntary basis carry out monitoring in other animals, in particular: - animals used for dairy production, - animals originating from countries with indigenous TSEs, - animals which have consumed potentially contaminated feedingstuffs, - animals born or derived from TSE infected dams, - animals from flocks infected with TSE. 5.
Measures following testing of ovine and caprine animals All parts of the body of a tested animal including the hide shall be retained under official control until a negative result to the rapid test has been obtained, unless they are destroyed in accordance with Annex V, point 3 or 4.
All parts of the body of an animal found positive to the rapid test including the hide shall be destroyed in accordance with Annex V, point 3 or 4, apart from material to be retained in conjunction with the records provided for in Chapter B, section III. 6.
This subsample shall represent at least one per cent of the total sample for each Member State, and shall not be less than 100 animals per Member State.
Information to be presented by Member States in their report 1.
The estimated size of each subpopulation referred to in Chapter A, section I, points 3 and 4. 5.
The number of bovine animals tested within each subpopulation referred to in Chapter A, section I, point 2 to 5, the method for sample selection and the outcome of the tests. 6.
Positive TSE cases confirmed in animals other than bovine, ovine and caprine animals. 10.
Information to be presented by the Commission in its summary The summary shall be presented in a tabled format covering at least the information referred to in part I for each Member State.
The competent authority shall keep, for seven years, records of: - the number and types of animals placed under movement restrictions as referred to in Article 12(1), - the number and outcome of clinical and epidemiological investigations as referred to in Article 12(1), - the number and outcome of laboratory examinations as referred to in Article 12(2), - the number, identity and origin of animals sampled in the framework of the monitoring programmes as referred to in Chapter A and, where possible, age, breed and anamnestic information, - the prion protein genotype of positive TSE cases in sheep. 2.
Member States benefiting from this derogation shall, in addition to the requirements laid down in Annex III, Chapter A, section I, ensure that one of the approved rapid tests listed in Annex X, Chapter C, point 4, is applied to all bovine animals over 30 months of age which: (a) have died on the farm or in transport, but which have not been slaughtered for human consumption, with the exception of those dead animals in remote areas with a low animal density situated in Member States where the occurrence of BSE is unlikely; (b) were subject to normal slaughter for human consumption.
Specified risk material shall be removed at: (a) slaughterhouses; (b) cutting plants, in the case of vertebral column of bovine animals; (c) high-risk processing plants or premises referred to in Articles 3 and 7 of Directive 90/667/EEC, under the supervision of a designated agent appointed by the competent authority.
By way of derogation from point 5, Member States may decide to allow: (a) harvesting of cheek meat and tongue from bovine, ovine and caprine heads in cutting plants specifically authorised for this purpose; (b) removal of spinal cord of ovine and caprine animals in cutting plants specifically authorised for this purpose; (c) removal of vertebral column from carcasses or parts of carcasses in butcher shops specifically authorised, monitored and registered for this purpose. 7.
All specified risk material shall be stained with a dye or, as appropriate, marked immediately on removal, and completely destroyed: (a) by incineration without pre-processing, or (b) after pre-processing: (i) in accordance with the systems described in Chapters I to IV, VI and VII of the Annex to Decision 92/562/EEC: - by incineration, - by co-incineration; (ii) in accordance at least with the standards set out in Annex I to Decision 1999/534/EC, by burial in an approved landfill site.
Member States shall carry out frequent official inspections to verify the correct application of this Part and shall ensure that measures are taken to avoid any contamination, particularly in slaughterhouses, cutting plants, animal waste processing plants, high-risk processing plants or premises approved by the Member States in accordance with Article 7 of Directive 90/667/EEC, butcher shops registered in accordance with point 6, landfill sites and other facilities for storage or incineration.
Member States shall in particular set up a system to ensure and check that: (a) specified risk material used in the production of products referred to in Article 1(2) are used solely for authorised purposes; (b) specified risk material, especially where the removal takes place at establishments or premises other than slaughterhouses, is completely separated from other waste not intended for incineration, is collected separately and is disposed of in accordance with point l and points 5 to 9.
