Article 2 The aim of Community development and cooperation policies shall be human development.
Article 3 All ALA developing countries shall be eligible for financial and technical assistance and economic cooperation.
Financial and technical assistance Article 4 Financial and technical assistance shall be targeted primarily on the poorest sections of the population and the poorest countries in the two regions, through the implementation of programmes and projects in whatever sectors Community aid is likely to play an important role.
Regional cooperation between developing countries shall be considered a priority area for financial and technical assistance, particularly in the following fields: - cooperation on the environment, - the development of intra-regional trade, - the strengthening of regional institutions, - support for regional integration and the establishment of joint policies and activities among developing countries, - regional communications, particularly as regards standards, networks and services, including telecommunications, - research, - training, - rural development and food security, - cooperation in the sphere of energy.
Article 6 Financial and technical assistance, shall be extended to the relatively more advanced ALA developing countries, in particular in the following specific fields and cases: - the spread of democracy and human rights, - prevention of natural disasters and reconstruction in their wake, - the fight against drugs, - the environment and natural resources, - strengthening institutions, especially public authorities, - pilot schemes to help particularly under privileged strata of the population especially in large conurbations, - regional cooperation and integration, with special attention being paid to regional cooperation and integration schemes allowing partnerships to be formed between poor and relatively advanced countries.
Article 8 Economic cooperation shall include three sectors: 1.
Regional cooperation must be regarded as an important sector for economic cooperation, in particular with respect to: - cooperation on industrial ecology, - intra-regional trade, - regional institutions for economic integration, - regional policies, - communications, including telecommunications, - research and training, - cooperation in the sphere of energy, - industrial cooperation.
Implementing procedures Article 9 Financial and technical assistance and expenditure on economic cooperation shall be provided mainly in the form of grants financed from the general budget of the European Communities.
Community funding of the aid referred to in Article 9 shall cover an initial five-year period (1991-1995). 2.
The amount of Community funding deemed necessary for the implementation of the aid shall be ECU 2 750 million, 10 % of which shall be allocated to the environment, especially the protection of tropical forests.
An amount of ECU 1 069,8 million shall be earmarked for the period 1991-1992 under the financial perspective for 1988-1992.
The budget authority shall determine the appropriations available for each financial year, account being taken of the principles of sound financial management referred to in Article 2 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities. 4.
Article 11 Financial and technical assistance may cover all foreign currency costs and local costs for carrying out projects and programmes, including, whenever necessary, integrated programmes and sectoral projects.
An amount of, at most, 15 % shall be provided for to this end when the budgetary authority adopts the annual appropriations. 2.
Any unallocated amount equivalent to the 15 % portion of the annual appropriations shall be released on 31 July of the same year to be allocated in some other way.
Article 13 Participation in invitations to tender and purchasing and other contracts shall be open on equal terms to all natural or legal persons of the Member States.
Article 16 The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council an annual report on the implementation of this Regulation.
Article 18 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 25 February 1992.
For the Council The President Vitor MARTINS (1) OJ No C 119, 4. 5. 1991, p. 6 and OJ No C 284, 31. 10. 1991, p. 4. (2) OJ No C 267, 14. 10. 1991, p. 35. (3) OJ No L 48, 21. 2. 1981, p. 8.
