For the application of the derogation concerning seed or seed potatoes referred to in the first subparagraph, procedural rules and criteria are set out in Articles 3 to 14. 2.
Species for which it is established, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91, that organically produced seed or seed potatoes are available in sufficient quantities and for a significant number of varieties in all parts of the Community are set out in the Annex to this Regulation.
Article 2 Definitions For the purpose of this Regulation: (a) the definitions in Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91 shall apply; (b) %quot%supplier%quot% means an operator who markets seed or seed potatoes to other operators.
Article 4 Authorities or bodies responsible for granting authorisations Inspection authorities or bodies referred to in Article 9 of Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91 are responsible for granting the authorisation referred to in Article 5 of the present Regulation, unless the Member State designates other authorities or bodies supervised by the Member State concerned.
Article 5 Conditions for granting authorisations 1.
Such authorisations shall be clearly indicated in the database. 5.
Member States may also designate an authority or a private body in another country. 3.
Article 7 Registration 1.
Any variety which has not been registered in the database shall be considered as unavailable with regard to the application of Article 5 of the present Regulation. 3.
Article 8 Conditions for registration 1.
Article 9 Registered information 1.
Besides the information specified in paragraph 1, the database shall contain a list of the species listed in the Annex.
Article 10 Access to information 1.
Article 11 Registration fee Each registration may be subject to the levying of a fee, which shall represent the cost of introducing and maintaining the information in the database.
CHAPTER IV REPORT AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 12 Annual report 1.
The authorities or bodies designated to grant authorisations in accordance with Article 4 shall register all authorisations, and shall make this information available in a report to the competent authority of the Member State and to the manager of the database.
Article 13 Summary report The competent authority of the Member State shall, before 31 March each year, collect the reports and send a summary report covering all authorisations of the Member State from the previous calendar year to the Commission and to the other Member States.
The report shall cover the information specified in Article 12.
The information shall be published in the database.
Article 14 Information upon request Upon request from a Member State or the Commission, detailed information on authorisations granted in individual cases shall be made available to other Member States or to the Commission.
Article 16 Entry into force and application This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 14 August 2003.
For the Commission Franz Fischler Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 198, 22.7.1991, p. 1. (2) OJ L 85, 2.4.2003, p. 15. (3) OJ L 169, 10.7.2000, p. 1.
ANNEX The Commission is currently investigating this issue with the Member States in order to establish a list of species to be included in the Annex, in accordance with the opinion of the Committee set up in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 2092/91.
