Article 2 For the purposes of this Regulation: (a) %quot%uprooted people%quot% means: (i) refugees, as defined in the Convention on the Status of Refugees concluded in Geneva on 28 July 1951 and the New York Protocol of 31 January 1967, or (ii) displaced persons, who have been forced to seek refuge outside their region of origin owing to conflict situations but who do not enjoy refugee status, or (iii) former refugees or displaced persons who have returned to their country or region of origin; (b) %quot%demobilised former soldiers%quot% means former members of armed forces, be they regular or opposition forces, who have agreed to lay down their arms and reintegrate into civilian life.
Article 5 Operations carried out under this Regulation shall complement those provided for by other Community instruments governing short-term humanitarian aid and long-term development cooperation.
CHAPTER II Procedures for the implementation of the aid Article 7 1.
The Commission shall be responsible for appraising, deciding or administering the operations covered by this Regulation in accordance with the budgetary and other procedures in force, in particular those laid down in Articles 2, 116 and 118 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities(7). 2.
Article 9 Operations financed by the Community under this Regulation shall be implemented by the Commission, either at the request of the partners or on its own initiative.
Article 11 Without prejudice to the institutional and political context in which the partners conduct their activities, the following elements shall be taken into consideration for determining whether a partner may have access to Community financing: (a) its experience in the field of assistance to uprooted people; (b) its administrative and financial management capacity; (c) its technical and logistical capacity in relation to the planned operation; (d) where applicable, the results of operations previously carried out, particularly those that received Community financing; (e) its capacity to develop cooperation with other actors from civil society in the third countries concerned; (f) its commitment to defending, respecting and promoting human rights, democratic principles and humanitarian law.
CHAPTER III Implementation of operations Article 15 1.
The financial framework for the implementation of this Regulation for the period from 2001 to 2004 is hereby set at EUR 200 million. 2.
The Commission shall be assisted by the committee instituted under Article 15 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 443/92(8). 2.
CHAPTER IV Reporting and final provisions Article 19 1.
Article 20 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply until 31 December 2004.
Done at Luxembourg, 29 October 2001.
Fontaine For the Council The President L.
