The establishment of the Agency, assisting Member States with implementing the operational aspects of external border management, including return of third-country nationals illegally present in the Member States, constitutes an important step in this direction. (6) Based on a common integrated risk analysis model, the Agency should carry out risk analyses in order to provide the Community and the Member States with adequate information to allow for appropriate measures to be taken or to tackle identified threats and risks with a view to improving the integrated management of external borders. (7) The Agency should provide training at European level for national instructors of border guards and additional training and seminars related to control and surveillance at external borders and removal of third-country nationals illegally present in the Member States for officers of the competent national services.
The auditing of accounts should be undertaken by the Court of Auditors. (17) Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) [3] should apply without restriction to the Agency, which should accede to the Interinstitutional Agreement of 25 May 1999 between the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities concerning internal investigations by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) [4]. (18) Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents [5] should apply to the Agency. (19) Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2000 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data [6] applies to the processing of personal data by the Agency. (20) The development of the policy and legislation on external border control and surveillance remains a responsibility of the EU institutions, in particular the Council.
Close coordination between the Agency and these institutions should be guaranteed. (21) Since the objectives of this Regulation, namely the need for creating an integrated management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the Member States of the European Union, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
Given that this Regulation builds upon the Schengen acquis under the provisions of Title IV of Part Three of the Treaty establishing the European Community, Denmark should, in accordance with Article 5 of the said Protocol, decide within a period of six months after the Council has adopted this Regulation whether it will implement it in its national law or not. (25) This Regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis in which the United Kingdom does not take part, in accordance with Council Decision 2000/365/EC of 29 May 2000 concerning the request of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to take part in some of the provisions of the Schengen acquis [8].
The United Kingdom is therefore not taking part in its adoption and is not bound by it or subject to its application. (26) This Regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis in which Ireland does not take part, in accordance with Council Decision 2002/192/EC of 28 February 2002 concerning Ireland’s request to take part in some of the provisions of the Schengen acquis [9].
The Agency shall also provide the Commission and the Member States with the necessary technical support and expertise in the management of the external borders and promote solidarity between Member States. 4.
CHAPTER II TASKS Article 2 Main tasks 1.
The Agency shall perform the following tasks: (a) coordinate operational cooperation between Member States in the field of management of external borders; (b) assist Member States on training of national border guards, including the establishment of common training standards; (c) carry out risk analyses; (d) follow up on the development of research relevant for the control and surveillance of external borders; (e) assist Member States in circumstances requiring increased technical and operational assistance at external borders; (f) provide Member States with the necessary support in organising joint return operations. 2.
Article 3 Joint operations and pilot projects at external borders 1.
The Agency shall evaluate, approve and coordinate proposals for joint operations and pilot projects made by Member States.
The Agency may itself, and in agreement with the Member State(s) concerned, launch initiatives for joint operations and pilot projects in cooperation with Member States.
It may also decide to put its technical equipment at the disposal of Member States participating in the joint operations or pilot projects. 2.
The Agency may decide to co-finance the operations and projects referred to in paragraph 1, with grants from its budget in accordance with the financial rules applicable to the Agency.
Article 4 Risk analysis The Agency shall develop and apply a common integrated risk analysis model.
Article 5 Training The Agency shall establish and further develop a common core curriculum for border guards’ training and provide training at European level for instructors of the national border guards of Member States.
Article 6 Follow-up to research The Agency shall follow up on the developments in research relevant for the control and surveillance of external borders and disseminate this information to the Commission and the Member States.
Article 7 Management of technical equipment The Agency shall set up and keep centralised records of technical equipment for control and surveillance of external borders belonging to Member States, which they, on a voluntary basis and upon request from another Member State, are willing to put at the disposal of that Member State for a temporary period following a needs and risks analysis carried out by the Agency.
Article 8 Support to Member States in circumstances requiring increased technical and operational assistance at external borders 1.
Without prejudice to Article 64(2) of the Treaty, one or more Member States confronted with circumstances requiring increased technical and operational assistance when implementing their obligations with regard to control and surveillance of external borders may request the Agency for assistance.
The Agency can organise the appropriate technical and operational assistance for the requesting Member State(s). 2.
Article 9 Return cooperation 1.
Article 10 Exercise of executive powers Exercise of executive powers by the Agency’s staff and the Member States’ experts acting on the territory of another Member State shall be subject to the national law of that Member State.
Article 11 Information exchange systems The Agency may take all necessary measures to facilitate the exchange of information relevant for its tasks with the Commission and the Member States.
Article 12 Cooperation with Ireland and the United Kingdom 1.
The Agency shall facilitate operational cooperation of the Member States with Ireland and the United Kingdom in matters covered by its activities and to the extent required for the fulfilment of its tasks set out in Article 2(1). 2.
Article 13 Cooperation with Europol and international organisations The Agency may cooperate with Europol and the international organisations competent in matters covered by this Regulation in the framework of working arrangements concluded with those bodies, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Treaty and the provisions on the competence of those bodies.
Article 14 Facilitation of operational cooperation with third countries and cooperation with competent authorities of third countries In matters covered by its activities and to the extent required for the fulfilment of its tasks, the Agency shall facilitate the operational cooperation between Member States and third countries, in the framework of the European Union external relations policy.
The Agency may cooperate with the authorities of third countries competent in matters covered by this Regulation in the framework of working arrangements concluded with these authorities, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Treaty.
CHAPTER III STRUCTURE Article 15 Legal status and location The Agency shall be a body of the Community.
Article 16 Specialised branches The Management Board of the Agency shall evaluate the need for, and decide upon the setting up of, specialised branches in the Member States, subject to their consent, taking into account that due priority should be given to the operational and training centres already established and specialised in the different aspects of control and surveillance of the land, air and maritime borders respectively.
Article 17 Staff 1.
The Agency’s staff shall consist of a sufficient number of officials and of national experts in the field of control and surveillance of the external borders seconded by the Member States to carry out management duties.
Article 18 Privileges and immunities The Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European Communities shall apply to the Agency.
Article 19 Liability 1.
The Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction in disputes relating to compensation for the damage referred to in paragraph 3. 5.
Article 20 Powers of the Management Board 1.
Article 21 Composition of the Management Board 1.
Article 22 Chairmanship of the Management Board 1.
The Management Board shall elect a Chairperson and a Deputy Chairperson from among its members.
Article 23 Meetings 1.
Article 24 Voting 1.
Article 25 Functions and powers of the Executive Director 1.
Article 26 Appointment of senior officials 1.
Power to dismiss the Executive Director shall lie with the Management Board, according to the same procedure. 3.
Power to dismiss the Deputy Executive Director shall be with the Management Board, according to the same procedure. 5.
Article 27 Translation 1.
Without prejudice to decisions taken on the basis of Article 290 of the Treaty, the general report and programme of work referred to in Article 20(2)(b) and (c), shall be produced in all official languages of the Community. 3.
Article 28 Transparency and communication 1.
It shall ensure in particular that, in addition to the publication specified in Article 20(2)(b), the public and any interested party are rapidly given objective, reliable and easily understandable information with regard to its work. 3.
Any natural or legal person shall be entitled to address himself/herself in writing to the Agency in any of the languages referred to in Article 314 of the Treaty.
Decisions taken by the Agency pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 may give rise to the lodging of a complaint to the Ombudsman or form the subject of an action before the Court of Justice of the European Communities, under the conditions laid down in Articles 195 and 230 of the Treaty respectively.
CHAPTER IV FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS Article 29 Budget 1.
The revenue of the Agency shall consist, without prejudice to other types of income, of: - a subsidy from the Community entered in the general budget of the European Union (Commission section), - a contribution from the countries associated with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis, - fees for services provided, - any voluntary contribution from the Member States. 2.
The Executive Director shall draw up an estimate of the revenue and expenditure of the Agency for the following financial year and shall forward it to the Management Board together with an establishment plan. 4.
Revenue and expenditure shall be in balance. 5.
The Management Board shall adopt the draft estimate, including the provisional establishment plan accompanied by the preliminary work programme, and forward them by 31 March to the Commission and to the countries associated with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis. 6.
On the basis of the estimate, the Commission shall enter in the preliminary draft general budget of the European Union the estimates it deems necessary for the establishment plan and the amount of the subsidy to be charged to the general budget, which it shall place before the budgetary authority in accordance with Article 272 of the Treaty. 8.
The budgetary authority shall adopt the establishment plan for the Agency. 9.
Article 30 Implementation and control of the budget 1.
The Executive Director shall implement the Agency’s budget. 2.
By 31 March at the latest following each financial year, the Commission’s accounting officer shall forward the Agency’s provisional accounts to the Court of Auditors, together with a report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial year.
The Director shall send the Court of Auditors a reply to its observations by 30 September at the latest.
He shall also send this reply to the Management Board. 9.
Upon a recommendation from the Council, the European Parliament shall, before 30 April of the discharge year + 2, give a discharge to the Executive Director of the Agency in respect of the implementation of the budget for the discharge year.
Article 31 Combating fraud 1.
The Agency shall accede to the Interinstitutional Agreement of 25 May 1999 and shall issue, without delay, the appropriate provisions applicable to all the employees of the Agency. 3.
Article 32 Financial provision The financial rules applicable to the Agency shall be adopted by the Management Board after consultation of the Commission.
They may not depart from Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002 [12] on the framework Financial Regulation for the bodies referred to in Article 185 of the general Financial Regulation, unless specifically required for the Agency’s operation and with the Commission’s prior consent.
CHAPTER V FINAL PROVISIONS Article 33 Evaluation 1.
Article 34 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 October 2004.
Verdonk -------------------------------------------------- [1] Opinion of 9 March 2004 (not yet published in the Official Journal). [2] OJ C 108, 30.4.2004, p. 97. [3] OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 1. [4] OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 15. [5] OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43. [6] OJ L 8, 12.1.2001, p. 1. [7] OJ L 176, 10.7.1999, p. 31. [8] OJ L 131, 1.6.2000, p. 43. [9] OJ L 64, 7.3.2002, p. 20. [10] OJ 17, 6.10.1958, p. 385.
Regulation as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [11] OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. [12] OJ L 357, 31.12.2002, p. 72.
