Article 2 Eligible countries Tempus III shall concern the non-associated countries of central and eastern Europe eligible for economic aid by virtue of Regulation (EEC) No 3906/89 (PHARE programme)(9), and the new independent States of the former Soviet Union and Mongolia mentioned in Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 1279/96 (TACIS programme), subject to these assistance programmes being prolonged for the period referred to.
Article 3 Involvement of associated countries Actions under Tempus III are also open to the associated countries of central and eastern Europe so that what has been achieved through Tempus can be shared with the neighbouring countries and in order to develop regional and cross-border cooperation.
Article 5 Aims The aim of Tempus III is to promote, in line with the guidelines and general objectives of the PHARE and TACIS programmes for economic and social reform, the development of the higher education systems in the eligible countries through the most balanced cooperation possible with the partners from all the Member States of the Community.
Article 6 Dialogue with the eligible countries In agreement with the competent authorities in each country, the Commission will define the detailed priorities and objectives for the role of Tempus III in the national strategy for economic and social reform, on the basis of the programme's objectives and the provisions set out in the Annex, and in conformity in particular with: (a) (i) the general objectives of the PHARE programme; (ii) the general objectives of the TACIS programme, with particular reference to its sectoral aspects; (b) the policy of each eligible country on economic, social and educational reforms; (c) the need to strike an appropriate balance between the priority areas selected and the resources allocated to Tempus III.
Article 7 Committee 1.
The committee shall, in particular, assist the Commission in the implementation of the scheme having regard to the objectives set out in Article 5 and shall coordinate its work with that of other programme committees established in the field of education (Socrates) and training (Leonardo). 3.
Article 8 Cooperation with the competent bodies 1.
Article 10 Coordination with action taken in non-Community countries 1.
The Commission shall organise appropriate coordination with actions undertaken by countries not members of the Community(10) or by universities and the business sector in these countries in the same field as Tempus III, including, where applicable, participation in Tempus III projects. 2.
Article 11 Annual report An annual report on the operation of Tempus III shall be forwarded by the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
The Commission shall submit a final report no later than 30 June 2009.
Done at Luxembourg, 29 April 1999.
Support actions 1.
