Article 2 Materials and articles must be manufactured in compliance with good manufacturing practice so that, under their normal or foreseeable conditions of use, they do not transfer their constituents to foodstuffs in quantities which could: - endanger human health, - bring about an unacceptable change in the composition of the foodstuffs or a deterioration in the organoleptic characteristics thereof.
The specific directives, including amendments to existing specific directives, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 8. 3.
If provisions prove necessary pursuant to Article 3 (3) (b), (c) and (d), these shall be adopted in accordance with the same procedure.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 (a) of this Article, the national authorization shall remain in force until a decision is taken on the request for inclusion in the list.
If the Commission considers that amendments to the specific directives in question are necessary in order to remedy the difficulties mentioned in paragraph 1 and to ensure the protection of human health, it shall initiate the procedure laid down in Article 9 with a view to adopting those amendments; the Member State which has adopted safeguard measures may in that event retain them until the amendments have been adopted.
However, the particulars provided for in paragraph 1 shall not be compulsory for materials and articles which by their nature are clearly intended to come into contact with foodstuffs. 4.
Member States shall ensure that retail trade in materials and articles is prohibited if the particulars required under paragraph 1 (a) and (b) are not given in a language easily understood by purchasers, unless the purchaser is informed by other means.
Paragraph 1 shall not affect national provisions which are applicable in the absence of the specific directives.
Article 8 Amendments made to existing specific directives in order to bring them into line with this Directive shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 9.
References to the Directive repealed under paragraph 1 shall be construed as references to this Directive.
Paragraph 1 shall not affect those national provisions which, in the absence of the specific directives, apply to certain groups of materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs.
Article 12 This Directive shall not apply to materials and articles intended for export outside the Community.
Article 13 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 21 December 1988.
For the Council The President V.
The criteria set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also apply to these substances 4.
