Supplementary supervision should cover all financial activities identified by the sectoral financial legislation and all entities principally engaged in such activities should be included in the scope of the supplementary supervision, including asset management companies. (6) Decisions not to include a particular entity in the scope of supplementary supervision should be taken, bearing in mind inter alia whether or not such entity is included in the group-wide supervision under sectoral rules. (7) The competent authorities should be able to assess at a group-wide level the financial situation of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms which are part of a financial conglomerate, in particular as regards solvency (including the elimination of multiple gearing of own funds instruments), risk concentration and intra-group transactions. (8) Financial conglomerates are often managed on a business-line basis which does not fully coincide with the conglomerate's legal structures.
In order to take account of this trend, the requirements for management should be further extended, in particular as regards the management of the mixed financial holding company. (9) All financial conglomerates subject to supplementary supervision should have a coordinator appointed from among the competent authorities involved. (10) The tasks of the coordinator should not affect the tasks and responsibilities of the competent authorities as provided for by the sectoral rules. (11) The competent authorities involved, and especially the coordinator, should have the means of obtaining from the entities within a financial conglomerate, or from other competent authorities, the information necessary for the performance of their supplementary supervision. (12) There is a pressing need for increased collaboration between authorities responsible for the supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms, including the development of ad hoc cooperation arrangements between the authorities involved in the supervision of entities belonging to the same financial conglomerate. (13) Credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms which have their head office in the Community can be part of a financial conglomerate, the head of which is outside the Community.
Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Directive: 1. %quot%credit institution%quot% shall mean a credit institution within the meaning of the second subparagraph of Article 1(1) of Directive 2000/12/EC; 2. %quot%insurance undertaking%quot% shall mean an insurance undertaking within the meaning of Article 6 of Directive 73/239/EEC, Article 6 of Directive 79/267/EEC or Article 1(b) of Directive 98/78/EC; 3. %quot%investment firm%quot% shall mean an investment firm within the meaning of Article 1(2) of Directive 93/22/EEC, including the undertakings referred to in Article 2(4) of Directive 93/6/EEC; 4. %quot%regulated entity%quot% shall mean a credit institution, an insurance undertaking or an investment firm; 5. %quot%asset management company%quot% shall mean a management company within the meaning of Article 1a(2) of Council Directive 85/611/EEC of 20 December 1985 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS)(14), as well as an undertaking the registered office of which is outside the Community and which would require authorisation in accordance with Article 5(1) of that Directive if it had its registered office within the Community; 6. %quot%reinsurance undertaking%quot% shall mean a reinsurance undertaking within the meaning of Article 1(c) of Directive 98/78/EC; 7. %quot%sectoral rules%quot% shall mean the Community legislation relating to the prudential supervision of regulated entities, in particular laid down in Directives 73/239/EEC, 79/267/EEC, 98/78/EC, 93/6/EEC, 93/22/EEC and 2000/12/EC; 8. %quot%financial sector%quot% shall mean a sector composed of one or more of the following entities: (a) a credit institution, a financial institution or an ancillary banking services undertaking within the meaning of Article 1(5) and (23) of Directive 2000/12/EC (the banking sector); (b) an insurance undertaking, a reinsurance undertaking or an insurance holding company within the meaning of Article 1(i) of Directive 98/78/EC (the insurance sector); (c) an investment firm or a financial institution within the meaning of Article 2(7) of Directive 93/6/EEC (the investment services sector); (d) a mixed financial holding company; 9. %quot%parent undertaking%quot% shall mean a parent undertaking within the meaning of Article 1 of Seventh Council Directive 83/349/EEC of 13 June 1983 on consolidated accounts(15) and any undertaking which, in the opinion of the competent authorities, effectively exercises a dominant influence over another undertaking; 10. %quot%subsidiary undertaking%quot% shall mean a subsidiary undertaking within the meaning of Article 1 of Directive 83/349/EEC and any undertaking over which, in the opinion of the competent authorities, a parent undertaking effectively exercises a dominant influence; all subsidiary undertakings of subsidiary undertakings shall also be considered as subsidiary undertakings of the parent undertaking; 11. %quot%participation%quot% shall mean a participation within the meaning of the first sentence of Article 17 of Fourth Council Directive 78/660/EEC of 25 July 1978 on the annual accounts of certain types of companies(16), or the direct or indirect ownership of 20 % or more of the voting rights or capital of an undertaking; 12. %quot%group%quot% shall mean a group of undertakings, which consists of a parent undertaking, its subsidiaries and the entities in which the parent undertaking or its subsidiaries hold a participation, as well as undertakings linked to each other by a relationship within the meaning of Article 12(1) of Directive 83/349/EEC; 13. %quot%close links%quot% shall mean a situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are linked by: (a) %quot%participation%quot%, which shall mean the ownership, direct or by way of control, of 20 % or more of the voting rights or capital of an undertaking; or (b) %quot%control%quot%, which shall mean the relationship between a parent undertaking and a subsidiary, in all the cases referred to in Article 1(1) and (2) of Directive 83/349/EEC, or a similar relationship between any natural or legal person and an undertaking; any subsidiary undertaking of a subsidiary undertaking shall also be considered a subsidiary of the parent undertaking which is at the head of those undertakings.
Any subgroup of a group within the meaning of point 12 which meets the criteria in this point shall be considered as a financial conglomerate; 15. %quot%mixed financial holding company%quot% shall mean a parent undertaking, other than a regulated entity, which together with its subsidiaries, at least one of which is a regulated entity which has its head office in the Community, and other entities, constitutes a financial conglomerate; 16. %quot%competent authorities%quot% shall mean the national authorities of the Member States which are empowered by law or regulation to supervise credit institutions, and/or insurance undertakings and/or investment firms whether on an individual or a group-wide basis; 17. %quot%relevant competent authorities%quot% shall mean: (a) Member States' competent authorities responsible for the sectoral group-wide supervision of any of the regulated entities in a financial conglomerate; (b) the coordinator appointed in accordance with Article 10 if different from the authorities referred to in (a); (c) other competent authorities concerned, where relevant, in the opinion of the authorities referred to in (a) and (b); this opinion shall especially take into account the market share of the regulated entities of the conglomerate in other Member States, in particular if it exceeds 5 %, and the importance in the conglomerate of any regulated entity established in another Member State; 18. %quot%intra-group transactions%quot% shall mean all transactions by which regulated entities within a financial conglomerate rely either directly or indirectly upon other undertakings within the same group or upon any natural or legal person linked to the undertakings within that group by %quot%close links%quot%, for the fulfilment of an obligation, whether or not contractual, and whether or not for payment; 19. %quot%risk concentration%quot% shall mean all exposures with a loss potential borne by entities within a financial conglomerate, which are large enough to threaten the solvency or the financial position in general of the regulated entities in the financial conglomerate; such exposures may be caused by counterparty risk/credit risk, investment risk, insurance risk, market risk, other risks, or a combination or interaction of these risks.
For the purposes of determining whether the activities of a group mainly occur in the financial sector, within the meaning of Article 2(14)(c), the ratio of the balance sheet total of the regulated and non-regulated financial sector entities in the group to the balance sheet total of the group as a whole should exceed 40 %. 2.
For the purposes of determining whether activities in different financial sectors are significant within the meaning of Article 2(14)(e), for each financial sector the average of the ratio of the balance sheet total of that financial sector to the balance sheet total of the financial sector entities in the group and the ratio of the solvency requirements of the same financial sector to the total solvency requirements of the financial sector entities in the group should exceed 10 %.
Cross-sectoral activities shall also be presumed to be significant within the meaning of Article 2(14)(e) if the balance sheet total of the smallest financial sector in the group exceeds EUR 6 billion.
If the group does not reach the threshold referred to in paragraph 2, the relevant competent authorities may decide by common agreement not to regard the group as a financial conglomerate, or not to apply the provisions of Articles 7, 8 or 9, if they are of the opinion that the inclusion of the group in the scope of this Directive or the application of such provisions is not necessary or would be inappropriate or misleading with respect to the objectives of supplementary supervision, taking into account, for instance, the fact that: (a) the relative size of its smallest financial sector does not exceed 5 %, measured either in terms of the average referred to in paragraph 2 or in terms of the balance sheet total or the solvency requirements of such financial sector; or (b) the market share does not exceed 5 % in any Member State, measured in terms of the balance sheet total in the banking or investment services sectors and in terms of gross premiums written in the insurance sector.
The calculations referred to in this Article regarding the balance sheet shall be made on the basis of the aggregated balance sheet total of the entities of the group, according to their annual accounts.
Article 4 Identifying a financial conglomerate 1.
The coordinator appointed in accordance with Article 10 shall inform the parent undertaking at the head of a group or, in the absence of a parent undertaking, the regulated entity with the largest balance sheet total in the most important financial sector in a group, that the group has been identified as a financial conglomerate and of the appointment of the coordinator.
The following regulated entities shall be subject to supplementary supervision at the level of the financial conglomerate in accordance with Articles 6 to 17: (a) every regulated entity which is at the head of a financial conglomerate; (b) every regulated entity, the parent undertaking of which is a mixed financial holding company which has its head office in the Community; (c) every regulated entity linked with another financial sector entity by a relationship within the meaning of Article 12(1) of Directive 83/349/EEC.
Every regulated entity which is not subject to supplementary supervision in accordance with paragraph 2, the parent undertaking of which is a regulated entity or a mixed financial holding company, having its head office outside the Community, shall be subject to supplementary supervision at the level of the financial conglomerate to the extent and in the manner prescribed in Article 18. 4.
SECTION 2 FINANCIAL POSITION Article 6 Capital adequacy 1.
Without prejudice to the sectoral rules, supplementary supervision of the capital adequacy of the regulated entities in a financial conglomerate shall be exercised in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 9(2) to (5), in Section 3 of this Chapter, and in Annex I. 2.
The Member States shall require regulated entities in a financial conglomerate to ensure that own funds are available at the level of the financial conglomerate which are always at least equal to the capital adequacy requirements as calculated in accordance with Annex I.
The requirements referred to in the first and second subparagraphs shall be subject to supervisory overview by the coordinator in accordance with Section 3.
The coordinator shall ensure that the calculation referred to in the first subparagraph is carried out at least once a year, either by the regulated entities or by the mixed financial holding company.
For the purposes of calculating the capital adequacy requirements referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 2, the following entities shall be included in the scope of supplementary supervision in the manner and to the extent defined in Annex I: (a) a credit institution, a financial institution or an ancillary banking services undertaking within the meaning of Article 1(5) and (23) of Directive 2000/12/EC; (b) an insurance undertaking, a reinsurance undertaking or an insurance holding company within the meaning of Article 1(i) of Directive 98/78/EC; (c) an investment firm or a financial institution within the meaning of Article 2(7) of Directive 93/6/EEC; (d) mixed financial holding companies. 4.
Article 7 Risk concentration 1.
Without prejudice to the sectoral rules, supplementary supervision of the risk concentration of regulated entities in a financial conglomerate shall be exercised in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 9(2) to (4), in Section 3 of this Chapter and in Annex II. 2.
Article 8 Intra-group transactions 1.
Without prejudice to the sectoral rules, supplementary supervision of intra-group transactions of regulated entities in a financial conglomerate shall be exercised in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 9(2) to (4), in Section 3 of this Chapter, and in Annex II. 2.
Insofar as no definition of the thresholds referred to in the last sentence of the first paragraph of Annex II has been drawn up, an intra-group transaction shall be presumed to be significant if its amount exceeds at least 5 % of the total amount of capital adequacy requirements at the level of a financial conglomerate.
Where a financial conglomerate is headed by a mixed financial holding company, the sectoral rules regarding intra-group transactions of the most important financial sector in the financial conglomerate shall apply to that sector as a whole, including the mixed financial holding company.
Article 9 Internal control mechanisms and risk management processes 1.
Article 11 Tasks of the coordinator 1.
The tasks to be carried out by the coordinator with regard to supplementary supervision shall include: (a) coordination of the gathering and dissemination of relevant or essential information in going concern and emergency situations, including the dissemination of information which is of importance for a competent authority's supervisory task under sectoral rules; (b) supervisory overview and assessment of the financial situation of a financial conglomerate; (c) assessment of compliance with the rules on capital adequacy and of risk concentration and intra-group transactions as set out in Articles 6, 7 and 8; (d) assessment of the financial conglomerate's structure, organisation and internal control system as set out in Article 9; (e) planning and coordination of supervisory activities in going concern as well as in emergency situations, in cooperation with the relevant competent authorities involved; (f) other tasks, measures and decisions assigned to the coordinator by this Directive or deriving from the application of this Directive.
The coordination arrangements may entrust additional tasks to the coordinator and may specify the procedures for the decision-making process among the relevant competent authorities as referred to in Articles 3, 4, 5(4), 6, 12(2), 16 and 18, and for cooperation with other competent authorities. 2.
Where the information referred to in Article 14(2) has already been given to a competent authority in accordance with sectoral rules, the competent authorities responsible for exercising supplementary supervision may apply to the first-mentioned authority to obtain the information. 4.
Article 13 Management body of mixed financial holding companies Member States shall require that persons who effectively direct the business of a mixed financial holding company are of sufficiently good repute and have sufficient experience to perform those duties.
Article 14 Access to information 1.
Article 15 Verification Where, in applying this Directive, competent authorities wish in specific cases to verify the information concerning an entity, whether or not regulated, which is part of a financial conglomerate and is situated in another Member State, they shall ask the competent authorities of that other Member State to have the verification carried out.
Article 17 Additional powers of the competent authorities 1.
SECTION 4 THIRD COUNTRIES Article 18 Parent undertakings outside the Community 1.
Without prejudice to the sectoral rules, in the case referred to in Article 5(3), competent authorities shall verify whether the regulated entities, the parent undertaking of which has its head office outside the Community, are subject to supervision by a third-country competent authority, which is equivalent to that provided for by the provisions of this Directive on the supplementary supervision of regulated entities referred to in Article 5(2).
As an alternative, competent authorities may apply one of the methods set out in paragraph 3. 3.
Article 19 Cooperation with third-country competent authorities 1.
CHAPTER III POWERS CONFERRED ON THE COMMISSION AND COMMITTEE PROCEDURE Article 20 Powers conferred on the Commission 1.
The Commission shall adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 21(2), the technical adaptations to be made to this Directive in the following areas: (a) a more precise formulation of the definitions referred to in Article 2 in order to take account of developments in financial markets in the application of this Directive; (b) a more precise formulation of the definitions referred to in Article 2 in order to ensure uniform application of this Directive in the Community; (c) the alignment of terminology and the framing of definitions in the Directive in accordance with subsequent Community acts on regulated entities and related matters; (d) a more precise definition of the calculation methods set out in Annex I in order to take account of developments on financial markets and prudential techniques; (e) coordination of the provisions adopted pursuant to Articles 7 and 8 and Annex II with a view to encouraging uniform application within the Community. 2.
Article 21 Committee 1.
On a proposal from the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council may renew the provisions concerned in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty and, to that end, they shall review them prior to the expiry of the period referred to above. 5.
CHAPTER IV AMENDMENTS TO EXISTING DIRECTIVES Article 22 Amendments to Directive 73/239/EEC Directive 73/239/EEC is amended as follows: 1.
The competent authorities of the other Member State involved shall be consulted prior to the granting of an authorisation to an insurance undertaking, which is: (a) a subsidiary of an insurance undertaking authorised in another Member State; or (b) a subsidiary of the parent undertaking of an insurance undertaking authorised in another Member State; or (c) controlled by the same person, whether natural or legal, who controls an insurance undertaking authorised in another Member State. 2.
The relevant competent authorities referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall in particular consult each other when assessing the suitability of the shareholders and the reputation and experience of directors involved in the management of another entity of the same group.
As an alternative to the deduction of the items referred to in (a) and (b) of the fourth subparagraph which the insurance undertaking holds in credit institutions, investment firms and financial institutions, Member States may allow their insurance undertakings to apply mutatis mutandis methods 1, 2, or 3 of Annex I to Directive 2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate(22).
Member States may provide that, for the calculation of the solvency margin as provided for by this Directive, insurance undertakings subject to supplementary supervision in accordance with Directive 98/78/EC or to supplementary supervision in accordance with Directive 2002/87/EC, need not deduct the items referred to in (a) and (b) of the fourth subparagraph which are held in credit institutions, investment firms, financial institutions, insurance or reinsurance undertakings or insurance holding companies which are included in the supplementary supervision.
The competent authorities of the other Member State involved shall be consulted prior to the granting of an authorisation to a life assurance undertaking, which is: (a) a subsidiary of an insurance undertaking authorised in another Member State; or (b) a subsidiary of the parent undertaking of an insurance undertaking authorised in another Member State; or (c) controlled by the same person, whether natural or legal, who controls an insurance undertaking authorised in another Member State. 2.
The competent authority of a Member State involved, responsible for the supervision of credit institutions or investment firms, shall be consulted prior to the granting of an authorisation to a life assurance undertaking, which is: (a) a subsidiary of a credit institution or investment firm authorised in the Community; or (b) a subsidiary of the parent undertaking of a credit institution or investment firm authorised in the Community; or (c) controlled by the same person, whether natural or legal, who controls a credit institution or investment firm authorised in the Community. 3.
The relevant competent authorities referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall in particular consult each other when assessing the suitability of the shareholders and the reputation and experience of directors involved in the management of another entity of the same group.
As an alternative to the deduction of the items referred to in (a) and (b) of the third subparagraph which the insurance undertaking holds in credit institutions, investment firms and financial institutions, Member States may allow their insurance undertakings to apply mutatis mutandis methods 1, 2, or 3 of Annex I to Directive 2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate(28).
Member States may provide that, for the calculation of the solvency margin as provided for by this Directive, insurance undertakings subject to supplementary supervision in accordance with Directive 98/78/EC or to supplementary supervision in accordance with Directive 2002/87/EC, need not deduct the items referred to in (a) and (b) of the third subparagraph which are held in credit institutions, investment firms, financial institutions, insurance or reinsurance undertakings or insurance holding companies which are included in the supplementary supervision.
The relevant competent authorities referred to in the first and second paragraphs shall in particular consult each other when assessing the suitability of the shareholders and the reputation and experience of directors involved in the management of another entity of the same group.
If the acquirer of the holding referred to in paragraph 1 is an investment firm, a credit institution or an insurance undertaking authorised in another Member State, or the parent undertaking of an investment firm, credit institution or insurance undertaking authorised in another Member State, or a natural or legal person controlling an investment firm, credit institution or insurance undertaking authorised in another Member State, and if, as a result of that acquisition, the undertaking in which the acquirer proposes to acquire a holding would become the acquirer's subsidiary or come under his control, the assessment of the acquisition must be subject to the prior consultation provided for in Article 6.%quot% Article 28 Amendments to Directive 98/78/EC Directive 98/78/EC is amended as follows: 1.
in Article 1 points (g), (h), (i) and (j) shall be replaced by the following: %quot%(g) 'participating undertaking' shall mean an undertaking which is either a parent undertaking or other undertaking which holds a participation, or an undertaking linked with another undertaking by a relationship within the meaning of Article 12(1) of Directive 83/349/EEC; (h) 'related undertaking' shall mean either a subsidiary or other undertaking in which a participation is held, or an undertaking linked with another undertaking by a relationship within the meaning of Article 12(1) of Directive 83/349/EEC; (i) 'insurance holding company' shall mean a parent undertaking, the main business of which is to acquire and hold participations in subsidiary undertakings, where those subsidiary undertakings are exclusively or mainly insurance undertakings, reinsurance undertakings, or non-member-country insurance undertakings, at least one of such subsidiary undertakings being an insurance undertaking, and which is not a mixed financial holding company within the meaning of Directive 2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the supplementary supervision of credit institutions, insurance undertakings and investment firms in a financial conglomerate(30); (j) 'mixed-activity insurance holding company' shall mean a parent undertaking, other than an insurance undertaking, a non-member country insurance undertaking, a reinsurance undertaking, an insurance holding company or a mixed financial holding company within the meaning of Directive 2002/87/EC, which includes at least one insurance undertaking among its subsidiary undertakings.%quot% 2.
The agreements referred to in paragraph 1 shall in particular seek to ensure both: (a) that the competent authorities of the Member States are able to obtain the information necessary for the supplementary supervision of insurance undertakings which have their head office in the Community and which have subsidiaries or hold participations in undertakings outside the Community; and (b) that the competent authorities of third countries are able to obtain the information necessary for the supplementary supervision of insurance undertakings which have their head office in their territories and which have subsidiaries or hold participations in undertakings in one or more Member States. 3.
The relevant competent authorities referred to in the first and second paragraphs shall in particular consult each other when assessing the suitability of the shareholders and the reputation and experience of directors involved in the management of another entity of the same group.
As an alternative to the deduction of the items referred to in points 15 and 16, Member States may allow their credit institutions to apply mutatis mutandis methods 1, 2, or 3 of Annex I to Directive 2002/87/EC.
Competent authorities shall require the reporting by the credit institution of any significant transaction with these entities other than the one referred to in Article 48.
The verification shall be carried out by the competent authority which would be responsible for consolidated supervision if the fourth subparagraph were to apply, at the request of the parent undertaking or of any of the regulated entities authorised in the Community or on its own initiative.
CHAPTER VI TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 31 Report by the Commission 1.
By 11 August 2007, the Commission shall submit to the Financial Conglomerates Committee referred to in Article 21 a report on Member States' practices, and, if necessary, on the need for further harmonisation, with regard to - the inclusion of asset management companies in group-wide supervision, - the choice and the application of the capital adequacy methods set out in Annex I, - the definition of significant intra-group transactions and significant risk concentration and the supervision of intra-group transactions and risk concentration referred to in Annex II, in particular regarding the introduction of quantitative limits and qualitative requirements for this purpose, - the intervals at which financial conglomerates shall carry out the calculations of capital adequacy requirements as set out in Article 6(2) and report to the coordinator on significant risk concentration as set out in Article 7(2).
Article 32 Transposition Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before 11 August 2004.
Member States shall provide that the provisions referred to in the first subparagraph shall first apply to the supervision of accounts for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2005 or during that calendar year.
Article 33 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 34 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 16 December 2002.
For the European Parliament The President P.
Cox For the Council The President M.
Technical principles 1.
The supplementary capital adequacy requirements shall be calculated as the difference between: (i) the own funds of the financial conglomerate calculated on the basis of the consolidated position of the group; the elements eligible are those that qualify in accordance with the relevant sectoral rules; and (ii) the sum of the solvency requirements for each different financial sector represented in the group; the solvency requirements for each different financial sector are calculated in accordance with the corresponding sectoral rules.
Method 2: %quot%Deduction and aggregation%quot% method The calculation of the supplementary capital adequacy requirements of the regulated entities in a financial conglomerate shall be carried out on the basis of the accounts of each of the entities in the group.
The supplementary capital adequacy requirements shall be calculated as the difference between: (i) the sum of the own funds of each regulated and non-regulated financial sector entity in the financial conglomerate; the elements eligible are those which qualify in accordance with the relevant sectoral rules; and (ii) the sum of - the solvency requirements for each regulated and non-regulated financial sector entity in the group; the solvency requirements shall be calculated in accordance with the relevant sectoral rules, and - the book value of the participations in other entities of the group.
Method 3: %quot%Book value/Requirement deduction%quot% method The calculation of the supplementary capital adequacy requirements of the regulated entities in a financial conglomerate shall be carried out on the basis of the accounts of each of the entities in the group.
The supplementary capital adequacy requirements shall be calculated as the difference between: (i) the own funds of the parent undertaking or the entity at the head of the financial conglomerate; the elements eligible are those which qualify in accordance with the relevant sectoral rules; and (ii) the sum of - the solvency requirement of the parent undertaking or the head referred to in (i), and - the higher of the book value of the former's participation in other entities in the group and these entities' solvency requirements; the solvency requirements of the latter shall be taken into account for their proportional share as provided for in Article 6(4) and in accordance with Section I of this Annex.
Method 4: Combination of methods 1, 2 and 3 Competent authorities may allow a combination of methods 1, 2 and 3, or a combination of two of these methods.
