This Directive shall apply to all sectors of activity, both public and private, within the meaning of Article 2 of Directive 89/391/EEC, without prejudice to Article 17 of this Directive, with the exception of air, rail, road, sea, inland waterway and lake transport, sea fishing, other work at sea and the activities of doctors in training; 4.
Article 4 Breaks Member States shall take the measures necessary to ensure that, where the working day is longer than six hours, every worker is entitled to a rest break, the details of which, including duration and the terms on which it is granted, shall be laid down in collective agreements or agreements between the two sides of industry or, failing that, by national legislation.
Article 7 Annual leave 1.
Article 9 Health assessment and transfer of night workers to day work 1.
The free health assessment referred to in paragraph 1 (a) must comply with medical confidentiality. 3.
The free health assessment referred to in paragraph 1 (a) may be conducted within the national health system.
Article 10 Guarantees for night-time working Member States may make the work of certain categories of night workers subject to certain guarantees, under conditions laid down by national legislation and/or practice, in the case of workers who incur risks to their safety or health linked to night-time working.
Article 11 Notification of regular use of night workers Member States shall take the measures necessary to ensure that an employer who regularly uses night workers brings this information to the attention of the competent authorities if they so request.
Article 13 Pattern of work Member States shall take the measures necessary to ensure that an employer who intends to organize work according to a certain pattern takes account of the general principle of adapting work to the worker, with a view, in particular, to alleviating monotonous work and work at a predetermined work-rate, depending on the type of activity, and of safety and health requirements, especially as regards breaks during working time.
SECTION IV MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Article 14 More specific Community provisions The provisions of this Directive shall not apply where other Community instruments contain more specific requirements concerning certain occupations or occupational activities.
Article 17 Derogations 1.
With due regard for the general principles of the protection of the safety and health of workers, Member States may derogate from Article 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 or 16 when, on account of the specific characteristics of the activity concerned, the duration of the working time is not measured and/or predetermined or can be determined by the workers themselves, and particularly in the case of: (a) managing executives or other persons with autonomous decision-taking powers; (b) family workers; or (c) workers officiating at religious ceremonies in churches and religious communities. 2.
from Articles 3, 4, 5, 8 and 16: (a) in the circumstances described in Article 5 (4) of Directive 89/391/EEC; (b) in cases of accident or imminent risk of accident; 2.3.
from Articles 3 and 5: (a) in the case of shift work activities, each time the worker changes shift and cannot take daily and/or weekly rest periods between the end of one shift and the start of the next one; (b) in the case of activities involving periods of work split up over the day, particularly those of cleaning staff. 3.
Derogations may be made from Articles 3, 4, 5, 8 and 16 by means of collective agreements or agreements concluded between the two sides of industry at national or regional level or, in conformity with the rules laid down by them, by means of collective agreements or agreements concluded between the two sides of industry at a lower level.
Member States in which there is no statutory system ensuring the conclusion of collective agreements or agreements concluded between the two sides of industry at national or regional level, on the matters covered by this Directive, or those Member States in which there is a specific legislative framework for this purpose and within the limits thereof, may, in accordance with national legislation and/or practice, allow derogations from Articles 3, 4, 5, 8 and 16 by way of collective agreements or agreements concluded between the two sides of industry at the appropriate collective level.
Before the expiry of a period of seven years from the date referred to in Article 18 (1) (a), the Council shall, on the basis of a Commission proposal accompanied by an appraisal report, re-examine the provisions of this paragraph and decide what action to take.
Every five years the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament, the Council and the Economic and Social Committee a report on the application of this Directive taking into account paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.
Article 19 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 23 November 1993.
SMET (1) OJ No C 254, 9. 10. 1990, p. 4. (2) OJ No C 72, 18. 3. 1991, p. 95; and Decision of 27 October 1993 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) OJ No C 60, 8. 3. 1991, p. 26. (4) OJ No L 183, 29. 6. 1989, p. 1.
