Article 2 Funds and other financial assets or economic resources of: - persons who commit, or attempt to commit, terrorist acts or participate in or facilitate the commission of terrorist acts; - entities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such persons; and - persons and entities acting on behalf of or under the direction of such persons and entities, including funds derived or generated from property owned or controlled directly or indirectly by such persons and associated persons and entities, shall be frozen.
Article 3 Funds, financial assets or economic resources or financial or other related services shall not be made available, directly or indirectly, for the benefit of: - persons who commit or attempt to commit or facilitate or participate in the commission of terrorist acts; - entities owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such persons; and - persons and entities acting on behalf of or under the direction of such persons.
Article 4 Measures shall be taken to suppress any form of support, active or passive, to entities or persons involved in terrorist acts, including measures aimed at suppressing the recruitment of members of terrorist groups and eliminating the supply of weapons to terrorists.
Article 5 Steps shall be taken to prevent the commission of terrorist acts, including by the provision of early warning among Member States or between Member States and third States by exchange of information.
Article 6 Safe haven shall be denied to those who finance, plan, support, or commit terrorist acts, or provide safe havens.
Article 8 Persons who participate in the financing, planning, preparation or perpetration of terrorist acts or in supporting terrorist acts shall be brought to justice; such terrorist acts shall be established as serious criminal offences in laws and regulations of Member States and the punishment shall duly reflect the seriousness of such terrorist acts.
Article 9 Member States shall afford one another, as well as third States, the greatest measure of assistance in connection with criminal investigations or criminal proceedings relating to the financing or support of terrorist acts in accordance with international and domestic law, including assistance in obtaining evidence in the possession of a Member State or a third State which is necessary for the proceedings.
Article 10 The movement of terrorists or terrorist groups shall be prevented by effective border controls and controls on the issuing of identity papers and travel documents, and through measures for preventing counterfeiting, forgery or fraudulent use of identity papers and travel documents.
Article 11 Steps shall be taken to intensify and accelerate the exchange of operational information, especially regarding actions or movements of terrorist persons or networks; forged or falsified travel documents; traffic in arms, explosives or sensitive materials; use of communication technologies by terrorist groups; and the threat posed by the possession of weapons of mass destruction by terrorist groups.
Article 12 Information shall be exchanged among Member States or between Member States and third States in accordance with international and national law, and cooperation shall be enhanced among Member States or between Member States and third States on administrative and judicial matters to prevent the commission of terrorist acts.
Article 13 Cooperation among Member States or between Member States and third States, particularly through bilateral and multilateral arrangements and agreements, to prevent and suppress terrorist attacks and take action against perpetrators of terrorist acts shall be enhanced.
Article 14 Member States shall become parties as soon as possible to the relevant international conventions and protocols relating to terrorism listed in the Annex.
Article 15 Member States shall increase cooperation and fully implement the relevant international conventions and protocols relating to terrorism and United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1269(1999) and 1368(2001).
Article 16 Appropriate measures shall be taken in accordance with the relevant provisions of national and international law, including international standards of human rights, before granting refugee status, for the purpose of ensuring that the asylum-seeker has not planned, facilitated or participated in the commission of terrorist acts.
Article 17 Steps shall be taken in accordance with international law to ensure that refugee status is not abused by the perpetrators, organisers or facilitators of terrorist acts and that claims of political motivation are not recognised as grounds for refusing requests for the extradition of alleged terrorists.
Article 18 This Common Position shall take effect on the date of its adoption.
Article 19 This Common Position shall be published in the Official Journal.
Done at Brussels, 27 December 2001.
