In accordance with Decision No 1513/2002/EC (hereinafter referred to as %quot%the framework programme%quot%), a specific programme related to direct actions of research, technological development and demonstration to be carried out by the Joint Research Centre (hereinafter referred to as %quot%the specific programme%quot%) is hereby adopted for the period from 30 September 2002 to 31 December 2006. 2.
Article 2 In accordance with Annex II to the framework programme, the amount deemed necessary for the execution of the specific programme shall be EUR 760 million.
The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of the specific programme. 2.
The specific programme shall be implemented by means of the instruments defined in Annexes I and III to the framework programme and in Annex III to this Decision. 3.
The Commission shall regularly report on the overall progress of the implementation of the specific programme, in accordance with Article 4 of the framework programme; information on financial aspects shall be included. 2.
The Commission shall arrange for the independent assessment provided for in Article 6 of the framework programme to be conducted concerning the activities carried out in the fields covered by the specific programme.
Article 7 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 30 September 2002.
Bendtsen (1) OJ C 181 E, 30.7.2002, p. 94. (2) Opinion delivered on 12 June 2002 (not yet published in the Office Journal). (3) OJ C 221, 17.9.2002, p. 97. (4) OJ L 232, 29.8.2002, p. 7. (5) OJ C 201, 16.7.1999, p. 1. (6) OJ L 107, 30.4.1996, p. 12.
PROGRAMME CONTENT 2.1.
The JRC's strategy relies heavily on extensive networking with laboratories in the Member States, on the maintenance of advanced analytical facilities and reference measurement and material production and on expanded competencies in life sciences including proteomics and bioinformatics.
Work will be focused upon the following priorities: - food safety and quality, - genetically modified organisms, - chemical products, - biomedical applications.
The JRC's nuclear and isotopic facilities and competencies in the production and use of radioactive stable isotopes will also be used for medical purposes as in new types of cancer therapies (a-immunotherapy, Boron Neutron Capture Therapy) as well as in clinical reference materials. 2.2.
Contributions to sustainable development Work on sustainable development pervades the whole JRC programme and attention is paid to the integration of economic, social and environmental dimensions.
The activities will cover: - BCR(5) and industrial certified reference materials, - Metrology in chemistry and physics.
The JRC has, over the years, developed a broad-based and well recognised expertise in the general domain of security and anti-fraud, in the handling of large information infrastructures and in dealing with complex systems.
The JRC, through the GMES initiative, will also contribute to developing a European capability that allows integrated space-based data, environmental data and socio-economic data to be made available for European security policies, including humanitarian aid, on a timely basis.
Research bodies established in third countries may also cooperate on projects, in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article 6 of the Framework Programme and, where applicable, of agreements for scientific and technological cooperation between the Community and the third countries concerned.
