Special attention should be paid to the candidate countries. (7) Research activities carried out within this programme should respect fundamental ethical principles, including those reflected in Article 6 of the Treaty on the European Union and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, as well as the need to take into account public acceptability of these activities. (8) Following the Commission Communication %quot%Women and Science%quot% and the Resolutions of the Council of 20 May 1999(5) and 26 June 2000(6) and the Resolution of 3 February 2000 of the European Parliament(7) on this theme, an action plan is being implemented in order to reinforce and increase the place and role of women in science and research, which should ensure the respect of equality of opportunity, irrespective of gender. (9) This programme should be implemented in a flexible, efficient and transparent manner, taking account of relevant interests, in particular of the scientific, industrial, user and policy communities.
In accordance with the framework programme, a specific programme for research and training on nuclear energy (hereinafter referred to as %quot%the specific programme%quot%) is hereby adopted for the period from 30 September 2002 to 31 December 2006. 2.
Article 2 In accordance with Annex II to the framework programme, the amount deemed necessary for the execution of the specific programme is EUR 940 million, including a maximum of 16,5 % for the Commission's administrative expenditure.
An indicative breakdown of this amount is given in Annex II to this decision.
Article 3 All research activities carried out under the specific programme shall be carried out in compliance with fundamental ethical principles.
The detailed rules for financial participation by the Community in the specific programme shall be those referred to in Article 2(2) of the framework programme. 2.
The specific programme shall be implemented by means of instruments defined in Annex III. 3.
For the fusion-related aspects they shall be as laid down in the Commission Decision of 16 December 1980 dealing with the consultative committee for the fusion programme.
The Commission shall arrange for the independent monitoring and assessment provided for in Articles 5 and 6 of the framework programme to be conducted concerning the activities carried out in the fields covered by the specific programme.
Article 8 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 30 September 2002.
Bendtsen The President (1) OJ C 181 E, 30.7.2002, p. 112. (2) Opinion delivered on 13 June 2002 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) OJ C 221, 17.9.2002, p. 97. (4) OJ L 232, 29.8.2002, p. 34. (5) OJ C 201, 16.7.1999, p. 1. (6) OJ C 199, 14.7.2001, p. 1. (7) OJ C 309, 27.10.2000, p. 57. (8) OJ L 177, 4.7.1984, p. 25.
Introduction As the source of 35 % of the electricity produced in the European Union, nuclear energy is an element of the debate on how to combat climate change and reduce the energy dependency of the European Union.
Priority thematic areas 2.1.
World wide collaboration on fusion energy research has progressed to the detailed engineering design of such a Next Step device, ITER, with the objectives of extended burn in inductive operation with power amplification Q %amp%gt;10, demonstrating generation of 400 MW of fusion power over about 400 seconds, that could allow burning plasmas to be studied in conditions relevant to energy production.
Priorities (i) Associations' programme in physics and technology The Associations' programme will include: - R%amp% D in fusion physics and plasma engineering, focusing on the preparation of ITER operation and the study and evaluation of toroidal magnetic confinement formulas, with in particular the continuation of the construction of the Wendelstein 7-X %quot%stellarator%quot% and operation of the existing installations in the Euratom Associations. - Structured R%amp% D activities in fusion technology in particular research on fusion materials and participation in the R%amp% D activities for the decommissioning of JET, which is foreseen at the end of its operations. - Investigations of socio-economic aspects, focusing on evaluation of economic costs and social acceptability of fusion energy, by way of complement to the further studies on safety and environmental aspects; coordination, in the context of a keep-in-touch activity, of the Member States' civil research activities on inertial confinement and possible alternative concepts; dissemination of results and the diffusion of information to the public; mobility and training.
The projects undertaken will be carried out on the basis of procedures set out in: - contracts of association, - the European Fusion Development Agreement (EFDA), - any other multilateral agreement concluded between the Community and associated organisations and/or legal entities which may be set up, after the competent consultative committee has given its opinion, - other contracts of limited duration, in particular with bodies in the Member States or the States associated with the Euratom Framework Programme, - international agreements covering projects carried out in the framework of cooperation with third countries, such as the ITER.
