The Commission shall inform the Banking Advisory Committee thereof. 2.
If a branch granted voluntary membership under paragraph 2 does not comply with the obligations incumbent on it as a member of a deposit-guarantee scheme, the competent authorities which issued the authorization shall be notified and, in collaboration with the guarantee scheme, shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the aforementioned obligations are complied with.
The information referred to in paragraph 2 shall be made available in the official language or languages of the Member State in which a branch is established in the manner prescribed by national law and shall be drafted in a clear and comprehensible form.
Deposit-guarantee schemes shall stipulate that the aggregate deposits of each depositor must be covered up to ECU 20 000 in the event of deposits' being unavailable.
Those exclusions are listed in Annex I. 3.
The percentage guaranteed must, however, be equal to or exceed 90 % of aggregate deposits until the amount to be paid under the guarantee reaches the amount referred to in paragraph 1. 5.
The limits referred to in Article 7 (1), (3) and (4) shall apply to the aggregate deposits placed with the same credit institution irrespective of the number of deposits, the currency and the location within the Community. 2.
If there are several persons who are absolutely entitled, the share of each under the arrangements subject to which the sums are managed shall be taken into account when the limits provided for in Article 7 (1), (3) and (4) are calculated.
Article 11 Without prejudice to any other rights which they may have under national law, schemes which make payments under guarantee shall have the right of subrogation to the rights of depositors in liquidation proceedings for an amount equal to their payments.
Article 12 Notwithstanding Article 3, those institutions authorized in Spain or in Greece and listed in Annex III shall be exempt from the requirement to belong to a deposit-guarantee scheme until 31 December 1999.
Article 15 This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 16 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 30 May 1994.
For the European Parliament The President E.
KLEPSCH For the Council The President G.
ANNEX I List of exclusions referred to in Article 7 (2) 1.
Deposits by financial institutions as defined in Article 1 (6) of Directive 89/646/EEC. 2.
Deposits by insurance undertakings. 3.
Deposits by government and central administrative authorities. 4.
Deposits by collective investment undertakings. 6.
Deposits by pension and retirement funds. 7.
Deposits by a credit institution's own directors, managers, members personally liable, holders of at least 5 % of the credit institution's capital, persons responsible for carrying out the statutory audits of the credit institution's accounting documents and depositors of similar status in other companies in the same group. 8.
Deposits by close relatives and third parties acting on behalf of the depositors referred to in 7. 9.
Deposits by other companies in the same group. 10.
Non-nominative deposits. 11.
Deposits in currencies other than: - those of the Member States, - ecus. 14.
ANNEX III List of credit institutions mentioned in Article 12 (a) Specialized classes of Spanish institutions, the legal status of which is currently undergoing reform, authorized as - Entidades de Financiación o Factoring, - Sociedades de Arrendamiento Financiero, - Sociedades de Crédito Hipotecario. (b) The following Spanish state institutions: - Banco de Crédito Agrícola, SA, - Banco Hipotecario de España, SA, - Banco de Crédito Local, SA. (c) The following Greek credit cooperatives: - Lamia Credit Cooperative, - Ioannina Credit Cooperative, - Xylocastron Credit Cooperative, as well as those of the credit cooperatives of a similar nature listed below which are authorized or in the process of being authorized on the date of the adoption of this Directive: - Chania Credit Cooperative, - Iraklion Credit Cooperative, - Magnissia Credit Cooperative, - Larissa Credit Cooperative, - Patras Credit Cooperative, - Thessaloniki Credit Cooperative.
