2004/788/EC, Euratom: - Codified version of the EESC Rules of Procedure (in force from 24 October 2004) Codified version of the EESC Rules of Procedure (in force from 24 October 2004) (2004/788/EC, Euratom) This edition combines: - The Rules of Procedure of the European Economic and Social Committee adopted at the plenary session of 17 and 18 July 2002 (OJ No L 268 of 4 October 2002); - and the changes resulting from the following: (1) Amendments of 27 February 2003 to the Rules of Procedure of the European Economic and Social Committee; (2) Amendments of 31 March 2004 to the Rules of Procedure of the European Economic and Social Committee.
It is an institutional consultative body established by the 1957 Treaty of Rome. 2.
CHAPTER II Bureau Article 3 (2) 1.
The Bureau shall have 37 members and include a representative of each Member State. 2.
The Bureau of the Committee shall comprise: (a) the President, the two Vice-Presidents and 25 members, directly elected by the assembly; (b) the three Group Presidents, elected as provided for in Article 27; (c) the six specialised section Presidents. 3.
The Vice-Presidents shall be elected from among the members of the two Groups to which the President does not belong. 6.
At its first meeting, held in pursuance of Article 1, the Committee, with the interim President in the chair, shall elect from among its members a President, two Vice-Presidents, the Presidents of the specialised sections and the other members of the Bureau other than the Group Presidents for a term of two years, commencing on the date of the installation of the Committee in office. 2.
Article 5 The meeting at which the Bureau of the Committee is elected for the last two years of a four-year period shall be convened by the outgoing President.
Only complete lists of candidates conforming to the provisions of Article 3 and accompanied by a declaration of acceptance from each candidate may be admitted to the vote. 5.
The assembly shall then elect the President and the Vice-Presidents of the Committee by a simple majority from among the Bureau members elected in accordance with Article 6(3). 7.
The Committee shall then elect the Presidents of the specialised sections by a simple majority. 8.
Finally, the Committee shall vote on the Bureau as a whole.
Article 7 In the event of inability to discharge the duties attaching to his post or in the cases provided for in Article 70(2), a member of the Bureau shall be replaced for the remainder of his term of office in accordance with Article 6.
Meetings of the Bureau shall be convened by the President, acting either ex officio or at the request of 10 members. 2.
These minutes shall be submitted to the Bureau for approval. 3.
The Bureau shall lay down its own procedural Articles. 4.
The Bureau shall have political responsibility for the general management of the Committee.
Article 9 Within the framework of interinstitutional cooperation, the Bureau may instruct the President to conclude cooperation agreements with the institutions and other bodies of the European Union.
The budget group shall be chaired by one of the two Vice-Presidents under the authority of the President.
The budget group shall participate in the drawing-up of the budget and ensure that it is implemented properly. 6.
The President of the budget group shall take part in negotiations with the budgetary authorities and shall report thereon to the Bureau. 7.
Article 10 a (2) 1.
CHAPTER III Presidency and the President Article 11 1.
The Presidency shall comprise the President and the two Vice-Presidents. 2.
The Committee Presidency shall meet with the Group Presidents to prepare the work of the Bureau and the assembly.
As part of the Committee's programme of work, the Presidency shall meet with the Presidents of the Groups and specialised sections at least twice a year.
Article 13 (2) The two Vice-Presidents shall be respectively President of the budget group and President of the communication group and shall perform these tasks under the authority of the President.
CHAPTER IV Specialised sections Article 14 1.
The Committee shall set up its specialised sections at the inaugural session following each four-yearly renewal. 3.
The Bureau of a specialised section, elected for a term of two years, shall comprise 12 members including a President and three Vice-Presidents, one from each Group. 2.
Elections of specialised section Presidents and of other members of specialised section Bureaux shall be conducted by the Committee. 3.
It shall be the task of the specialised sections to draw up opinions or information reports on questions referred to them in accordance with Article 32. 2.
The rapporteur shall be responsible for monitoring action taken on opinions after their adoption at the plenary session and in due course, shall report to the specialised section. 3.
CHAPTER V Subcommittees and rapporteur-general Article 19 (2) 1.
Article 20 The Committee may appoint a rapporteur-general for any question submitted to it.
CHAPTER VI Observatories, hearings, experts Article 21 1.
An observatory shall be set up by a decision of the plenary assembly, ratifying a decision taken earlier by the Bureau on a joint proposal from the Groups or from a specialised section. 3.
Article 22 If an issue under discussion is of sufficient importance, the various bodies and working units of the Committee may invite guest speakers from outside the Committee to a hearing.
CHAPTER VII Consultative commissions Article 24 (2) 1.
CHAPTER VIII Dialogue with economic and social organisations in EU and non-EU States Article 25 1.
The Committee, on the initiative of the Bureau, may maintain structured relations with economic and social councils and similar institutions and with civil society organisations of an economic and social nature in the European Union and non-EU countries. 2.
The Committee, on a proposal from the Bureau, may appoint delegations to maintain relations with the various economic and social components of organised civil society in States or associations of States outside the European Union. 2.
The Group Presidents shall be members of the Bureau in accordance with Article 3(2)(b). 4.
The Group Presidents shall meet with the Committee Presidency to assist in preparing the work of the Bureau and the assembly. 6.
The Groups shall make proposals to the assembly for the election of specialised section Presidents under Article 6(7) and of specialised section Bureaux under Article 16. 7.
No member shall belong to more than one Group at the same time. 13.
No member shall belong to more than one category at the same time. 3.
TITLE II PROCEDURE OF THE COMMITTEE CHAPTER I Consultation of the Committee Article 29 1.
It shall be convened by its President, on a proposal from its Bureau and with the agreement of the majority of its members, to deliver, on its own initiative, opinions on any question pertaining to the tasks assigned to the European Union.
Article 30 Requests for opinions referred to in Article 29(1) shall be addressed to the President of the Committee.
Article 31 The Committee may, on a proposal from the Bureau, decide to prepare an information report with a view to examining any question pertaining to the policies of the European Union.
CHAPTER II Organisation of work A.
Work of the specialised sections Article 32 (1) 1.
When an opinion or information report is to be produced, the Bureau, in accordance with Article 8(4), shall designate the specialised section which is to be responsible for preparing the work in question.
Article 33 Specialised sections shall not discuss matters jointly.
Article 34 The Committee President, in agreement with the Bureau, may authorise a specialised section to hold a joint meeting with a European Parliament committee, or a Committee of the Regions commission or with another specialised section of the Committee.
Article 35 Specialised sections to which a question has been referred in accordance with these Articles shall be convened by their President.
Article 38 The specialised sections shall draw up opinions with reference to the draft opinion submitted by the rapporteur and the co-rapporteur.
Specialised section opinions shall contain only texts adopted by the specialised section in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 56. 2.
Article 40 Specialised section opinions, together with all the documents appended thereto in accordance with Article 39, shall be sent by the President of the specialised section to the President of the Committee and shall be laid before the Committee by its Bureau as soon as possible.
Article 41 Concise minutes of each specialised section meeting shall be drawn up and submitted to the specialised section for approval.
Proceedings of the plenary sessions Article 44 The assembly, comprising all the members of the Committee, shall meet in plenary session.
The draft agenda drawn up by the Bureau on a proposal from the Committee Presidency in collaboration with the Group Presidents shall be sent by the Committee President to all Committee members and to the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament at least 15 days before the opening of the relevant session. 2.
The draft agenda shall be submitted to the assembly for approval at the opening of each session.
The documents necessary for the Committee's deliberations shall be sent to the members in accordance with Article 40.
Article 48 When the agenda is submitted for adoption, the inclusion of any topical item shall be announced, where appropriate, by the President.
Article 49 The draft agenda may be amended by the Committee for the purpose of examining draft resolutions submitted by one or more Groups in accordance with the procedure in force.
Where a text has been adopted by a specialised section with no votes against, the Bureau may propose to the assembly that the text be voted on without a discussion.
Specialised section opinion texts that are rejected in favour of amendments adopted by the assembly shall also be appended to Committee opinions together with the results of the voting, provided that at least one-quarter of the votes cast were in favour of retention of the specialised section opinion texts. 5.
When one of the groups formed within the Committee under Article 27 or one of the categories of economic and social activity formed under Article 28 adopts a divergent but uniform standpoint on a matter submitted to the assembly for examination, its position may be summarised in a brief statement to be appended to the opinion, where the debate on that matter has been concluded by a recorded vote.
TITLE III GENERAL PROVISIONS CHAPTER I Methods of voting Article 56 1.
The final vote on opinions shall also be a recorded vote if ten or more members so wish. 5.
CHAPTER II Urgency procedure and written procedure Article 57 1.
Article 58 Certain opinions of the Committee which are the subject of a mandatory referral by the Council or the Commission but only require a formal opinion from the Committee may be adopted by a written procedure by decision of the Bureau on a proposal from the specialised section concerned.
Where the urgency results from the deadlines imposed on a specialised section, the President of that section may, with the agreement of the President of the Committee and in consultation with the specialised section Bureau, organise the work of the section otherwise than as provided in these Articles. 2.
CHAPTER III Absence and representation Article 60 1.
Any member of the Committee who is unable to attend a meeting to which he has been duly invited must give the President concerned advance notice of his absence. 2.
Where a member of the Committee fails to attend more than three consecutive plenary sessions of the Committee without appointing a member to represent him and without a reason recognised as valid, the President may, after consulting the Bureau and inviting the member concerned to explain his absence, call upon the Council to remove that member from office. 3.
Any member of the Committee who is unable to attend a Committee session or a specialised section meeting may, after notifying the President concerned, delegate his voting right, in writing, to another member of the Committee or specialised section. 2.
No member may hold more than one delegated voting right at a plenary session or specialised section meeting.
Any member of a specialised section, study group or delegation who is unable to attend a meeting to which he has been duly invited may, after giving written notice to the President concerned directly or through his Group secretariat, arrange for another member of the Committee to represent him at the relevant meeting. 2.
The Committee shall publish its opinions in the Official Journal of the European Union in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Council and the Commission after consultation of the Committee Bureau. 2.
The Committee shall ensure the transparency of its decisions, in accordance with Article 1 of the EU Treaty. 2.
Plenary sessions of the Committee and meetings of the specialised sections shall be public. 2.
Certain debates that do not concern consultative work may be declared confidential by the Committee, acting on a request from a concerned institution or body or on a proposal from the Bureau. 3.
Members of the European institutions may attend and address meetings of the Committee and its constituent bodies. 2.
CHAPTER V Titles, privileges, immunities and statute of members, quaestors Article 67 1.
Members of the Committee shall have the title "member of the European Economic and Social Committee". 2.
CHAPTER VI Termination of members’ tenure of office, incompatibilities Article 70 1.
Membership of the Committee shall expire at the end of the four-year term laid down by the Council at the time of the Committee’s renewal. 2.
The circumstances in which members may be removed from office are laid down in Article 60(2).
CHAPTER VII Administration of the Committee Article 71 1.
The Committee shall be assisted by a secretariat headed by a Secretary-General, who shall discharge his duties under the direction of the President, representing the Bureau. 2.
The Secretary-General shall attend the meetings of the Bureau in an advisory capacity and shall keep the minutes of those meetings. 3.
The Bureau, acting on a proposal from the Secretary-General, shall draw up the establishment plan for the General-Secretariat in such a way that it can ensure the efficient functioning of the Committee and its constituent bodies and help the members in the performance of their duties, in particular in the organisation of meetings and the preparation of opinions.
The powers which the Staff Regulations of Officials of the Communities confer on the appointing authority shall be exercised as follows: - with respect to the Secretary-General, by the Bureau, - with respect to officials in grades 16, 15 and 14 of function group AD, by the Bureau, acting on a proposal from the Secretary-General, as regards application of Articles 13, 29, 30, 31, 32, 40, 41, 49, 50, 51, 78 and 90(1) of the Staff Regulations; by the President, acting on a proposal from the Secretary-General, as regards application of the other provisions of the Staff Regulations, including Article 90(2), - with respect to officials in grades 13, 12 and 11 of function group AD, by the President, acting on a proposal from the Secretary-General, - with respect to officials in the other grades of function group AD and all grades of function group AST, by the Secretary-General. 2.
The powers which the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the Communities (CEOS) confer on the authority competent to conclude contracts of service shall be exercised as follows: - with respect to temporary staff in grades 16, 15 and 14 of function group AD, by the Bureau, as regards application of Articles 11, 17, 33 and 48 of the CEOS; as regards the other provisions of the CEOS, by the President, acting on a proposal from the Secretary-General, - with respect to temporary staff in grades 13, 12 and 11 of function group AD, by the President, acting on a proposal from the Secretary-General, - with respect to temporary staff in other grades of the administrators' function group and all grades of the assistants' function group, by the Secretary-General, - with respect to special advisers, and contract and local staff, by the Secretary-General. 3.
The President shall exercise the powers conferred on the institution by Article 110 of the Staff Regulations with a view to implementing the general provisions for giving effect to the Staff Regulations and the Articles adopted by agreement between the institutions. 4.
The Bureau, the President and the Secretary-General may delegate the powers vested in them by this Article. 5.
Article 75 Correspondence to the Committee shall be addressed to the President or the Secretary-General.
CHAPTER VIII General provisions Article 76 The terms used in these Rule of Procedure for the various offices are not gender-specific.
If such a decision is taken, the Committee shall set up a panel, which shall be known as the Rules of Procedure Panel.
The date on which the new Rules of Procedure shall enter into force shall be decided at the time of their adoption by the Committee.
Article 78 These Rules of Procedure shall enter into force on the first day of the month following their adoption by an absolute majority of Committee members. --------------------------------------------------
