Article 2 The EUSR's mandate shall be based on the Union's policy objectives in Sudan, notably as regards: (a) efforts, as part of the international community and in support of the AU and the UN, to achieve a political settlement of the conflict in Darfur as well as to facilitate the implementation of the CPA and to promote South-South dialogue, with due regard to the regional ramifications of these issues and to the principle of African ownership; and (b) ensuring maximum effectiveness and visibility of the Union's contribution to AMIS.
The EUSR shall regularly report to the PSC on the implementation of the Union's assistance to AMIS and on the evolution of the situation in Darfur as well as in the Sudan as a whole.
The expenditure financed by the amount stipulated in paragraph 1 shall be managed in accordance with the European Community procedures and rules applicable to the budget, with the exception that any pre-financing shall not remain the property of the Community. 3.
In the coordination of Union's contributions to AMIS, the EUSR shall be assisted by an ad hoc Coordination Cell (ACC) established in Addis Ababa, acting under his authority, as referred to in Article 5(2) of the Joint Action 2005/557/CFSP. 2.
Article 8 As a rule, the EUSR shall report in person to the High Representative and to the PSC and may report also to the relevant Working Group.
Article 9 To ensure the consistency of the external action of the Union, the activities of the EUSR shall be coordinated with those of the High Representative, the Presidency and the Commission.
Article 10 The implementation of this Joint Action and its consistency with other contributions from the Union to the region shall be kept under regular review.
Article 11 This Joint Action shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
Article 12 This Joint Action shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 18 July 2005.
Straw The President [1] See page 46 of this Official Journal. --------------------------------------------------
