2005/145/EC: Commission Decision of 16 December 2003 on the State aid granted by France to EDF and the electricity and gas industries (notified under document number C(2003) 4637) (Text with EEA relevance) Commission Decision of 16 December 2003 on the State aid granted by France to EDF and the electricity and gas industries (notified under document number C(2003) 4637) (Only the French text is authentic) (Text with EEA relevance) (2005/145/EC) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular the first subparagraph of Article 88(2) thereof, Having regard to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, and in particular Article 62(1)(a) thereof, Having called on interested parties to submit their comments pursuant to the provisions cited above [1] and having regard to their comments, Whereas: I.
PROCEDURE (1) By letter dated 10 July 2001, the Commission invited the French authorities to provide information on certain measures in favour of Electricité de France (EDF) which possibly involved State aid. (2) Between July 2001 and June 2002, many letters were exchanged between the Commission and the French authorities [2].
Second, the Commission initiated a formal investigation under Article 88(2) of the Treaty into the advantage resulting from the non-payment by EDF of the corporation tax due, when it restructured its balance sheet in 1997, on some of the accounting provisions created free of tax for the renewal of the high-voltage transmission network (RAG).
Third, it issued an injunction requiring the French authorities to supply information it needed in order to examine that tax concession in the context of the formal investigation procedure. (4) In the comments they submitted to the Commission by letter dated 11 December 2002, the French authorities maintained that no State aid was involved in the public enterprise status and refused to implement the proposed appropriate measure.
A technical meeting was held on 12 February 2003 between the Commission and the French authorities to discuss the issue of the tax concession. (5) On 2 April 2003, following the French authorities' refusal to implement the proposed appropriate measure and pursuant to Article 19(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 93 of the EC Treaty [4], the Commission decided to initiate the formal investigation procedure provided for by Article 88(2) of the Treaty in respect of the unlimited State guarantee which EDF enjoyed on account of the fact that it could not be declared bankrupt [5].
By letter dated 12 June 2003, the French authorities sent the Commission their comments in the context of the formal investigation procedure. (6) By letter dated 11 November 2003, supplemented by letters dated 21 November and 11 December 2003, the French authorities notified the Commission of a reform of the pension scheme for the electricity and gas industries and transmitted the text of a legislative provision converting EDF into a commercial enterprise governed by ordinary law.
By letter dated 16 December 2003, the French Government confirmed that it was to lay before Parliament the legislation converting EDF, currently a public enterprise, into an entity governed by ordinary law so that the change of legal status could enter into force by 1 January 2005. (7) On 17 November 2003, a further technical meeting was held between the Commission, the French authorities and representatives of EDF to discuss the issue of the tax concession received by EDF.
The French authorities also provided additional information on this question by letter dated 20 November 2003.
The group is also present in China, Egypt, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico and the United States. (9) In 2002, EDF generated turnover of EUR 48,4 billion; the group currently has 32,5 million customer premises in France and 8,9 million in the rest of Europe.
Its largest European subsidiaries in the energy sector are EDF Energy (United Kingdom) and EnBW (Germany), but EDF also has stakes in many other European companies. (10) EDF was set up by Act No 46-628 of 8 April 1946 in the form of a public enterprise.
Although the scheme covers the entire sector, it is administered by a joint department attached to EDF and Gaz de France (GDF). (14) The reform notified by the French authorities involves the creation of a nationwide joint social security body, the National Fund for the Electricity and Gas Industries (CNIEG), which will be independent of EDF and GDF, will have legal personality as a body governed by private law and will be covered by the Social Security Code.
All employees and employers in the electricity and gas industries will be required to join the Fund. (15) From an economic standpoint, the reform distinguishes between two types of entitlement: - "basic" rights, corresponding to pension benefits that would be paid by the ordinary pension schemes (general social security scheme and compulsory supplementary schemes) in return for an ordinary contribution paid in discharge of obligations, - specific rights under the scheme for the electricity and gas industries over and above the benefits normally paid by the general scheme and compulsory supplementary schemes.
These schemes will pay workers in the sector pension benefits corresponding to the basic rights in return for payment by the enterprises in the sector of an ordinary contribution in discharge of their obligations. (17) The social security bodies are to determine the technical arrangements for such affiliation with a view to ensuring financial neutrality for the transferee schemes [8].
EDF therefore applied to those assets the special accounting rules established in France for assets under concession that have to be returned to the State at the end of the concession period, and created tax-free provisions for the renewal of the RAG. (25) Act No 97-1026 of 10 November 1997 nevertheless established that EDF was deemed to have owned the RAG since 1956.
The accounting provisions created between 1987 and 1996 under the arrangements for assets under concession therefore became superfluous. (26) In 1997, EDF had in its accounts two types of provisions created free of tax for the renewal of the RAG: provisions not yet used, amounting to FRF 38,5 billion, and grantor rights, corresponding to renewal operations already carried out, amounting to FRF 18,345 billion. (27) Since these provisions had become superfluous, the French authorities reorganised EDF's balance sheet by means of an act and a ministerial decision. (28) First, Act No 97-1026 of 10 November 1997 provided that "as at 1 January 1997, the value of the assets in kind allocated under concession to the RAG appearing as liabilities on EDF's balance sheet shall be entered, net of the corresponding revaluation differences, under the item "Capital injections"".
The share of the provisions corresponding to grantor rights was therefore to be reclassified as capital injections without being subject to corporation tax. (29) Second, Annex 1 to a letter addressed to EDF on 22 December 1997 by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Finance and Industry, the Secretary of State for the Budget and the Secretary of State for Industry (hereinafter the letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs) explained the restructuring of the upper part of EDF's balance sheet pursuant to Article 4 of Act No 97-1026 of 10 November 1997: "— Reclassification of "Grantor rights" (FRF 18345563605): - Consolidation as capital injections of the value of assets in kind allocated under concession to the RAG, amounting to FRF 14119065335. - Amalgamation of the revaluation differences for the RAG in 1959 (FRF 2425 million) and 1976 (non-depreciable fixed assets: FRF 97 million) with the item "Revaluation differences RAG", which is thus increased from FRF 1720 million to FRF 4145 million. - Amalgamation of the statutory provisions for the revaluation of depreciable fixed assets in 1976 (FRF 1704 million), the item thus increasing from FRF 877 million to FRF 2581 million. — Reclassification of the replacement provisions which have become unwarranted (FRF 38520943408) as surplus carried forward, in accordance with National Accountancy Council Opinion No 97-06 of 18 June 1997 on accountancy changes." (30) Annex 3 to the letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs also sets out the tax implications of the reorganisation of EDF's balance sheet.
COMMENTS FROM AN INTERESTED PARTY (36) By letter dated 6 January 2003, the National Association of Independent Thermal Electricity Producers (SNPIET) submitted comments to the Commission in the context of the formal investigation procedure initiated in respect of the non-payment by EDF, in 1997, of corporation tax on some of the accounting provisions created free of tax for the renewal of the RAG.
The SNPIET alleged that EDF had not complied in its operations with normal practice in industrial and commercial enterprises, contrary to the provisions of Act No 46-628 of 8 April 1946.
Neither did the Commission take account of the public service obligations incumbent on EDF. (d) If it were found that there was an implicit State guarantee, it would in any event be necessary in order to ensure continuity of the public service. (e) The Commission decision deprived Article 295 of the Treaty of its effectiveness and ran counter to the principle of equal treatment in that it treated public enterprises and commercial enterprises in the same way although they did not operate in comparable conditions. (40) In their letter dated 12 June 2003, the French authorities added further points as set out below. (41) As regards the use of State resources, they considered that the Commission's interpretation of Act No 80-539 of 16 July 1980 was incorrect.
They furthermore took the view that the fact that a public supervisory authority was empowered to increase the resources of a public entity in financial difficulty did not suffice to demonstrate either the existence of a State guarantee of last resort or the use of State resources within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty. (42) With regard to the grant of a selective advantage, the French authorities claimed that the selective nature of the aid measure under examination had not been proven.
They then argued that, even if EDF had not set aside provisions for the renewal of the RAG, it would still not have been liable for payment of corporation tax between 1987 and 1996 because of the carryover of large tax losses.
The French authorities took the view that the restructuring of EDF's accounts in 1997 could be interpreted as a capital injection of an amount equivalent to the partial tax exemption. (46) They also denied that the remuneration of the State was unduly reduced between 1987 and 1996 as a result of the creation of the provisions in question.
In view of the foregoing and given the losses carried over by EDF, the French authorities stressed that between 1987 and 1996 the State in fact took a dividend considerably in excess of the levels allowed by the ordinary law on commercial enterprises. (47) The French authorities also considered that even if the creation of provisions for the renewal of the RAG had resulted in an advantage, such an advantage had to be regarded as cancelled out by the increase in corporation tax paid in 1997.
They claimed that, over the period 1987 to 1996, EDF paid more to the State overall than the corporation tax that would have been paid by a commercial enterprise which did not create provisions for the renewal of the RAG and which paid its shareholder a dividend equal to 37,5 % of its net result after tax. (48) The French authorities also argued that if EDF were found to have benefited from an undue advantage, it would constitute existing aid and not new aid on account of the expiry of the ten-year limitation period laid down in Article 15 of Regulation (EC) No 659/1999, which began to run from the date the initial aid was granted.
ASSESSMENT OF THE EXISTENCE OF STATE AID (52) Article 87(1) of the Treaty [11] provides that "any aid granted by a Member State or through State resources in any form whatsoever which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of certain goods shall, insofar as it affects trade between Member States, be incompatible with the common market".
Unlimited State guarantee (a) State resources (55) EDF has had public enterprise status since it was set up by Act No 46-628 of 8 April 1946 on the nationalisation of electricity and gas.
Like all public entities, EDF is not subject to the ordinary law on collective proceedings. (56) Point 2.1.3 of the Commission notice on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty to State aid in the form of guarantees [13] (hereinafter the notice on State aid in the form of guarantees) States that "the Commission (…) regards as aid in the form of a guarantee, the more favourable funding terms obtained by enterprises whose legal form rules out bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings or provides an explicit State guarantee or coverage of losses by the State".
Such a guarantee, which is unlimited in scope, time and amount, constitutes State aid. (58) In accordance with the notice on State aid in the form of guarantees, State aid exists within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty even if no payments are made by the State under the guarantee.
The unlimited State guarantee granted to EDF was thus conferred by an act. (59) In its decision to propose appropriate measures and its decision to open a formal investigation, the Commission already classed the unlimited guarantee enjoyed by EDF as existing aid.
The general principle of the unseizability of the assets of public entities was established by French case-law in the late 19th Century, and EDF's status dates back to 1946. (60) Contrary to what the French authorities have claimed, the special procedure for the recovery of claims established by Act No 80-539 of 16 July 1980 [14] is not comparable to Act No 85-98 of 25 January 1985 on the administration and compulsory liquidation of enterprises.
The debts of public entities are paid in accordance with a special procedure established by Act No 80-539 of 16 July 1980, whereby they must, if they have insufficient funds, create the necessary resources.
On the contrary, Act No 80-539 of 16 July 1980 strengthens the effect of the unlimited State guarantee enjoyed by EDF on account of the fact that it cannot be declared bankrupt. (63) French legal theorists consider that public entities under French law do enjoy a State guarantee of last resort.
The involvement of the State would be all the more certain where it had exercised decisive control over the activity of the enterprise, for example by setting the prices for its products [16]. (64) Likewise, in an unpublished opinion, the French Council of State held "that the State guarantee [enjoyed by a public enterprise] will derive, in the absence of an explicit legislative provision, from its very nature as a public enterprise" [17]. (65) In other words, if the inapplicability of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings to public entities is a corollary of the principle of the unseizability of their assets, then the obligation on the State to answer for their debts in the event of default derives from the same principle. (66) Contrary to what the French authorities have claimed, Act No 80-539 of 16 July 1980 is selective in that it applies only to commercial enterprises with the status of a public entity.
Since June 2001, Fitch Ratings has thus assigned EDF a long-term debt rating of AAA and a short-term debt rating of F1+.
The unlimited State guarantee does therefore enable EDF to obtain more favourable credit terms than those available to a commercial enterprise without a State guarantee. (70) Insofar as EDF is the only enterprise active on the electricity market that enjoys an unlimited State guarantee by virtue of its status, the advantage is selective. (71) EDF is in competition with other Community operators in the markets for the production and distribution of electricity and energy services and with other operators active on energy markets that compete with electricity.
The Court of Justice of the European Communities has consistently held [21] that any State aid which strengthens the position of an enterprise in relation to other enterprises competing in intra-Community trade distorts competition. (72) The unlimited State guarantee thus confers on EDF an advantage that necessarily strengthens its position in relation to its competitors.
Reform of the pension scheme for the electricity and gas industries (a) Selective advantage and distortion of competition (73) The affiliation of the pension scheme for the electricity and gas industries to the general schemes does not constitute an advantage insofar as such affiliation is an option open to any special pension scheme that wishes to do so and the financial arrangements, valuation methods and timetable for the affiliation are financially neutral for the transferee schemes and the State. (74) In the case in point, the technical arrangements for the affiliation are still to be determined as part of ongoing negotiations between the electricity and gas industries and the transferee schemes.
The French authorities have nevertheless formally undertaken by letter dated 11 December 2003 "to ensure that the agreements concluded between the electricity and gas industries and the general schemes (transferee schemes) and any other measure taken in this context are financially neutral for all parties and for the State". (75) The Commission takes the view that, provided the above undertaking is fulfilled in practice, the affiliation of the pension scheme for the electricity and gas industries to the general schemes will not constitute an advantage.
Enterprises in the electricity and gas industries are thus relieved of the payment of some of the pension benefits acquired in the past, something which constitutes an advantage for those industries. (78) An advantage is thus conferred on the electricity and gas industries which has not been granted to any other area of the French economy, and in particular to the industries in direct competition (such as the oil and coal industries).
It is consequently a selective sectoral advantage. (79) The French electricity and gas industries are in competition with the same industries in other Member States.
The non-payment by enterprises in the electricity and gas industries of some of their past pension liabilities constitutes an advantage for the French electricity and gas industries that necessarily strengthens their position in relation to enterprises in competing industries in the other Member States.
The advantage therefore distorts competition within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty. (80) The State guarantee granted to the National Fund for the Electricity and Gas Industries, covering the payment of pensions corresponding to all specific rights acquired in the past, constitutes a guarantee of last resort afforded to the pension scheme for the electricity and gas industries, not to the enterprises themselves.
The chargeable event for the contribution will be the existence of a connection to an electricity or gas transport or distribution network. (83) Payment of the contribution will be compulsory.
Non-payment by EDF in 1997 of corporation tax on some of the accounting provisions created free of tax for the renewal of the high-voltage transmission network (a) Selective advantage and distortion of competition (84) Since Act No 97-1026 of 10 November 1997 established that EDF was deemed to have been the owner of the high-voltage transmission network (RAG) since 1956, it has to be ascertained whether the Act did not involve a transfer of ownership of the RAG. (85) According to the information provided by the French authorities, EDF can reasonably be regarded as the owner of the RAG since the initial contractual conditions dating from 1956.
The Commission consequently takes the view that the "clarification" of ownership of the RAG brought about by Act No 97-1026 of 10 November 1997 does not in itself involve any State aid. (86) It now has to be examined whether Act No 97-1026 addressed all the tax implications of such "clarification" and, if not, whether a tax concession was thus granted to EDF. (87) During the period between 1987 and 1996, EDF created tax-free provisions for the renewal of the RAG.
Following the 1997 Act declaring that EDF was deemed to have been the owner of the RAG since 1956, those provisions became superfluous and therefore had to be reallocated to other items in the balance sheet. (88) The letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs setting out the tax implications of the restructuring of EDF's balance sheet shows that the unused provisions for renewal of the RAG were subjected by the French authorities to corporation tax at 41,66 %, the rate applicable in 1997. (89) On the other hand, pursuant to Article 4 of Act No 97-1026 of 10 November 1997, some of those provisions, namely the grantor rights, corresponding to renewal operations already carried out, were reclassified as capital injections amounting to FRF 14.119 billion without being subjected to corporation tax.
In a memorandum dated 9 April 2002 addressed by the Directorate-General for Taxation to the Commission, the French authorities Stated that "the grantor rights in respect of the RAG represent an unowed debt which was unjustifiably exempted from tax by being incorporated into the capital" and that "before this reserve was incorporated into the capital, it should have been transferred from the enterprise's liabilities, where it was incorrectly posted, to a net assets account, thereby resulting in a positive variation in net worth that was taxable under Article 38(2)" of the General Tax Code.
They noted that "the tax concession thus obtained [by EDF in 1997] can be estimated at FRF 5,88 billion (14,119 × 41,66 %)", equivalent to EUR 888,89 million [23]. (90) The Commission points out, on the one hand, that, in line with the National Accountancy Council Opinion, corrections to accounting errors should be posted in the accounts for the financial year in which they are discovered.
This means that the FRF 14,119 billion in grantor rights should have been added to the FRF 38,5 billion in unused provisions and taxed at the rate of 41,66 % applied by the French authorities to the restructuring of EDF's balance sheet.
By not paying all the corporation tax due when it restructured its balance sheet, EDF saved EUR 888,89 million. (92) The Commission considers that the aid was indeed paid in 1997, since the FRF 14,119 billion was at that time a debt to the State, entered under the balance sheet item of grantor rights, which the State waived by means of Act No 97-1026 of 10 November 1997. (93) The French authorities claim that, even if EDF had not set aside provisions for the renewal of the RAG, it would still not have been liable for payment of corporation tax between 1987 and 1996 because of the carryover of large tax losses.
It also notes that, if the provisions had not been set aside, the tax losses carried over would have been gradually absorbed between 1987 and 1996 and the amount of tax payable by EDF in 1997 would have been significantly higher. (94) The French authorities also take the view that, even if the creation of provisions for the renewal of the RAG resulted in an advantage, that advantage should be regarded as cancelled out by the increase in corporation tax paid in 1997.
As it has demonstrated above and as the French authorities themselves acknowledge in their memorandum dated 9 April 2002, although the unused replacement provisions were correctly taxed, the grantor rights were reclassified as capital injections without being subjected to corporation tax.
A public authority cannot use as an argument any economic benefits it could derive as the owner of an enterprise in order to justify aid granted in a discretionary manner by virtue of the prerogatives it enjoys as the tax authority in relation to the same enterprise. (97) While a Member State may act as a shareholder in addition to exercising its powers as a public authority, it must not combine its role as a State wielding public power with that of a shareholder.
Since the provisions for renewal of the RAG became superfluous following Act No 97-1026 of 10 November 1997, they should have been reclassified in the accounts for the 1997 financial year and therefore taxed at the rate of corporation tax applicable to that year.
The Commission also notes that the French authorities themselves applied the 1997 rate of corporation tax to the share of the provisions that was taxed. (99) The non-payment by EDF, in 1997, of EUR 888,89 million in tax therefore constitutes an advantage for the group.
The fact that the advantage was granted to EDF by a specific legislative instrument, Act No 97-1026 of 10 November 1997, is proof that it is unique and overrides the rules of ordinary law. (100) Like EDF's unlimited State guarantee, this advantage it enjoys necessarily strengthens its position in relation to its competitors.
The Court has consistently held [25] that the non-collection by the State of a tax which should normally have been collected is equivalent to the consumption of State resources. (102) The non-collection of the full amount of corporation tax due in respect of the 1997 financial year derived directly from a measure adopted by the State, namely Act No 97-1026 of 10 November 1997. (103) Consequently, in 1997 EDF received State aid amounting to EUR 888,89 million in the form of a tax concession. 4.
Effect on trade between Member States (104) From its creation in 1946 until the entry into force of Directive 96/92/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 December 1996 concerning common rules for the internal market in electricity [26], EDF enjoyed a monopoly on the French market, with exclusive rights in respect of the transport, distribution, import and export of electricity.
Between 1981 and 1989, EDF multiplied the surplus on its balance of trade in electricity by nine, achieving net exports of 42 TWh, representing 10 % of its total production.
In 1985, EDF already exported 19 TWh to other Member States. (106) In its annual report for 1997, EDF stated that it ranked "among the world's leading operators in the electricity industry, with, outside France, more than FRF 13 billion invested, a total installed production capacity equal to nearly 11 % of the figure for France and over 8 million customers".
The report also stressed that in 1997 EDF had "increased the number and size of its investments in Europe by extending its presence to Austria and Poland" and had "exported over 70 TWh in Europe". (107) The 1997-2000 management contract, signed on 8 April 1997 between the French State and EDF, stipulates that EDF is to allocate some FRF 14 billion to its international investments, assigning priority to regions in Europe.
Between 2000 and 2002, EDF acquired one third of the capital of the German company EnBW, increased the production and distribution capacities of its United Kingdom subsidiary London Electricity, took direct control of the Italian enterprise Fenice and set up a partnership with Fiat for the purchase of Montedison (now Edison).
In 2001, EDF's electricity exports grew to a record level of 83,9 TWh, contributing EUR 2300 million to its annual turnover. (108) The French electricity market is currently 34,5 % open, with the threshold for eligible customers set at 7 GWh.
The market open to competition consists of some 3100 premises representing demand of over 150 TWh.
As regards electricity production in France, EDF is furthermore now in competition with Compagnie Nationale du Rhône, a subsidiary of Electrabel, and Société Nationale d'Electricité et de Thermique, some of whose capital is held by the Spanish company Endesa.
EDF is therefore now in competition with other operators on the French market. (109) Even before Directive 96/92/EC entered into force in February 1999, certain Member States acted unilaterally to open up their electricity market.
Sweden opened up its market completely in 1996, Finland began the process in 1995 and reached 100 % market opening in 1997, Germany completely opened up its market in 1998 and the Netherlands opened up its market completely for industrial customers in 1998.
In those circumstances, even before the deadline set by the Directive for opening up the market to competition, State aid granted to enterprises enjoying a monopoly in a Member State that took an active part in intra-Community trade, as in the case of EDF, distorted competition on the electricity market within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty. (110) EDF competed and continues to compete both in France and in other Member States in areas outside its core business of electricity production and distribution, since it has diversified its activities on the markets in services related to energy, which have been entirely liberalised.
SDS was active in waste treatment, street lighting and other energy-related services and generated turnover equivalent of EUR 685 million in 1998 as against EUR 650 million in 1997.
In 2000, EDF established a partnership with Veolia Environnement via the company Dalkia, the European leader in energy services to businesses and local authorities.
Its contribution to consolidated turnover that year was EUR 70 million. (112) Lastly, as an electricity producer and distributor, EDF was and still is in competition with suppliers of other substitute energy sources such as coal, oil and gas, both on its domestic market and on international markets.
The gas market has also been the subject of a liberalisation directive: Directive 98/30/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 June 1998 concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas, which was to be transposed by all the Member States by August 2000.
Since European markets in electricity and gas exist, the grant of an advantage to enterprises in those industries in France necessarily affects trade between Member States. (118) Consequently, since they fulfil the four criteria laid down in Article 87(1) of the Treaty, the unlimited State guarantee enjoyed by EDF, the non-payment by enterprises in the electricity and gas industries of some of the pension benefits corresponding to rights acquired in the past, and the non-payment by EDF of corporation tax on some of the accounting provisions created free of tax for the renewal of the RAG constitute State aid.
The aid measure under examination does not qualify for this exception. (123) As regards the exceptions allowed by Article 87(3)(b) and (d) of the Treaty, the aid measure under examination is not intended to promote the execution of a project of common interest, remedy a serious disturbance in the French economy or promote culture and heritage conservation. (124) The compatibility criteria set out in Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty are therefore not met. (125) The French authorities consider that, in its assessment, the Commission has not taken account of EDF's status and the constraints attached thereto, such as the principle of specialisation and the ban on arbitration clauses.
The State guarantee enjoyed by EDF, insofar as it covers all EDF's activities and is unlimited in time, is disproportionate.
The Commission consequently takes the view that it creates an undue distortion of competition. (128) The French authorities have not relied on Article 86(2) of the Treaty, but they have stressed the fact that EDF performs public service tasks.
However, in its judgments the Court of Justice did not follow that interpretation of Article 295 of the Treaty [31].
The Court of Justice has consistently held that Article 295 does not have the effect of exempting the Member States' systems of property ownership from the fundamental rules of the Treaty [32]. (131) That case-law was upheld by the judgment delivered by the Court of First Instance of the European Communities on 6 March 2003 in West LB [33].
The application of the competition rules to undertakings, irrespective of the property systems to which they are subject, does not have the effect of restricting the protection under Article 295 of the Treaty and of leaving the Member States hardly any latitude in the management of public undertakings, in the retention of shareholdings which they have in those undertakings, or in recourse to considerations other than purely profit-making criteria.
In the decision to propose appropriate measures which it adopted in October 2002, the Commission already requested the French authorities to withdraw it. (135) In their letter dated 11 November 2003, the French authorities notified the following draft legislative provision to the Commission: "The public enterprises Electricité de France and Gaz de France are hereby converted (…) into limited companies governed (…) by the rules applicable to commercial enterprises".
The Commission considers that making EDF subject to the ordinary law on bankruptcy will have the effect of withdrawing the unlimited State guarantee which it enjoyed. (136) In a letter dated 16 December 2003, the French Government confirmed its intention to "table before Parliament the measures for converting the legal form of EDF, currently a public enterprise, into a legal form governed by the ordinary rules so that those measures can be put into effect by 1 January 2005".
On the basis of that information, the Commission takes the view that the unlimited State guarantee enjoyed by EDF must be effectively withdrawn by 1 January 2005.
The transfer of such a risk to the enterprises in the sector therefore constitutes a barrier to the entry of competitors into the French markets. (140) The current pension scheme for the electricity and gas industries therefore creates barriers to entry into the French electricity and gas markets.
It follows that the National Fund for the Electricity and Gas Industries is not financed, through the contribution, by electricity or gas imported from other Member States.
Payment of the specific pension benefits, which was not an unbearable burden as long as the enterprises were shielded from any intra-industry competition, today constitutes a major difficulty for these enterprises, now that they are in competition with other electricity or gas enterprises. (144) These specific pension rights of employees in the electricity and gas industries derive from Article 24 of the National conditions of employment for workers in the electricity and gas industries and Annex 3 thereto, relating to invalidity, pension and death benefits, which date from 1946.
These texts have not been amended since 1997. (145) As part of the notified reform, enterprises in the sector will not pay benefits corresponding to the specific rights acquired at the date of the reform by employees assigned to electricity and gas transport and distribution activities.
The aid may therefore be deemed compatible with the common market in accordance with Article 87(3)(c) of the Treaty since it allows the development of the activity in question and does not affect trade to an extent contrary to the common interest. (147) The Commission regards the situation in the case in point as not dissimilar in nature to that of stranded costs in the energy field.
Its sole purpose is to assist an enterprise by reducing its operating costs. (152) As regards the exceptions allowed by Article 87(3)(b) and (d) of the Treaty, the aid measure under examination is not intended to promote the execution of a project of common interest, remedy a serious disturbance in the French economy or promote culture and heritage conservation. (153) The compatibility criteria set out in Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty are therefore not met.
It is therefore incompatible with the common market. (155) Lastly, the Commission considers that, contrary to what is claimed by the French authorities, the rule on limitation periods does not apply in the case in point.
The non-payment by enterprises in the sector of benefits corresponding to some of the specific rights acquired in the past constitutes State aid that is compatible with the common market pursuant to Article 87(3)(c) of the Treaty. (160) The Commission finds, lastly, that the non-payment by EDF, in 1997, of corporation tax on some of the provisions created free of tax for the renewal of the RAG constitutes State aid that is incompatible with the common market.
Article 2 The affiliation of the French pension scheme for the electricity and gas industries to the ordinary pension schemes does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty insofar as such affiliation is financially neutral for the enterprises, the transferee schemes and the State.
The non-payment by enterprises in the electricity and gas industries of benefits corresponding to the specific rights acquired at the date of the reform by employees assigned to electricity and gas transport and distribution and the financing of those rights by a tariff-based contribution constitute State aid that is compatible with the common market pursuant to Article 87(3)(c) of the Treaty.
The guarantee granted by France to the National Fund for the Electricity and Gas Industries in respect of those acquired specific rights does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty.
Article 3 The non-payment by EDF, in 1997, of corporation tax on some of the provisions created free of tax for the renewal of the RAG, corresponding to FRF 14,119 billion in grantor rights reclassified as capital injections, constitutes State aid that is incompatible with the common market.
Interest shall be calculated on the basis of the reference rate used for calculating the grant-equivalent of regional aid, applied on a compound basis in accordance with the Commission communication on the interest rates to be applied when aid granted unlawfully is being recovered [36].
Article 5 France shall inform the Commission, within two months of notification of this Decision, of the measures taken to comply with it.
Article 6 This Decision is addressed to the French Republic.
Done at Brussels, 16 December 2003.
For the Commission Mario Monti Member of the Commission [1] OJ C 280, 16.11.2002, p. 8 and OJ C 164, 15.7.2003, p. 7. [2] See OJ C 280, 16.11.2002, p. 8. [3] OJ C 280, 16.11.2002, p. 8. [4] OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [5] OJ C 164, 15.7.2003, p. 7. [6] Tribunal des conflits, Association syndicale du canal de Gignac, 9 décembre 1899, Rec.
The amounts indicated correspond to the situation at 1 January 2003 and will therefore be adjusted in line with rights acquired and benefits paid up to the date when the reform is implemented. [8] On 1 April 2003 the National Accountancy Council adopted Recommendation No 2003-R.01 on the rules for posting and evaluating liabilities in respect of pension and comparable benefits, which spells out the evaluation methods to be used in that area.
The use in the case in point of a real discount rate of 3 % is thus in the lower range of possible values. [9] The methodology currently used by the CNAV scheme involves comparing, at the evaluation date, the ratio between the likely present value of the rights already acquired and the contributive capacity over a year, modulated by the average age of the contributors, for the transferor scheme and the transferee scheme.
If the dependency ratio in the electricity and gas industries is higher than that of the basic scheme, an entry fee is calculated which is equal to the amount that, when deducted from the present value of the liabilities of the scheme for the electricity and gas industries, enables the dependency indicator for the CNAV scheme before the operation to be equalised with the dependency indicator for the combination of the CNAV scheme and the scheme for the electricity and gas industries after the operation.The methodology currently used by the AGIRC and ARRCO schemes involves comparing the benefits/contributions dependency ratios projected over a 25-year period for the supplementary schemes with those for the electricity and gas industries.
Where rights are taken over on a maximum basis, even if the dependency ratio of the transferor scheme is more unfavourable than that of the transferee scheme, all the basic rights are taken over but the transferor scheme must then make a balancing cash payment in order to ensure that the affiliation is financially neutral.In the case in point, if rights are taken over on a maximum basis, the amount of the balancing cash payment to be made to the general schemes is estimated at […]. [10] The specific rights to be financed in the electricity and gas industries currently amount to a total of […]. [11] The reference to Article 87(1) of the Treaty should be understood as also referring to Article 61 of the Agreement on the European Economic Area. [12] See footnote 1. [13] OJ C 71, 11.3.2000, p. 14. [14] Article 1.II. [15] Fourth subparagraph of Article 3-1 of Implementing Decree No 81-501 of 12 May 1981. [16] See, for example J.
Rivero, Encyclopédie Juridique Dalloz, Droit administratif, Régime des entreprises nationalisées, 1959: "§ 78. (…) One last peculiarity, which is not enshrined in the texts but derives from practice: where necessary, the enterprise can rely, as an ultimate resource, on advances from the State, which cannot disregard key parts of the national economy and public assets; such advances are normally repayable. (…) § 81.
Any other comments. [1] In accordance with the Commission communication on the interest rates to be applied when aid granted unlawfully is being recovered (OJ C 110, 8.5.2003, p. 21), the reference rate is to be applied on a compound basis.
The calculation of compound interest, compounding on a yearly basis, uses the formula: Interest = [Capital (1 + Interest rate) Number of years] — Capital. --------------------------------------------------
