The statistical threshold referred to in Article 12 of the Basic Regulation shall be fixed, for each type of goods, so that imports or exports exceeding EUR 800 in value or 1000 kg in net mass shall be covered by external trade statistics. 2.
CHAPTER 2 Definitions of data Article 5 The definitions of data referred to in Article 10(1), (2) and (3), first indent, of the Basic Regulation and the procedures whereby they are given in the data medium are indicated in Articles 6 to 14.
The %quot%customs destination%quot% shall be identified by the procedure for which the codes to be indicated are given in Annex 38 to Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93. 2.
Statistical procedures shall be coded as follows: (a) imports: 7- normal 1- after outward processing 3- for inward processing, suspension system 5- for inward processing, drawback system 6- after economic outward processing for textiles; (b) exports: 1- normal 3- after outward processing 5- after inward processing, suspension system 6- after inward processing, drawback system 7- for economic outward processing for textiles.
Nonetheless, the country of consignment must be indicated in the following instances: (a) for goods the origin of which is not known; (b) for the following goods, even if their origin is known: - goods falling within Chapter 97 of the Combined Nomenclature, - goods imported after outward processing, - returned goods and other goods of Community origin.
For specific movements of goods referred to in Title II, the partner countries referred to in the Title should be used, if necessary. 4.
The countries defined in paragraph 1 shall be designated and coded in accordance with Article 9 of the Basic Regulation.
The value of the goods referred to in paragraph 1 shall be calculated as follows: - in the case of sale or purchase, on the basis of the invoiced amount of the goods, - in other cases, on the basis of the amount which would have been invoiced in the case of sale or purchase.
The modes of transport referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 are as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 4.
The modes of transport shall be designated in the data medium by the codes in column A of the list shown in paragraph 3.
Member States may require the modes of transport to be designated in the data medium by the codes in column B of the said list. 5.
The preference shall be stated in accordance with the procedure laid down in Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93.
The list of transactions is set out in Annex II.
Specific movements of goods are as follows: (a) industrial plants; (b) vessels and aircraft, as defined in Chapter 3 of this Title; (c) sea products; (d) ships' and aircraft's stores and supplies; (e) staggered consignments; (f) military goods; (g) offshore installations; (h) spacecraft and spacecraft launchers; (i) motor vehicle and aircraft parts; (j) postal consignments; (k) petroleum products; (l) waste products. 3.
Subject to contrary provision in this Regulation or in the absence of provisions laid down in accordance with Article 21 of the Basic Regulation, specific movements shall be mentioned according to the relevant national provisions. 4.
The Member States shall adopt the appropriate provisions in order to implement this chapter and may use, if necessary, statistical information sources other than those laid down in Article 7 of the Basic Regulation.
The subheadings applicable for the purposes of this chapter are those provided for in Chapter 98 of the Combined Nomenclature, in respect of the component parts for complete industrial plant covered by Chapters 63, 68, 69, 70, 72, 73, 76, 82, 84, 85, 86, 87, 90 and 94, with reference to each of these chapters and to each of the individual headings of which they are composed. 2.
For the purposes of this chapter, component parts falling within a given chapter shall be classified under the complete industrial plant subheading of Chapter 98 for the chapter in question unless the competent department listed in that Chapter requires the classification of the goods in chapter 98 under the appropriate complete industrial plant subheadings at the level of the headings of the Harmonised System nomenclature or to apply the provisions of paragraph 3.
External trade statistics covering the following shall be transmitted to the Commission: (a) the transfer of ownership of a vessel or aircraft from a physical or legal person established in a third country to a physical or legal person established in a Member State; this transaction shall be treated in the same way as an import; (b) the transfer of ownership of a vessel or aircraft from a physical or legal person established in a Member State to a physical or legal person established in a third country; this transaction shall be treated in the same way as an export; If the vessel or aircraft is new, the export shall be recorded in the Member State of construction; (c) the placing of vessels or aircraft under inward processing customs procedures and their re-export after inward processing to a destination in a third country; (d) the placing of vessels or aircraft under outward processing customs procedures and their re-import after outward processing. 2.
The results of the operations referred to in paragraph 1(a) and (b) which the Member States transmit to the Commission shall include the following data: - the code corresponding to the subdivision of the Combined Nomenclature, - the statistical procedure, - the partner country, - the quantity, as number of items and in any other supplementary units laid down in the Combined Nomenclature, for vessels, and the quantity, in net mass and in supplementary units, for aircraft, - the statistical value.
Article 22 Member States shall use every available source of information for the purpose of complying with this chapter.
CHAPTER 4 Ships' and aircraft's stores and supplies Article 23 For the purposes of this chapter: - %quot%ships%quot% and aircraft's stores' means the various products for consumption by the crew and passengers of vessels or aircraft; - %quot%ships%quot% and aircraft's supplies' means the products for the operation of the engines, machines and other equipment on vessels or aircraft, such as fuel, oil and lubricants.
The monthly returns on the operations referred to in paragraph 1(a), which are transmitted by the Member States to the Commission, shall include the following data: (a) the product code, according to the following simplified coding: - 9930 24 00: goods from Chapters 1 to 24 of the Harmonised System, - 9930 27 00: goods from Chapter 27 of the Harmonised System, - 9930 99 00: goods classified elsewhere, (b) the specific country code QS (or 952); (c) the statistical procedure; (d) the quantity in net mass; (e) the statistical value.
CHAPTER 5 Staggered consignments Article 25 For the purposes of this chapter, %quot%staggered consignments%quot% means imports or exports of components of complete goods in a disassembled state over several deliveries for commercial or transport-related reasons.
Article 26 In the monthly returns transmitted to the Commission by the Member States, data on the imports and exports of staggered consignments shall be compiled once only, in the month of import or export of the last partial consignment, indicating the full value of the complete assembled good and using the classification code for that good.
CHAPTER 6 Military goods Article 27 1.
Statistics relating to the trading of goods with non-member countries covering exports and imports of goods for military use in compliance with the definition in force in the Member States shall be transmitted to the Commission. 2.
The monthly returns covering the operations referred to in paragraph 1, which are transmitted to the Commission by the Member States, shall include the following data: (a) the code corresponding to the subdivision of the product classification referred to in Article 8 of the Basic Regulation; (b) the code of the partner country; (c) the statistical procedure; (d) the quantity in net mass and, where appropriate, in supplementary units; (e) the statistical value. 3.
CHAPTER 7 Offshore installations Article 28 1.
In a given Member State, statistics on trade with non-member countries covering the following shall be transmitted to the Commission: (a) the delivery of goods to a national installation directly from a non-member country or from a foreign installation; this transaction shall be treated in the same way as an import; (b) the delivery of goods to a non-member country or to a foreign installation from a national installation; this transaction shall be treated in the same way as an export; (c) the delivery of goods to a national installation from a customs' warehouse located on the statistical territory of a Member State; this transaction shall be treated in the same way as an import; (d) the import to the statistical territory of this Member State of goods from a foreign installation; (e) the export from the statistical territory of this Member State of goods destined for a foreign installation. 2.
CHAPTER 8 Spacecraft Article 30 For the purposes of this chapter: (a) %quot%spacecraft%quot% means craft such as satellites which travel in space outside the earth's atmosphere; (b) %quot%ownership of a spacecraft%quot% means the fact of a natural or legal person's registration as owner of a spacecraft.
The monthly returns on the operations referred to in paragraph 1(c) to (f), which are transmitted to the Commission by the Member States, shall include the following data: (a) the code corresponding to the subdivision of the product classification referred to in Article 8 of the Basic Regulation; (b) the code of the partner country.
For the operations referred to in paragraph 1(c), the partner country means the country of manufacture of the finished spacecraft.
For the operations referred to in paragraph 1(e), the partner country means the country where the natural or legal person transferring the ownership of the spacecraft is established; (c) the statistical procedure; (d) the quantity in net mass and in supplementary units; (e) the statistical value.
TITLE III FINAL PROVISIONS Article 32 Pursuant to Article 13 of the Basic Regulation, Member States shall transmit to the Commission without delay, and no later than six weeks after the end of the reference period, the monthly results of their external trade statistics.
Article 34 Member States shall retain the statistical information media referred to in Articles 7 and 23 of the Basic Regulation, or at least the information contained therein, for at least two years after the end of the year to which the media refer.
Article 35 Member States shall transmit to the Commission their national instructions and any subsequent amendments.
Article 37 This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply from 1 January 2001.
Done at Brussels, 7 September 2000.
For the Commission Pedro Solbes Mira Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 118, 25.5.1995, p. 10. (2) OJ L 48, 19.2.1998, p. 6. (3) OJ L 302, 19.10.1992, p. 1. (4) OJ L 253, 11.10.1993, p. 1. (5) OJ L 188, 26.7.2000, p. 1. (6) OJ L 256, 7.9.1987, p. 1. (7) OJ L 114, 8.5.1996, p. 7.
ANNEX II List of transactions referred to in Article 13(2) %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX III List of delivery terms referred to in Article 14(2) %gt%TABLE%gt%
