This Regulation applies to imports into the Community of steel products listed in Annex I, originating in Ukraine. 2.
The steel products shall be classified in product groups as set out in Annex I. 3.
The origin of the products referred to in paragraph 1 shall be determined in accordance with the rules in force in the Community. 4.
The procedures for verification of the origin of the products referred to in paragraph 1 are laid down in Chapters II and III.
The importation into the Community of the products listed in Annex I originating in Ukraine shall be subject to the annual quantitative limits laid down in Annex V.
The release for free circulation in the Community of the products listed in Annex I originating in Ukraine shall be subject to the presentation of a certificate of origin, as set out in Annex II, and of an import authorisation issued by the Member States' authorities in accordance with the provisions of Article 4.
The authorised imports shall be counted against the quantitative limits laid down for the year in which the products are shipped in the exporting country. 2.
Imports of products as from 1 January 2005, for which a licence was required pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 2266/2004 shall be counted against the relevant limits for 2005 laid down in Annex V. 4.
Where the products referred to in paragraph 1 are subsequently released for free circulation, either in the unaltered state or after working or processing, Article 2(2) shall apply and the products so released shall be counted against the relevant quantitative limit set out in Annex V.
The notifications referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 shall be communicated electronically within the integrated network set up for this purpose, unless for imperative technical reasons it is necessary to use other means of communication temporarily. 6.
The import authorisations or equivalent documents shall be issued in accordance with Chapter II. 7.
Where, following the enquiries carried out in accordance with the procedures set out in Chapter III, the Commission notes that the information in its possession constitutes proof that products listed in Annex I originating in Ukraine have been transhipped, rerouted or otherwise imported into the Community through circumvention of the quantitative limits referred to in Article 2 and that there is a need for the necessary adjustments to be made, it shall request that consultations be opened so that agreement may be reached on an equivalent adjustment of the corresponding quantitative limits. 2.
Pending the outcome of the consultations referred to in paragraph 1, the Commission may ask Ukraine to take the necessary precautionary steps to ensure that adjustments to the quantitative limits agreed following such consultations may be carried out for the year in which the request for consultations was lodged or for the following year, if the quantitative limits for the current year are exhausted, where there is clear evidence of circumvention. 3.
Article 7 This Regulation shall not constitute in any way a derogation from the provisions of the Agreement which, in all cases of conflict, shall prevail.
CHAPTER II MODALITIES APPLICABLE TO THE MANAGEMENT OF THE QUANTITATIVE LIMITS SECTION 1 Classification Article 8 The classification of the products covered by this Regulation is based on the combined nomenclature established by Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87.
Article 9 On the initiative of the Commission or of a Member State, the Tariff and Statistical Nomenclature Section of the Customs Code Committee, established by Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 will examine urgently, in accordance with the provisions of that Regulation, all questions concerning the classification of products covered by this Regulation within the combined nomenclature in order to classify them in the appropriate product groups.
Article 10 The Commission shall inform Ukraine of any changes in the CN and TARIC codes affecting products covered by this Regulation at least one month before the date of their entry into force in the Community.
Article 11 The Commission shall inform the competent authorities of Ukraine of any decisions adopted in accordance with the procedures in force in the Community relating to classification of products covered by this Regulation, within one month at the latest of their adoption.
Where a classification decision adopted in accordance with Community procedures in force results in a change of classification practice or a change in the product group of any product covered by this Regulation, the competent authorities of the Member States shall provide 30 days' notice, from the date of the Commission's notification, before the decision is put into effect. 2.
Article 13 Where a classification decision adopted in accordance with the Community procedures in force referred to in Article 12 involves a product group subject to a quantitative limit, the Commission shall, where necessary, initiate consultations without delay in accordance with Article 9, in order to reach agreement on any necessary adjustments to the corresponding quantitative limits provided for in Annex V.
Article 15 In the cases referred to in Article 14, as well as in those cases of a similar nature raised by the competent authorities of Ukraine, the Commission, if necessary, shall enter into consultations with Ukraine, in order to reach agreement on the classification definitively applicable to the products involved in the divergence.
Article 16 The Commission, in agreement with the competent authorities of the importing Member State or States and of Ukraine, may, in the cases referred to in Article 15, determine the classification definitively applicable to the products involved in the divergence.
Article 17 When a case of divergence referred to in Article 14 cannot be resolved in accordance with Article 15, the Commission shall adopt, in accordance with the provisions of Article 10 of Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87, a measure establishing the classification of the goods in the combined nomenclature.
SECTION 2 Double-checking system for administering quantitative limits Article 18 1.
The importer shall present the original of the export licence for the purposes of the issue of the import authorisation referred to in Article 21.
The export licence for quantitative limits shall conform to the model set out in Annex II and shall certify, inter alia, that the quantity of goods in question has been counted against the quantitative limit established for the product group concerned. 2.
Article 20 Exports shall be counted against the quantitative limits established for the year in which the products covered by the export licence have been shipped within the meaning of Article 2(4).
This presentation must be effected not later than 31 March of the year following that in which the goods covered by the export licence have been shipped.
Import authorisations shall be issued by the competent authorities of any Member State irrespective of the Member State indicated on the export licence, to the extent that the Commission has confirmed, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4, that the amount requested is available within the quantitative limit in question. 2.
Article 22 The validity of import authorisations issued by the authorities of the Member States shall be subject to the validity of export licences and the quantities indicated in the export licences issued by the competent authorities of Ukraine on the basis of which the import authorisations have been issued.
Article 23 Import authorisations or equivalent documents shall be issued by the competent authorities of the Member States in conformity with Article 2(2) and without discrimination to any importer in the Community, wherever the place of his establishment may be in the Community, without prejudice to other conditions required under the current rules.
If the Commission finds that the total quantities covered by export licences issued by Ukraine for a particular product group in any year exceed the quantitative limit established for that product group, the competent authorities in the Member States shall be informed immediately in order to suspend the further issue of import authorisations.
The competent authorities of a Member State shall refuse to issue import authorisations for products originating in Ukraine which are not covered by export licences issued in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
SECTION 3 Common provisions Article 25 1.
The export licence referred to in Article 18 and the certificate of origin referred to in Article 2 may include additional copies duly indicated as such.
If the documents referred to in paragraph 1 are completed by hand, entries must be in ink and in block letters. 3.
The export licences or equivalent documents and certificates of origin shall measure 210 x 297 mm.
The paper shall be white writing paper, sized, not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 25 g/m2.
Only the original shall be accepted by the competent authorities of the Member States as being valid for import purposes in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation. 5.
This number shall be composed of the following elements: - two letters identifying the exporting country as follows: UA= Ukraine, - two letters identifying the Member State of intended destination as follows: AT= Austria BE= Belgium CY= Cyprus CZ= Czech Republic DE= Germany DK= Denmark EE= Estonia EL= Greece ES= Spain FI= Finland FR= France GB= United Kingdom HU= Hungary IE= Ireland IT= Italy LT= Lithuania LU= Luxembourg LV= Latvia MT= Malta NL= Netherlands PL= Poland PT= Portugal SE= Sweden SI= Slovenia SK= Slovakia, - a one-digit number identifying the quota year corresponding to the last figure in the year in question, e.g. "5" for 2005, - a two-digit number identifying the issuing office in the exporting country, - a five-digit number running consecutively from 00001 to 99999 allocated to the specific Member State of destination.
Article 26 The export licence and the certificate of origin may be issued after the shipment of the products to which they relate.
SECTION 4 Community import authorisation — common form Article 28 1.
The forms to be used by the competent authorities of the Member States for issuing the import authorisations referred to in Article 21 shall conform to the model of the import authorisation set out in Annex III. 2.
Forms shall be printed on white paper free of mechanical pulp, dressed for writing and weighing between 55 and 65 g/m2.
Their size shall be 210 x 297 mm; the type space between the lines shall be 4,24 mm (one sixth of an inch); the layout of the forms shall be followed precisely.
The reverse of copy No 1 and copy No 2 shall bear a box in which quantities may be entered, either by the customs authorities when import formalities are completed, or by the competent administrative authorities when an extract is issued.
If the space set aside for debits on a licence or extract thereof is insufficient, the competent authorities may attach one or more extension pages bearing boxes matching those on the reverse of copy No 1 and copy No 2 of the licence or extract.
CHAPTER III ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION Article 29 The Commission shall supply the Member States' authorities with the names and addresses of authorities in Ukraine competent to issue certificates of origin and export licences together with specimens of the stamps used by these authorities.
The provisions of paragraph 1 shall also apply to subsequent verifications of declarations of origin. 3.
Where the verification procedure referred to in Article 30 or where information available to the competent authorities of the Community indicates that the provisions of this Chapter are being contravened, the said authorities shall request Ukraine to carry out appropriate enquiries or arrange for such enquiries to be carried out concerning operations which are or appear to be in contravention of the provisions of this Chapter.
Article 32 The Commission shall coordinate the action undertaken by the competent authorities of the Member States under the provisions of this Chapter.
CHAPTER IV FINAL PROVISIONS Article 33 Regulation (EC) No 2266/2004 is hereby repealed.
Article 34 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 12 July 2005.
Brown [1] OJ L 49, 19.2.1998, p. 3. [2] See page 43 of this Official Journal. [3] OJ L 256, 7.9.1987, p. 1.
Flat-rolled products SA1.
Heavy plate | 348000 | 356700 | SA3.
Other flat-rolled products | 97000 | 99425 | SB.
Long products SB1.
Beams | 30000 | 30750 | SB2.
Wire rod | 125000 | 128125 | SB3.
Other long products | 230000 | 235750 | --------------------------------------------------
