Measures in force (1) In February 1994, the Council imposed definitive anti-dumping duties on imports of ethanolamines originating in the United States (Regulation (EC) No 229/94(2)).
Investigation (5) The Commission officially advised the Community producers supporting the request for review (the %quot%applicant Community producers%quot%), the exporting producers and their related importers, as well as the users known to be concerned, and gave them the opportunity to make their views known in writing and/or to request a hearing. (6) The Commission sent questionnaires to the parties known to be concerned and received replies from the four applicant Community producers, four US exporting producers and five of their related importers.
Verification visits were carried out at the premises of the following companies: (a) exporting producers Dow Chemical Company, Midland, Michigan (USA) Huntsman Chemical Company, Houston, Texas (USA) Union Carbide Corporation, Danbury, Connecticut (USA) (b) importers in the Community related to the exporting producers Huntsman Co.
Belgium CVBA, Brussels, Belgium Union Carbide Benelux, Antwerp, Belgium Union Carbide Europe SA, Geneva, Switzerland (c) applicant Community producers BASF AG, Ludwigshafen, Germany BP Chemicals Ltd, London, UK and Lavera, France (d) Community users Krems Chemie AG, Krems a.d.
Donau, Austria Synthesia Española SA, Barcelona, Spain (9) The investigation of continuation and recurrence of dumping covered the period from 1 January to 31 December 1998 (the %quot%investigation period%quot% or %quot%IP%quot%).
Either MEA or TEA can account for as much as 54 % of total ethanolamines production.
There is no difference in use between the Community-produced products and the imported products.
LIKELIHOOD OF CONTINUATION OF DUMPING 1.
For product types which were not sold in representative quantities or not in the ordinary course of trade on the domestic market, the normal value was calculated in accordance with Article 2(3) of the Basic Regulation. (18) With regard to the three US exporting producers, the domestic sales of the product under consideration were found, in accordance with Article 2(2) of the Basic Regulation, to represent more than 5 % of the sales volume of exports of the product from the USA to the Community.
It was therefore considered that the prices of the sales from the producing companies to the importing companies were unreliable.
Allowance was made for all costs incurred between importation and resale, including commissions and a profit margin of 5 %, which was considered reasonable on the basis of information from interested parties on imports of the product concerned. 4.
Comparison (20) The normal value was compared with the export price on a transaction-by-transaction basis at ex-works level and at the same level of trade.
For the cooperating exporting producers, this comparison showed the existence of a weighted average dumping margin, expressed as a percentage of cif value, of 33 % for Dow Chemical, 38,2 % for Union Carbide and 40,1 % for Huntsman. 5.
It was found that the lower dumping margins were largely due to increased export prices, which have applied for at least two years.
Conclusion (23) The expiry review initiated under Article 11(2) of the Basic Regulation indicated that, if measures were removed, there would be a likelihood of continuation of dumping, mainly on the grounds that substantial dumping was found to exist during the IP and that it was reasonable to conclude that such dumping would continue. (24) The Article 11(3) interim review, initiated on the basis of a request to revise measures in order to take into due account the current market conditions, concluded that the circumstances which led to the existing measures have changed significantly and that such changes are to be considered sufficiently lasting to warrant a downward revision of the dumping margins established during the original investigation.
One company, Union Carbide Ltd. (UK), did not participate in the investigation, nor did it support the complaint.
It should be noted that this company is related to the US producer Union Carbide Corp.
Total Community production therefore is accounted for by the following companies: BASF AG, Ludwigshafen, Germany; BP Chemicals Ltd, London, United Kingdom; Condea Chemie GmbH, Marl, Germany and Akzo Nobel Surface Chemistry AB, Stenungsund, Sweden. 2.
Of this amount, the great majority (around 95 %) is for use at one Community producer's plant, earmarked and used for that sole purpose.
This increase is attributed to DEA and TEA sales, which rose by 19 % and 21 % respectively.
Imports from the country concerned (a) Volume, price trend and market share (30) Imports from the USA increased by 14 % over the IIP, in line with the trend of overall Community consumption.
On the other hand, notwithstanding the stable demand for MEA on the Community market during the IIP, imports from the USA increased by 86 % over the same period.
Imports of TEA during this period grew by 11 %. (31) Since imports are made by related importers, prices for imports from the USA, whether established on the basis of information submitted by the exporting producers or Eurostat figures, were not deemed reliable for the purpose of establishing price trends.
These prices declined 10 % on average from 1995 to 1996 and were found to be substantially lower than the Community industry sales prices during both those years.
This trend was most pronounced for MEA, with a 14 % decrease of the resale price.
All costs actually incurred between importation and resale, such as freight from the Community border, handling, insurance, packaging, credit expenses, import duties, SGA costs and a 5 % profit margin were therefore deducted from the resale prices.
This resulted in import prices constructed independently of the relationship between the exporting producers and their related importers. (37) These constructed import prices for both exporting producers were not only significantly lower than the actual import prices declared by their related importers, but were also significantly lower than the applicable minimum prices for the various types of ethanolamine.
This was followed by increases in 1997 and 1998 respectively of 3 % and 9 % over 1996 prices.
In contrast to the minimum prices and the situation in 1995, DEA has become the most expensive product over the IIP. (45) Resale prices of US imports in the Community were substantially below the Community industry's sales prices in 1995 and 1996.
The downward pressure of 17 % on the Community industry's sales prices from 1995 to 1996 occurred at the same time MEA imports from the USA almost doubled and the resale price of US imports of MEA dropped by 14 % to ECU 605 per tonne, lowering the Community industry's sales price by 22 % to ECU 647 per tonne. (46) Apart from market conditions, sales prices are essentially driven by the cost of raw materials.
DEA is the only exception here: the average price fell by only 1 % while manufacturing costs decreased by 4 %. (47) It should also be underlined that the production of ethanolamines for the Community industry is important since it allows to use own-produced upstream ethylene oxide, providing economies of scale for this upstream production process, and to use the ethanolamines as an intermediate for other products (captive use).
Profits fell from 3,94 % in 1995 to loss-making levels of -8,64 % in 1996 and -8,49 % in 1997.
Overall, employment rose by 23 % and reached 166 persons in 1998. 4.
One Bulgarian producer, Burgas, has had a stable 3 % share of the Community market since 1996.
Based on Eurostat information, approximately 70 % of its exports are MEA - a market share of 6 % in this segment during the IP (compared to 49 % for the Community industry and 32 % for US exporting producers). (52) The market share of all other countries declined to 2 % across all types of ethanolamines and 6 % for MEA.
Sales volumes increased, especially for DEA and TEA.
Although better than in 1996 and 1997, profitability remained insufficient in 1998 because of continued pressure on sales prices.
Indeed, the initial fall in sales prices from 1995 to 1996 has still not been compensated and there is still price pressure from the imports concerned. (54) The continuation of the downward pressure on the Community industry's sales prices and the consequent negative profitability are directly linked to the pricing behaviour of the US exporting producers, in particular the absorption of the measures in force and the resulting price pressure.
Analysis of demand for ethanolamines (55) Because of the combined production process, the increased consumption of DEA and TEA in the Community leads to a significant supply of MEA.
Upward price pressure has been most pronounced for DEA, accentuated by the gradual withdrawal by the US exporting producers from this market (illustrated by a corresponding drop in US market share from 25 % to 13 % over the IIP). (56) At the same time, worldwide ethanolamine production capacity is further increasing in anticipation of continued growth in demand for DEA, with major producers both in the Community and in the USA investing at similar rates.
From 1997 to the IP, capacity installed rose 19,9 % to 524000 tons for the three US producers Union Carbide, Huntsman and Dow Chemical and, although production increased by 9 %, the capacity utilisation rate fell from 90,4 % to 83 %.
From 1997 to the IP corresponding US exports to the Community increased by 12,4 %, whereas domestic sales increased only 4,9 % and exports to other third countries decreased by 2,7 %.
During the IP, US domestic sales represented 67,1 % of total sales by the three US producers mentioned above, exports to the Community 13,6 % and exports to third countries 19,3 %. (59) The investigation also demonstrated that US domestic prices are at a higher level than sales prices in the Community market.
This trend in consumption has at the same time meant that MEA is produced in increasing quantities, with the risk that due to a lack of commensurate demand it will be sold at lower and lower prices.
It should also be noted that one US producer alleged that the Community industry undercut its prices for DEA in 1998.
Conclusion on likelihood of continuation of injurious dumping (65) The investigation showed that, despite the anti-dumping measures in force and increased production, production capacity, consumption and sales volumes, the Community industry is still in a fragile state, in particular as far as its sales prices and profitability are concerned.
Interest of the Community industry (69) The existing measures have not led to a price level on the Community market that would allow the Community producers to regain profitability.
The investigation showed that the measures have never become fully effective - while actual import prices have been above the minimum prices set, the latter have not been reflected in related importers' resale prices.
The outlook for the situation in the Community market is not favourable given the distinct possibility of an inflow of MEA, produced in recently installed production sites, and continuing pressure on prices, which in 1999 in some instances even went below set minimum prices. (70) In view of the above, continuing measures to limit the downward pressure on ethanolamine prices would be in the interest of the Community industry. 3.
The investigation further showed that DEA was not sufficiently available in the USA and that exports to the Community decreased as a result.
As the measures presently in force had not led to the anticipated positive effect for the Community industry, it was decided that: - the anti-dumping measures should be renewed, - their form should be revised, - their level should be adapted to the level of dumping and injury found. (76) It should be noted here that actual import prices are used in anti-dumping proceedings to determine both dumping and injury margins.
Therefore, it was concluded that the dumping and injury margins determined pursuant to Article 11(3) of the Basic Regulation needed to be based on the constructed import price. (77) In order to calculate the injury threshold, a non-injurious sales price for the Community industry was determined, allowing for an 8 % profit margin, and compared with the US related importers' resale prices.
On the basis of this methodology the underselling margins, which were lower than the corresponding dumping margins, were 10,4 % for Union Carbide Corporation, 13,9 % for Dow Chemical Company and 20,5 % for Huntsman Chemical Company.
In the previous investigation, by comparison, the minimum-price-based variable duties were based on overall underselling margins of 45,2 % for Union Carbide, 53,5 % for Dow Chemical and 39,5 % for Huntsman. (78) Specific fixed duties based on the difference between the non-injurious price and the US related importers' resale prices, amount to EUR 59,25 per tonne for Union Carbide Corporation, EUR 69,40 per tonne for Dow Chemical Company and EUR 111,25 per tonne for Huntsman Chemical Company.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of ethanolamines currently classifiable within CN codes ex 2922 11 00 (monoethanolamine) (TARIC code 2922 11 00 10), ex 2922 12 00 (diethanolamine) (TARIC code 2922 12 00 10) and 2922 13 10 (triethanolamine), originating in the United States of America. 2.
Done at Brussels, 20 July 2000.
Parly (1) OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 905/98 (OJ L 128, 30.4.98, p.18). (2) OJ L 28, 2.2.1994, p. 40. (3) OJ C 231, 23.7.1998, p. 3. (4) OJ C 27, 2.2.1999, p. 3. (5) Based on the complaint and information from the US exporting producer.
The sales correspond to 10 % of the total sales of all ethanolamines produced within the Community market.
