2006/226/EC: Commission Decision of 7 December 2005 Investments of Shetland Leasing and Property Developments Ltd in the Shetland Islands (United Kingdom) (notified under document number C(2005) 4649) (Text with EEA relevance) Commission Decision of 7 December 2005 Investments of Shetland Leasing and Property Developments Ltd in the Shetland Islands (United Kingdom) (notified under document number C(2005) 4649) (Only the English text is authentic) (Text with EEA relevance) (2006/226/EC) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community and in particular the first paragraph of Article 88 (2) thereof, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 93 of the EC Treaty [1], and in particular Article 14 thereof, Having invited interested third parties to present their observations, in accordance with the first subparagraph of Article 88 (2), Whereas: I PROCEDURE (1) In January 2004 the Commission was informed by a citizen of the United Kingdom of investments made with the involvement of authorities of the Shetland Islands of the United Kingdom which possibly constituted State aid.
By letters of 17 February 2004 and of 1 September 2004 the Commission requested the United Kingdom to provide information about these investments, to which the United Kingdom replied by letters of 30 April 2004 and 13 December 2004. (2) The Commission informed the United Kingdom by letter of 20 April 2005 of the decision to initiate the formal investigation procedure under Article 88 (2) of the EC Treaty.
The United Kingdom gave its comments on the case by letter of 19 May 2005. (3) The Commission decision to initiate the formal investigation procedure was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 10 June 2005 [2].
II DESCRIPTION (4) The Shetland Islands Council (SIC), a public authority in Shetland, set up two trusts, the Shetland Development Trust (Development Trust) and the Shetland Islands Council Charitable Trust (Charitable Trust). (5) The Development Trust was established to serve as the main means for financing economic development projects in Shetland; it makes funding available through loans.
The trustees are the councillors of SIC plus two independent trustees. (6) The Charitable Trust is the trust fund of the SIC that grants loans for charitable purposes.
The trustees of the Charitable Trust are the councillors of SIC, plus two independent trustees. (7) The funding of both the Charitable Trust and the Development Trust is derived from a reserve fund set up by the SIC.
This reserve fund itself is funded from an agreement concluded on 12 July 1974 between the SIC and oil companies using the harbour facilities of Sullum Voe.
This agreement states that fees are paid by these companies %quot%in respect of the import of crude oil and as compensation for disturbance caused thereby%quot%. (8) For commercial and development activities the SIC has set up Shetland Leasing and Property Ltd (SLAP), which is a trading company with limited liability, operating for profit and wholly owned by Charitable Trust.
The tasks of SLAP are to take equity holdings in local businesses, to make loans to local industry at commercial rates and to construct industrial buildings for lease at commercial rents. (9) As a commercial limited company wholly owned by the Charitable Trust, SLAP obtains the funding for its activities from the Charitable Trust and from its own profits.
The other shareholders of ordinary shares were the Shetland Seafish Producers Organisation Ltd (43750 shares), Mr.
Williamson (18750 shares), Mr.
Gillani to the Directors of SLAP on %quot%A proposed restructure and merger of L.A.
Williamson %amp% Sons (Shetland) Limited %amp% Ronas Fisheries Limited%quot%. (19) According to the figures and the prognoses in the report, the merger of L.A.
Williamson %amp% Sons (Shetland) Limited %amp% Ronas Fisheries Limited, through the establishment of Shetland Seafish Ltd would begin to yield profits within three years.
This report gives an analysis of the situation of the companies involved, the developments in the market and possible advantages for Shetland Seafish Ltd to acquire Whalsay Ltd.
According to the Guidelines, operating aid can only be declared compatible with the common market if such aid is linked to a restructuring plan compatible with the common market.
III COMMENTS FROM THE UNITED KINGDOM (23) In its reply of 19 May 2005, the United Kingdom contends that SLAP should be considered as a private body.
The Charitable Trust was created by the SIC to receive and hold, on behalf of the Shetland community, disturbance receipts which the oil industry had agreed to pay. (28) As was already pointed out by the Commission in its decision of 3 June 2003 on loans for the purchase of fishing quotas in the Shetland Islands, these monies, which are directly related to the disturbance caused to the Shetland Islands population and not to the actual provision of the harbour facilities, cannot be regarded as private funds but must be regarded as %quot%State resources%quot% for the purposes of Article 87 of the EC Treaty. (29) The investments of SLAP currently under investigation are funded from the same type of funding.
Imputability (30) In its decision mentioned above, the Commission also pointed out that the trustees of the Charitable Trust are the councillors of the SIC.
Shetland Seafish Merger Report (35) The prognoses of profit contained in the Seafish Merger Report of 27 September 1999 are based on a number of assumptions, for which insufficient arguments are provided.
The data in those sheets show that Shetland Seafish Ltd would become profitable and that the turnover was expected to increase, relative to 2000, by more than 16 % in 2001 and by 26 % in 2002.
Therefore, in particular having regard to the doubt expressed in the report and the lack of additional data proving otherwise, the Commission can only conclude that this investment would likewise not have been decided upon by a normal private investor. (42) With regard to the foregoing, the Commission considers that the investments in Shetland Seafish Ltd made in 1999 and 2000 by SLAP are not normal commercial investments which could have been decided upon by any normal private investor. (43) From the information available, the Commission concludes that the companies involved, L.A.
Williamson Ltd and Ronas Ltd, merged into Shetland Seafish Ltd and Whalsay Ltd, would not have been able to continue operating without the investments concerned.
Conclusion (45) In the light of the foregoing the investments of SLAP in Shetland Seafish Ltd are regarded as State aid within the meaning of Article 87 of the EC Treaty.
As regards State aid to the fisheries sector, State aid measures are deemed to be compatible with the common market if they comply with the conditions of the 2004 Guidelines for the examination of State aid to fisheries and aquaculture [6].
In addition, if the aid concerns investments that are, according to Regulation (EC) No 3699/93, not eligible for Community assistance, the Commission has to assess its compatibility with the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy on a case-by-case basis. (49) According to Article 11(1) of Regulation (EC) No 2468/98, which replaced Regulation (EC) No 3699/93 on 3 November 1998 [7], Member States may under the conditions of Annex II to that regulation take measures to encourage capital investment in the field of processing and marketing of fishery and aquaculture products.
The Commission considers that, in the present case, that principle precludes recovery for the following reasons. (56) On 3 June 2003 the Commission, by Decision 2003/612/EC, took a negative decision regarding loans granted for the purchase of fishing quotas in the Shetland Islands [8].
Just as in that case, the actions of SLAP were considered to be the actions of a private company, concerning private funding from the Shetland Islands Charitable Trust.
In addition, given the circumstances and the specific features of the Shetland community, Shetland Seafish Ltd must have been aware of the loan scheme for the purchasing of fishing quotas and in particular the explanatory leaflet referred to in paragraph 68 of Decision 2003/612/EC, stating that the grants and loans from the Charitable Trust would be regarded as private contributions. (61) It is established case law that there can be no legitimate expectations in favour of the beneficiary of an aid deriving from the behaviour of a national authority when the procedure laid down in Article 88 of the Treaty had not been followed (judgment of the Court in Alcan Deutschland [11]).
Article 3 This Decision is addressed to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Done at Brussels, 7 December 2005.
For the Commission Mariann Fischer Boel Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 1.
