Pending the conclusion of agreements between the Community and the non-member countries concerned, this Regulation shall not affect: - provisions relating to the carriage referred to in paragraph 2 included in bilateral agreements concluded by Member States with those non-member countries.
However, Member States shall endeavour to adapt those agreements to ensure compliance with the principle of non-discrimination between Community hauliers, - provisions relating to the carriage referred to in paragraph 2 included in bilateral agreements concluded between Member States which either under bilateral authorizations or under liberalization arrangements, allow loading and unloading in a Member State by hauliers not established in that State.
Community authorization shall be issued by a Member State, in accordance with Article 5 and 7, to any haulier carrying goods by road for hire or reward who: - is established in a Member State, hereinafter referred to as the 'Member State of establishment' in accordance with the legislation of that Member State, - is entitled in that Member State, in accordance with the legislation of the Community and of that State concerning admission to the occupation of road haulage operator to carry out the international carriage of goods by road.
Article 4 The Community authorization referred to in Article 3 shall replace the document issued by the competent authorities of the Member State of establishment, where such a document exists, certifying that the haulier has been granted access to the market in the international carriage of goods by road.
Article 9 The Member States shall guarantee that the applicant or the holder of a Community authorization is able to appeal against any decision by the competent authorities of the Member State of establishment to refuse or withdraw an authorization.
Article 10 By 31 January each year Member States shall inform the Commission of the number of hauliers possessing Community authorizations on 31 December of the previous year and of the number of certified true copies corresponding to the vehicles in circulation at that date.
Article 14 The Member States shall communicate to the Commission the measures they take to implement this Regulation.
Article 15 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply from 1 January 1993.
Done at Brussels, 26 March 1992.
ANNEX I 'ANNEX EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY (a) (Blue card - DIN A4) (First page of the authorization) (Text in (one of) the official language(s) of the Member State issuing the authorization) State issuing the authorization Distinguishing sign (1) Name of the competent authority or body AUTHORIZATION No . . . . . .
for the international carriage of goods by road for hire or reward This authorization entitles (2) to engage in the international carriage of goods by road for hire or reward by any route, for journeys or parts of journeys effected for hire or reward within the territory of the Community, as laid down in Council Regulation (EEC) No 881/92 of 26 March 1992 and subject to the general provisions of this authorization.
Particular remarks: This authorization shall be valid from to Issued in , on (3) (1) See page 1 of this Official Journal. (2) 'Vehicle' means a motor vehicle registered in a Member State or a coupled combination of vehicles, the motor vehicle of which at least is registered in a Member State, used exclusively for the carriage of goods.' (b) (SECOND PAGE OF THE AUTHORIZATION) (Text in (one of) the official language(s) of the Member State issuing the authorization) GENERAL PROVISIONS This authorization is issued under Council Regulation (EEC) No 881/92 of 26 March 1992, on access to the market in the carriage of goods by road within the Community to or from the territory of a Member State or passing across the territory of one or more Member States (1).
A certified copy of the authorization must be kept in the vehicle (2).
