Consequently, the intensities of aid exempted by this Regulation should be increased for those areas. (15) The characteristics of training in the maritime transport sector justify a specific approach for that sector. (16) It is appropriate that large amounts of aid remain subject to an individual assessment by the Commission before they are put into effect.
Accordingly, aid amounts exceeding a fixed amount, which should be set at EUR 1000000, are excluded from the exemption provided for in this Regulation and remain subject to the requirements of Article 88(3) of the Treaty. (17) This Regulation should not exempt aid cumulated with other State aid, including aid granted by national, regional and local authorities, or with Community assistance, in relation to the same eligible costs when such cumulation exceeds the thresholds fixed in this Regulation. (18) In order to ensure transparency and effective monitoring in accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 994/98, it is appropriate to establish a standard format in which Member States should provide the Commission with summary information whenever, in pursuance of this Regulation, an aid scheme is implemented or an individual aid outside such schemes is granted, with a view to publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 2 Definitions For the purpose of this Regulation: (a) %quot%aid%quot% shall mean any measure fulfilling all the criteria laid down in Article 87(1) of the Treaty; (b) %quot%small and medium-sized enterprises%quot% shall mean enterprises as defined in Annex I; (c) %quot%large enterprises%quot% shall mean enterprises not coming under the definition of SME in Annex I; (d) %quot%specific training%quot% shall mean training involving tuition directly and principally applicable to the employee's present or future position in the assisted firm and providing qualifications which are not or only to a limited extent transferable to other firms or fields of work; (e) %quot%general training%quot% shall mean training involving tuition which is not applicable only or principally to the employee's present or future position in the assisted firm, but which provides qualifications that are largely transferable to other firms or fields of work and thereby substantially improve the employability of the employee.
Article 4 Exempted training aid 1.
Where the aid is granted for specific training, its intensity shall not exceed 25 % for large enterprises and 35 % for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Where the aid is granted for general training, its intensity shall not exceed 50 % for large enterprises and 70 % for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The maximum intensities referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be increased by 10 percentage points if the training is given to disadvantaged workers. 5.
Where the aid is granted in the maritime transport sector, it may reach an intensity of 100 %, whether the training project concerns specific or general training, provided that the following conditions are met: (a) the trainee shall not be an active member of the crew but shall be supernumerary on board, and (b) the training shall be carried out on board ships entered on Community registers. 7.
Article 6 Cumulation 1.
The aid ceilings fixed in Articles 4 and 5 shall apply regardless of whether the support for the project is financed entirely from State resources or is partly financed by the Community. 2.
Article 7 Transparency and monitoring 1.
On implementation of an aid scheme, or grant of individual aid outside any scheme, exempted by this Regulation, Member States shall, within 20 working days, forward to the Commission, with a view to its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities, a summary of the information regarding such aid scheme or individual aid according to the model laid down in Annex II. 2.
Article 8 Entry into force and period of validity 1.
Done at Brussels, 12 January 2001.
For the Commission Mario Monti Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 142, 14.5.1998, p. 1. (2) OJ C 89, 28.3.2000, p. 8. (3) OJ C 343, 11.11.1998, p. 10. (4) OJ L 160, 26.6.1999, p. 80. (5) OJ L 107, 30.4.1996, p. 4.
Small and medium-sized enterprises, hereinafter referred to as 'SMEs', are defined as enterprises which: - have fewer than 250 employees, and - have either, - an annual turnover not exceeding EUR 40 million, or - an annual balance-sheet total not exceeding EUR 27 million, - conform to the criterion of independence as defined in paragraph 3. 2.
Where it is necessary to distinguish between small and medium-sized enterprises, the 'small enterprise' is defined as an enterprise which: - has fewer than 50 employees and - has either, - an annual turnover not exceeding EUR 7 million, or - an annual balance-sheet total not exceeding EUR 5 million, - conforms to the criterion of independence as defined in paragraph 3. 3.
Independent enterprises are those which are not owned as to 25 % or more of the capital or the voting rights by one enterprise, or jointly by several enterprises, falling outside the definitions of an SME or a small enterprise, whichever may apply.
This threshold may be exceeded in the following two cases: - if the enterprise is held by public investment corporations, venture capital companies or institutional investors, provided no control is exercised either individually or jointly, - if the capital is spread in such a way that it is not possible to determine by whom it is held and if the enterprise declares that it can legitimately presume that it is not owned as to 25 % or more by one enterprise, or jointly by several enterprises, falling outside the definitions of an SME or a small enterprise, whichever may apply. 4.
Where it is necessary to distinguish microenterprises from other SMEs, these are defined as enterprises having fewer than 10 employees. 6.
regional breakdown of amounts under point 3.1 either by regions defined at NUTS(1) level 2 or below or by Article 87(3)(a) regions, Article 87(3)(c) regions and non-assisted regions; 3.7.
