This link makes it possible, in particular, to check the quality of the information collected. (6) The quality of the statistical information produced, its evaluation by means of common indicators and transparency in this field are important objectives, which call for regulation at Community level. (7) Since the objective of the planned action, namely the creation of a common legal framework for the systematic production of Community statistics relating to the trading of goods between Member States, cannot be sufficiently achieved at national level and can be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
Article 3 Scope 1.
Dispatches shall cover the following goods leaving the Member State of dispatch for a destination in another Member State: (a) Community goods, except goods which are in simple circulation between Member States; (b) goods placed in the Member State of dispatch under the inward processing customs procedure or the processing under customs control procedure. 3.
Article 4 Statistical territory 1.
The statistical territory of the Member States shall correspond to their customs territory as defined in Article 3 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92(6) of 12 October 1992 establishing the Community Customs Code. 2.
Article 5 Data sources 1.
Article 6 Reference period 1.
The reference period for the information to be provided in accordance with Article 5 shall be the calendar month of dispatch or arrival of the goods. 2.
Article 7 Parties responsible for providing information 1.
Article 8 Registers 1.
In order to identify the parties responsible for providing information referred to in Article 7 and to check the information which is provided, the tax administration responsible in each Member State shall furnish the national authority: (a) at least once a month, with the lists of natural or legal persons who have declared that, during the period in question, they have supplied goods to other Member States or acquired goods from other Member States.
Article 9 Intrastat information to be collected 1.
Article 10 Simplification within the Intrastat system 1.
Every Member State applying these thresholds shall ensure that the trade of these parties shall amount to a maximum of 6 % of its total trade. 5.
The information on the thresholds applied by the Member States shall be sent to the Commission (Eurostat) no later than 31 October of the year preceding the year to which they apply.
Article 11 Statistical confidentiality Where the parties who have provided information so request, the national authorities shall decide whether statistical results which make it possible indirectly to identify the said provider(s) are to be disseminated or are to be amended in such a way that their dissemination does not prejudice statistical confidentiality.
Article 12 Transmission of data to the Commission 1.
Member States shall transmit to the Commission (Eurostat) the data which are confidential. 2.
Member States shall provide the Commission (Eurostat) with monthly results which cover their total trade in goods by using estimates, where necessary. 3.
Member States shall transmit the data to the Commission (Eurostat) in electronic form, in accordance with an interchange standard.
Article 13 Quality 1.
Member States shall present to the Commission (Eurostat) a yearly report on the quality of the data transmitted. 3.
Article 14 Committee procedure 1.
Article 15 Repeal 1.
Article 16 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
It shall apply from 1 January 2005.
Done at Strasbourg, 31 March 2004.
Cox For the Council The President D.
It is said to be a fob value (free on board) for dispatches, and a cif value (cost, insurance, freight) for arrivals. 4.
