Article 3 No Member State may, on grounds relating to the construction or inspection of a cylinder within the meaning of Directive 76/767/EEC and this Directive, refuse, prohibit or restrict the marketing and placing in service of an EEC-type cylinder.
Article 4 All EEC-type cylinders shall be subject to EEC pattern approval.
All EEC-type cylinders shall be subject to EEC verification with the exception of cylinders with a hydraulic test pressure of 120 bars or less and with a capacity of not more than one litre.
Article 6 The procedure laid down in Article 17 of Directive 76/767/EEC may apply to section 2.2 of Annex I to this Directive.
Article 8 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
SYMBOLS The symbols used in this Annex have the following meanings: Ph = hydraulic test pressure, in bars; Pr = cylinder bursting pressure measured during the bursting test, in bars; Prt = calculated minimum theoretical bursting pressure, in bars; Re = value of the yield stress taken into account in accordance with 1.1 for the purpose of determining the value of R used in calculating the parts subjected to pressure, in N/mm2; ReL = minimum value of the lower yield point, guaranteed by the cylinder manufacturer, in N/mm2; ReH = minimum value of the upper yield point, guaranteed by the cylinder manufacturer, in N/mm2; Rp 0,2 = conventional yield point 0,2 %, guaranteed by the manufacturer, in N/mm2; The conventional yield point is the value of the stress which gives rise to a non-proportional elongation equal to 0,2 % of the original gauge length.
Rm = minimum value of the tensile strength guaranteed by the cylinder manufacturer, in N/mm2; a = calculated minimum thickness of the cylindrical shell wall, in mm; D = nominal outside diameter of the cylinder, in mm; d = mandrel diameter for bend tests, in mm; Rmt = actual tensile strength, in N/mm2. 1.4.
NORMALIZATION The term %quot%normalization%quot% is used in this Directive as defined in paragraph 68 of EURONORM 52-83.
The cylinder is then cooled at a rate not exceeding 80 % of that obtained by cooling in water at 20 °C and subsequently tempered at a uniform temperature below the lowest transformation point (Ac1) of the steel.
The austenitization temperature before quenching or normalization must be fixed with a margin of 35 °C either way.
The sulphur and phosphorus contents obtained for the cast sample should each be not more that 0,035 % and must not in total exceed 0,06 %.
The sulphur and phosphorus contents obtained for the product must each be not more than 0,04 % and must not in total exceed 0,07 %. 2.1.3.
The maximum deviation of the cylindrical part of the shell from a straight line shall not exceed 3 mm per metre length. 2.3.3.
Except where otherwise specified by this Directive, the mechanical tests shall be carried out in accordance with the following EURONORMS: EURONORM 2-80 : tensile test for steel; EURONORM 3-79 : Brinell hardness test; EURONORM 6-55 : bend test for steel; EURONORM 11-80 : tensile test for steel sheet and strip less than 3 mm thick; EURONORM 12-55 : bend test for steel sheet and strip less than 3 mm thick; EURONORM 45-63 : impact test on a notched test-piece resting on two supports. 3.1.1.2.
Types of test and test criteria Every test cylinder must undergo one tensile test in a longitudinal direction, four bend tests in a circumferential direction and, if the wall thickness makes it possible to take test-pieces at least 5 mm wide, three impact tests.
The impact test-pieces shall be taken in a transverse direction ; however, if the thickness and/or diameter of the cylinder prevents a test specimen of at least 5 mm wide from being taken in a transverse direction, the impact test-pieces shall be taken in a longitudinal direction. 3.1.2.1.
The test-piece shall be in accordance with the provisions: - of chapter 4 of EURONORM 2-80, where it is 3 mm thick or more, - of chapter 4 of EURONORM 11-80, where it is less than 3 mm thick.
In this case, the gauge width and length of the test-piece shall be 12,5 and 50 mm respectively, irrespective of the thickness of the test-piece. 3.1.2.1.2.
The elongation, expressed as a percentage, must not be less than: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0026218%quot%%gt% Moreover, the elongation must in no case be less than: - 14 %, where the test is carried out in accordance with EURONORM 2-80, - 11 %, where the test is carried out in accordance with EURONORM 11-80. 3.1.2.1.4.
The bend test must be carried out using a mandrel of diameter d and two cylinders separated by a distance of d + 3a.
All impact strength measurements shall be carried out at - 20 °C.
The test must be carried out at room temperature. 3.2.1.2.
The maximum cyclic pressure shall be equal to either the pressure Ph or two-thirds thereof.
The lower cyclic pressure must not exceed 10 % of the upper cyclic pressure.
CHECK ON THE CONSISTENCY OF A CYLINDER This test involves checking that any two points on the metal of the external surface of the cylinder do not differ in hardness by more than 25 HB.
carry out the following tests on the cylinders selected: - the tests specified in 3.1, on two cylinders ; however, where the length of the cylinder is 1 500 mm or more, the tensile test in a longitudinal direction and the bend tests shall be carried out on test-pieces taken from the upper and lower regions of the shell, - the test specified in 3.2, on two cylinders, - the test specified in 3.3, on two cylinders, - the test specified in 3.5, on one cylinder, - the test specified in 3.7, on all the sample cylinders. 4.3.
EEC VERIFICATION 5.1.
provide the inspection body with a list of the cylinders, stating the numbers and inscriptions as required in section 6. 5.2.
DURING EEC VERIFICATION 5.2.1.
EXEMPTION FROM EEC VERIFICATION In the case of the cylinders exempted from EEC verification pursuant to Article 4 of this Directive, all the test and inspection operations prescribed in 5.2 shall be carried out by the manufacturer on his own responsibility.
The manufacturer shall provide the inspection body with all the documents and the test and inspection reports. 6.
In the case of cylinders with a capacity of not more than 15 litres the marks and inscriptions may be stamped on either the shoulder or another sufficiently thick part of the cylinder.
