The management of the expenditure financed by the general budget of the European Union specified in paragraph 1 shall be subject to the procedures and rules of the Community applying to budget matters with the exception that any pre-financing shall not remain the property of the Community. 3.
Article 3 The Presidency, assisted by the Secretary General of the Council/High Representative for the CFSP, shall be responsible for the implementation of this Joint Action, in full association with the Commission, and shall report to the Council on its implementation.
Article 5 This Joint Action shall enter into force on the day of its adoption.
Article 6 This Joint Action shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 18 July 2005.
Straw [1] OJ L 302, 20.11.2003, p. 34. [2] OJ L 182, 19.5.2004, p. 46. [3] OJ L 346, 31.12.2003, p. 57. [4] Model Protocol Additional to the Agreement(s) between State(s) and the International Atomic Energy Agency for the Application of Safeguards, which was approved by the IAEA Board of Governors in 1997 (INFCIRC/540 (Corr.)). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX EU support for the IAEA activities in the areas of nuclear security and verification and in the framework of the implementation of the EU Strategy against Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction 1.
Description The Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) approved, in March 2002, a plan of activities to protect against nuclear terrorism (GOV/2002/10).
A maximum of six countries will be selected for Project 1. 2.
The beneficiaries of the project will be the selected target countries. 2.
Objectives Overall objective: To strengthen nuclear security in selected countries. 2.1.
Implementation of specific actions defined as priorities as a result of the evaluation phase Project 1 Strengthening Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials and other Radioactive Materials in Use, Storage and Transport and in Nuclear Facilities Project purpose: to strengthen physical protection of nuclear and other radioactive materials in the selected countries.
Project results: - physical protection of selected facilities and priority locations upgraded, - national regulatory infrastructure for physical protection improved through expert assistance, - staff training provided in the selected countries.
Project 2 Strengthening of Security of Radioactive Materials in Non-Nuclear Applications Project purpose: to strengthen the security of radioactive materials in non-nuclear applications in the selected countries.
Project 3 Strengthening of States’ Capabilities for Detection and Response to Illicit Trafficking Project purpose: to strengthen the States’ capacities for detection of and response to illicit trafficking in the selected countries.
Project 4 Legislative Assistance for the Implementation of States’ Obligations under IAEA Safeguards Agreements and Additional Protocols Project purpose: to strengthen national legislative frameworks for the implementation of safeguards agreements and additional protocols concluded between states and the IAEA.
Project results: - Development and adoption in national languages of national legislation necessary to enable states to comply with their obligations under IAEA safeguards agreements and additional protocols. 3.
The total estimated duration for the implementation of this Joint Action is 15 months. 4.
Third Party Participants The projects will be financed 100 % by this Joint Action.
Estimated required means The EU contribution will cover the evaluation and the implementation of the four projects as described in point 2.2.
The estimated costs are as follows: Nuclear security evaluation, including missions EUR 140000 Project 1 EUR 1100000 Project 2 EUR 1250000 Project 3 EUR 1114000 Project 4 EUR 200000 In addition, a contingency reserve of about 3 % of eligible costs (for a total amount of EUR 110000) is included for unforeseen costs. 8.
