Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002 of 23 December 2002 on the framework Financial Regulation for the bodies referred to in Article 185 of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002 of 23 December 2002 on the framework Financial Regulation for the bodies referred to in Article 185 of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities %gt%TABLE%gt% THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities, and in particular Article 185(1) thereof(1), Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament(2), Having regard to the opinion of the Council(3), Having regard to the opinion of the Court of Auditors(4), Whereas: (1) The Community bodies set up to assume the burden of carrying out certain Community activities have legal personality and hence their own budget governed by specific financial rules. (2) In order to guarantee a certain degree of consistency in these rules compared with Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (hereinafter %quot%the general Financial Regulation%quot%) and pursuant to Article 185(1) of that Regulation, this framework Financial Regulation must lay down the rules governing the establishment, implementation and scrutiny of the budget of the said Community bodies which actually receive grants charged to the Community budget (hereinafter %quot%Community bodies%quot%).
TITLE II BUDGETARY PRINCIPLES Article 3 The establishment and implementation of the budget of the Community body (hereinafter referred to as %quot%the budget%quot%) shall comply with the principles of unity and budget accuracy, annuality, equilibrium, unit of account, universality, specification, sound financial management and transparency as provided for in this Regulation.
Article 5 The budget shall comprise: (a) own revenue consisting of all fees and charges which the Community body is authorised to collect by virtue of the tasks entrusted to it, and any other revenue; (b) revenue made up of any financial contributions of the host Member States; (c) a subsidy granted by the European Communities; (d) revenue assigned to specific items of expenditure in accordance with Article 19(1); (e) the expenditure of the Community body, including administrative expenditure.
No revenue shall be collected and no expenditure effected unless booked to a heading in the budget. 2.
No expenditure may be committed or authorised in excess of the appropriations authorised by the budget.
CHAPTER 2 Principle of annuality Article 7 The appropriations entered in the budget shall be authorised for one financial year which shall run from 1 January to 31 December.
Commitment appropriations shall cover the total cost of the legal commitments entered into during the current financial year. 3.
Payment appropriations shall cover payments made to honour the legal commitments entered into in the current financial year and/or earlier financial years. 4.
The revenue of the Community body referred to in Article 5 shall be entered in the accounts for the financial year on the basis of the amounts collected during the financial year. 2.
The appropriations authorised in the budget for a given year may be used solely to cover expenditure committed and paid in that financial year, and to cover amounts due against commitments from preceding financial years. 4.
Commitments shall be entered in the accounts on the basis of the legal commitments entered into up to 31 December. 5.
Payments shall be entered in the accounts for a financial year on the basis of the payments effected by the accounting officer by 31 December of that year at the latest.
However, they may, by decision of the management board taken not later than 15 February, be carried over to the next financial year only, in accordance with the paragraphs 2 to 8. 2.
Appropriations for commitment of differentiated appropriations and non-differentiated appropriations not yet committed at the close of the financial year may be carried over in respect of amounts corresponding to commitment appropriations for which most of the preparatory stages of the commitment procedure, to be defined in the rules implementing the financial regulation of each Community body, have been completed by 31 December; these amounts may then be committed up to 31 March of the following year. 4.
Appropriations for payment of differentiated appropriations may be carried over in respect of amounts needed to cover existing commitments or commitments linked to commitment appropriations carried over, when the appropriations provided for the relevant headings in the budget for the following financial year do not cover requirements.
Non-differentiated appropriations corresponding to obligations duly contracted at the close of the financial year shall be carried over automatically to the following financial year only. 6.
Appropriations carried over which have not been committed by 31 March of year N+1 shall be automatically cancelled.
Appropriations carried over in this way shall be identified in the accounts. 7.
The appropriations available at 31 December arising from the assigned revenue referred to in Article 19 shall be carried over automatically.
The appropriations available corresponding to assigned revenue carried over must be used first.
Article 11 Where amounts are decommitted, as a result of total or partial non-implementation of the actions for which they were earmarked, in any financial year after that in which the appropriations were committed, the appropriations concerned shall be cancelled.
As from 15 November of each year, routine administrative expenditure may be committed in advance against the appropriations provided for the following financial year.
They may not apply to new expenditure of a kind not yet approved in principle in the last budget duly adopted. 2.
Commitments may be made per chapter up to a maximum of one quarter of the total appropriations authorised in the chapter in question for the previous financial year, plus one twelfth for each month which has elapsed.
Payments may be made monthly per chapter up to a maximum of one twelfth of the appropriations authorised in the chapter in question for the previous financial year.
CHAPTER 3 Principle of equilibrium Article 15 1.
Commitment appropriations may not exceed the amount of the Community subsidy, plus own revenue and any other revenue referred to in Article 5. 3.
If the balance of the outturn account within the meaning of Article 81 is positive, it shall be repaid to the Commission up to the amount of the Community subsidy paid during the year.
If the balance of the outturn account provided for in Article 81 is negative, it shall be entered in the budget for the following financial year. 3.
The revenue or payment appropriations shall be entered in the budget during the budgetary procedure using the letter of amendment procedure or, while budget implementation is under way, by means of an amending budget.
CHAPTER 4 Principle of unit of account Article 17 The budget shall be drawn up and implemented in euro and the accounts shall be presented in euro.
CHAPTER 5 Principle of universality Article 18 Total revenue shall cover total payment appropriations, subject to Article 19.
CHAPTER 6 Principle of specification Article 22 The appropriations in their entirety shall be earmarked for specific purposes by title and chapter; the chapters shall be further subdivided into articles and items.
Beyond this limit, he/she may propose to the management board transfers of appropriations from one title to another or from one chapter to another within a title.
CHAPTER 7 Principle of sound financial management Article 25 1.
Budget appropriations shall be used in accordance with the principle of sound financial management, that is to say, in accordance with the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness. 2.
CHAPTER 8 Principle of transparency Article 26 1.
TITLE III ESTABLISHMENT AND STRUCTURE OF THE BUDGET CHAPTER 1 Establishment of the budget Article 27 1.
In accordance with its constituent instrument, the Community body shall send the Commission an estimate of its revenue and expenditure and the general guidelines underlying that estimate, together with its work programme, by 31 March each year at the latest. 3.
The budgetary authority shall adopt the establishment plan of the Community body and any subsequent amendment thereto in accordance with Article 32(1). 6.
Article 28 Any amendment to the budget, including the establishment plan, shall be the subject of an amending budget adopted by the same procedure as the initial budget, in accordance with the provisions of the constituent instrument and Article 27.
CHAPTER 2 Structure and presentation of the budget Article 29 The budget shall comprise a statement of revenue and a statement of expenditure.
Article 30 In so far as it is justified by the nature of the Agency's activities, the statement of expenditure must be set out on the basis of a nomenclature with a classification by purpose.
in the statement of expenditure: (a) the commitment and payment appropriations for the financial year in question; (b) the commitment and payment appropriations for the preceding financial year, and the expenditure committed and the expenditure paid in year n - 2; (c) a summary statement of the schedule of payments due in subsequent financial years to meet budget commitments entered into in earlier financial years; (d) appropriate remarks on each subdivision.
The establishment plan referred to in Article 27 shall show next to the number of posts authorised for the financial year, the number authorised for the preceding year and the number of posts actually filled.
The director may delegate his/her powers of budget implementation to staff of the Community body covered by the regulations and rules applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%Staff Regulations%quot%), in accordance with the conditions laid down by the financial rules, within the meaning of Article 185 of the general Financial Regulation, adopted by the management board.
All financial actors within the meaning of Chapter 2 of this title shall be prohibited from taking any measures of budget implementation which may bring their own interests into conflict with those of the Community body.
Section 2 Authorising officer Article 38 1.
Initiation of an operation as referred to in Article 38(5) shall be understood to mean all the operations which are preparatory to the adoption of the acts implementing the budget by the authorising officers responsible referred to in Articles 33 and 34. 2.
The purpose of this verification shall be to ascertain that: (a) the expenditure is in order and conforms to the relevant provisions; (b) the principle of sound financial management referred to in Article 25 has been applied. 4.
These verifications may be organised on a sample basis using risk analysis. 5.
By no later than 15 June each year, the management board shall send the budgetary authority and the Court of Auditors an analysis and an assessment of the authorising officer's annual report on the previous financial year.
Article 41 Any member of staff involved in the financial management and control of transactions who considers that a decision he/she is required by his/her superior to apply or to agree to is irregular or contrary to the principles of sound financial management or the professional rules he/she is required to observe shall inform the Director in writing and, if the latter fails to take action within a reasonable period, the panel referred to in Article 47(4) and the management board.
Article 42 Where powers of budget implementation are delegated or subdelegated in accordance with Article 34, Article 38(1), (2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the authorising officers by delegation or subdelegation.
Section 3 Accounting officer Article 43 1.
The management board shall appoint an accounting officer, covered by the Staff Regulations, who shall be responsible in the Community body for: (a) proper implementation of payments, collection of revenue and recovery of amounts established as being receivable; (b) preparing and presenting the accounts in accordance with Title VII; (c) keeping the accounts in accordance with Title VII; (d) implementing, in accordance with Title VII, the accounting rules and methods and the chart of accounts in accordance with the provisions adopted by the Commission's accounting officer; (e) laying down and validating the accounting systems and where appropriate validating systems laid down by the authorising officer to supply or justify accounting information; (f) treasury management. 2.
CHAPTER 3 Liability of the financial actors Section 1 General rules Article 45 1.
The provisions of this chapter are without prejudice to the criminal-law liability which the authorising officer and the persons referred to in Article 45 may incur as provided in the applicable national law and in the provisions in force on the protection of the Communities' financial interests and on the fight against corruption involving officials of the Communities or officials of Member States. 2.
Each authorising officer, accounting officer or imprest administrator shall be liable to disciplinary action and payment of compensation as laid down in the Staff Regulations, without prejudice to Articles 47, 48 and 49.
Section 2 Rules applicable to authorising officers by delegation and subdelegation Article 47 1.
An authorising officer by delegation or subdelegation who considers that a decision falling under his/her responsibility is irregular or contrary to the principles of sound financial management shall inform the delegating authority in writing.
If the delegating authority then gives a reasoned instruction in writing to the authorising officer by delegation or subdelegation to implement the decision in question, the latter must implement it and may not be held liable. 3.
If the opinion implicates the director, the panel shall send it to the management board and the Commission's internal auditor. 5.
Section 3 Rules applicable to accounting officers and imprest administrators Article 48 An accounting officer may be liable to disciplinary action and payment of compensation, as laid down in the Staff Regulations, in particular where: (a) he/she loses or damages monies, assets and documents in his/her keeping or causes them to be lost or damaged by his/her negligence; (b) he/she alters bank accounts or postal giro accounts without notifying the authorising officer in advance; (c) he/she recovers or pays amounts which are not in conformity with the corresponding recovery or payment orders; (d) he/she fails to collect revenue due.
Article 49 An imprest administrator may be liable to disciplinary action and payment of compensation, as laid down in the Staff Regulations, in particular where: (a) he/she loses or damages monies, assets and documents in his/her keeping or causes them to be lost or damaged by his/her negligence; (b) he/she cannot provide proper supporting documents for the payments he/she has made; (c) he/she makes payments to persons other than those entitled; (d) he/she fails to collect revenue due.
CHAPTER 4 Revenue operations Section 1 General provisions Article 50 The Community body shall present to the Commission requests for payment of all or part of the Community subsidy, supported by a cash-flow forecast, under terms and at intervals agreed with the Commission.
Article 51 The funds paid to the Community body by the Commission by way of the subsidy shall bear interest for the benefit of the general budget.
Section 2 Estimate of amounts receivable Article 52 An estimate of the amount receivable shall first be made by the authorising officer responsible in respect of any measure or situation which may give rise to or modify an amount owing to the Community body.
Section 3 Establishment of amounts receivable Article 53 1.
Establishment of an amount receivable is the act by which the authorising officer or authorising officer by delegation: (a) verifies that the debt exists; (b) determines or verifies the reality and the amount of the debt; (c) verifies the conditions in which the debt is due. 2.
Without prejudice to the provisions laid down in the rules, contract or agreement applicable, any debt not repaid on the due date laid down in the debit note shall bear interest in accordance with the detailed rules for implementation of the general Financial Regulation. 4.
Section 4 Authorisation of recovery Article 54 The authorisation of recovery is the act whereby the authorising officer responsible instructs the accounting officer, by issuing a recovery order, to recover an amount receivable which he/she has established.
Section 5 Recovery Article 55 1.
Such cancellation shall be by decision of the authorising officer responsible and shall be suitably substantiated. 5.
The accounting officer shall recover amounts by offsetting them against equivalent claims that the Community body has on any debtor who himself or herself has a claim on the Community body that is certain, of a fixed amount and due, provided that offsetting is legally possible.
Article 58 The accounting officer, in collaboration with the authorising officer responsible, may allow additional time for payment only at the written request of the debtor, with due indication of the reasons, provided that the following two conditions are met: (a) the debtor undertakes to pay interest at the rate specified the detailed rules for implementation of the general Financial Regulation for the entire additional period allowed, starting from the date on which the payment was originally due; (b) in order to safeguard the rights of the Community body, the debtor provides a financial guarantee covering both the principal sum and the interest.
Section 6 Specific provisions applicable to fees and charges Article 59 1.
Section 1 Commitment of expenditure Article 61 1.
The legal commitment is the act whereby the authorising officer responsible enters into or establishes an obligation which results in a charge for the budget. 3.
In respect of any measure which may give rise to expenditure chargeable to the budget, the authorising officer responsible must first make a budget commitment before entering into a legal obligation with third parties. 2.
Any parts of such commitments which have not been executed six months after that final date shall be decommitted in accordance with Article 11.
Article 63 When adopting a budget commitment, the authorising officer responsible shall ensure that: (a) the expenditure has been charged to the correct item in the budget; (b) the appropriations are available; (c) the expenditure conforms to the applicable provisions, in particular those of the constituent instrument, the financial rules of each Community body and all acts adopted pursuant to them; (d) the principle of sound financial management is complied with.
Section 2 Validation of expenditure Article 64 Validation of expenditure is the act whereby the authorising officer responsible: (a) verifies the existence of the creditor's entitlement; (b) verifies the conditions in which payment is due; (c) determines or verifies the reality and the amount of the claim.
Section 3 Authorisation of expenditure Article 66 1.
Authorisation of expenditure is the act whereby the authorising officer responsible, by issuing a payment order, instructs the accounting officer to pay an item of expenditure which he/she has validated. 2.
The supporting documents shall be kept by the authorising officer responsible in accordance with Article 38(6). 3.
Section 4 Payment of expenditure Article 67 1.
Payment shall be made on production of proof that the relevant action has been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the basic act within the meaning of Article 49 of the general Financial Regulation or the contract or grant agreement, and shall cover one of the following operations: (a) payment of the entire amount due; (b) payment of the amount due in any of the following ways: (i) prefinancing, which may be divided into a number of payments; (ii) one or more interim payments; (iii) payment of the balance of the amounts due.
Article 68 Payment of expenditure shall be made by the accounting officer within the limits of the funds available.
Section 5 Time limits for expenditure operations Article 69 The validation, authorisation and payment of expenditure must be carried out within the time limits specified in, and in accordance with the provisions of, the detailed rules for implementation of the general Financial Regulation.
CHAPTER 6 IT systems Article 70 Where revenue and expenditure operations are managed by means of computer systems, documents may be signed by a computerised or electronic procedure.
CHAPTER 7 Internal auditor Article 71 1.
Without prejudice to Article 38(4) the Commission's internal auditor shall exercise, the same powers with respect to the Community bodies as with respect to Commission departments.
The internal auditor shall advise the Community body on dealing with risks, by issuing independent opinions on the quality of management and control systems and by issuing recommendations for improving the conditions of implementation of operations and promoting sound financial management.
The internal auditor shall perform his/her duties on all the Community body's activities and departments.
The internal auditor shall report to the management board and the Director on his/her findings and recommendations.
Article 73 The responsibility of the internal auditor for action taken in the performance of his/her duties shall be determined in accordance with Article 87 of the general Financial Regulation.
TITLE V PROCUREMENT Article 74 As regards procurement, the relevant provisions of the general Financial Regulation and the detailed rules for implementing that Regulation shall apply.
TITLE VI GRANTS AWARDED BY THE COMMUNITY BODY Article 75 Where the Community body may award grants in accordance with its constituent instrument, the relevant provisions of the general Financial Regulation and the detailed rules for implementing that Regulation shall apply.
Article 77 The accounts must comply with the rules and be accurate and comprehensive and present a true and fair view: (a) as regards the financial statements, of the assets and liabilities, charges and income, entitlements and obligations not shown as assets or liabilities and cash flow; (b) as regards reports on budgetary implementation, of revenue and expenditure operations.
The value of assets and liabilities shall be determined in accordance with the valuation rules laid down by the accounting methods provided for in Article 132 of the general Financial Regulation.
The financial statements shall be presented in euro and shall comprise: (a) the balance sheet and the economic outturn account, which represent the assets and liabilities and financial situation and the economic outturn at 31 December of the previous year; they shall be presented in accordance with the structure laid down by the Council Directive on the annual accounts of certain types of companies, but with account being taken of the specific nature of the Community body's activities; (b) the cash-flow table showing amounts collected and disbursed during the year and the final treasury position; (c) the statement of changes in capital presenting in detail the increases and decreases during the year in each item of the capital accounts. 2.
Article 82 The accounting officer shall send to the Commission's accounting officer by no later than 1 March of the following year its provisional accounts, together with the report on budgetary and financial management during the year, referred to in Article 76(7) of this Regulation, so that the Commission's accounting officer can consolidate the accounts as provided for in Article 128 of the general Financial Regulation.
The final accounts of the Community body shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities on 31 October of the following financial year. 5.
The director shall send the Court of Auditors a reply to the observations made in its annual report by 30 September at the latest.
CHAPTER 2 Accounting Section 1 Common provisions Article 84 1.
The figures in the general accounts and the budgetary accounts shall be adopted at the close of the budget year so that the accounts referred to in Chapter 1 can be drawn up. 4.
Article 85 The accounting rules and methods and the harmonised chart of accounts to be applied by the Community body shall be adopted by the Commission's accounting officer in accordance with Article 133 of the general Financial Regulation.
Section 2 General accounts Article 86 The general accounts shall record, in chronological order using the double entry method, all events and operations which affect the economic and financial situation and the assets and liabilities of the Community body.
Movements on the accounts and the balances shall be entered in the accounting ledgers. 2.
Article 88 The accounting officer of the Community body shall, after the close of the budgetary year and up to the date of presentation of the final accounts, make any adjustments which, without involving disbursement or collection in respect of that year, are necessary for a true and fair presentation of the accounts in compliance with the rules.
Section 3 Budgetary accounts Article 89 1.
CHAPTER 4 Property inventories Article 90 1.
TITLE VIII EXTERNAL AUDIT AND DISCHARGE CHAPTER 1 External audit Article 91 The Court of Auditors shall scrutinise the accounts of the Community body in accordance with Article 248 of the EC Treaty.
It shall inform the Court of Auditors, as soon as possible, of all decisions and acts adopted pursuant to Articles 10, 14, 19 and 23. 2.
The Community body shall send the Court of Auditors the internal financial rules it adopts. 3.
Article 93 The scrutiny carried out by the Court of Auditors shall be governed by Articles 139 to 144 of the general Financial Regulation.
CHAPTER 2 Discharge Article 94 1.
The discharge decision shall cover the accounts of all the revenue and expenditure of the Community body, the resulting balance and the assets and liabilities of the Community body shown in the financial statement. 2.
For earlier years these time limits shall be: (a) 15 September for Article 83(3); (b) 30 November for Article 83(4); (c) 31 October for Article 83(5).
Article 98 The European Parliament, the Council and the Commission shall be empowered to obtain any necessary information or explanations regarding budgetary matters within their fields of competence.
Article 99 The management board shall, as far as is necessary, adopt detailed rules for implementing the financial regulation of the Community body, on a proposal from its director.
Article 100 Once this Regulation has entered into force, each body referred to in Article 185 of the general Financial Regulation shall adopt a new financial regulation in view of its entry into force for 1 January 2003 or, in any event, within six months of the date on which it falls within the scope of the said Article 185, following the granting of a subsidy charged to the general budget.
Article 101 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, 23 December 2002.
For the Commission Franz Fischler Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 248, 15.9.2002, p. 1. (2) Not yet published in the Official Journal. (3) Not yet published in the Official Journal. (4) Not yet published in the Official Journal.
