Article 2 GDPmp represents the final result of productive activity by resident production units.
TITLE II Provisions on the method of calculating GNPmp and the forwarding of GNPmp data Article 3 1.
Member States shall establish GNPmp in accordance with Article 1 in the context of national accounting procedures. 2.
Before 1 October each year, Member States shall provide the Commission (Statistical Office of the European Communities, SOEC), in the context of national accounting procedures, with figures for aggregate GNPmp and its components according to the ESA definitions referred to in Articles 1 and 2.
Article 4 Member States shall provide the Commission (SOEC), in accordance with the arrangements laid down by the latter after consulting the committee referred to in Article 6, progressively and at the latest within 18 months of notification of this Directive, with an inventory of the procedures and basic statistics used to calculate GNPmp and its components.
Article 5 When they communicate the data provided for in Article 3, Member States shall inform the Commission (SOEC) of any changes in the procedures and basic statistics used.
TITLE III Provisions concerning checks on the calculation of GNPmp Article 6 1.
Article 7 The Committee referred to in Article 6 shall examine questions raised by its Chairman, either on his own initiative or at the request of the representative of a Member State, relating to the implementation of this Directive, in particular with regard to: (a) compliance each year with the definitions referred to in Article 1 and 2; (b) the examination each year of the data forwarded under the terms of Article 3 and the information forwarded under the terms of Articles 4 and 5 concerning the statistical sources and the procedures for calculating GNPmp and its components.
TITLE IV Financial provisions Article 8 For the first few years of implementation of this Directive, Member States shall receive a financial contribution from the Community in respect of the work to improve the comparability and representativity of the GNPmp data.
The amount considered necessary for such a contribution shall be ECU 6 million.
TITLE V Final provisions Article 9 The Member States shall bring into force the measures necessary to comply with this Directive within 12 months of its notification at the latest (1).
Article 10 Before the end of 1991, the Commission shall, when Decision 88/376/EEC/Euratom is reviewed, submit a report on application of this Directive.
Article 11 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 13 February 1989.
SOLCHAGA CATALAN (1) OJ No L 185, 15. 7. 1988, p. 24. (2) OJ No C 187, 18. 7. 1988, p. 142. (1) This Directive was notified to Member States on 16 February 1989.
