SECTION II Organisation Article 6 Security Bureau Under the authority and responsibility of the Commission, the Security Bureau set up by the Commission shall: (a) co-ordinate and ensure the general application of security measures; (b) supervise the application of those measures in the institutions, committees, services and installations of the Community; (c) be empowered to have the application of the security measures for ECI as laid down in this Regulation verified in the territory of Member States by the national authorities and, if it considers this necessary, carry out such verification itself in collaboration with those authorities; (d) propose any amendments it considers necessary for the application of this Regulation.
SECTION III Classification and declassification of ECI Article 9 Principle Security gradings shall be applied only to the extent strictly necessary.
Article 10 Security gradings ECI shall be classified according to a scale of security gradings as follows: 1.
If the person concerned has resided for some time or if he has connections in a Member State other than the Member State referred to in the preceding subparagraph, that Member State shall be asked by the Member State responsible for screening to participate in the investigation and shall communicate the results of its inquiries to the Member State responsible for screening. 3.
SECTION III Safe-keeping of ECI Article 22 Reinforced security cabinets 1.
SECTION IV Registration of ECI Article 23 All ECI graded Eura - Top Secret and Eura - Secret shall be specially registered.
SECTION V Circulation of ECI Article 24 Practical provisions 1.
ECI graded Eura - Confidential and of higher gradings shall be dispatched by messenger.
Article 27 Carriage of ECI on official mission or for the purposes of meetings 1.
Article 28 Transmission of ECI by telecommunications 1.
ECI graded Eura - Confidential and of higher gradings may be sent by telegram, radio, telephone or telex provided it is properly enciphered according to the security grading of the document concerned. 2.
Article 30 Emergency destruction Each authority in possession of ECI shall draw up an emergency destruction plan which in exceptional circumstances would prevent ECI graded Eura - Confidential and of higher grades from falling into the hands of unauthorised persons.
SECTION VII Special provisions Article 31 If certain of the aforementioned provisions cannot be applied because of the special nature of the ECI, the Security Officer shall take or cause to be taken the appropriate measures to ensure that the security of such ECI is given protection equivalent to that stipulated in this Regulation.
Article 33 Notification of Member States procedure The Security Bureau shall inform the Member States of the established facts through the official bodies provided for in Article 7.
PART FIVE FINAL PROVISIONS Article 34 Treaties or agreements with third countries These provisions shall be without prejudice to the obligations of the Community and the Member States (or of the Community or the Member States) in this field arising out of treaties or agreements concluded with third countries, an international organisation or a national of a third country.
For the Council The President BALKE
