Council Joint Action 2005/355/CFSP of 2 May 2005 on the European Union mission to provide advice and assistance for security sector reform in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) Council Joint Action 2005/355/CFSP of 2 May 2005 on the European Union mission to provide advice and assistance for security sector reform in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty on European Union, and in particular Article 14, the third paragraph of Article 25, Article 26 and Article 28(3), first subparagraph thereof, Whereas: (1) On 12 April 2005, the Council adopted Common Position 2005/304/CFSP concerning conflict prevention, management and resolution in Africa and repealing Common Position 2004/85/CFSP [1]. (2) On 22 November 2004, the Council approved an action plan for ESDP support to Peace and Security in Africa.
The mission shall operate in accordance with the objectives and other provisions as contained in the mission statement set out in Article 2.
Article 2 Mission Statement The mission shall aim, in close cooperation and coordination with the other actors in the international community, to provide practical support for the integration of the Congolese army and good governance in the field of security, as set out in the General Concept, including identifying and contributing to the development of various projects and options that the European Union and/or its Member States may decide to support in this area.
Article 3 Structure of the mission The mission shall be structured as follows: (a) an office in Kinshasa, composed of the Head of Mission and staff not attached to the Congolese authorities; (b) experts assigned, inter alia, to the following key posts within the Congolese administration: - the private office of the Minister for Defence, - the combined general staff, including the integrated military structure (IMS), - the army general staff, - the National Committee for Disarmament, Demobilisation and Reintegration (Conader), and - the Joint Operational Committee.
Article 4 Preparatory stage 1.
The General Secretariat of the Council, assisted by the Head of Mission, shall draw up an implementation plan for the mission. 2.
Article 5 Head of Mission 1.
General Pierre Michel JOANA is hereby appointed Head of Mission.
Article 6 Staff 1.
Article 7 Chain of command The mission shall have a unified chain of command: - The Head of Mission shall lead the advice and assistance team, assume its day-to-day management and report to the SG/HR through the EUSR. - The EUSR shall report to the Political and Security Committee (PSC) and to the Council through the SG/HR. - The SG/HR shall give guidance to the Head of Mission through the EUSR. - The PSC shall exercise political control and strategic direction.
Article 8 Political control and strategic direction 1.
The Council hereby authorises the PSC to take the relevant decisions in accordance with Article 25 of the Treaty.
Article 9 Financial arrangements 1.
Article 10 Community action 1.
Article 11 Release of classified information The Council takes note of the Commission’s intention to direct its action, where appropriate, towards achieving the objectives of this Joint Action.
Article 12 Release of classified information 1.
Article 13 Status of the mission and of its staff 1.
Article 14 Evaluation of the mission The PSC shall evaluate the initial results of the mission at the latest six months after the launching of the mission and shall submit its conclusions to the Council, including, if applicable, a recommendation that the Council should take a decision to extend or amend the mandate of the mission.
Article 15 Entry into force, duration and expenditure 1.
It shall apply until 2 May 2006. 2.
Article 16 Publication This Joint Action shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 2 May 2005.
