Article 2 This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 13 July 2005.
For the Commission Joaquín Almunia Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 143, 30.4.2004, p. 49. [2] OJ L 181, 28.6.1989, p. 47. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX I Module 1: Enterprises and the information society 1.
SUBJECTS AND THEIR CHARACTERISTICS The subjects to be covered for the reference year 2006, selected from the list in Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 808/2004, are the following: - ICT systems and their usage in enterprises - Use of Internet and other electronic networks by enterprises - e-Commerce and e-Business processes - ICT security.
PIN code) - Security facilities usage: Data encryption for confidentiality - ICT-related problems encountered in 2005 that resulted in a loss of information or working time 2.
REFERENCE PERIODS The reference period is the year 2005 for the variables under the heading e-commerce and e-business processes and where specified.
The reference period is January 2006 for the other data. 4.
PERIODICITY The data shall be provided once for the year 2006. 6.
The quality report shall follow the report template provided by Eurostat. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX II Module 2: Individuals, households and the information society 1.
SUBJECTS AND THEIR CHARACTERISTICS The subjects to be covered for the reference year 2006, selected from the list in Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 808/2004, are the following: - access to and use of ICT systems by individuals and/or in households - use of Internet for different purposes by individuals and/or in households - ICT security - ICT competence - barriers to use of ICT and the Internet.
Use of Internet for different purposes by individuals and/or in households Characteristics to be collected for all individuals: - most recent Internet use (within the last three months; between three months and a year ago; more than one year ago; never used the Internet).
Characteristics to be collected for individuals having used the Internet for Internet commerce activities in the last 12 months: - Internet usage for ordering food or groceries - Internet usage for ordering household goods - Internet usage for ordering films or music (to be reported separately: whether delivered on-line) - Internet usage for ordering books, magazines, newspapers or e-learning material (to be reported separately: whether delivered on-line) - Internet usage for ordering clothes or sports goods - Internet usage for ordering computer software and upgrades (to be reported separately: whether delivered on-line) - Internet usage for ordering computer hardware - Internet usage for ordering electronic equipment - Internet usage for ordering share purchases, financial services or insurance - Internet usage for ordering travel or holiday accommodation - Internet usage for ordering tickets for events - Internet usage for ordering lotteries or betting - Internet usage for ordering other goods or services - Internet usage for ordering from retailers known from outside the Internet - Internet usage for ordering from retailers known from the Internet or found on the Internet - problems encountered with Internet commerce regardless of type of problem.
Barriers to use of ICT and the Internet Characteristics to be collected for households without access to the Internet at home: - barriers to home Internet access: have access elsewhere - barriers to home Internet access: do not want Internet (because content harmful, etc.) - barriers to home Internet access: do not need Internet (because not useful, not interesting, etc.) - barriers to home Internet access: equipment costs too high - barriers to home Internet access: access costs too high - barriers to home Internet access: lack of skills - barriers to home Internet access: physical disability - barriers to home Internet access: privacy or security concerns - barriers to home Internet access: other.
PERIODICITY The data shall be provided once for the year 2006. 6.
The quality report shall follow the report template provided by Eurostat. --------------------------------------------------
