Article 3 The surviving spouse concerned or his or her legal representative (hereinafter referred to as the applicant) shall submit an application to the Social Welfare Department of the institution responsible for establishing the pension rights of the surviving spouse concerned.
Article 4 The decision of the appointing authority of the Commission shall be taken on the basis of a medical opinion and an opinion on the social circumstances of the person concerned, taking account of the objectives specified in Article 1.
Article 5 Taking account of the doctor’s opinion, the medical officer of the institution responsible within the meaning of Article 3 shall issue a decision on the possibility of recognising the illness or disability, and on the seriousness and presumed duration thereof.
Article 6 The opinion on the applicant’s social circumstances shall be presented by a social assistant from the institution responsible within the meaning of Article 3.
Article 7 The appointing authority of the Commission shall take a decision within two months of the application being submitted, on the basis of the opinions issued under Articles 5 and 6.
If financial aid is granted, it shall take effect from the first day of the month following that in which the application is submitted and shall be granted for a maximum period of 12 months.
Article 8 In the event that the period of the financial grant has elapsed, according to the decision of the appointing authority, but there is still a disability or a serious or protracted illness, extension shall be possible.
The appointing authority shall decide on the extension of the grant of the financial aid on the basis of a new medical opinion, as appropriate, and of an opinion on the social circumstances of the person concerned in accordance with Articles 5 and 6.
Article 9 The applicant shall indicate his or her financial circumstances (namely assets, real estates and stocks) and shall make a sworn statement, based on the most recent tax return, of his or her income (the pension paid by the institution, any other pension received from another source, allowances relating to the disability or serious or protracted illness and income from any other source).
Article 10 Where the surviving spouse is recognised as suffering from a serious or protracted illness or a disability, and on the basis of Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7, he or she may receive financial aid calculated as follows: - the amount corresponding to the expenses connected with the serious or protracted illness or the disability which are not reimbursed from other sources plus the minimum subsistence figure less the income within the meaning of Article 9.
Article 11 The institution shall pay financial aid on a monthly basis where the duration of the serious or protracted illness or the disability, according to medical opinion, exceeds one month, and as a one-off payment where it does not.
Article 13 The Commission shall present a detailed report on the application of these rules, including the average financial aid per year and the total financial impact, three years after their entry into force and every three years subsequently.
They shall apply from 1 May 2004.
Done at Brussels, 12 December 2005.
Straw [1] OJ L 56, 4.3.1968, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 31/2005 (OJ L 8, 12.1.2005, p. 1). --------------------------------------------------
