Council Directive 2005/25/EC of 14 March 2005 amending Annex VI to Directive 91/414/EEC as regards plant protection products containing micro-organisms (Text with EEA relevance).
Council Directive 2005/25/EC of 14 March 2005 amending Annex VI to Directive 91/414/EEC as regards plant protection products containing micro-organisms (Text with EEA relevance) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Directive 91/414/EC of 15 July 1991 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market [1], and in particular Article 18(1) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Whereas: (1) In accordance with Directive 91/414/EEC, Member States have to ensure that plant protection products are not authorised unless they comply with the requirements provided for in that Directive. (2) Directive 91/414/EEC provides for the establishment of Uniform Principles pursuant to which the Member States have to carry out the evaluation of plant protection products with a view to their authorisation. (3) Uniform Principles have been laid down for Member States to use in the evaluation and authorisation of chemical plant protection products only.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 28 May 2006.
Article 3 This Directive shall enter into force on the twentieth day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 14 March 2005.
Boden [1] OJ L 230, 19.8.1991, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2004/99/EC (OJ L 309, 16.10.2004, p. 6). [2] OJ L 164, 20.6.2001, p. 1. [3] OJ L 194, 25.7.1975, p. 26.
Directive to be repealed from 22.12.2007 by Directive 2000/60/EC (OJ L 327, 22.12.2000, p. 1). [4] OJ L 20, 26.1.1980, p. 43.
Directive to be repealed from 22.12.2013 by Directive 2000/60/EC. [5] OJ L 330, 5.12.1998, p. 32.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). [6] OJ L 327, 22.12.2000, p. 1.
Directive as amended by Decision No 2455/2001/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2001, p. 1). [7] OJ L 106, 17.4.2001, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003 (OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 24). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX Annex VI is hereby amended as follows: (1) The title "Uniform Principles for evaluation and authorisation of plant protection products" shall be replaced by "PART I UNIFORM PRINCIPLES FOR EVALUATION AND AUTHORISATION OF CHEMICAL PLANT PROTECTION PRODUCTS"; (2) The following Part shall be added after Part I "PART II UNIFORM PRINCIPLES FOR EVALUATION AND AUTHORISATION OF PLANT PROTECTION PRODUCTS CONTAINING MICRO-ORGANISMS" CONTENTS A.
General principles 2.
Specific principles 2.1.
Identity 2.1.1.
Identity of the micro-organism in the plant protection product 2.1.2.
Biological, physical, chemical and technical properties 2.2.1.
Physical, chemical and technical properties of the plant protection product 2.3.
Analytical methods for the plant protection product 2.5.2.
Analytical methods for the determination of residues 2.6.
Impact on human and animal health 2.6.1.
Effects on and exposure of non-target organisms 2.9.
Conclusions and proposals C.
DECISION-MAKING 1.
General principles 2.
Specific principles 2.1.
Impact on human and animal health 2.6.1.
Effects on non-target organisms A.
The principles developed in Part II of this Annex aim to ensure that evaluations and decisions with regard to authorisation of plant protection products, provided they are microbial plant protection products, result in the implementation of the requirements of Article 4(1)(b), (c), (d) and (e) of this Directive by all Member States at a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment. 2.
For genetically modified micro-organisms, Directive 2001/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 March 2001 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms [1], must be taken into account.
Pathogenicity: The ability of a micro-organism to cause disease and/or inflict damage on the host.
General principles 1.1.
In the evaluation, Member States shall consider the agricultural, plant health or environmental (including climatic) conditions in the areas of use. 1.7.
That guidance must be respected. 2.
Specific principles Member States shall implement the following principles in the evaluation of the data and information submitted in support of applications, without prejudice to the general principles prescribed in Section 1: 2.1.
Identity 2.1.1.
Identity of the plant protection product Member States shall evaluate the detailed quantitative and qualitative information provided on the composition of the plant protection product, such as that concerning the micro-organism (see above), relevant metabolites/toxins, residual growth medium, co-formulants and microbial contaminants present. 2.2.
Biological, physical, chemical, and technical properties 2.2.1.
For example, a microbial species may cause a disease following entry via skin damage, but not via the oral route. 2.2.1.5.
Physical, chemical and technical properties of the plant protection product 2.2.2.1.
Depending on the nature of the micro-organism and the formulation type, the technical properties of the plant protection product must be evaluated. 2.2.2.2.
In particular, consideration should be paid to: (a) the level, consistency and duration of the effect sought in relation to the dose in comparison with a suitable reference product or products, where they exist, and an untreated control; (b) where relevant, the effect on yield or reduction of loss in storage, in terms of quantity and/or quality, in comparison with a suitable reference product or products, where they exist, and an untreated control.
mode of action, survival, host specificity. (b) This evaluation will include: (i) the nature, frequency, level and duration of observed phytotoxic/phytopathogenic effects and the agricultural, plant health and environmental (including climatic) conditions that affect them; (ii) differences between main cultivars with regard to their sensitivity to phytotoxic/phytopathogenic effects; (iii) the part of the treated crop or plant products where phytotoxic/phytopathogenic effects are observed; (iv) adverse impact on the yield of the treated crop or plant products in terms of quantity and/or quality; (v) adverse impact on treated plants or plant products to be used for propagation, in terms of viability, germination, sprouting, rooting and establishment; (vi) where micro-organisms are disseminated, the adverse impact on adjacent crops. 2.4.6.
Identification/detection and quantification methods Member States shall evaluate the analytical methods proposed for post-registration control and monitoring purposes of the viable and non-viable components both in the formulation and as residues in or on treated crops.
Methods that are considered suitable for post-authorisation monitoring must be clearly identified. 2.5.1.
Analytical methods for the plant protection product 2.5.1.1.
Analytical methods for the determination of residues 2.5.2.1.
Non-viable residues Member States shall evaluate the analytical methods proposed to identify and quantify the toxicologically, ecotoxicologically or environmentally significant non-viable residues resulting from the micro-organism (including eventually resulting breakdown and/or reaction products thereof).
This evaluation will take into consideration the information on analytical methods provided for in Annex IIB and IIIB and the results of the evaluation thereof.
In particular, the following information must be taken into account: (a) the specificity and linearity of the proposed methods, (b) the precision (repeatability) of the proposed methods, (c) the reproducibility (independent laboratory validation) of the proposed methods, (d) the importance of interferences, (e) the accuracy of the proposed methods at appropriate concentrations, (f) the limit of quantification of the proposed methods. 2.5.2.2.
This evaluation will take into consideration the information on analytical methods provided for in Annex IIB and IIIB and the results of the evaluation thereof.
In particular, the following information must be taken into account: (a) the specificity of the proposed methods, (b) the precision (repeatability) of the proposed methods, (c) the importance of interferences, (d) the quantifiability of the proposed methods. 2.6.
Tier 1 tests should permit an evaluation to be made of a micro-organism with respect to its ability to persist or grow in the host and its ability to cause effects/reactions in the host.
Member States shall examine the nature and characteristics of the protective clothing and equipment proposed with particular reference to the following aspects: (a) obtainability and suitability, (b) effectiveness, (c) ease of wearing taking into account physical stress and climatic conditions, (d) resistance to and compatibility with the plant protection product. 2.6.1.4.
This evaluation will take into consideration the following information: (a) the medical data and the toxicity, infectivity and pathogenicity studies provided for in Annex IIB, and the results of the evaluation thereof.
Tier 1 tests should permit an evaluation to be made of a micro-organism with respect to its ability to persist or grow in the host and its ability to cause effects/reactions in the host.
Effects on human or animal health arising from residues In the evaluation, non-viable and viable residues must be addressed separately.
Member States shall evaluate the possibility of exposure of organisms in the atmosphere to the plant protection product under the proposed conditions of use; if this possibility exists they shall evaluate the risk for the atmosphere.
Member States shall evaluate the possibility of exposure of organisms in the terrestrial compartment to the plant protection product under the proposed conditions of use; if this possibility exists they shall evaluate the risks arising for the terrestrial compartment.
Member States shall evaluate the possibility of exposure of non-target organisms under the proposed conditions of use and if this possibility exists they shall evaluate the risks arising for the non-target organisms concerned.
To assess the possibility of exposure the following information should also be taken into consideration: (a) the survival of the micro-organism in the respective compartment, (b) its ecological niche, (c) the natural background level of the micro-organism, where it is indigenous, (d) information on fate and behaviour in the various parts of the environment, (e) where relevant, other authorised uses of the plant protection product in the area of envisaged use containing the same active substance or which give rise to the same residues. 2.8.1.
Whether or not identified risks could be changed due to the formulation of the plant protection product shall be assessed, taking into account the following information on the micro-organism: (a) its mode of action, (b) other biological properties, (c) studies on mammalian toxicity, pathogenicity and infectivity, (d) studies on avian toxicity, pathogenicity and infectivity. 2.8.1.2.
For the assessment of such effects, the following information should be taken into consideration: (a) studies on mammalian toxicity, (b) studies on avian toxicity, (c) information on fate and behaviour in the various parts of the environment.
A micro-organism may give rise to risks because of its potential to infect and multiply in aquatic organisms.
Whether or not identified risks could be changed due to the formulation of the plant protection product shall be assessed, taking into account the following information on the micro-organism: (a) its mode of action, (b) other biological properties, (c) studies on toxicity, pathogenicity and infectivity. 2.8.2.2.
Member States shall evaluate the possibility of exposure of and effects on bees. 2.8.3.1.
A micro-organism may give rise to risks because of its potential to infect and multiply in bees.
Whether or not identified risks could be changed due to the formulation of the plant protection product shall be assessed, taking into account the following information on the micro-organism: (a) its mode of action, (b) other biological properties, (c) studies on toxicity, pathogenicity and infectivity. 2.8.3.2.
For the assessment of such effects the following information should be taken into consideration: (a) studies on toxicity to bees, (b) information on fate and behaviour in the various parts of the environment.
Member States shall evaluate the possibility of exposure of and effects on arthropods other than bees. 2.8.4.1.
A micro-organism may give rise to risks because of its potential to infect and multiply in arthropods other than bees.
Whether or not identified risks could be changed due to the formulation of the plant protection product shall be assessed, taking into account the following information on the micro-organism: (a) its mode of action, (b) other biological properties, (c) studies on toxicity, pathogenicity and infectivity to honeybees and other arthropods. 2.8.4.2.
Member States shall evaluate the possibility of exposure of and effects on earthworms. 2.8.5.1.
A micro-organism may give rise to risks because of its potential to infect and multiply in earthworms.
Whether or not identified risks could be changed due to the formulation of the plant protection product shall be assessed, taking into account the following information on the micro-organism: (a) its mode of action, (b) other biological properties, (c) studies on earthworm toxicity, pathogenicity and infectivity. 2.8.5.2.
Whether or not identified risks could be changed due to the formulation of the plant protection product shall be assessed, taking into account the following information on the micro-organism: (a) its mode of action, (b) other biological properties.
For the assessment of such effects the following information should be taken into consideration: (a) information on fate and behaviour in the various parts of the environment, (b) all available information from biological primary screening. 2.9.
DECISION-MAKING 1.
General principles 1.1.
Member States shall ensure that decisions respect the principles of integrated pest control if the plant protection product is intended for use in conditions where these principles are relied on. 1.5.
Where the micro-organism has been genetically modified, as defined in Directive 2001/18/EC, no authorisation shall be granted unless the evaluation conducted in accordance with Directive 2001/18/EC has been submitted, as required under Article 1(3) of that Directive.
The relevant decision taken by the competent authorities in accordance with Directive 2001/18/EC must be provided. 1.12.
Specific principles The specific principles shall apply without prejudice to the general principles referred to in Section 1. 2.1.
There must be no unacceptable adverse effects on treated plants or plant products used for propagation or reproduction, such as effects on viability, germination, sprouting, rooting and establishment, except where proposed label claims specify that the preparation should not be applied to plants or plant products to be used for propagation or reproduction. 2.4.2.5.
Identification/detection and quantification methods The methods proposed must reflect the latest techniques.
Impact on human and animal health 2.6.1.
The conditions of authorisation shall be in compliance with Council Directive 98/24/EC of 7 April 1998 on the protection of the health and safety of workers from the risks related to chemical agents at work [5], and Directive 2000/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 September 2000 on the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to biological agents at work [6].
The conditions of authorisation shall also be in compliance with Council Directive 89/656/EEC of 30 November 1989 on the minimum health and safety requirements for the use by workers of personal protective equipment at the workplace [8]. 2.6.2.
No authorisation shall be granted if the contamination of groundwater expected as a result of the use of a plant protection product under the proposed conditions of use contravenes or exceeds whichever of the following is the lower: (a) the parameters or maximum permissible concentrations laid down by Directive 98/83/EC, or (b) the parameters or maximum permissible concentrations laid down for components in the plant protection product such as relevant metabolites/toxins in accordance with Directive 2000/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2000 establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy [9], or (c) the parameters for the micro-organism or the maximum concentration laid down by the Commission for components in the plant protection product such as relevant metabolites/toxins when including the micro-organism in Annex I, on the basis of appropriate data, in particular, toxicological data, or, where that concentration has not been laid down, the concentration corresponding to 1/10 of the acceptable daily intake (ADI) laid down when the micro-organism was included in Annex I, unless it is scientifically demonstrated that under relevant field conditions the lower of the parameters or concentrations is not contravened or exceeded. 2.7.4.
No authorisation shall be granted if the contamination of surface water expected as a result of the use of a plant protection product under the proposed conditions of use: (a) exceeds, where the surface water in or from the area of envisaged use is intended for the extraction of drinking water, the parameters or values established in accordance with Council Directive 75/440/EEC of 16 June 1975 concerning the quality required of surface water intended for the abstraction of drinking water in the Member States [10], or (b) exceeds the parameters or values for components in the plant protection product, such as relevant metabolites/toxins, established in accordance with Directive 2000/60/EC or (c) has an impact deemed unacceptable on non-target species, including animals, according to the relevant requirements provided for in point 2.8.
Effects on non-target organisms Member States shall ensure that the available information is sufficient to permit a decision to be taken as to whether or not there may be unacceptable effects on non-target species (flora and fauna), due to exposure to the plant protection product containing the micro-organism following its intended use.
Where there is a possibility of birds and other non-target terrestrial vertebrates being exposed, no authorisation shall be granted if: (a) the micro-organism is pathogenic to birds and other non-target terrestrial vertebrates, (b) in case of toxic effects due to components in the plant protection product, such as relevant metabolites/toxins, the toxicity/exposure ratio is less than 10 on the basis of the acute LD50 value or the long-term toxicity/exposure ratio is less than 5, unless it is clearly established through an appropriate risk assessment that under field conditions no unacceptable effects occur — directly or indirectly — after use of the plant protection product according to the proposed conditions of use. 2.8.2.
Where there is a possibility of aquatic organisms being exposed, no authorisation shall be granted if: (a) the micro-organism is pathogenic to aquatic organisms, (b) in case of toxic effects due to components in the plant protection product such as relevant metabolites/toxins, the toxicity/exposure ratio is less than 100 in case of acute toxicity (EC50) to daphnia and fish and 10 for long-term/chronic toxicity to algae (EC50), daphnia (NOEC) and fish (NOEC), unless it is clearly established through an appropriate risk assessment that under field conditions no unacceptable impact on the viability of exposed species occurs — directly or indirectly — after use of the plant protection product according to the proposed conditions of use. 2.8.3.
Where there is a possibility of bees being exposed, no authorisation shall be granted: (a) if the micro-organism is pathogenic to bees, (b) in case of toxic effects due to components in the plant protection product such as relevant metabolites/toxins, the hazard quotients for oral or contact exposure of honeybees are greater than 50, unless it is clearly established through an appropriate risk assessment that under field conditions there are no unacceptable effects on honeybee larvae, honeybee behaviour, or colony survival and development after use of the plant protection product according to the proposed conditions of use. 2.8.4.
Where there is a possibility of arthropods other than bees being exposed, no authorisation shall be granted if: (a) the micro-organism is pathogenic to arthropods other than bees, (b) in case of toxic effects due to components in the plant protection product such as relevant metabolites/toxins, unless it is clearly established through an appropriate risk assessment that under field conditions there is no unacceptable impact on those organisms after use of the plant protection product according to the proposed conditions of use.
Where there is a possibility of earthworms being exposed, no authorisation shall be granted if the micro-organism is pathogenic to earthworms or in the case of toxic effects due to components in the plant protection product such as relevant metabolites/toxins, the acute toxicity/exposure ratio is less than 10, or the long-term toxicity/exposure ratio is less than 5, unless it is clearly established through an appropriate risk assessment that under field conditions earthworm populations are not at risk after use of the plant protection product according to the proposed conditions of use. 2.8.6.
Where there is a possibility of non-target soil micro-organisms being exposed, no authorisation shall be granted if the nitrogen or carbon mineralisation processes in laboratory studies are affected by more than 25 % after 100 days, unless it is clearly established through an appropriate risk assessment that under field conditions there is no unacceptable impact on the microbial community after use of the plant protection product according to the proposed conditions of use, taking account of the ability of micro-organisms to multiply. [1] OJ L 106, 17.4.2001, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003 (OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 24). [2] See definition of "genetically modified" in Directive 2001/18/EC. [3] OJ L 330, 5.12.1998, p. 32.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). [4] OJ L 200, 30.7.1999, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2004/66/EC (OJ L 168, 1.5.2004, p. 35). [5] OJ L 131, 5.5.1998, p. 11. [6] OJ L 262, 17.10.2000, p. 21. [7] OJ L 158, 30.4.2004 p. 50. [8] OJ L 393, 30.12.1989, p. 18. [9] OJ L 327, 22.12.2000, p. 1.
Directive as amended by Decision No 2455/2001/EC. [10] OJ L 194, 25.7.1975, p. 26.
Directive to be repealed from 22.12.2007 by Directive 2000/60/EC (OJ L 327, 22.12. 2000, p. 1). --------------------------------------------------
