Article 2 Quality evaluation criteria and the detailed content of the intermediate quality report to be produced by Member States, relating to the common cross-sectional EU indicators based on the cross-sectional component of the EU-SILC shall be as laid down in Annex II.
Article 3 Quality evaluation criteria and the detailed content of the final quality report to be produced by Member States, relating to the EU-SILC cross-sectional and longitudinal components focussing on internal accuracy shall be as laid down in Annex III.
Article 4 The content of the comparative intermediate and final quality reports to be produced by the Commission (Eurostat) shall be as laid down in Annex IV.
Article 5 This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 5 January 2004.
For the Commission Pedro Solbes Mira Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 165, 3.7.2003, p. 1.
Other indicators 1.2.1.
Sample design The following information will be provided: 2.1.1.
Weightings 2.1.8.1.
Non-response adjustments 2.1.8.3.
Final cross-sectional weight 2.1.9.
Main characteristics of substituted units compared to original units, by region (NUTS 2) if available 2.1.9.3.
Distribution of substituted units by record of contact at address (DB120), household questionnaire result (DB130) and household interview acceptance (DB135) of the original units 2.2.
Standard error and effective sample size The following information will be provided: - effective sample size for the common cross-sectional EU indicators based on the cross-sectional component of EU-SILC, for equivalised disposable income and for the unadjusted gender pay gap (if applicable), - standard errors for the common cross-sectional EU indicators based on the cross-sectional component of EU-SILC, for equivalised disposable income and for the unadjusted gender pay gap (if applicable). 2.3.
Non-response errors The following information will be provided: 2.3.3.1.
Achieved sample size - number of households for which an interview is accepted for the database.
Rotational group breakdown (if applicable) and total, - number of persons of 16 years or older who are members of the households for which the interview is accepted for the database, and who completed a personal interview.
Rotational group breakdown (if applicable) and total. 2.3.3.2.
For those Members States where a sample of persons rather than a sample of households (addresses) was selected, the individual non-response rates will be calculated for %quot%the selected respondent%quot% (RB245 = 2), for all individuals aged 16 years or older (RB245 = 2 + 3) and for the non-selected respondent (RB245 = 3). 2.3.3.3.
Distribution of households (original units) by %quot%record of contact at address%quot% (DB120), by %quot%household questionnaire result%quot% (DB130) and by %quot%household interview acceptance%quot% (DB135), for each rotational group (if applicable) and for the total 2.3.3.4.
Distribution of substituted units (if applicable) by %quot%record of contact at address%quot% (DB120), by %quot%household questionnaire result%quot% (DB130) and by %quot%household interview acceptance%quot% (DB135), for each rotational group (if applicable) and for the total 2.3.3.5.
Item non-response For income variables the following information will be provided: - percentages of households (per income components collected or compiled at household level)/persons (per income components collected or compiled at personal level) having received an amount for each income component, - percentage of missing values for each income component collected or compiled at household/personal level, - percentage of partial information for each income component collected or compiled at household/personal level. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004005EN.004701.TIF%quot%%gt% 2.3.3.6.
Mode of data collection For Member States using a sample of addresses/households, the distribution of household members aged 16 or over by %quot%data status%quot% (RB250) and by %quot%type of interview%quot% (RB260) will be provided, for each rotational group (if applicable) and for the total.
COMPARABILITY 3.1.
Basic concepts and definitions The national concepts used, the differences between the national concepts and standard EU-SILC concepts, and an assessment, if available, of the consequences of the differences mentioned will be reported for the following areas: - the reference population, - the private household definition, - the household membership, - the income reference period(s) used, - the period for taxes on income and social insurance contributions, - the reference period for taxes on wealth, - the lag between the income reference period and current variables, - the total duration of the data collection of the sample, - basic information on activity status during the income reference period. 3.2.
Components of income 3.2.1.
Differences between the national definitions and standard EU-SILC definitions, and an assessment, if available, of the consequences of the differences mentioned will be reported for the following target variables: - total household gross income, - total disposable household income, - total disposable household income, before social transfers other than old-age and survivors' benefits, - total disposable household income, before social transfers including old-age and survivors' benefits, - imputed rent(1), - income from rental of property or land, - family/children-related allowances, - social exclusion payments not elsewhere classified, - housing allowances, - regular inter-household cash transfers received, - interest, dividends, profit from capital investments in unincorporated businesses, - interest paid on mortgages(2), - income received by people aged under 16, - regular taxes on wealth, - regular inter-household transfers paid, - tax on income and social insurance contributions, - repayments/receipts for tax adjustments, - cash or near-cash employee income, - non-cash employee income(3), - employers' social insurance contributions(4), - cash profits or losses from self-employment (including royalties); - value of goods produced for own consumption(5), - unemployment benefits, - old-age benefits, - survivors' benefits, - sickness benefits, - disability benefits, - education-related allowances, - gross monthly earnings for employees(6). 3.2.2.
The source or procedure used for the collection of income variables 3.2.3.
Comparison of income target variables and number of persons who receive income from each %quot%income component%quot%, with external sources A comparison with external sources for all income target variables and the number of persons who receive income from each %quot%income component%quot% (1) Mandatory from 2007. (2) Mandatory from 2007. (3) This variable (with the exception of company car) will be collected only from 2007 onwards. (4) This variable will be recorded only from 2007 if feasibility studies show it is possible. (5) Mandatory from 2007. (6) Compulsory only for Member States that have no other source than EU-SILC to calculate the gender pay gap.
Weightings 2.1.8.1.
Non-response adjustments 2.1.8.3.
Non-response adjustments 2.1.8.6.
Adjustments to external data (level, variables used and sources) 2.1.8.7.
Final longitudinal weight 2.1.8.8.
Main characteristics of substituted units compared to original units, by region (NUTS 2) if available 2.1.9.3.
Distribution of substituted units by record of contact at address (DB120), household questionnaire result (DB130) and household interview acceptance (DB135) of the original units 2.2.
Sampling errors For the EU-SILC cross-sectional component and for each wave of the EU-SILC longitudinal component, the following information will be provided: - The mean, the total number of observations (before and after imputation) and the standard errors for the following income components: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004005EN.005101.TIF%quot%%gt% - The mean, the number of observations (before and after imputations) and the standard error for the equivalised disposable income breakdown by sex, agegroups and household size: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2004005EN.005102.TIF%quot%%gt% 2.3.
Sampling frame and coverage errors For the first wave of the EU-SILC longitudinal component, the information on sampling frame and coverage errors as defined in Annex II, point 2.3.1, of the present Regulation will be provided. 2.3.2.
Measurement and processing errors For each wave of the EU-SILC longitudinal component, information on measurement and processing errors as defined in Annex II, point 2.3.2, of the present Regulation will be provided. 2.3.3.
Non-response errors 2.3.3.1.
Achieved sample size For each wave of the EU-SILC longitudinal component the following information will be provided: - number of households for which an interview is accepted for the database; - number of persons 16 years or older, number of sample persons and number of co-residents, who are members of the households for which the interview is accepted for the database, and who completed a personal interview. 2.3.3.2.
The following information will be provided for the second and following waves of the EU-SILC longitudinal component: - Response rate for households - Wave response rate Percentage of households successfully interviewed (DB135 = 1) which were passed on to wave t (from wave t-1) or newly created or added during wave t, excluding those out of scope (under the tracing rules) or non-existent. - Longitudinal follow-up rate Percentage of households which are passed on to wave t+1 for follow-up within the households received into wave t from wave t-1, excluding those out of scope (under the tracing rules) or non-existent. - Follow-up ratio Number of households passed on from wave t to wave t+1 in comparison to the number of households received for follow-up at wave t from wave t-1. - Achieved sample size ratio Ratio of the number of households accepted for the database (DB135 = 1) in wave t to the number of households accepted for the database (DB135 = 1) in wave t-1. - Response rate for persons - Wave response rate Percentage of sample persons successfully interviewed (RB250 = 11,12,13) among those passed on to wave t (from wave t-1) or newly created or added during wave t, excluding those out of scope (under the tracing rules).
Percentage of co-residents selected in wave 1 successfully interviewed (RB = 11,12,13) among those passed on to wave t (from wave t-1). - Longitudinal follow-up rate Percentage of sample persons successfully interviewed (RB250 = 11,12,13) in wave t out of all of sample persons selected, excluding those who have died or been found ineligible (out of scope), breakdown by causes of non-response. - Achieved sample size ratio Ratio of the number of completed personal interviews (RB250 = 11,12,13) in wave t to the number of completed personal interviews in wave t-1.
This ratio will be defined for sample persons and for all persons including non-sample persons aged 16+ and for co-residents aged 16+ selected in first wave. - Response rate for non-sample persons Ratio of the number of completed personal interviews (RB250 = 11,12,13) of non-sample persons aged 16+ in wave t to all non-sample persons aged 16+ listed in the households accepted for the database (DB135 = 1) in wave t or listed in the most recently conducted household interviews for households, which were forwarded from wave t-1 to wave t for follow-up, but could not be successfully interviewed in wave t. 2.3.3.3.
Distribution of households by household status (DB110), by record of contact at address (DB120), by household questionnaire result (DB130) and by household interview acceptance (DB135) For each wave of EU-SILC longitudinal component, the distribution of households by household status, by record of contact at address, by household questionnaire result and by household interview acceptance will be provided. 2.3.3.4.
Mode of data collection For each wave of EU-SILC longitudinal component, the distribution of household members aged 16 or over by %quot%data status%quot% (RB250) and by %quot%type of interview%quot% (RB260) will be provided, for each sample person, for co-residents and for the total. 2.5.
COMPARABILITY 3.1.
For the second and following waves any changes in basic concepts and definitions from first wave will be reported. 3.2.
Components of income 3.2.1.
For the second and following waves, any changes in the definition of income components from first wave will be reported. 3.2.2.
The source or procedure used for the collection of income variables For the first wave of the EU-SILC longitudinal component, the source or procedure used for the collection of income variables will be provided.
For the second and following waves, any changes in the source or procedure used for the collection of income variables will be reported. 3.2.3.
The estimated value, the coefficient of variation, the 95 % confidence interval and effective sample size for the common cross-sectional EU indicators based on the cross-sectional component of EU-SILC, for the equivalised disposable income, and for the unadjusted gender pay gap (if applicable) 1.3.
Interview duration 2.
Comparability 2.1.
Components of income 3.
Coherence COMPARATIVE FINAL QUALITY REPORT Based on the final quality reports provided by Member States, the Commission (Eurostat) shall produce a comparative final quality report containing the following quality criteria: 1.
Sampling errors For EU-SILC cross-sectional component and for each wave of the EU-SILC longitudinal component the following information shall be provided: - the mean, the total number of observations (before and after imputation), the coefficient of variation and the 95 % confidence interval for income components - the mean, the total number of observations (before and after imputation), the coefficient of variation and the 95 % confidence interval for the equivalised disposable income breakdown by sex, age groups and household size 2.3.
Imputation procedure 2.6.
Imputed rent 2.7.
Company cars 3.
Comparability 5.1.
Components of income 5.3.
Tracing rules 6.
