Article 2 For the purposes of this Directive: - food hygiene, hereinafter called 'hygiene' shall mean all measures necessary to ensure the safety and wholesomeness of foodstuffs.
Article 4 Without prejudice to more specific Community rules, microbiological criteria and temperature control criteria for certain classes of foodstuffs may be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 and after consulting the Scientific Committee for Food set up by Decision 74/234/EEC (5).
The guides referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 may be developed under the aegis of a national standards institute referred to in list 2 of the Annex to Council Directive 83/189/EEC of 28 March 1983 laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations (6). 4.
Member States shall assess the guides to good hygiene practice referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 with a view to determining the extent to which they may be presumed to comply with Article 3. 5.
The titles and references of European guides to good hygiene practice developed in accordance with the procedure in paragraphs 6 and 7 shall be published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 6 Member States shall, if they consider it appropriate, recommend food business operators to apply the European Standards of the EN 29000 series in order to implement the general rules of hygiene and the guides to good hygiene practice.
In the latter event, before the expiry of the period referred to in the second subparagraph, the Commission shall initiate the procedure provided for in Article 14 in order to determine whether the envisaged measures may be implemented subject, if necessary, to the appropriate amendments.
The competent authorities shall carry out controls in accordance with Directive 89/397/EEC in order to ensure that the provisions of Article 3 of this Directive and, where appropriate, any provisions laid down pursuant to Article 4 of this Directive are being complied with by food businesses.
The Commission may, in the case provided for in paragraph 1, take interim protective measures regarding the foodstuffs concerned. 3.
Except in an emergency, the Commission shall consult the Member States before taking the measures referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2. 4.
The Commission shall notify the Council and the Member States without delay of any decision taken pursuant to paragraphs 1 and 2.
Where a Member State officially informs the Commission of the need to take safeguard measures and the Commission has not had recourse to the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, that Member State may take interim protective measures with regard to imports of the foodstuffs in question.
Where a Member State, as a result of new information or of a reassessment of existing information, has good reason to suspect that application of the detailed provisions laid down pursuant to Article 4 constitutes a health risk, it may temporarily suspend or restrict application of the provisions in question in its territory.
The Commission shall examine the reasons given by the Member State referred to in paragraph 1 as soon as possible in the Standing Committee on Foodstuffs and shall deliver its opinion and take any necessary measures in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14.
Article 12 Member States shall designate the competent authorities responsible for the control of hygiene and shall notify the Commission of them.
Article 13 Amendments to references to international standards, such as those of the Codex Alimentarius, contained in this Directive, may be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14.
Article 14 The Commission shall be assisted by the Standing Committee on Foodstuffs (hereinafter referred to as 'the Committee').
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The Commission shall adopt the measures envisaged if they are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee.
Article 15 The Commission shall submit a report to the European Parliament and the Council, by 31 December 1998, together with any appropriate proposals, on the experience gleaned from the implementation of this Directive.
Article 17 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 14 June 1993.
TROEJBORG (1) OJ No C 174, 23. 11. 1992; and OJ No C 150, 31. 5. 1993.(2) OJ No C 223, 31. 8. 1992, p. 16.(3) OJ No L 186, 30. 6. 1989, p. 23.(4) Codex Alimentarius Volume A.
Second Revision (1985).
Directive as last amended by Decision 92/400/EEC (OJ No L 221, 6. 8. 1992, p. 55).(7) OJ No L 291, 19. 11. 1969, p. 9.
ANNEX Preface 1.
The remaining chapters of the Annex apply as follows: - Chapter I to all food premises except those covered by Chapter III, - Chapter II to all rooms where food is prepared, treated or processed except those covered by Chapter III and excluding dining areas, - Chapter III to those premises listed in the heading to the Chapter, - Chapter IV to all transportation. 2.
I General requirements for food premises (other than those specified in Chapter III) 1.
Food premises must be kept clean and maintained in good repair and condition. 2.
Adequate changing facilities for personnel must be provided where necessary.
II Specific requirements in rooms where foodstuffs are prepared, treated or processed (excluding dining areas and those premises specified in Chapter III) 1.
Conveyances and/or containers used for transporting foodstuffs must be kept clean and maintained in good repair and condition in order to protect foodstuffs from contamination and must, where necessary, be designed and constructed to permit adequate cleaning and/or disinfection. 2.
VI Food waste 1.
VII Water supply 1.
There must be an adequate supply of potable water as specified in Council Directive 80/778/EEC of 15 July 1980 relating to the quality of water intended for human consumption (1).
This potable water must be used whenever necessary to ensure foodstuffs are not contamined. 2.
VIII Personal hygiene 1.
IX Provisions applicable to foodstuffs 1.
Adequate procedures must be in place to ensure pests are controlled. 4.
