Article 3 Final provisions 1.
Done at Frankfurt am Main, 31 August 2000.
Duisenberg ANNEX I THE SINGLE MONETARY POLICY IN STAGE THREE General documentation on Eurosystem monetary policy instruments and procedures November 2000 CONTENTS %gt%TABLE%gt% Abbreviations Countries %gt%TABLE%gt% Others %gt%TABLE%gt% In accordance with Community practice, the EU countries are listed in this document using the alphabetical order of the country names in the national languages.
Chapter 5 specifies procedures applied in the execution of monetary policy operations.
Chapter 7 presents the Eurosystem's minimum reserve system.
The Eurosystem monetary policy operations are executed on uniform terms and conditions in all Member States(4). 1.2.
Objectives of the Eurosystem The primary objective of the Eurosystem is to maintain price stability, as defined in Article 105 of the Treaty.
The most important instrument is reverse transactions (applicable on the basis of repurchase agreements or collateralised loans).
In these operations, the Eurosystem does not, as a rule, intend to send signals to the market and therefore normally acts as a rate taker. - Fine-tuning operations are executed on an ad hoc basis with the aim of managing the liquidity situation in the market and of steering interest rates, in particular in order to smooth the effects on interest rates caused by unexpected liquidity fluctuations in the market.
These operations are executed whenever the ECB wishes to adjust the structural position of the Eurosystem vis-à-vis the financial sector (on a regular or non-regular basis).
Structural operations in the form of outright transactions are executed through bilateral procedures. 1.3.2.
Two standing facilities are available to eligible counterparties on their own initiative, subject to their fulfilment of certain operational access conditions (see also Table 1): - Counterparties can use the marginal lending facility to obtain overnight liquidity from the National Central Banks against eligible assets.
The interest rate on the marginal lending facility normally provides a ceiling for the overnight market interest rate. - Counterparties can use the deposit facility to make overnight deposits with the National Central Banks.
The interest rate on the deposit facility normally provides a floor for the overnight market interest rate.
The standing facilities are administered in a decentralised manner by the National Central Banks. 1.3.3.
Institutions subject to minimum reserves according to Article 19.1 of the Statute of the ESCB may access the standing facilities and participate in open market operations based on standard tenders.
The set of counterparties for these operations is limited to those institutions selected for Eurosystem foreign exchange intervention operations which are located in the euro area. 1.5.
ELIGIBLE COUNTERPARTIES 2.1.
These general eligibility criteria are uniform throughout the euro area.
Institutions fulfilling the general eligibility criteria may: - access the Eurosystem standing facilities, and - participate in Eurosystem open market operations based on standard tenders.
Institutions may access the Eurosystem standing facilities and open market operations based on standard tenders only through the National Central Bank of the Member State in which the institution is established.
If an institution has establishments (head office and branches) in more than one Member State, each establishment has access to these operations through the National Central Bank of the Member State in which it is located, notwithstanding the fact that the tender bids of an institution may only be submitted by one establishment (either the head office or a designated branch) in each Member State. 2.2.
The criteria and procedures applied for the selection of counterparties for foreign exchange intervention operations are presented in Annex 3.
In quick tenders and bilateral operations, the National Central Banks deal exclusively with the counterparties which are included in their respective set of fine-tuning counterparties.
If the ECB were to carry out bilateral operations, the selection of counterparties would in such cases be made by the ECB according to a rotation scheme among those counterparties in the euro area which are eligible for quick tenders and bilateral operations in order to ensure equitable access. 2.3.
Sanctions in the event of non-compliance with counterparty obligations The ECB shall impose sanctions, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 2532/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the power of the European Central Bank to impose sanctions (OJ L 318, 27.11.1998, p. 4), the European Central Bank Regulation (EC) No 2157/1999) of 23 September 1999 on the powers of the European Central Bank to impose sanctions (ECB/1999/4) (OJ L 264, 12.10.1999, p. 21), Council Regulation (EC) No 2531/98 of 23 November 1998 on the application of minimum reserves by the European Central Bank and the European Central Bank Regulation (EC) No 2818/98 of 1 December 1998 on the application of minimum reserves (ECB/1998/15) (OJ L 356, 30.12.1998, p. 1), on institutions which do not comply with obligations arising from ECB Regulations and Decisions relating to the application of minimum reserves.
In accordance with provisions in the contractual or regulatory arrangements applied by the respective National Central Bank (or by the ECB), the Eurosystem shall impose financial penalties on counterparties or suspend counterparties from participation in open market operations if counterparties fail to comply with their obligations under the contractual or regulatory arrangements applied by the National Central Banks (or by the ECB) as set out below.
In addition, suspension or exclusion of counterparties may be warranted in some cases falling within the notion of the %quot%default%quot% of a counterparty as defined in the contractual or regulatory arrangements applied by the National Central Banks.
Further provisions for reverse transactions based on repurchase agreements are specified in the contractual arrangements applied by the respective National Central Bank (or the ECB).
Fine-tuning operations aim to manage the liquidity situation in the market and to steer interest rates, in particular in order to smooth the effects on interest rates caused by unexpected liquidity fluctuations in the market.
Outright open market operations are executed only for structural and fine-tuning purposes.
b) Legal nature An outright transaction implies a full transfer of ownership from the seller to the buyer with no connected reverse transfer of ownership.
d) Other operational features The operational features of Eurosystem outright transactions can be summarised as follows: - They can take the form of liquidity-providing (outright purchase) or liquidity-absorbing (outright sales) operations. - Their frequency is not standardised. - They are executed through bilateral procedures (as specified in Section 5.2). - They are normally executed in a decentralised manner by the National Central Banks (the Governing Council of the ECB will decide whether, under exceptional circumstances, fine-tuning outright operations may be executed by the ECB). - No restrictions are placed a priori on the range of counterparties to outright transactions. - Only tier one instruments (as specified in Section 6.1) are normally used as underlying assets in outright transactions. 3.3.
b) Legal nature The certificates constitute a debt obligation of the ECB vis-à-vis the holder of the certificate.
The certificates are issued and held in a book-entry form in securities depositories in the euro area.
The calculation of the issue amount is shown in Box 1.
The exchange rate terms of foreign exchange swaps are specified in Box 2.
The collection of fixed-term deposits is envisaged only for fine-tuning purposes in order to absorb liquidity in the market.
STANDING FACILITIES 4.1.
Under normal circumstances, the interest rate on the facility provides a ceiling for the overnight market interest rate.
c) Access conditions Institutions fulfilling the general counterparty eligibility criteria specified in Section 2.1 may access the marginal lending facility.
The procedures for end-of-day access to the marginal lending facility are specified in Section 5.3.3.
The deadline for requesting access to the marginal lending facility is postponed by an additional 30 minutes on the last Eurosystem business day of a reserve maintenance period(16).
The interest rate is announced in advance by the Eurosystem and is calculated as a simple interest rate with the day-count convention %quot%actual/360%quot%.
The deposit facility a) Type of instrument Counterparties can use the deposit facility to make overnight deposits with National Central Banks.
Under normal circumstances, the interest rate on the facility provides a floor for the overnight market interest rate.
The terms and conditions of the deposit facility are identical throughout the euro area(18).
b) Legal nature The overnight deposits accepted from counterparties are remunerated at a fixed rate of interest.
ECB time (CET)(20).
The interest rate is announced in advance by the Eurosystem and is calculated as a simple interest rate with the day-count convention %quot%actual/360%quot%.
e) Suspension of the facility Access to the facility is granted only in accordance with the objectives and general monetary policy considerations of the ECB.
PROCEDURES 5.1.
Tender procedures 5.1.1.
Tender announcement a) Announcement by the ECB through public wire services b) Announcement by the National Central Banks through national wire services and directly to individual counterparties (if deemed necessary) Step 2.
The main refinancing operations, the longer-term refinancing operations and structural operations (with the exception of outright transactions) are always executed in the form of standard tenders.
Counterparties fulfilling the general eligibility criteria specified in Section 2.1 may participate in standard tenders.
CHART 1 Normal time frame for the operational steps for standard tenders (times are stated in ECB time (CET)) %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000310EN.002102.EPS%quot%%gt% Note: The figures refer to the operational steps as defined in Box 3.
The Eurosystem may select, according to the criteria and procedures specified in Section 2.2, a limited number of counterparties to participate in quick tenders.
CHART 2 Normal time frame for the operational steps for quick tenders %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000310EN.002201.EPS%quot%%gt% Note: The figures refer to the operational steps as defined in Box 3.
c) Fixed rate and variable rate tenders The Eurosystem has the option of conducting either fixed rate (volume) or variable rate (interest) tenders.
c) Fine-tuning operations Fine-tuning operations are not executed according to any pre-specified calendar.
The ECB may decide to conduct fine-tuning operations on any Eurosystem business day.
In variable rate tenders, counterparties may submit bids for up to ten different interest rate/price/swap point levels.
The minimum bid amount is applied to each individual interest rate/price/swap point level.
Tender allotment procedures a) Fixed rate tender operations In the allotment of a fixed rate tender, the bids received from counterparties are added together.
However, the ECB may decide to allot a minimum amount/ratio to each bidder in fixed rate tenders.
BOX 4 Allotment of fixed rate tenders Where: A: total amount allotted n: total number of counterparties ai: bid amount of the ith counterparty all%: percentage of allotment alli: total amount allotted to the ith counterparty The percentage of allotment is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% The amount allotted to the ith counterparty is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% b) Variable rate tenders in euro In the allotment of liquidity-providing variable rate tenders in euro, bids are listed in diminishing order of offered interest rates.
BOX 5 Allotment of variable rate tenders in euro (the example refers to bids quoted in the form of interest rates) Where: A: total amount allotted rs: sth interest rate bid by the counterparties n: total number of counterparties a(rs)i: amount bid at the sth interest rate (rs) by the ith counterparty a(rs): total amount bid at the sth interest rate (rs) %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% rm: marginal interest rate %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% for a liquidity-providing tender, %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% for a liquidity-absorbing tender rm-1: interest rate before the marginal interest rate (last interest rate at which bids are completely satisfied), %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% for a liquidity-providing tender, %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% for a liquidity-absorbing tender all%(rm): percentage of allotment at the marginal interest rate all(rs)i: allotment to the ith counterparty at the sth interest rate alli: total amount allotted to the ith counterparty The percentage of allotment at the marginal interest rate is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% The allotment to the ith counterparty at the marginal interest rate is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% The total amount allotted to the ith counterparty is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% In the allotment of liquidity-absorbing variable rate tenders (which may be used for the issuance of debt certificates and the collection of fixed-term deposits), bids are listed in increasing order of offered interest rates (or diminishing order of offered prices).
c) Variable rate foreign exchange swap tenders In the allotment of liquidity-providing variable rate foreign exchange swap tenders, bids are listed in increasing order of swap point quotations(30).
The bids with the lowest swap point quotations are satisfied as having priority and successively higher swap point quotations are accepted until the total amount of the fixed currency to be allotted is exhausted.
BOX 6 Allotment of variable rate foreign exchange swap tenders Where: A: total amount allotted Δs: sth swap point quotation bid by the counterparties n: total number of counterparties a(Δs)i: amount bid at the sth swap point quotation (Δs) by the ith counterparty a(Δs): total amount bid at the sth swap point quotation (Δs) %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Δm: marginal swap point quotation %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% for a liquidity-providing foreign exchange swap, %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% for a liquidity-absorbing foreign exchange swap Δm-1: swap point quotation before the marginal swap point quotation (last swap point quotation at which bids are completely satisfied), %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% for a liquidity-providing foreign exchange swap, %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% for a liquidity-absorbing foreign exchange swap all%(Δm): percentage of allotment at the marginal swap point quotation all(Δs)i: allotment to the ith counterparty at the sth swap point quotation alli: total amount allotted to the ith counterparty The percentage of allotment at the marginal swap point quotation is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% The allotment to the ith counterparty at the marginal swap point quotation is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% The total amount allotted to the ith counterparty is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% In the allotment of liquidity-absorbing variable rate foreign exchange swap tenders, bids are listed in diminishing order of offered swap point quotations.
d) Type of auction For variable rate tenders, the Eurosystem may apply either single rate or multiple rate auction procedures.
In a multiple rate auction (American auction), the allotment interest rate/price/swap point is equal to the interest rate/price/swap point offered for each individual bid. 5.1.6.
The public tender result message normally contains the following information: - reference number of the tender operation, - the date of the tender operation, - the type of operation, - the maturity of the operation, - the total amount bid by Eurosystem counterparties, - the number of bidders, - the currencies involved (in the case of foreign exchange swaps), - the total amount allotted, - the percentage of allotment (in the case of fixed rate tenders), - the spot exchange rate (in the case of foreign exchange swaps), - the marginal interest rate/price/swap point accepted and the percentage of allotment at the marginal interest rate/price/swap point (in the case of variable rate tenders), - the minimum bid rate, maximum bid rate and weighted average allotment rate (in the case of multiple rate auctions), - the start date and the maturity date of the operation (if applicable) or the value date and maturity date of the instrument (in the case of the issuance of debt certificates), - the minimum individual allotment amount (if any), - the minimum allotment ratio (if any), - the denomination of the certificates (in the case of the issuance of debt certificates), - the ISIN code of the issue (in the case of the issuance of debt certificates).
In this case, the ECB (or the National Central Bank(s) acting as the operating arm of the ECB) would directly contact one or a few counterparties in the euro area, selected according to the criteria specified in Section 2.2.
Outright bilateral operations for structural purposes are normally conducted and settled only on days which are NCB business days in all Member States. 5.3.
Settlement procedures 5.3.1.
General considerations Money transactions relating to the use of Eurosystem standing facilities or to participation in open market operations are settled on the counterparties' accounts with the National Central Banks (or on the accounts of settlement banks participating in TARGET).
Settlement of open market operations Open market operations based on standard tenders (the main refinancing operations, the longer-term refinancing operations and structural operations) are normally settled on the first day following the trade day on which all relevant national RTGS and all relevant SSSs are open.
The Eurosystem aims to settle open market operations based on quick tenders and bilateral procedures on the trade day.
TABLE 3 Normal settlement dates for Eurosystem open market operations((T refers to the trade day.
Counterparties' requests for access to the marginal lending facility or to the deposit facility must be submitted to the respective National Central Bank at the latest 30 minutes after the actual closing time of TARGET(33)(34).
ELIGIBLE ASSETS 6.1.
These two categories are referred to as %quot%tier one%quot% and %quot%tier two%quot% respectively: - tier one consists of marketable debt instruments fulfilling uniform euro area-wide eligibility criteria specified by the ECB, - tier two consists of additional assets, marketable and non-marketable, which are of particular importance to national financial markets and banking systems and for which eligibility criteria are established by the National Central Banks, subject to the minimum eligibility criteria established by the ECB.
Tier one and tier two assets are subject to the risk control measures specified in Section 6.4.
The following eligibility criteria are applied to other tier one assets (see also Table 4): - They must be debt instruments(38), - They must meet high credit standards.
In the assessment of the credit standard of debt instruments, the ECB takes into account, inter alia, available ratings by market agencies, as well as certain institutional criteria which would ensure particularly high protection of the holders(39), - They must be located in the euro area (so that realisation is subject to the law of a Member State of the euro area), transferable in book-entry form and deposited with a National Central Bank or with a central securities depository which fulfils the minimum standards established by the ECB(40), - They must be denominated in euro(41), - They must be issued (or guaranteed) by entities established in the EEA(42), - They must, at least, be listed or quoted on a regulated market as defined according to the Investment Services Directive(43), or listed, quoted or traded on certain non-regulated markets as specified by the ECB(44).
The specific national eligibility criteria for tier two assets are subject to approval by the ECB.
Tier two assets have to fulfil the following minimum eligibility criteria (see also Table 4): - They must be either debt instruments (marketable or non-marketable) or equities (traded on a regulated market as defined according to the Investment Services Directive(50)).
Tier two assets eligible for Eurosystem monetary policy operations may be used in a cross-border context, implying that a counterparty can receive funds from the National Central Bank of the Member State in which the counterparty is established by making use of assets located in another Member State (see Section 6.6).
Tier two assets are not normally used in Eurosystem outright transactions. 6.4.
The risk control measures at the disposal of the Eurosystem are described in Box 7.
This implies that the value of the underlying asset is calculated as the market value of the asset less a certain percentage (haircut). - Variation margins (marking to market) The Eurosystem requires a specified margin to be maintained over time on the underlying assets used in its liquidity-providing reverse transactions.
The haircuts are differentiated according to the residual maturity and coupon structure of the debt instruments as described in Box 8, BOX 8 Levels of valuation haircuts applied to eligible tier one assets Valuation haircuts applied to fixed rate instruments: 0 % for instruments with a residual maturity of up to 1 year 1,5 % for instruments with a residual maturity of more than 1 year and up to 3 years 2 % for instruments with a residual maturity of more than 3 years and up to 7 years 3 % for coupon bonds with a residual maturity of more than 7 years 5 % for zero coupon bonds and strips with a residual maturity of more than 7 years Valuation haircuts applied to floating rate instruments: 0 % for instruments with post-fixed coupons For instruments with pre-fixed coupons, the same valuation haircuts are applied as those for fixed rate instruments.
Valuation haircuts applied to inverse floating rate instruments: 1,5 % for instruments with residual maturity of up to 1 year 4 % for instruments with a residual maturity of more than 1 year and up to 3 years 8 % for instruments with a residual maturity of more than 3 years and up to 7 years 12 % for instruments with a residual maturity of more than 7 years - No valuation haircuts are applied in liquidity-absorbing operations, - Depending on both the jurisdiction and national operational systems, National Central Banks allow for the pooling of underlying assets and/or require the earmarking of the assets used in each individual transaction.
In an earmarking system (I = 1), a margin call is effected when: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% (the counterparty pays the margin call to the National Central Bank); or %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% (the National Central Bank pays the margin call to the counterparty).
The risk control measures are based on interest rate volatility, the level of interest rates, an assumed liquidation horizon and the relevant maturity of the asset.
Valuation principles for underlying assets When determining the value of underlying assets used in reverse transactions, the Eurosystem applies the following principles: - For each marketable asset eligible in tier one or tier two, the Eurosystem specifies a single reference market to be used as a price source.
If more than one price is quoted, the lowest of these prices (normally the bid price) is used, - The value of marketable assets is calculated on the basis of the most representative price on the business day preceding the valuation date, - In the absence of a representative price for a particular asset on the business day preceding the valuation date, the last trading price is used.
In addition to the CCBM, eligible links between SSSs can be used for the cross-border transfer of securities(61). 6.6.1.
The legal framework for the Eurosystem's minimum reserve system is laid down in Article 19 of the Statute of the ESCB, the Council Regulation (EC) concerning the application of minimum reserves by the European Central Bank and the ECB Regulation on minimum reserves.
The lists available to the public on the last Eurosystem business day of each calendar month are valid for the calculation of the reserve base for the subsequent maintenance period. 7.3.
Liabilities vis-à-vis other institutions included in the list of institutions subject to the Eurosystem's minimum reserve system and liabilities vis-à-vis the ECB and the National Central Banks are not included in the reserve base.
An institution may apply to the National Central Bank in the Member State in which the institution is resident for permission to hold all its minimum reserves indirectly through an intermediary.
The remuneration is paid on the second NCB business day following the end of the maintenance period over which the remuneration was earned.
BOX 12 Calculation of the remuneration of holdings of required reserves The holding of required reserves is remunerated according to the following formula: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% Where: Rt= remuneration to be paid on holdings of required reserves for the maintenance period t Ht= holdings of required reserves for the maintenance period t nt= number of calendar days in the maintenance period t i= ith calendar day of the maintenance period t MRi= marginal interest rate of the most recent main refinancing operation spanning calendar day i 7.5.
Article 5 of ECB Regulation (EC) No 2818/98 (ECB/1998/15) defines procedures for the confirmation and, in exceptional cases, the revision of the reserve base and the reserve requirement of the institution.
Where an institution fails to comply with all or part of the reserve requirement, the ECB may, in accordance with the Council Regulation (EC) concerning the application of minimum reserves by the European Central Bank, impose any one of the following sanctions: - a payment of up to 5 percentage points above the marginal lending rate, applied to the amount of the reserve requirement which the relevant institution failed to provide, or - a payment of up to two times the marginal lending rate, applied to the amount of the reserve requirement which the relevant institution failed to provide, or - the requirement for the relevant institution to establish non-interest-bearing deposits with the ECB or the National Central Banks up to three times the amount of the reserve requirement which the relevant institution failed to provide.
Standard tenders are executed within a time frame of 24 hours from the tender announcement to the certification of the allotment result.
All counterparties fulfilling the general eligibility criteria specified in Section 2.1 may participate in standard tenders.
The closing time for access to the standing facilities will then be 30 minutes after the closing time of the relevant national RTGS system. (15) In some Member States, the National Central Bank (or some of its branches) may not be open for the purpose of conducting monetary policy operations on certain Eurosystem business days due to national or regional bank holidays.
The National Central Banks will provide information on any such deviations from the access conditions described in this document. (20) In some Member States the National Central Bank (or some of its branches) may not be open for the purpose of conducting Eurosystem monetary policy operations on certain Eurosystem business days owing to national or regional bank holidays.
In such cases, prices shall be quoted as a percentage of the nominal amount. (28) In variable rate foreign exchange swaps, the amount of the currency kept fixed that the counterparty is willing to transact with the Eurosystem and the respective swap point level are to be stated. (29) Or to settle in cash in the case of liquidity-absorbing operations. (30) Swap point quotations are listed in increasing order taking into account the sign of the quotation, which depends on the sign of the interest rate differential between the foreign currency and the euro.
However, neither initial margins nor valuation haircuts are applied in liquidity-absorbing operations. (36) In addition, the ECB may allow the National Central Banks to consider as eligible for intraday credit certain types of assets which are not eligible as underlying assets for Eurosystem monetary policy operations (see footnote 47). (37) This list is published and updated weekly on the ECB's website (www.ecb.int). (38) Debt instruments convertible into equity (or with similar characteristics) and debt instruments which afford rights subordinate to the claims of holders of other debt instruments of the issuer are excluded from tier one. (39) Debt instruments issued by credit institutions which do not comply strictly with the criteria set out in Article 22(4) of the UCITS Directive (Council Directive 88/220/EEC (OJ L 100, 19.4.1988, p. 31) amending Council Directive 85/611/EEC (OJ L 375, 31.12.1985, p. 3)) are accepted in tier one only if each issue as such is awarded a rating (by a rating agency) which indicates, in the view of the Eurosystem, that the debt instrument meets high credit standards. (40) The description of the standards for the use of eligible SSSs in the euro area and an updated list of the eligible links between these systems can be found on the ECB's website (www.ecb.int). (41) Expressed as such or in the national denominations of the euro. (42) The requirement that the issuing entity must be established in the EEA does not apply to international and supra-national institutions. (43) Directive 93/22/EEC, Council Directive of 10 May 1993 on investment services in the securities field, (OJ L 141, 11 June 1993, p. 27). (44) Debt instruments issued by credit institutions which do not comply strictly with the criteria set out in Article 22(4) of the UCITS Directive (Directive 88/220/EEC amending Directive 85/611/EEC) are accepted in tier one only if they are listed or quoted on a regulated market as defined according to the Investment Services Directive (Directive 93/22/EEC) and comply with the requirements of the Prospectus Directive (Council Directive 89/298/EEC (OJ L 124, 5.5.1989, p. 8)). (45) Article 1(26), of Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 March 2000 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions, reads as follows: %quot%Close links shall mean a situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are linked by: (a) participation, which shall mean the ownership, direct or by way of control, of 20 % or more of the voting rights or capital of an undertaking, or (b) control, which shall mean the relationship between a parent undertaking and a subsidiary, in all the cases referred to in Article 1(1) and (2) of Directive 83/349/EEC, or a similar relationship between any natural or legal person and an undertaking; any subsidiary undertaking of a subsidiary undertaking shall also be considered a subsidiary undertaking of the parent undertaking which is at the head of those undertakings.
A situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are permanently linked to one and the same person by a control relationship shall also be regarded as constituting a close link between such persons.%quot% (46) This provision does not apply to (i) close links between the counterparty and the public authorities of EEA countries; (ii) trade bills, for which at least one entity (other than a credit institution) is liable in addition to the counterparty; (iii) debt instruments which comply strictly with the criteria set out in Article 22(4) of the UCITS Directive (Directive 88/220/EEC amending Directive 85/611/EEC); or (iv) cases in which debt instruments are protected by specific legal safeguards comparable to (iii). (47) If the National Central Banks were to allow the use of instruments with a maturity shorter than the monetary policy operations for which they serve as underlying assets, counterparties would be required to replace such assets at, or prior to, maturity. (48) In addition to the tier two assets eligible for Eurosystem monetary policy operations, the ECB may authorise National Central Banks to grant intraday credit against debt instruments which are considered eligible for intraday credit by non-participating EU central banks and which are: 1) located in EEA countries outside the euro area; 2) issued by entities established in EEA countries outside the euro area; 3) denominated in EEA currencies (or other widely traded currencies).
The content of this chapter is provided only for information purposes. (66) The lists are available to the public on the ECB's website (www.ecb.int). (67) The reporting framework for the ECB's money and banking statistics is presented in Annex 4. (68) See ECB Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 (ECB/1998/15) on the application of minimum reserves.
Liquidity-absorbing foreign exchange swap by variable rate tender 5.
Liquidity-providing foreign exchange swap by variable rate tender 6.
Risk control measures EXAMPLE 1 Liquidity-providing reverse transaction by fixed rate tender The ECB decides to provide liquidity to the market by means of a reverse transaction organised with a fixed rate tender procedure. %gt%TABLE%gt% The ECB decides to allot a total of EUR 105 million.
The percentage of allotment is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% EXAMPLE 2 Liquidity-providing reverse transaction by variable rate tender The ECB decides to provide liquidity to the market by means of a reverse transaction organised with a variable rate tender procedure. %gt%TABLE%gt% The ECB decides to allot EUR 94 million, implying a marginal interest rate of 3,05 %.
All bids above 3,05 % (for a cumulative amount of EUR 80 million) are fully satisfied.
At 3,05 % the percentage of allotment is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% The allotment to Bank 1 at the marginal interest rate is, for example: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% The total allotment to Bank 1 is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% If the allotment procedure follows a single rate (Dutch) auction, the interest rate applied to the amounts allotted to the counterparties is 3,05 %.
If the allotment procedure follows a multiple rate (American) auction, no unique interest rate is applied to the amounts allotted to the counterparties; for example, Bank 1 receives EUR 5 million at 3,07 %, EUR 5 million at 3,06 % and EUR 4 million at 3,05 %.
EXAMPLE 3 Issuance of ECB debt certificates by variable rate tender The ECB decides to absorb liquidity from the market by issuing debt certificates using a variable rate tender procedure. %gt%TABLE%gt% The ECB decides to allot a nominal amount of EUR 124,5 million, implying a marginal interest rate of 3,05 %.
All bids below 3.05 % (for a cumulative amount of EUR 65 million) are fully satisfied.
At 3.05 % the percentage of allotment is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% The allotment to Bank 1 at the marginal interest rate is, for example: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% The total allotment to Bank 1 is: %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% EXAMPLE 4 Liquidity-absorbing foreign exchange swap by variable rate tender The ECB decides to absorb liquidity from the market by executing a foreign exchange swap on the EUR/USD rate by means of a variable rate tender procedure. (Note: The euro is traded at a premium in this example.) %gt%TABLE%gt% The ECB decides to allot EUR 158 million, implying 6,63 marginal swap points.
The example is based on the assumption that a counterparty participates in the following Eurosystem monetary policy operations: - A main refinancing operation starting on 28 June 2000 and ending on 12 July 2000 where the counterparty is allotted EUR 50 million; - A longer-term operation starting on 29 June 2000 and ending on 28 September 2000 where the counterparty is allotted EUR 45 million; - A main refinancing operation starting on 5 July 2000 and ending on 19 July 2000 where the counterparty is allotted EUR 10 million.
The risk control framework can then be described as follows (see also Table 2 below): 1.
For each of the transactions entered into by the counterparty, an initial margin of 2 % is applied since the maturity of the operations exceeds one business day. 2.
On 28 June 2000 the counterparty enters into a repurchase transaction with the National Central Bank, which purchases Bond A for EUR 50 million.
It thus has a residual maturity of two years, therefore requiring a valuation haircut of 1,5 %.
The counterparty is required to provide an amount of Bond A which, after deduction of the 1,5 % valuation haircut, exceeds EUR 51 million (corresponding to the allotted amount of EUR 50 million plus the initial margin of 2 %).
The counterparty therefore delivers Bond A for a nominal amount of EUR 50,5 million, the adjusted market value of which is EUR 51050728 on that day. 3.
On 29 June 2000 the counterparty enters into a repurchase transaction with the National Central Bank, which purchases EUR 21,5 million of Bond A (market price 101,98 %, valuation haircut 1,5 %) and EUR 25 million of Asset B (market price 98,35 %).
Asset B is a floating rate note (FRN) with yearly prefixed coupon payments, to which a 0 % valuation haircut is applied.
The adjusted market value of Bond A and FRN B on that day is EUR 46184315, thus exceeding the required amount of EUR 45900000 (EUR 45 million plus the initial margin of 2 %).
Accrued interest amounts to EUR 11,806 on the main refinancing operation initiated on 28 June 2000 and EUR 5,625 on the longer-term refinancing operation initiated on 29 June 2000.
No margin call is needed on the second transaction because the adjusted market value of the underlying assets used in this transaction EUR (45785712), although slightly below the margined amount (EUR 45905738), does not fall below the trigger level (the margined amount minus 1 %) of EUR 45455681(3). 4.
During 3 and 4 July 2000 the underlying assets are revalued, without resulting in any margin call for the transactions entered into on 28 and 29 June 2000.
On 5 July 2000 the counterparty enters into a repurchase transaction with the National Central Bank, which purchases EUR 10 million of Bond C.
The counterparty delivers EUR 19,5 million of Bond C in nominal value terms.
The zero coupon bond has a residual maturity of around ten years and therefore requires a valuation haircut of 5 %.
As a result, the margin call occurring on 30 June 2000 is slightly higher (EUR 1106035) than was required in the earmarking system, owing to the trigger effect on the transaction entered into on 29 June 2000.
The counterparty delivers EUR 1,15 million of Bond A in nominal value terms, which, after deducting a 1,5 % haircut from the market value based on a price of 100,57 %, restores sufficient collateral coverage.
Annex 2 Glossary Actual/360: the day-count convention applied for the calculation of interest on a credit, implying that the interest is calculated over the actual number of calendar days over which the credit is extended, on the basis of a 360-day year.
Annex 4 The reporting framework for the money and banking statistics of the European Central Bank(1) 1.
Introduction Council Regulation (EC) No 2533/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the collection of statistical information by the ECB (OJ L 318, 27.11.1998, p. 8) defines the natural and legal persons which are subject to reporting requirements (the socalled reference reporting population), the confidentiality regime and the appropriate provisions for enforcement in accordance with Article 5(4) of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank (the %quot%Statute%quot%).
Therefore, the statistical material collected by NCBs under Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 (ECB/1998/16) is also used to calculate the reserve base in accordance with the Regulation (EC) No 2818/98 of the European Central Bank of 1 December 1998 on the application of minimum reserves (ECB/1998/15).
The Articles of ECB Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 (ECB/1998/16) restrict themselves to defining, in general terms, the actual reporting population, its reporting obligations and the principles according to which the ECB and the NCBs normally exercise their competence to verify or compulsorily collect statistical information.
The details of the statistical information to be reported in order to fulfil the ECB's statistical reporting requirements and the minimum standards to be followed are specified in Annexes I to IV to ECB Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 (ECB/1998/16). 3.
The ECB establishes and maintains a list of institutions in accordance with this definition and following the classification principles specified in Annex I to ECB Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 (ECB/1998/16).
NCBs are entitled to grant derogations to small MFIs if the MFIs which contribute to the monthly consolidated balance sheet account for at least 95 % of the total MFI balance sheet in each participating Member State.
Requirements for those small MFIs that are not credit institutions are set out in Annex III to ECB Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 (ECB/1998/16).
Use of statistical information under the ECB Regulation on minimum reserves To minimise the reporting burden and to avoid any duplication in the collection of statistical information, the statistical information related to the balance sheet reported by MFIs under ECB Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 (ECB/1998/16) is also used to calculate the reserve base under ECB Regulation (EC) No 2818/98 (ECB/1998/15).
In order to make a correct calculation of the reserve base to which a positive reserve ratio is applied, a detailed breakdown is required for deposits with an agreed maturity of over two years, for deposits redeemable at notice of over two years and for repo liabilities of credit institutions vis-à-vis the (%quot%domestic%quot% and %quot%other MUMS%quot%) %quot%MFIs%quot%, %quot%CIs subject to minimum reserves, ECB and NCBs%quot% and %quot%Central government%quot% sectors, and vis-à-vis the Rest of the World (RoW). %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000310EN.007001.EPS%quot%%gt% %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000310EN.007101.EPS%quot%%gt% Furthermore, depending on the national collection systems and without prejudice to full compliance with the definitions and classification principles of the MFI balance sheet set out in ECB Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 (ECB/1998/16), credit institutions subject to reserve requirements may alternatively report the data necessary to calculate the reserve base, except those on negotiable instruments, in accordance with the table below, provided that no bold printed positions of the previous table are affected. %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2000310EN.007201.EPS%quot%%gt% Annex II to ECB Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 (ECB/1998/16) contains specific and transitional provisions and provisions on mergers involving credit institutions in respect of the application of the minimum reserve system.
Credit institutions in the %quot%tail%quot% have to report, as a minimum, quarterly data necessary to calculate the reserve base in accordance with Table 1A below.
These institutions ensure that the reporting according to Table 1A is fully consistent with the definitions and classifications applicable in Table 1.
Annex II to ECB Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 (ECB/1998/16) also includes provisions on reporting on a consolidated basis.
For the maintenance period within which a merger takes effect, the reserve requirements of the acquiring institution are calculated and have to be fulfilled as set out in Article 13 of ECB Regulation (EC) No 2818/98 (ECB/1998/15).
The relevant legal acts for the reporting of money and banking statistics are Council Regulation (EC) No 2533/98 of 23 November 1998 concerning the collection of statistical information by the ECB and Regulation (EC) No 2819/98 of the European Central Bank of 1 December 1998 concerning the consolidated balance sheet of the monetary financial institutions sector (ECB/1998/16).
Annex 5 The Eurosystem websites %gt%TABLE%gt% Annex 6 Procedures and sanctions to be applied in the event of non-compliance with counterparty obligations 1.
The financial penalties that can be applied shall be computed at the marginal lending rate plus 2,5 percentage points. - For infringements of rules related to tender operations and bilateral transactions, the financial penalties shall be calculated on the basis of the amount of collateral or cash which the counterparty could not settle and multiplied by the coefficient 7/360. - For infringements of rules related to the use of underlying assets, the financial penalties shall be calculated on the basis of the amount of ineligible assets (1) provided by the counterparty to a National Central Bank or the ECB or (2) not removed by the counterparty after a grace period of 20 working days following an event after which the eligible assets become ineligible and multiplied by the coefficient 1/360.
ii) The first time the rules for end-of-day procedures or for access to the marginal lending facility are infringed, the financial penalties that can be applied shall be computed at 5 percentage points.
Non-financial penalties The Eurosystem shall suspend a counterparty for infringements of rules related to tender operations and bilateral transactions, and of rules for underlying assets as set out below: a) Suspension after infringements of rules related to tender operations and bilateral transactions If a third infringement of the same type occurs within a 12-month period, the Eurosystem shall suspend counterparties from the subsequent open market operation(s) of the same type and executed under the same procedures to be initiated during a certain period in addition to a financial penalty calculated in accordance with the rules outlined in Section 1.
The suspension shall be applied in accordance with the following scale: (i) if the amount of non-delivered collateral or cash is up to 40 % of the total collateral or cash to be delivered on the occasion of the third infringement, a suspension of one month shall be applied; (ii) if the amount of non-delivered collateral or cash is between 40 % and 80 % of the total collateral or cash to be delivered on the occasion of the third infringement, a suspension of two months shall be applied; (iii) if the amount of non-delivered collateral or cash is between 80 % and 100 % of the total collateral or cash to be delivered on the occasion of the third infringement, a suspension of three months shall be applied.
c) Suspension from access to all future monetary policy operations for a certain period in exceptional cases In exceptional cases where required on account of the seriousness of the case(s) of non-compliance, and taking into account in particular the amounts involved, the frequency or the duration of the cases of non-compliance, consideration could be given, in addition to a financial penalty calculated in accordance with Section 1 above, to the suspension of a counterparty from access to all future monetary policy operations for a period of three months.
d) Institutions located in other Member States The Eurosystem may also decide whether the suspension measure proposed to be taken vis-à-vis the non-compliant counterparty should also apply to branches of the same institution located in other Member States. (1) This applies if a counterparty is not able to transfer a sufficient amount of underlying assets to settle the amount of liquidity it has been allotted in a liquidity-providing operation or if it is not able to deliver a sufficient amount of cash to settle the amount it has been allotted in a liquidity-absorbing operation. (2) This applies if a counterparty is not able to deliver a sufficient amount of eligible underlying assets or if it is not able to deliver a sufficient amount of cash to settle the amount agreed in bilateral transactions. (3) This applies if a counterparty is using assets that are or have become ineligible to secure an outstanding credit.. (4) This applies if a counterparty has a negative balance on the settlement account at the end of the day and does not fulfil the access conditions for the marginal lending facility. (5) Financial penalties for cases of non-compliance with the rules for the use of assets which are considered eligible only for intraday credit purposes are only foreseen within the TARGET legal framework.
The relevant contractual or regulatory arrangements applied by the NCB should ensure that its standard terms or conditions will be applicable to monetary policy operations. 2.
The relevant contractual or regulatory arrangements applied by the NCB should ensure that NCBs could obtain any relevant information from Counterparties in relation to the Eurosystem's monetary policy operations. 9.
If the assets in respect of which the comparison is made have been converted or redenominated or a call has been made thereon, the definition of equivalence must be modified to mean in the case of conversion those into which the assets have converted, in the case of a call being made on assets equivalent assets to the paid-up assets, provided that the seller has paid to the buyer a sum equal to the value of the call, and in the case of redenominated assets equivalent assets to those into which the original assets have been redenominated with, as necessary, a sum of money equal to any difference in value between the assets before and after their redenomination. 19.
The events of default entitling the NCB to terminate and close out all outstanding transactions should not be materially different from the provisions set out in point 6. 20.
For the purposes of this calculation, any sums not denominated in euro shall be converted into euro on the relevant date at the rate calculated in accordance with point 16.
c) %quot%Default market value%quot% means, with regard to any assets on any date: (i) the market value of such assets at the default valuation time calculated on the basis of the most representative price on the business day preceding the valuation date; or (ii) in the absence of a representative price for a particular asset on the business day preceding the valuation date, the last trading price is used.
The relevant contractual or regulatory arrangements applied by the NCB should provide that certain events (as to which, see point 30) should lead to a closing-out of all outstanding transactions and must provide for the way in which such a closing-out (including termination netting) would take place. 30.
