PROVISIONAL MEASURES (1) The Commission, by Regulation (EC) No 1259/2005 [2] (the provisional Regulation) imposed a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of tartaric acid (TA), currently classifiable within CN code 29181200, originating in the People’s Republic of China (PRC). (2) It is recalled that the investigation of dumping and injury covered the period from 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004 (investigation period or IP).
With respect to the trends relevant for the injury assessment, the Commission analysed data covering the period from 1 January 2001 to 30 June 2004 (period considered).
Following the imposition of provisional measures, the Commission carried out further verifications, principally in order to verify the determination of normal value, at the premises of the following companies: Exporting producers in the PRC - Hangzhou Bioking Biochemical Engineering Co., Ltd, Hangzhou, PRC. - Changmao Biochemical Engineering Co., Ltd, Changzhou City, PRC. - Ninghai Organic Chemical Factory, Ninghai, PRC. (5) All parties were informed of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it was intended to recommend the imposition of a definitive anti-dumping duty and the definitive collection of amounts secured by way of provisional duties.
As far as applications are concerned, for wine making, which represents about 25 % of the market, only natural tartaric acid can be used.
However, for the remaining 75 %, including some products destined for human consumption, both natural and synthetic TA can be used and are therefore in competition.
It should also be noted that production processes as such are not relevant for the definition of like product. (11) In the absence of any other comments concerning the product concerned and like product, recitals 11 to 13 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed.
Market economy treatment (MET) (12) In the absence of any comments regarding the granting of MET, the conclusions reached in recitals 14 to 17 of the provisional Regulation are definitively confirmed. 2.
Accordingly, the conclusions reached in recitals 18 to 34 of the provisional Regulation are definitively confirmed. 3.
Export price (14) In the absence of any relevant comments regarding export prices, the conclusions reached in recital 35 of the provisional Regulation are definitively confirmed. 4.
Comparison (15) In the absence of any comments regarding the comparison between the normal value and the export prices, the conclusions reached in recitals 36 to 37 of the provisional Regulation are definitively confirmed. 5.
These comments were considered in light of the revised data obtained during the verification visits as outlined in recital 4 of this Regulation.
Furthermore, some calculation errors were corrected. (17) Accordingly, the definitive weighted average dumping margins expressed as a percentage of the cif Community frontier price duty unpaid, are: Company | Definitive dumping margin | Hangzhou Bioking Biochemical Engineering Co., Ltd, Hangzhou | 0,3 % | Changmao Biochemical Engineering Co., Ltd, Changzhou City | 10,1 % | Ninghai Organic Chemical Factory, Ninghai | 4,7 % | (b) For all other exporting producers (18) Following provisional disclosure, no comments were received concerning the methodology for calculating the dumping margin for all other exporting producers.
Accordingly, the provisional countrywide level of dumping of 34,9 % of the cif Community frontier price is definitively confirmed.
Community production (19) In the absence of comments concerning Community production, recitals 43 to 44 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
Definition of the Community industry (20) One importer submitted that some of the Community producers which were originally complainants had ceased production, and asked the Commission to verify whether there was still enough support for the investigation according to Article 5(4) of the basic Regulation. (21) In this respect, the investigation confirmed that the producers supporting the complaint represented over 95 % of the estimated Community production during the IP.
Therefore, the requirements of Article 5(4) of the basic Regulation are fulfilled. (22) In the absence of any other comments concerning the definition of the Community industry, recital 45 of the provisional Regulation is hereby confirmed. 3.
Therefore, it is considered that the analysis of the situation of the Community industry was made in full accordance with the basic Regulation. (27) In the absence of any other comments concerning the situation of the Community industry, recitals 53 to 82 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed.
As set out in recital 89 of the provisional Regulation, these regulatory parameters remained stable throughout the period and can therefore not account for the deterioration of the Community industry’s situation.
COMMUNITY INTEREST (33) One user from the gypsum industry claimed that the proportion represented by TA in the gypsum industry’s production costs, mentioned in the provisional Regulation (less than 2 %) was too low.
DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
This is recognised in recital 69 of the provisional Regulation, whilst the interest of suppliers is analysed under recitals 101 to 106.
However, given the level of profits observed for the Community industry in the years before the IP and prior to the market penetration of the dumped imports, this percentage represents an adequate margin to reflect a normal profit level that could be achieved in the absence of such imports. (39) In the absence of any other comments concerning the injury elimination level, recitals 115 to 118 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
However, since the level of the definitive anti-dumping duty is based on the dumping margins found, as mentioned in the above recital, the imposition of the definitive anti-dumping duty in form of ad valorem duties is maintained. (42) On the basis of the above, the definitive duties are as follows: Company | Dumping margin | Hangzhou Bioking Biochemical Engineering Co., Ltd, Hangzhou | de minimis | Changmao Biochemical Engineering Co., Ltd, Changzhou City | 10,1 % | Ninghai Organic Chemical Factory, Ninghai | 4,7 % | All other companies | 34,9 % | (43) The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of the findings of the present investigation.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of tartaric acid, falling within CN code 29181200, originating in the People’s Republic of China. 2.
The rate of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Community-frontier price, before duty, of the products manufactured by the companies listed below shall be as follows: Company | Anti-dumping duty | TARIC additional code | Hangzhou Bioking Biochemical Engineering Co., Ltd, Hangzhou, People’s Republic of China | 0,0 % | A687 | Changmao Biochemical Engineering Co., Ltd, Changzhou City, People’s Republic of China | 10,1 % | A688 | Ninghai Organic Chemical Factory, Ninghai, People’s Republic of China | 4,7 % | A689 | All other companies | 34,9 % | A999 | 3.
The application of the individual duty rates specified for the companies mentioned in paragraph 2 shall be conditional upon presentation to the customs authorities of the Member States of a valid commercial invoice, which shall conform to the requirements set out in the Annex.
Article 2 Amounts secured by way of provisional anti-dumping duties pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1259/2005 on imports of tartaric acid, falling within CN code 29181200, originating in the People’s Republic of China shall be definitively collected, in accordance with the rules set out below.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 23 January 2006.
Pröll [1] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2117/2005 (OJ L 340, 23.12.2005, p. 17). [2] OJ L 200, 30.7.2005, p. 73. [3] - European Commission - Directorate-General for Trade - Direction B, office J-79 5/16 - B-1049 Brussels. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX The valid commercial invoice referred to in Article 1(3) of this Regulation must include a declaration signed by an official of the company, in the following format: 1.
