Article 2 The President of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the person(s) empowered to sign the agreement in order to bind the European Union.
Article 3 This Decision shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 4 This Decision shall take effect on the day of its adoption.
Done at Luxembourg, 3 October 2005.
Alexander [1] OJ L 234, 10.9.2005, p. 13. -------------------------------------------------- Agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the European Union and the Government of Indonesia on the tasks, status, privileges and immunities of the European Union Monitoring Mission in Aceh (Indonesia) (Aceh Monitoring Mission — AMM) and its personnel Your Excellency, I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of 14 September 2005 and its annexes regarding the tasks, status, privileges and immunities of the Aceh Monitoring Mission (AMM), which reads as follows: " With reference to your letter dated 9 September 2005, I have the honour to confirm the tasks and mandate of the Aceh Monitoring Mission (AMM) which are set out in paragraph 2 of your letter as attached in Annex I.
For the GoI, this legal framework is based on Indonesian Law No 2 of 25 January 1982 concerning the Ratification of Convention on Special Missions, New York 1969.
For the purposes of the legal framework of the AMM, the following definitions shall apply: (a) "AMM" or "the mission" shall mean the Aceh Monitoring Mission in the Province of Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam, established by the European Union and ASEAN Contributing Countries in accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Indonesia (GoI) and the Free Aceh Movement (GAM) signed at Helsinki on 15 August 2005, including its components, elements, headquarters, personnel and facilities deployed on the territory of the Republic of Indonesia and assigned to the AMM; (b) "Head of Mission" shall mean the Head of Mission of AMM; (c) "AMM personnel" shall mean the Head of Mission/Principal Deputy Head of Mission, personnel seconded by EU Member States, other European States and ASEAN Contributing Countries, international staff recruited on a contractual basis by the AMM deployed for the preparation, support and implementation of the mission, and personnel on mission for a Sending State or an EU institution in the framework of the mission.
I would also like to use this opportunity to thank the Government of Indonesia for having agreed to apply this instrument provisionally as of 15 September 2005.
Hassan Wirajuda Minister for Foreign Affairs --------------------------------------------------
