2003/398/EC: Council decision of 19 May 2003 on the principles, priorities, intermediate objectives and conditions contained in the Accession Partnership with Turkey Council decision of 19 May 2003 on the principles, priorities, intermediate objectives and conditions contained in the Accession Partnership with Turkey (2003/398/EC) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 390/2001 of 26 February 2001 on assistance to Turkey in the framework of the preaccession strategy, and in particular on the establishment of an Accession Partnership(1), and in particular Article 2 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Whereas: (1) The Copenhagen European Council recalled its decision in 1999 in Helsinki that Turkey is a candidate State destined to join the Union on the basis of the same criteria as applied to the other candidate States.
Article 2 The implementation of the Accession Partnership shall be examined and monitored in the Association Agreement bodies and by the appropriate Council bodies on the basis of the regular report by the Commission to the Council.
Article 3 This decision shall take effect on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 19 May 2003.
ANNEX TURKEY: 2003 ACCESSION PARTNERSHIP 1.
The first Accession Partnership for Turkey was decided in March 2001.
In the Commission's strategy paper on enlargement of 9 October 2002, it was stated that the Commission would propose a revised Accession Partnership for Turkey. 2.
OBJECTIVES The purpose of the Accession Partnership is to set out in a single framework the priority areas for further work identified in the Commission's 2002 regular report on the progress made by Turkey towards accession, the financial means available to help Turkey implement these priorities and the conditions which will apply to that assistance.
In accordance with the Helsinki Conclusions, in the context of the political dialogue, under the principle of peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with the UN Charter, make every effort to resolve any outstanding border disputes and other related issues, as referred to in point 4 of the Helsinki Conclusions.
Ratify Protocol 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Implement measures to fight against torture and ill-treatment by law enforcement officials, in line with Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the recommendations of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture.
Lift legal restrictions in line with the European Convention on Human Rights (Articles 10, 17 and 18).
Lift legal restrictions in line with the European Convention on Human Rights, in particular on both foreign and national associations, including trade unions (Articles 11, 17 and 18).
This includes legal and judicial protection of the communities, their members and their assets, teaching, appointing and training of clergy, and the enjoyment of property rights in line with Protocol 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Extend the training of judges and prosecutors on the application of the European Convention on Human Rights and the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights.
Ensure effective in-market control and free movement of goods in line with internal market legislation. - Start implementing certification and conformity assessment and CE marking in compliance with the new and global approach Directives; reinforce existing market surveillance and conformity-assessment structures with equipment and training and create compatible administrative infrastructure. - Complete work relating to mutual recognition and acquis alignment as regards non-harmonised areas (Articles 28 to 30 of the EC Treaty and related legislative instruments). - Develop an effective metrology infrastructure and restructure the Turkish Standard Institute to allow for the separation of functions relating to standardisation, certification and market surveillance. - Continue efforts on food safety, including the progressive alignment with the acquis on foodstuff legislation, and set up or restructure as necessary institutional structures. - Complete alignment of the public procurement legislation with the acquis. - Increase the capacity of the public procurement authority to implement and monitor the new public procurement law.
Company law - Complete alignment with the acquis on company and accounting legislation. - Complete alignment with the acquis on intellectual and industrial property rights including IPR legislation for pharmaceuticals and strengthen the fight against piracy and counterfeiting.
Competition - Align with the acquis concerning State aids and establish a national State aid monitoring authority to ensure an effective State aid control based on EC criteria. - Align legislation concerning monopolies and undertakings with special and exclusive rights, with the relevant acquis. - Complete alignment in secondary legislation in the antitrust field. - Strengthen the enforcement record in the antitrust field, in particular against State-owned undertakings, or undertakings having special and exclusive rights. - Reduce delays in finalising appeal applications concerning competition infringements.
Telecommunications and information technology - Adopt regulations in the areas of leased lines, data protection in electronic communications, interconnection and universal service, carrier selection and number portability. - Ensure effective implementation of tariffing and licensing legislation. - Prepare a schedule for the transposition of the new acquis 2002. - Strengthen the capacity building and the enforcement powers of the regulatory authority. - Start alignment with the acquis on postal services.
Regional policy and coordination of Structural Instruments - Start to develop a national policy for economic and social cohesion aimed at reducing regional disparities through a national development plan, and the establishment of regional development plans at NUTS 2 level. - Adopt a legislative framework that would facilitate the implementation of the acquis under this chapter. - Establish pluriannual budgeting procedures setting out priority criteria for public investment in the regions. - Strengthen the administrative structures for managing regional development.
Customs union - Align legislation on free zones and ensure enforcement of the new Customs Code and its implementing provisions. - Strengthen the administrative and operational capacity of the customs administration. - Ensure full administrative cooperation concerning compliance with the acquis and the provisions of Decision 1/95 notably in anti-fraud investigations. - Ensure that State monopolies of a commercial character, in particular for alcoholic beverages, are adjusted so as to ensure no discrimination in trade of goods between Turkey and EU Member States. - Start a new round of negotiations on services and public procurement. - In parallel with the alignment of commercial policy with that of the Community, align rules of origin with those of Community preferential regimes, including GSP.
Agriculture - Complete the establishment of the integrated administration and control system. - Set up the administrative structures required for the implementation of EC rural development policy and the forestry strategy. - Adopt the legal basis, administrative structures and implementation mechanisms for the establishment of common market organisations and effective monitoring of agricultural markets. - Submit a plan and timetable for upgrading the system of border inspection posts with third countries in line with the acquis. - Reorganise and strengthen the food safety and control system and upgrade its human, technical and financial resources to ensure that Community food safety standards are complied with. - Establish an upgrading plan with timetables to modernise food-processing establishments to meet Community hygiene and public health standards, and further establishment of testing and diagnostic facilities.
Transport - Complete alignment on road transport legislation (market access, road safety as well as social, fiscal and technical rules), railways and air transport (particularly air safety and air traffic management). - Ensure effective implementation and enforcement of transport legislation, particularly as regards maritime safety, road transport as well as air transport. - Complete alignment with EU maritime legislation in safety and non-safety areas; improve maritime safety, in particular improve the performance of maritime safety administrative institutions, firstly, as a flag State, and then as a port State, and guarantee their independence. - Implement a programme of adaptation of the Turkish transport fleet, particularly maritime and road transport to Community technical norms. - Adopt a programme with a view to identifying main transport infrastructure needs in Turkey and related transport-network projects, in coherence with the European Community TEN-transport guidelines.
Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments - Set up regional branches at NUTS 2 level to implement regional development plans.
PROGRAMMING Financial assistance for the priorities identified in the Accession Partnership will be made available through annual financing decisions taken by the Commission, following the procedure set out in Article 8 of Council Regulation (EC) No 2500/2001 on preaccession financial assistance for Turkey (OJ L 342, 27.12.2001, S. 1).
Since 2000, the Commission has provided annual average assistance to Turkey of EUR 177 million.
In total, Turkey received loan financing worth EUR 445 million from 1992 to 1999.
Failure to respect these general conditions could lead to a decision by the Council on the suspension of financial assistance on the basis of Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 2500/2001.
The Accession Partnership will continue to be amended as necessary in accordance with Article 2 of Council Regulation (EC) No 622/98 (OJ L 85, 20.3.1998, p. 1).
