The certificate shall consist of either a single part in accordance with Annex I or two parts in accordance with Annexes I and II.
Article 4 For the purposes of this Directive, the registration certificate issued by a Member State shall be recognised by the other Member States for the identification of the vehicle in international traffic or for its re-registration in another Member State.
Article 6 Any amendments necessary in order to adapt the Annexes to this Directive to technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 7.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations or administration provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 1 June 2004.
Article 9 Member States shall assist one another in the implementation of this Directive.
Done at Luxembourg, 29 April 1999.
For the Council The President W.
ANNEX I PART I OF THE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE(1) I.
The overall dimensions of the registration certificate shall not be greater than an A4 format (210 × 297 mm) or a folder of A4 format.
The first page of Part I of the registration certificate shall contain: - the name of the Member State issuing Part I of the registration certificate, - the distinguishing mark of the Member State issuing Part I of the registration certificate, namely: B Belgium DK Denmark D Germany GR Greece E Spain F France IRL Ireland I Italy L Luxembourg NL Netherlands A Austria P Portugal FIN Finland S Sweden UK United Kingdom, - the name of the competent authority, - the words %quot%Part I of the Registration Certificate%quot% or, if the certificate consists of one part only, the words %quot%Registration Certificate%quot%, printed in large type in the language or languages of the Member States issuing the registration certificate; they shall also appear, after a suitable space, in small type in the other languages of the European Community, - the words %quot%European Community%quot%, printed in the language or languages of the Member State issuing Part I of the registration certificate, - the number of the document.
ANNEX II PART II OF THE REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE(1) I.
The first page of Part II of the registration certificate shall contain - the name of the Member State issuing Part II of the registration certificate, - the distinguishing mark of the Member State issuing Part II of the registration certificate, namely: B Belgium DK Denmark D Germany GR Greece E Spain F France IRL Ireland I Italy L Luxembourg NL Netherlands A Austria P Portugal FIN Finland S Sweden UK United Kingdom, - the name of the competent authority, - the words%quot%Part II of the Registration Certificate%quot%, printed in large type in the language or languages of the Member States issuing the registration certificate; they shall also appear, after a suitable space, in small type, in the other languages of the European Community, - the words %quot%European Community%quot%, printed in the language or languages of the Member State issuing Part II of the registration certificate, - the number of the document.
Member States may include additional information in Part II of the registration certificate; in particular, they may add between brackets to the identification codes, as laid down under points V and VI, additional national codes. (1) This Annex is concerned only with registration certificates consisting of Parts I and II.
