Monitoring of potential cumulative long-term effects should be considered as a compulsory part of the monitoring plan. (21) Member States and the Commission should ensure that systematic and independent research on the potential risks involved in the deliberate release or the placing on the market of GMOs is conducted.
This Directive shall not apply to organisms obtained through the techniques of genetic modification listed in Annex I B. 2.
Article 4 General obligations 1.
Any person shall, before submitting a notification under part B or part C, carry out an environmental risk assessment.
This phasing out shall take place by the 31 December 2004 in the case of GMOs placed on the market according to part C and by 31 December 2008 in the case of GMOs authorised under part B. 3.
This assessment shall be conducted in accordance with Annex II taking into account the environmental impact according to the nature of the organism introduced and the receiving environment. 4.
The competent authority shall examine notifications under part B and part C for compliance with the requirements of this Directive and whether the assessment provided for in paragraph 2 is appropriate. 5.
Member States shall ensure that the competent authority organises inspections and other control measures as appropriate, to ensure compliance with this Directive.
In the event of a release of GMO(s) or placing on the market as or in products for which no authorisation was given, the Member State concerned shall ensure that necessary measures are taken to terminate the release or placing on the market, to initiate remedial action if necessary, and to inform its public, the Commission and other Member States. 6.
Member States shall take measures to ensure traceability, in line with the requirements laid down in Annex IV, at all stages of the placing on the market of GMOs authorised under part C.
PART B DELIBERATE RELASE OF GMOs FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSE THAN FOR PLACING ON THE MARKET Article 5 1.
Articles 6 to 11 shall not apply to medicinal substances and compunds for human use consisting of, or containing, a GMO or combination of GMOs provided that their deliberate release for any purpose other than that of being placed on the market is authorised by Community legislation which provides: (a) for a specific environmental risk assessment in accordance with Annex II and on the basis of the type of information specified in Annex III without prejudice to additional requirements provided for by the said legislation; (b) for explicit consent prior to release; (c) for a monitoring plan in accordance with the relevant parts of Annex III, with a view to detecting the effects of the GMO or GMOs on human health or the environment; (d) in an appropriate manner for requirements relating to treatment of new items of information, information to the public, information on the results of releases, and exchanges of information at least equivalent to those contained in this Directive and in the measures taken in accordance therewith. 2.
Article 6 Standard authorisation procedure 1.
Without prejudice to Article 5, any person must, before undertaking a deliberate release of a GMO or of a combination of GMOs, submit a notification to the competent authority of the Member State within whose territory the release is to take place. 2.
The notification referred to in paragraph 1 shall include: (a) a technical dossier supplying the information specified in Annex III necessary for carrying out the environmental risk assessment of the deliberate release of a GMO or combination of GMOs, in particular: (i) general information including information on personnel and training, (ii) information relating to the GMO(s), (iii) information relating to the conditions of release and the potential receiving environment, (iv) information on the interactions between the GMO(s) and the environment, (v) a plan for monitoring in accordance with the relevant parts of Annex III in order to identify effects of the GMO(s) on human health or the environment, (vi) information on control, remediation methods, waste treatment and emergency response plans, (vii) a summary of the dossier; (b) the environmental risk assessment and the conclusions required in Annex II, section D, together with any bibliographic reference and indications of the methods used. 3.
The competent authority may accept that releases of the same GMO or of a combination of GMOs on the same site or on different sites for the same purpose and within a defined period may be notified in a single notification. 5.
The competent authority shall acknowledge the date of receipt of the notification and, having considered, where appropriate, any observations by other Member States made in accordance with Article 11, shall respond in writing to the notifier within 90 days of receipt of the notification by either: (a) indicating that it is satisfied that the notification is in compliance with this Directive and that the release may proceed; or (b) indicating that the release does not fulfil the conditions of this Directive and that notification is therefore rejected. 6.
The notifier may proceed with the release only when he has received the written consent of the competent authority, and in conformity with any conditions required in this consent. 9.
Article 7 Differentiated procedures 1.
Following its own initiative or at the latest 30 days following the receipt of a competent authority's proposal, the Commission shall, (a) forward the proposal to the competent authorities, which may, within 60 days, present observations and at the same time; (b) make available the proposal to the public which may, within 60 days, make comments; and (c) consult the relevant Scientific Committee(s) which may, within 60 days give an opinion. 3.
A decision shall be taken on each proposal in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30(2).
This decision shall establish the minimum amount of technical information from Annex III necessary for evaluating any foreseeable risks from the release, in particular: (a) information relating to the GMO(s); (b) information relating to the conditions of release and the potential receiving environment; (c) information on the interactions between the GMO(s) and the environment; (d) the environmental risk assessment. 4.
This decision shall be taken within 90 days of the date of the Commission's proposal or of receipt of the competent authority's proposal.
This 90 day period shall not take into account the period of time during which the Commission is awaiting the observations of competent authorities, the comments of the public or the opinion of Scientific Committees, as provided for in paragraph 2. 5.
The decision taken under paragraphs 3 and 4 may provide that releases of a GMO or of a combination of GMOs on the same site or on different sites for the same purpose and within a defined period may be notified in a single notification. 6.
In the event of any modification of, or unintended change to, the deliberate release of a GMO or of a combination of GMOs which could have consequences with regard to risks for human health and the environment after the competent authority has given its written consent, or if new information has become available on such risks, either while the notification is being examined by the competent authority of a Member State or after that authority has given its written consent, the notifier shall immediately: (a) take the measures necessary to protect human health and the environment; (b) inform the competent authority in advance of any modification or as soon as the unintended change is known or the new information is available; (c) revise the measures specified in the notification. 2.
If information becomes available to the competent authority referred to in paragraph 1 which could have significant consequences with regard to risks for human health and the environment or under the circumstances described in paragraph 1, the competent authority shall evaluate such information and make it available to the public.
Article 9 Consultation of and information to the public 1.
Member States shall, without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 7 and 25, consult the public and, where appropriate, groups on the proposed deliberate release.
Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 25: - Member States shall make available to the public information on all part B releases of GMOs in their territory; - the Commission shall make available to the public the information contained in the system of exchange of information pursuant to Article 11.
Article 10 Reporting by notifiers on releases After completion of a release, and thereafter, at any intervals laid down in the consent on the basis of the results of the environmental risk assessment, the notifier shall send to the competent authority the result of the release in respect of any risk to human health or the environment, with, where appropriate, particular reference to any kind of product that the notifier intends to notify at a later stage.
Article 11 Exchange of information between competent authorities and the Commission 1.
The competent authorities shall send to the Commission, within 30 days of its receipt, a summary of each notification received under Article 6.
The competent authorities shall inform the Commission of the final decisions taken in compliance with Article 6(5), including where relevant the reasons for rejecting a notification, and of the results of the releases received in accordance with Article 10. 4.
For the releases of GMOs referred to in Article 7, once a year Member States shall send a list of GMOs which have been released on their territory and a list of notifications that were rejected to the Commission, which shall forward them to the competent authorities of the other Member States.
PART C PLACING ON THE MARKET OF GMOs AS OR IN PRODUCTS Article 12 Sectoral legislation 1.
Articles 13 to 24 shall not apply to any GMO as or in products as far as they are authorised by Community legislation which provides for a specific environmental risk assessment carried out in accordance with the principles set out in Annex II and on the basis of information specified in Annex III without prejudice to additional requirements provided for by the Community legislation mentioned above, and for requirements as regards risk management, labelling, monitoring as appropriate, information to the public and safeguard clause at least equivalent to that laid down in this Directive. 2.
As far as Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 is concerned, Articles 13 to 24 of this Directive shall not apply to any GMO as or in products as far as they are authorised by that Regulation provided that a specific environmental risk assessment is carried out in accordance with the principles set out in Annex II to this Directive and on the basis of the type of information specified in Annex III to this Directive without prejudice to other relevant requirements as regards risk assessment, risk management, labelling, monitoring as appropriate, information to the public and safeguard clause provided by Community legislation concerning medicinal products for human and veterinary use. 3.
Article 13 Notification procedure 1.
Before a GMO or a combination of GMOs as or in products is placed on the market, a notification shall be submitted to the competent authority of the Member State where such a GMO is to be placed on the market for the first time.
The competent authority shall acknowledge the date of receipt of the notification and immediately forward the summary of the dossier referred to in paragraph 2(h) to the competent authorities of the other Member States and the Commission.
The competent authority shall without delay examine whether the notification is in accordance with paragraph 2 and shall, if necessary, ask the notifier for additional information.
When the notification is in accordance with paragraph 2, and at the latest when it sends its assessment report in accordance with Article 14(2), the competent authority shall forward a copy of the notification to the Commission which shall, within 30 days of its receipt, forward it to the competent authorities of the other Member States. 2.
If on the basis of the results of any release notified under part B, or on other substantive, reasoned scientific grounds, a notifier considers that the placing on the market and use of a GMO as or in a product do not pose a risk to human health and the environment, he may propose to the competent authority not to provide part or all of the information required in Annex IV, section B. 3.
The notifier may also refer to data or results from notifications previously submitted by other notifiers or submit additional information he considers relevant, provided that the information, data and results are non-confidential or these notifiers have given their agreement in writing. 5.
In order for a GMO or combination of GMOs to be used for a purpose different from that already specified in a notification, a separate notification shall be submitted. 6.
If new information has become available with regard to the risks of the GMO to human health or the environment, before the written consent is granted, the notifier shall immediately take the measures necessary to protect human health and the environment, and inform the competent authority thereof.
Article 14 Assessment report 1.
On receipt and after acknowledgement of the notification in accordance with Article 13(2), the competent authority shall examine it for compliance with this Directive. 2.
Within 90 days after receipt of the notification the competent authority shall: - prepare an assessment report and send it to the notifier.
A subsequent withdrawal by the notifier shall be without prejudice to any further submission of the notification to another competent authority; - in the case referred to in paragraph 3(a), send its report, together with the information referred to in paragraph 4 and any other information on which it has based its report, to the Commission which shall, within 30 days of its receipt, forward it to the competent authorities of the other Member States.
In the case referred to paragraph 3(b), the competent authority shall send its report, together with the information referred to in paragraph 4 and any other information on which it has based its report, to the Commission no earlier than 15 days after sending the assessment report to the notifier and no later than 105 days after receipt of the notification.
The Commission shall, within 30 days of its receipt, forward the report to the competent authorities of the other Member States. 3.
The assessment reports shall be established in accordance with the guidelines laid down in Annex VI. 4.
For the purpose of calculating the 90 day period referred to in paragraph 2, any periods of time during which the competent authority is awaiting further information which it may have requested from the notifier shall not be taken into account.
Article 15 Standard procedure 1.
In the cases referred to in Article 14(3), a competent authority or the Commission may ask for further information, make comments or present reasoned objections to the placing on the market of the GMO(s) in question within a period of 60 days from the date of circulation of the assessment report.
The competent authorities and the Commission may discuss any outstanding issues with the aim of arriving at an agreement within 105 days from the date of circulation of the assessment report.
Any periods of time during which further information from the notifier is awaited shall not be taken into account for the purpose of calculating the final 45 day period for arriving at an agreement.
Reasons shall be stated in any request for further information. 2.
In the case referred to in Article 14(3)(b), if the competent authority which prepared the report decides that the GMO(s) should not be placed on the market, the notification shall be rejected.
If the competent authority which prepared the report decides that the product may be placed on the market, in the absence of any reasoned objection from a Member State or the Commission within 60 days following the date of circulation of the assessment report referred to in Article 14(3)(a) or if outstanding issues are resolved within the 105 day period referred to in paragraph 1, the competent authority which prepared the report shall give consent in writing for placing on the market, shall transmit it to the notifier and shall inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof within 30 days. 4.
The consent shall be given for a maximum period of ten years starting from the date on which the consent is issued.
Article 16 Criteria and information for specified GMOs 1.
A competent authority, or the Commission on its own initiative, may make a proposal on criteria and information requirements to be met for the notification, by way of derogation from Article 13, for the placing on the market of certain types of GMOs as or in products. 2.
These criteria and information requirements as well as any appropriate requirements for a summary shall be adopted, after consultation of the relevant Scientific Committee(s), in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30(2).
The requirements set out in Article 13(2) shall be replaced by those adopted above, and the procedure set out in Article 13(3), (4), (5) and (6) and Articles 14 and 15 shall apply. 3.
Before the procedure laid down in Article 30(2) for a decision on criteria and information requirements referred to in paragraph 1 is initiated, the Commission shall make the proposal available to the public.
The public may make comments to the Commission within 60 days.
Article 17 Renewal of consent 1.
By way of derogation from Articles 13, 14 and 15, the procedure set out in paragraphs 2 to 9 shall be applied to the renewal of: (a) consents granted under part C; and (b) before 17 October 2006 of consents granted under Directive 90/220/EEC for placing on the market of GMOs as or in products before 17 October 2002, 2.
At the latest nine months before the expiry of the consent, for the consents referred to in paragraph 1(a), and before 17 October 2006, for the consents referred to in paragraph 1(b), the notifier under this Article shall submit a notification to the competent authority which received the original notification, which shall contain: (a) a copy of the consent to the placing on the market of the GMOs; (b) a report on the results of the monitoring which was carried out according to Article 20.
The competent authority shall acknowledge the date of receipt of the notification and when the notification is in accordance with this paragraph it shall without delay forward a copy of the notification and its assessment report to the Commission, which shall, within 30 days of their receipt, forward them to the competent authorities of the other Member States.
It shall also send its assessment report to the notifier. 3.
The other competent authorities or the Commission may ask for further information, make comments, or present reasoned objections within a period of 60 days from the date of circulation of the assessment report. 5.
In the case of paragraph 3(a) and in the absence of any reasoned objection from a Member State or the Commission within 60 days from the date of circulation of the assessment report, the competent authority which prepared the report shall transmit to the notifier the final decision in writing and shall inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof within 30 days.
The validity of the consent should not, as a general rule, exceed ten years and may be limited or extended as appropriate for specific reasons. 7.
The competent authorities and the Commission may discuss any outstanding issues with the aim of arriving at an agreement within 75 days from the date of circulation of the assessment report. 8.
If outstanding issues are resolved within the 75 day period referred to in paragraph 7, the competent authority which prepared the report shall transmit to the notifier its final decision in writing and shall inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof within 30 days.
Article 18 Community procedure in case of objections 1.
In cases where an objection is raised and maintained by a competent authority or the Commission in accordance with Articles 15, 17 and 20, a decision shall be adopted and published within 120 days in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30(2).
For the purpose of calculating the 120 day period, any period of time during which the Commission is awaiting further information which it may have requested from the notifier or is seeking the opinion of the Scientific Committee which has been consulted in accordance with Article 28 shall not be taken into account.
The Commission shall state reasons in any request for further information and inform the competent authorities of its requests to the notifier.
The period of time during which the Commission is awaiting the opinion of the Scientific Committee shall not exceed 90 days.
Where a favourable decision has been taken, the competent authority which prepared the report shall give consent in writing to the placing on the market or to the renewal of the consent, shall transmit it to the notifier and shall inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof within 30 days following the publication or notification of the decision.
Article 19 Consent 1.
Without prejudice to requirements under other Community legislation, only if a written consent has been given for the placing on the market of a GMO as or in a product may that product be used without further notification throughout the Community in so far as the specific conditions of use and the environments and/or geographical areas stipulated in these conditions are strictly adhered to. 2.
The notifier may proceed with the placing on the market only when he has received the written consent of the competent authority in accordance with Articles 15, 17 and 18, and in conformity with any conditions required in that consent. 3.
The written consent referred to in Articles 15, 17 and 18 shall, in all cases, explicitly specify: (a) the scope of the consent, including the identity of the GMO(s) to be placed on the market as or in products, and their unique identifier; (b) the period of validity of the consent; (c) the conditions for the placing on the market of the product, including any specific condition of use, handling and packaging of the GMO(s) as or in products, and conditions for the protection of particular ecosystems/environments and/or geographical areas; (d) that, without prejudice to Article 25, the notifier shall make control samples available to the competent authority on request; (e) the labelling requirements, in compliance with the requirements laid down in Annex IV.
The words %quot%This product contains genetically modified organisms%quot% shall appear either on a label or in a document accompanying the product or other products containing the GMO(s); (f) monitoring requirements in accordance with Annex VII, including obligations to report to the Commission and competent authorities, the time period of the monitoring plan and, where appropriate, any obligations on any person selling the product or any user of it, inter alia, in the case of GMOs grown, concerning a level of information deemed appropriate on their location. 4.
Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the written consent and the decision referred to in Article 18, where applicable, are made accessible to the public and that the conditions specified in the written consent and the decision, where applicable, are complied with.
Article 20 Monitoring and handling of new information 1.
Following the placing on the market of a GMO as or in a product, the notifier shall ensure that monitoring and reporting on it are carried out according to the conditions specified in the consent.
The reports of this monitoring shall be submitted to the Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States.
On the basis of these reports, in accordance with the consent and within the framework for the monitoring plan specified in the consent, the competent authority which received the original notification may adapt the monitoring plan after the first monitoring period. 2.
If new information has become available, from the users or other sources, with regard to the risks of the GMO(s) to human health or the environment after the written consent has been given, the notifier shall immediately take the measures necessary to protect human health and the environment, and inform the competent authority thereof.
When the information has become available after the consent has been given, the competent authority shall within 60 days after receipt of the new information, forward its assessment report indicating whether and how the conditions of the consent should be amended or the consent should be terminated to the Commission which shall, within 30 days of its receipt, forward it to the competent authorities of the other Member States.
Comments or reasoned objections to further placing on the market of the GMO or on the proposal for amending the conditions of the consent shall, within 60 days following the circulation of the assessment report, be forwarded to the Commission which shall immediately forward them to all competent authorities.
The competent authorities and the Commission may discuss any outstanding issues with the aim of arriving at an agreement within 75 days from the date of circulation of the assessment report.
In the absence of any reasoned objection from a Member State or the Commission within 60 days following the date of circulation of the new information or if outstanding issues are resolved within 75 days, the competent authority which prepared the report shall amend the consent as proposed, shall transmit the amended consent to the notifier and shall inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof within 30 days. 4.
Article 21 Labelling 1.
Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that at all stages of the placing on the market, the labelling and packaging of GMOs placed on the market as or in products comply with the relevant requirements specified in the written consent referred to in Articles 15(3), 17(5) and (8), 18(2) and 19(3). 2.
Article 22 Free circulation Without prejudice to Article 23, Member States may not prohibit, restrict or impede the placing on the market of GMOs, as or in products, which comply with the requirements of this Directive.
Article 23 Safeguard clause 1.
Where a Member State, as a result of new or additional information made available since the date of the consent and affecting the environmental risk assessment or reassessment of existing information on the basis of new or additional scientific knowledge, has detailed grounds for considering that a GMO as or in a product which has been properly notified and has received written consent under this Directive constitutes a risk to human health or the environment, that Member State may provisionally restrict or prohibit the use and/or sale of that GMO as or in a product on its territory.
A decision shall be taken on the matter within 60 days in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30(2).
For the purpose of calculating the 60 day period, any period of time during which the Commission is awaiting further information which it may have requested from the notifier or is seeking the opinion of the Scientific Committee(s) which has/have been consulted shall not be taken into account.
Article 24 Information to the public 1.
Without prejudice to Article 25, upon receipt of a notification in accordance with Article 13(1), the Commission shall immediately make available to the public the summary referred to in Article 13(2)(h).
The Commission shall also make available to the public assessment reports in the case referred to in Article 14(3)(a).
Without prejudice to Article 25, for all GMOs which have received written consent for placing on the market or whose placing on the market was rejected as or in products under this Directive, the assessment reports carried out for these GMOs and the opinion(s) of the Scientific Committees consulted shall be made available to the public.
PART D FINAL PROVISIONS Article 25 Confidentiality 1.
Verifiable justification must be given in such cases. 3.
The competent authority shall, after consultation with the notifier, decide which information will be kept confidential and shall inform the notifier of its decisions. 4.
In no case may the following information when submitted according to Articles 6, 7, 8, 13, 17, 20 or 23 be kept confidential: - general description of the GMO or GMOs, name and address of the notifier, purpose of the release, location of release and intended uses; - methods and plans for monitoring of the GMO or GMOs and for emergency response; - environmental risk assessment. 5.
Article 26 Labelling of GMOs referred to in Article 2(4), second subparagraph 1.
Article 27 Adaptation of Annexes to technical progress Sections C and D of Annex II, Annexes III to VI, and section C of Annex VII shall be adapted to technical progress in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30(2).
Article 28 Consultation of Scientific Committee(s) 1.
In cases where an objection as regards the risks of GMOs to human health or to the environment is raised by a competent authority or the Commission and maintained in accordance with Article 15(1), 17(4), 20(3) or 23, or where the assessment report referred to in Article 14 indicates that the GMO should not be placed on the market, the relevant Scientific Committee(s) shall be consulted by the Commission, on its own initiative or at the request of a Member State, on the objection. 2.
Article 29 Consultation of Committee(s) on Ethics 1.
This consultation may also take place at the request of a Member State. 2.
The Commission shall be assisted by a committee. 2.
This information exchange shall also cover experience gained from the implementation of Article 2(4), second subparagraph, environmental risk assessment, monitoring and the issue of consultation and information of the public.
The detailed arrangements for the operation of the register(s) shall be decided in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30(2). 3.
Without prejudice to paragraph 2 and point A No 7 of Annex IV, (a) Member States shall establish public registers in which the location of the release of the GMOs under part B is recorded. (b) Member States shall also establish registers for recording the location of GMOs grown under part C, inter alia so that the possible effects of such GMOs on the environment may be monitored in accordance with the provisions of Articles 19(3)(f) and 20(1).
Without prejudice to such provisions in Articles 19 and 20, the said locations shall: - be notified to the competent authorities, and - be made known to the public in the manner deemed appropriate by the competent authorities and in accordance with national provisions. 4.
This report shall include a brief factual report on their experience with GMOs placed on the market in or as products under this Directive. 5.
Every three years, the Commission shall publish a summary based on the reports referred to in paragraph 4. 6.
The Commission shall send to the European Parliament and the Council, in 2003 and thereafter every three years, a report on the experience of Member States with GMOs placed on the market under this Directive. 7.
The Commission shall send to the European Parliament and the Council every year, a report on the ethical issues referred to in Article 29(1); this report may be accompanied, if appropriate, by a proposal with a view to amending this Directive.
Article 32 Implementation of the Cartagena Protocol on biosafety 1.
The Commission is invited to bring forward as soon as possible and in any case before July 2001 a legislative proposal for implementing in detail the Cartagena Protocol on biosafety.
This proposal shall, in particular, include appropriate measures to implement the procedures laid down in the Cartagena Protocol and, in accordance with the Protocol, require Community exporters to ensure that all requirements of the Advance Informed Agreement Procedure, as set out in Articles 7 to 10, 12 and 14 of the Cartagena Protocol, are fulfilled.
Article 33 Penalties Member States shall determine the penalties applicable to breaches of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 17 October 2002.
The methods of making such a reference shall be laid down by the Member States. 2.
Article 35 Pending notifications 1.
Notifications concerning placing on the market of GMOs as or in products received pursuant to Directive 90/220/EEC, and in respect of which the procedures of that Directive have not been completed by 17 October 2002 shall be subject to the provisions of this Directive. 2.
Directive 90/220/EEC shall be repealed on 17 October 2002. 2.
Article 37 This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 38 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 12 March 2001.
Fontaine The President For the Council L.
Decision of the European Parliament of 14 February 2001 and Decision of the Council of 15 February 2001. (4) OJ L 117, 8.5.1990, p. 15.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 97/35/EC (OJ L 169, 27.6.1997, p. 72). (5) OJ L 230, 19.8.1991, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 1999/80/EC (OJ L 210, 10.8.1999, p. 13). (6) OJ L 214, 24.8.1993, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 649/98 (OJ L 88, 24.3.1998, p. 7). (7) OJ L 237, 28.8.1997, p. 18. (8) OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. (9) OJ L 117, 8.5.1990, p. 1.
It will be supplemented by guidance notes to be developed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30(2).
These guidance notes shall be completed by 17 October 2002.
Methodology C.1.
Identification of characteristics which may cause adverse effects: Any characteristics of the GMOs linked to the genetic modification that may result in adverse effects on human health or the environment shall be identified.
Application of management strategies for risks from the deliberate release or marketing of GMO(s) The risk assessment may identify risks that require management and how best to manage them, and a risk management strategy should be defined. 6.
Possible immediate and/or delayed effects on biogeochemical processes resulting from potential direct and indirect interactions of the GMO and target and non-target organisms in the vicinity of the GMO release(s). 9.
In the case of genetically modified higher plants (GMHP) 1.
Potential immediate and/or delayed environmental impact resulting from direct and indirect interactions between the GMHP and target organisms, such as predators, parasitoids, and pathogens (if applicable). 5.
Possible immediate and/or delayed environmental impact resulting from direct and indirect interactions of the GMHP with non-target organisms, (also taking into account organisms which interact with target organisms), including impact on population levels of competitors, herbivores, symbionts (where applicable), parasites and pathogens. 6.
Annex III B applies to release of genetically modified higher plants.
GENERAL INFORMATION A.
INFORMATION RELATING TO THE GMO A.
scientific name, 2.
description of identification and detection techniques, 7.
Characteristics of the vector 1.
worker protection measures taken during the release, 9.
description of target and non-target ecosystems likely to be affected, 8.
INFORMATION RELATING TO THE INTERACTIONS BETWEEN THE GMOs AND THE ENVIRONMENT A.
known or predicted environmental conditions which may affect survival, multiplication and dissemination (wind, water, soil, temperature, pH, etc.), 3.
potential for excessive population increase in the environment, 9.
known or predicted involvement in biogeochemical processes, 16.
Waste treatment 1.
methods for decontamination of the areas affected, for example eradication of the GMOs, 3.
methods for disposal or sanitation of plants, animals, soils, etc., that were exposed during or after the spread, 4.
ANNEX III B INFORMATION REQUIRED IN NOTIFICATIONS CONCERNING RELEASES OF GENETICALLY MODIFIED HIGHER PLANTS (GMHPs) (GYMNOSPERMAE AND ANGIOSPERMAE) A.
GENERAL INFORMATION 1.
In the case of plant species not normally grown in the Member State(s), description of the natural habitat of the plant, including information on natural predators, parasites, competitors and symbionts. 7.
INFORMATION RELATING TO THE GENETIC MODIFICATION 1.
Information on any toxic, allergenic or other harmful effects on human health arising from the genetic modification. 8.
Mechanism of interaction between the genetically modified plant and target organisms (if applicable). 10.
Potential changes in the interactions of the GMHP with non-target organisms resulting from the genetic modification. 11.
INFORMATION RELATING TO THE SITE OF RELEASE (ONLY FOR NOTIFICATIONS SUBMITTED PURSUANT TO ARTICLES 6 AND 7) 1.
Presence of sexually compatible wild relatives or cultivated plant species. 4.
INFORMATION RELATING TO THE RELEASE (ONLY FOR NOTIFICATIONS SUBMITTED PURSUANT TO ARTICLES 6 AND 7) 1.
Purpose of the release. 2.
Foreseen date(s) and duration of the release. 3.
INFORMATION ON CONTROL, MONITORING, POSTRELEASE AND WASTE TREATMENT PLANS (ONLY FOR NOTIFICATIONS SUBMITTED PURSUANT TO ARTICLES 6 AND 7) 1.
Description of postrelease treatment methods for the genetically modified plant material including wastes. 4.
The labelling of exempted organisms as required by Article 26 shall be met by providing appropriate recommendations for, and restrictions on, use: A.
The following information shall be provided in the notification, when relevant, in addition to that of point A, in accordance with Article 13 of this Directive: 1.
proposed packaging, 6.
ANNEX V CRITERIA FOR THE APPLICATION OF DIFFERENTIATED PROCEDURES (ARTICLE 7) The criteria referred to in Article 7(1) are set out below. 1.
ANNEX VI GUIDELINES FOR THE ASSESSMENT REPORTS The assessment report provided for by Articles 13, 17, 19 and 20 should include in particular the following: 1.
The conclusion should clearly address the use proposed, risk management and the monitoring plan proposed.
ANNEX VII MONITORING PLAN This Annex describes in general terms the objective to be achieved and the general principles to be followed to design the monitoring plan referred to in Articles 13(2), 19(3) and 20.
It will be supplemented by guidance notes to be developed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30(2).
These guidance notes shall be completed by 17 October 2002.
General principles Monitoring, as referred to in Articles 13, 19 and 20, takes place after the consent to the placing of a GMO on the market.
Experience and data gained through the monitoring of experimental releases of GMOs may assist in designing the post marketing monitoring regime required for the placing on the market of GMOs as or in products.
incorporate general surveillance for unanticipated adverse effects and, if necessary, (case-) specific monitoring focusing on adverse effects identified in the e.r.a.: 3.1.
ANNEX VIII CORRELATION TABLE %gt%TABLE%gt% Commission Declaration Article 32 (Amendment 28) The Commission notes the agreement of the co-legislators relating to recital 13 and Article 30(a), on the basis of Amendments 1 and 28, in particular concerning the date by which a proposal should be presented for the implementation of the Cartagena Protocol and the content of any such proposal.
Commission Declaration with respect to Amendment 35 With a view to facilitating the obligation of Member States to take the necessary measures to ensure traceability and labelling at all the stages of the placing on the market of GMOs authorised in accordance with part C of a revised Directive 90/220/EEC, the Commission reaffirms its intention to present in the course of year 2001 appropriate proposals for this purpose.
In addition, the Commission at the same time having regard to the results of the meeting with the experts of the Member States on 29 November 2000, affirms its intention to present proposals aiming to provide appropriate traceability for products derived from GMOs, as well as to supplement the labelling regime in accordance with the White Paper on Food Safety.
