Council Regulation (ECSC, EEC, Euratom) No 1860/76 of 29 June 1976 laying down the Conditions of Employment of Staff of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions COUNCIL REGULATION (ECSC, EEC, EURATOM) No 1860/76 of 29 June 1976 laying down the Conditions of Employment of Staff of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 on the creation of a European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (1), and in particular Article 17 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Whereas it is for the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission, to adopt provisions governing the staff of this Foundation, HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: TITLE I GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1 1.
These Conditions of Employment shall apply to: - the director and deputy director of the Foundation, - the staff of the Foundation, - the local staff of the Foundation. 2.
The director, who shall be nominated by the Commission of the European Communities, shall be engaged in a post which is included in the list of posts appended to the budget of the Foundation for the purpose of exercising the duties provided for in Article 9 of Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75.
TITLE II THE STAFF OF THE FOUNDATION CHAPTER 1 Article 2 Staff may be engaged for a fixed or indefinite period.
Fixed-term contracts may not be concluded for periods of more than five years and shall be renewable.
The composition and procedure of this Committee shall be determined by the Administrative Board of the Foundation in accordance with Annex I. 3.
A staff member whose contract is for more than one year or for an indefinite period shall be entitled to vote in elections and stand for election to the Staff Committee.
A staff member whose contract is for less than one year shall also be entitled to vote if he has been employed by the Foundation for at least six months.
Article 9 If the spouse of a staff member is in gainful employment, the staff member shall inform the director thereof.
Article 10 Any staff member who in the performance of his duties is called upon to decide on a matter in the handling or outcome of which he has a personal interest such as to impair his independence shall inform the director thereof.
Article 11 A staff member who is a candidate for parliamentary election shall apply for unpaid leave for a period not exceeding three months.
Article 12 After leaving the service staff shall continue to be bound by the duty to behave with integrity and discretion as regards the acceptance of certain appointments or benefits.
Article 13 Staff shall exercise the greatest discretion with regard to all facts and information coming to their knowledge in the course of or in connection with the performance of their duties ; they shall not in any manner whatsoever disclose to any unauthorized person any document or information not already made public.
Article 14 All rights in any writings or other work done by staff in the performance of their duties shall be the property of the Foundation.
Article 16 Staff shall reside either in the place where they are employed or at no greater distance therefrom than is compatible with the proper performance of their duties.
Article 17 Whatever his rank, a staff member shall assist and tender advice to his superiors ; he shall be responsible for the performance of the duties assigned to him.
CHAPTER 4 Working conditions Article 26 Staff in active employment shall at all times be at the disposal of the Foundation.
Article 27 Staff may not be required to work overtime except in cases of urgency or exceptional pressure of work ; night work and all work on Sundays or public holidays shall be authorized only in accordance with the procedure laid down by the director.
The total overtime which a staff member may be asked to work shall not exceed 150 hours in any six months.
Article 28 Staff shall be entitled to annual leave of not less than 24 working days nor more than 30 working days per calendar year, in accordance with rules to be laid down by the Administrative Board in agreement with the Commission of the European Communities, after consulting the Staff Committee.
Apart from this annual leave, staff may exceptionally, on application, be granted special leave.
Article 29 Pregnant women shall, in addition to the leave provided for in Article 28, be entitled on production of a medical certificate to leave starting six weeks before the excepted date of confinement shown in the certificate and ending eight weeks after the date of confinement ; such leave shall not be for less than 14 weeks.
If, over a period of 12 months, a staff member is absent for up to three days because of sickness for a total of more than 12 days, the director shall take a decision on the advice of the medical practitioner designated by the Foundation after consulting a medical practitioner designated by the staff member.
Paid sick leave shall not, however, exceed the length of time, which must in any event be not less than one month, worked by the staff member.
However, where a staff member contracts an occupational disease or sustains an accident in the performance of his duties, he shall continue to receive his full remuneration throughout the period during which he is incapable of working until such time as he is awarded the benefits laid down for this purpose by the national laws that are applicable pursuant to Article 38. 2.
Staff shall undergo a medical check-up every year either by a medical practitioner designated by the Foundation or by a medical practitioner of their choice.
Article 31 Except in case of sickness or accident, a staff member may not be absent without prior permission from his immediate superior.
Article 32 A list of public holidays shall be drawn up by the Administrative Board in agreement with the Commission of the European Communities after consulting the Staff Committee.
Article 33 In exceptional circumstances a staff member may at his own request be granted unpaid leave on compelling personal grounds.
Any period of leave granted in accordance with the first paragraph shall not count for purposes of the application of the second paragraph of Article 35.
Article 36 In the event of a staff member's death, the surviving spouse or dependent children shall receive the deceased's full remuneration until the end of the third month after the month in which the death occurred.
Article 37 A staff member shall be entitled, as provided for in Annex IV, to reimbursement of expenses incurred by him on taking up appointment or leaving the service, and also to reimbursement of expenses incurred in the course of or in connection with the performance of their duties.
CHAPTER 6 Social security benefits Article 38 1.
So that staff members are insured against sickness, accident, invalidity and death and can build up a retirement pension, they shall be subject to the social security laws in force in the Member State in which they are employed.
Detailed rules for applying the foregoing shall be laid down by the Administrative Board after consultation with the Staff Committee.
A staff member receiving a grant on the birth of a child shall declare any grants of the same nature which he or his spouse receive from other sources for the same child ; such grants shall be deducted from the grant provided for above.
Article 40 In the event of a staff member's death, the Foundation shall bear the costs involved in transporting the body to his place or origin.
Article 41 Gifts, loans or advances may be made to staff members who are in a particularly difficult position as a result, inter alia, of serious or protracted illness or by reason of family circumstances.
CHAPTER 8 Appeals Article 43 1.
The complaint must be lodged within three months.
The period shall start to run: - on the date of notification of the decision to the person concerned, but in no case later than the date on which he became aware of the decision, if the measure affects a specified person ; if, however, an act affecting a specified person also adversely affects another person, the period shall start to run in respect of that other person on the date on which he receives notification thereof but in no case later than the date of publication; - on the date of expiry of the period prescribed for reply where the complaint concerns an implied decision rejecting a request as provided in paragraph 1.
The Court of Justice of the European Communities shall have jurisdiction in any dispute between the Foundation and any person to whom these Conditions of Employment apply regarding the legality of an act adversely affecting such person within the meaning of Article 43 (2).
An appeal to the Court of Justice of the European Communities shall lie only if: - the Administrative Board has previously had a complaint submitted to it pursuant to Article 43 (2) within the period prescribed therein, and - the complaint has been rejected by express or implied decision. 3.
The period shall begin: - on the date of notification of the decision taken in response to the complaint; - on the date of expiry of the period prescribed for the reply where the appeal is against an implied decision rejecting a complaint submitted pursuant to Article 43 (2) ; nevertheless, where a complaint is rejected by express decision after being rejected by implied decision but before the period for lodging an appeal has expired, the period for lodging the appeal shall start to run afresh. 4.
By way of derogation from paragraph 2, the person concerned may, after submitting a complaint to the Administrative Board pursuant to Article 43 (2), immediately file an appeal with the Court of Justice, provided that such appeal is accompanied by an application either for a stay of execution of the contested act or for the adoption of interim measures.
CHAPTER 9 Termination of employment Article 45 Apart from cessation on death, employment shall cease: 1.
where the contract is for a fixed period: (a) on the date stated in the contract; (b) at the end of the period of notice specified in the contract, where the latter contains a clause giving the staff member or the Foundation the option to terminate earlier.
Such period of notice shall be not more than three months; (c) at the end of the month in which the staff member reaches the age of 65 years.
If the Foundation terminates the contract, the staff member shall be entitled to compensation equal to one-third of his basic salary for the period between the date when his duties end and the date when his contract expires; 2.
where the contract is for an indefinite period: (a) at the end of the period of notice stipulated in the contract ; the length of the period of notice shall not be less than two days for each completed month of service, subject to a minimum of 15 days and a maximum of three months.
The period of notice shall not, however, commence to run during maternity leave or sick leave, provided such sick leave does not exceed three months.
It shall, moreover, be suspended during maternity or sick leave subject to the limit aforesaid; (b) at the end of the month in which the staff member reaches the age of 65 years.
Article 46 Employment, whether for a fixed or for an indefinite period: 1.
The staff member shall then immediately cease to perform his duties.
TITLE III LOCAL STAFF Article 49 Subject to the provisions of this Title, the conditions of employment of local staff, in particular: (a) the manner of their engagement and termination of their contract, (b) their leave, and (c) their remuneration, shall be determined by the Administrative Board in agreement with the Commission of the European Communities in accordance with current rules and practice in the place where they are to perform their duties.
Article 50 As regards social security, the Foundation shall be responsible for the employer's share of the social security contributions under current regulations in the place where the local staff are to perform their duties.
Article 51 Any dispute between the Foundation and a member of the local staff shall be submitted to the competent court in accordance with the laws in force in the place where the member of the local staff concerned performs his duties.
Article 52 A member of the local staff whose contract is for more than one year or for an indefinite period shall be entitled to vote in elections and stand for election to the Staff Committee.
A member of the local staff whose contract is for less than one year shall also be entitled to vote if he has been employed for at least six months.
TITLE IV THE DIRECTOR AND THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR Article 53 1.
TITLE V PRIVILEGES AND IMMUNITIES Article 55 Articles 12 to 16 of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities shall apply to staff of the Foundation as well as to the director and the deputy director.
Local staff shall be covered by Article 12 (a) of this Protocol.
TITLE VI TAXATION Article 56 Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom, ECSC) No 260/68 of 29 February 1968 laying down the condition and procedure for applying the tax for the benefit of the European Communities (1) shall apply by analogy to staff of the Foundation as well to the director and deputy director.
TITLE VII FINAL PROVISION Article 57 The general provisions for giving effect to these Conditions of Employment shall be adopted by the Administrative Board, with the agreement of the Commission of the European Communities, on a proposal from the director and after consulting the Staff Committee.
THORN (1)OJ No L 56, 4.3.1968, p. 8.
ANNEX II COMPENSATORY LEAVE AND REMUNERATION FOR OVERTIME Article 1 Within the limits laid down in Article 27 of the Conditions of Employment, overtime worked by a staff member in Category C or D shall entitle him to compensatory leave or to remuneration as follows: (a) for each hour of overtime, he shall be entitled to one hour off as compensatory leave ; if the hour of overtime is worked between 2200 hours and 0700 hours or on a Sunday or on a public holiday, the entitlement to compensatory leave shall be one hour and a half ; in the granting of compensatory leave, account shall be taken of the exigencies of the service and the preference of the staff member concerned; (b) where the exigencies of the service do not permit compensatory leave to be taken during the month following that during which the overtime was worked, the director shall authorize remuneration for uncompensated hours of overtime at the rate of 0 772 % of the monthly basic salary for each hour of overtime on the basis set out in subparagraph (a); (c) to qualify for compensatory leave or remuneration for one hour's overtime, the extra time worked must have been more than 30 minutes.
Article 2 If a staff member is travelling on mission, travelling time shall not be treated as overtime for the purposes of this Annex.
Article 3 Notwithstanding Articles 1 and 2 remuneration for overtime worked by certain groups of staff in Categories C and D in special conditions may be paid in the form of a fixed allowance the amount and terms of which shall be determined by the Administrative Board after consulting the Staff Committee.
Article 4 Where a staff member, for reasons other than the requirements of the service, has not used up his annual leave before the end of the current calendar year, the amount of leave which may be carried over to the following year shall not exceed 12 days.
Where a staff member at the time of leaving the service has not used up all his annual leave, he shall be paid compensation equal to one-thirtieth of his monthly remuneration at the time of leaving the service for each day's leave due to him.
Article 5 Where a staff member is recalled to duty for service reasons while on annual leave or has had his leave cancelled, any costs incurred by him shall be reimbursed, subject to production of appropriate evidence, and travelling time shall be granted afresh.
Section 2 SPECIAL LEAVE Article 6 In addition to annual leave, staff may, on application, be granted special leave.
In particular, in the following cases special leave shall be granted as shown: - marriage of the staff member : four days, - change of residence of the staff member : up to two days, - serious illness of spouse : up to three days, - death of spouse : four days, - serious illness of a relative in the ascending line : up to two days, - death of a relative in the ascending line : two days, - birth or marriage of a child : two days, - serious illness of a child : up to two days, - death of a child : four days.
For the purposes of this Article, the place of leave in respect of annual leave is the staff member's place of origin.
The preceding provisions shall apply to staff whose place of employment and place of origin are in Europe.
Where special leave is granted in pursuance of Section 2 above, any travelling time shall be fixed by special decision taking into account particular needs.
These weightings shall be those fixed by the Council of the European Communities as provided in Articles 64 and 65 (2) of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities.
The household allowance shall be granted to: (a) a married staff member (b) a staff member who is widowed, divorced, legally separated or unmarried and has one or more dependent children within the meaning of Article 7 (2) and (3); (c) by special reasoned decision of the director based on supporting documents, a staff member who, while not fulfilling the conditions laid down in (a) and (b), nevertheless actually assumes family responsibilities. 3.
If the spouse of a staff member is gainfully employed, with an annual income, before deduction of tax, of more than Bfrs 250 000, the staff member entitled to the household allowance shall not receive this allowance save by special decision of the director.
In cases where, under paragraphs 1 to 3, a husband and wife employed by the Foundation are both entitled to the household allowance, this shall be payable only to the person whose basic salary is the higher.
The allowance shall granted: (a) automatically for children under 18 years of age; (b) on application, with supporting evidence, by the staff member for children between 18 and 26 who are receiving educational or vocational training. 4.
Payment of the allowance in respect of a child prevented by serious illness or invalidity from earning a livelihood shall continue throughout the period of that illness or invalidity, irrespective of age. 6.
Not more than one dependent child allowance shall be paid in respect of any one dependent child within the meaning of this Article, even where the spouse of the staff member is in the service of an institution of the European Communities.
Article 8 A staff member shall receive an education allowance equal to the actual education costs incurred by him up to a maximum of Bfrs 1 772 per month for each dependent child within the meaning of Article 7 (2) above who is in regular full-time attendance at an educational establishment.
The maximum prescribed in the first paragraph shall be doubled for: - a staff member whose place of employment is at least 50 km from a European School or an educational establishment working in his language, provided that the child actually attends an educational establishment at least 50 km from the place employment ; and - a staff member whose place of employment is at least 50 km from an establishment of higher education in the country of which he is a national or working in his language, provided that the child actually attends an establishment of higher education at least 50 km from the place of employment and the staff member is entitled to the expatriation allowance ; the latter condition shall not apply if there is no such establishment in the country of which the staff member is a national.
The dependent child allowance may be doubled by special reasoned decision of the director based on medical documents establishing that the child concerned is suffering from a mental or physical handicap which involves the staff member in heavy expenditure.
Section 3 EXPATRIATION ALLOWANCE Article 10 An expatriation allowance equal to 16 % of the total amount of the basic salary plus the household allowance and the dependent child allowance to which the staff member is entitled shall be paid: (a) to staff: - who are not and have never been nationals of the State in whose European territory the place where they are employed is situated, and - who during the five years ending six months before they entered the service did not habitually reside or carry on their main occupation within the European territory of that State.
The expatriation allowance shall be not less than Bfrs 3 543 per month.
Installation allowance and resettlement allowance Article 11 1.
A staff member engaged for a fixed period of not less than one year, or deemed by the director to be engaged for an equivalent period if his contract is for an indefinite period, shall receive an installation allowance as provided in paragraph 2 amounting, for an expected period of service of: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0010166%quot%%gt% 2. (a) A staff member who qualifies for the expatriation allowance or furnishes evidence of having been obliged to change his place of residence in order to comply with Article 16 of the Conditions of Employment shall be entitled to an installation allowance equal to two months' basic salary if he is entitled to the household allowance or equal to one month's basic salary if he is not.
In cases where a husband and wife employed by the Foundation are both entitled to the installation allowance, it shall be payable only to the person whose basic salary is the higher.
In cases where a husband and wife employed by the Foundation are both entitled to the resettlement allowance, this shall be payable only to the person whose basic salary is the higher.
The resettlement allowance shall be calculated by reference to the marital status and salary of the staff member at the date of termination of service. 4.
The resettlement allowance shall be paid against evidence that the staff member and his family, or, where the staff member has died, his family only, have resettled at a place situated not less than 70 km from the place where the staff member was employed.
Article 13 However, the installation allowance provided for in Article 11 and the resettlement allowance provided for in Article 12 shall not be less than: - Bfrs 5 000 for a staff member who is entitled to household allowance ; and - Bfrs 3 000 for a staff member who is not entitled to household allowance.
Travel expenses Article 14 1.
A staff member shall be entitled to reimbursement of travel expenses for himself, his spouse and his dependants actually living in his household: (a) on taking up his appointment, from the place where he was recruited to the place where he is employed; (b) on termination of service, from the place where he is employed to the place of origin as defined in paragraph 3 below.
The basis for the calculation of reimbursement shall be: - the shortest and most economical standard route by rail between the place of employment and the place of recruitment or origin; - first-class fare for staff in Categories A and B ; second-class fare for other staff; - where the journey includes not less than six hours of night travel between 2200 hours and 0700 hours, sleeping accommodation up to the cost of tourist class or couchette, on production of the relevant ticket.
Where calculation on this basis is not possible, the terms of reimbursement shall be determined by special decision of the director. 3.
While he is in the service, however, such decision shall be taken only exceptionally and on production by the staff member of appropriate supporting evidence.
In cases where a husband and wife are both employed by the Foundation, each has the right in respect of himself or herself and in respect of dependants to the flat-rate payment of travelling expenses, in accordance with the above provisions ; each dependant shall be entitled to one payment only.
Where calculation on this basis is not possible, the terms of payment shall be determined by special decision of the director. 3.
A staff member whose service is terminated in the course of a calendar year for any reason other than death or who is on unpaid leave during part of the year shall, if he is in active employment in the service of the Foundation for less than nine months of that year, be entitled only to part of the payment provided for in paragraph 1, calculated in proportion to the time spent in active employment. 4.
The preceding provisions shall apply to staff whose place of employment and place of origin are in Europe.
Removal expenses Article 16 1.
The expenses incurred in respect of removal of furniture and personal effects, including the cost of insurance against ordinary risk (breakage, theft, fire), shall be reimbursed to a staff member who is obliged to change his place of residence in order to comply with Article 16 of the Conditions of Employment and who has not been reimbursed in respect of the same expenses from another source.
Where the deceased staff member was unmarried, the expenses shall be reimbursed to those entitled under him. 4.
On termination of service, removal shall be effected within three years as provided in the second subparagraph of Article 12 (4).
Daily subsistence allowance Article 17 1.
Where a staff member furnishes evidence that he must change his place of residence in order to satisfy the requirements of Article 16 of the Conditions of Employment, he shall be entitled for a period specified in paragraph 2 to a daily subsistence allowance as follows: %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0010167%quot%%gt% In cases where a husband and wife employed by the Foundation are both entitled to the daily subsistence allowance, the rates shown in the first two columns shall be applicable only to the person whose basic salary is the higher.
The above scale shall accord with that laid down by the Council of the European Communities each time remuneration is reviewed pursuant to Article 65 of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the Communities. 2.
The period in respect of which the daily subsistence allowance is granted shall be as follows: (a) in the case of a staff member who is not entitled to household allowance : 120 days; (b) in the case of a staff member who is entitled to household allowance : 180 days or if the staff member is required to serve a six-month probationary period, that period plus one month.
In cases where a husband and wife employed by the Foundation are both entitled to the daily subsistence allowance, the period in respect of which it is granted as laid down in (b) shall apply to the person whose basic salary is the higher.
In no case shall the daily subsistence allowance be granted beyond the date on which the staff member removes in order to satisfy the requirements of Article 16 of the Conditions of Employment. 3.
The daily subsistence allowance provided for in paragraph 1 shall be reduced by half during any period when the staff member receives the daily subsistence allowance for staff on mission provided for in Article 18.
The travel order shall state the probable duration of the mission, on the basis of which shall be calculated any advance which the staff member may draw against subsistence allowance.
Where an outward and return journey of 800 km or more is involved, staff in categories C and D shall be entitled to reimbursement of the first-class rail fare in respect of the foregoing expenses.
By decision of the director, staff in Categories C and D travelling on mission involving an outward-and-return journey of less than 800 km shall be entitled to reimbursement of the first-class rail fare when accompanying a member of the Administrative Board, the director or a staff member who is travelling first-class.
Travel expenses shall also include: - the cost of seat reservations and transport of necessary luggage; - supplements for special fast trains (reimbursed against production of special tickets where these are issued); - supplements for sleeping accommodation (reimbursed against production of sleeper tickets) where the journey includes not less than six hours of night travel between 2200 and 0700 hours: - in a double sleeper; - where the train does not have sleeping accommodation of this category, reimbursement shall, with the consent of the director, correspond to the category immediately above or to single sleeper if that is the only category of sleeping accommodation available. 2.
Staff may be authorized to travel by air.
Under the conditions laid down in the rules provided for in the second subparagraph of Article 12 (2) of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations of the European Communities, staff who travel on mission under particularly tiring conditions may, by decision of the director, be reimbursed the cost of the journey in the class used, on production of tickets.
Staff travelling by sea shall receive, instead of the daily subsistence allowance provided for in Article 20, an allowance of Bfrs 225 per 24-hour period of the journey. 4.
The subsistence rates set out in columns I and II shall be reduced by Bfrs 330 and Bfrs 315 respectively for any day's absence on mission, reckoned in accordance with paragraph 4, during which the staff member has incurred sleeper costs reimbursable by the Foundation. 3.
Subject to paragraphs 2 and 3, daily subsistence allowance for staff on mission shall be calculated in accordance with the following rules: (a) Mission of 24 hours or less: - six hours or less : reimbursement of actual expenses up to a quarter of the daily subsistence allowance; - 12 hours or less, but more than six hours : half the daily subsistence allowance; - 24 hours or less, but more than 12 hours : a whole day's subsistence allowance. (b) Mission of more than 24 hours: - for each period of 24 hours : a whole day's subsistence allowance; - for any further period of six hours or less : no subsistence allowance: - for any further period of 12 hours or less, but more than six hours : half the daily subsistence allowance; - for any further period of more than 12 hours : a whole day's subsistence allowance. 5.
His daily subsistence allowance shall be reduced by Bfrs 200 for each meal provided, the allowances provided for in columns I and II shall be reduced by Bfrs 450 and Bfrs 420 respectively for each day's accommodation provided.
Fixed reimbursement of expenses Article 21 In the case of staff who, as a result of special instructions, occasionally incur entertainment expenses for official purposes, the amount of the entertainment allowance shall be determined in each instance on the basis of supporting documents and on terms to be laid down by the director.
The list of places for which the allowance may be granted, the maximum amount of the allowance and the rules for granting it shall be determined by the Council of the European Communities in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 65 (3) of the Staff Regulations of Officials of these Communities.
The list of places for which the allowance may be granted, the maximum amount of the allowance and the rules for granting it shall be determined by the Council of the European Communities in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 65 (3) of the Staff Regulations of Officials of these Communities.
Where entitlement to family allowances and expatriation allowance commences after the date of entering the service, the staff member shall receive these from the first day of the month in which such entitlement commences.
Article 26 Payments shall be made to each staff member at the place and in the currency of the country where he carries out his duties.
The provisions laid down in Article 17 (2), (3) and (4) of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities shall apply by analogy.
