IFRS 2 requires for the first time that companies reflect in their income statements the effects of share-based payment transactions, including expenses associated with transactions in which share options are granted to management and employees.
In the past, transactions in which share options were granted to employees were not recognized in the company’s income statements but were disclosed in the notes not affecting reporting of earnings to capital markets. (3) The consultation with technical experts in the field confirms that IFRS 2 meet the technical criteria for adoption set out in Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002, and in particular the requirement of being conducive to the European public good. (4) IFRS 2 does not specify which valuation models should be used.
Done at Brussels, 4 February 2005.
For the Commission Charlie McCreevy Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 243, 11.9.2002, p. 1 [2] OJ L 261, 13.10.2003, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2238/2004 (OJ L 394, 31.12.2004, p. 1). [3] OJ L 141, 11.6.1993, p. 27.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 35, 11.2.2003, p. 1). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX [1] INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS IFRS 2 Share-based Payment [1] Reproduction allowed within the European Economic Area.
Further information can be obtained from the IASB at www.iasb.org.uk. -------------------------------------------------- INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARD 2 Share-based Payment SUMMARY Objective Scope Recognition Equity-settled share-based payment transactions Overview Transactions in which services are received Transactions measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted Determining the fair value of equity instruments granted Treatment of vesting conditions Treatment of a reload feature After vesting date If the fair value of the equity instruments cannot be estimated reliably Modifications to the terms and conditions on which equity instruments were granted, including cancellations and settlements Cash-settled share-based payment transactions Share-based payment transactions with cash alternatives Share-based payment transactions in which the terms of the arrangement provide the counterparty with a choice of settlement Share-based payment transactions in which the terms of the arrangement provide the entity with a choice of settlement Disclosures Transitional provisions Effective date OBJECTIVE 1.
For example, if an entity grants all holders of a particular class of its equity instruments the right to acquire additional equity instruments of the entity at a price that is less than the fair value of those equity instruments, and an employee receives such a right because he/she is a holder of equity instruments of that particular class, the granting or exercise of that right is not subject to the requirements of this IFRS. 5.
As noted in paragraph 2, this IFRS applies to share-based payment transactions in which an entity acquires or receives goods or services.
However, an entity shall not apply this IFRS to transactions in which the entity acquires goods as part of the net assets acquired in a business combination to which IAS 22 Business Combinations applies.
Similarly, the cancellation, replacement or other modification of share-based payment arrangements because of a business combination or other equity restructuring shall be accounted for in accordance with this IFRS. 6.
This IFRS does not apply to share-based payment transactions in which the entity receives or acquires goods or services under a contract within the scope of paragraphs 8-10 of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation (as revised in 2003) or paragraphs 5-7 of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (as revised in 2003).
The entity shall recognise a corresponding increase in equity if the goods or services were received in an equity-settled share-based payment transaction, or a liability if the goods or services were acquired in a cash-settled share-based payment transaction. 8.
If the entity cannot estimate reliably the fair value of the goods or services received, the entity shall measure their value, and the corresponding increase in equity, indirectly, by reference to the fair value of the [1]equity instruments granted. 11.
Transactions in which services are received 14.
In this case, on grant date the entity shall recognise the services received in full, with a corresponding increase in equity. 15.
For example: (a) if an employee is granted share options conditional upon completing three years’ service, then the entity shall presume that the services to be rendered by the employee as consideration for the share options will be received in the future, over that three-year vesting period. (b) if an employee is granted share options conditional upon the achievement of a performance condition and remaining in the entity’s employ until that performance condition is satisfied, and the length of the vesting period varies depending on when that performance condition is satisfied, the entity shall presume that the services to be rendered by the employee as consideration for the share options will be received in the future, over the expected vesting period.
Transactions measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted Determining the fair value of equity instruments granted 16.
For transactions measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted, an entity shall measure the fair value of equity instruments granted at the measurement date, based on market prices if available, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which those equity instruments were granted (subject to the requirements of paragraphs 19–22). 17.
Hence, on a cumulative basis, no amount is recognised for goods or services received if the equity instruments granted do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition, eg the counterparty fails to complete a specified service period, or a performance condition is not satisfied, subject to the requirements of paragraph 21. 20.
The requirements in paragraphs 16–23 apply when the entity is required to measure a share-based payment transaction by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
To apply this requirement to share options, for example, the entity shall recognise the goods or services received during the vesting period, if any, in accordance with paragraphs 14 and 15, except that the requirements in paragraph 15(b) concerning a market condition do not apply.
However, if an entity settles a grant of equity instruments to which paragraph 24 has been applied: (a) if the settlement occurs during the vesting period, the entity shall account for the settlement as an acceleration of vesting, and shall therefore recognise immediately the amount that would otherwise have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the vesting period. (b) any payment made on settlement shall be accounted for as the repurchase of equity instruments, ie as a deduction from equity, except to the extent that the payment exceeds the intrinsic value of the equity instruments, measured at the repurchase date.
This applies irrespective of any modifications to the terms and conditions on which the equity instruments were granted, or a cancellation or settlement of that grant of equity instruments.
If the entity cancels or settles a grant of equity instruments during the vesting period (other than a grant cancelled by forfeiture when the vesting conditions are not satisfied): (a) the entity shall account for the cancellation or settlement as an acceleration of vesting, and shall therefore recognise immediately the amount that otherwise would have been recognised for services received over the remainder of the vesting period. (b) any payment made to the employee on the cancellation or settlement of the grant shall be accounted for as the repurchase of an equity interest, ie as a deduction from equity, except to the extent that the payment exceeds the fair value of the equity instruments granted, measured at the repurchase date.
Or an entity might grant to its employees a right to receive a future cash payment by granting to them a right to shares (including shares to be issued upon the exercise of share options) that are redeemable, either mandatorily (eg upon cessation of employment) or at the employee’s option. 32.
Share-based payment transactions in which the terms of the arrangement provide the counterparty with a choice of settlement 35.
If an entity has granted the counterparty the right to choose whether a share-based payment transaction is settled in cash [3] or by issuing equity instruments, the entity has granted a compound financial instrument, which includes a debt component (ie the counterparty’s right to demand payment in cash) and an equity component (ie the counterparty’s right to demand settlement in equity instruments rather than in cash).
For other transactions, including transactions with employees, the entity shall measure the fair value of the compound financial instrument at the measurement date, taking into account the terms and conditions on which the rights to cash or equity instruments were granted. 37.
To apply paragraph 36, the entity shall first measure the fair value of the debt component, and then measure the fair value of the equity component — taking into account that the counterparty must forfeit the right to receive cash in order to receive the equity instrument.
If the entity issues equity instruments on settlement rather than paying cash, the liability shall be transferred direct to equity, as the consideration for the equity instruments issued. 40.
However, this requirement does not preclude the entity from recognising a transfer within equity, ie a transfer from one component of equity to another.
Share-based payment transactions in which the terms of the arrangement provide the entity with a choice of settlement 41.
Upon settlement: (a) if the entity elects to settle in cash, the cash payment shall be accounted for as the repurchase of an equity interest, ie as a deduction from equity, except as noted in (c) below. (b) if the entity elects to settle by issuing equity instruments, no further accounting is required (other than a transfer from one component of equity to another, if necessary), except as noted in (c) below. (c) if the entity elects the settlement alternative with the higher fair value, as at the date of settlement, the entity shall recognise an additional expense for the excess value given, ie the difference between the cash paid and the fair value of the equity instruments that would otherwise have been issued, or the difference between the fair value of the equity instruments issued and the amount of cash that would otherwise have been paid, whichever is applicable.
DISCLOSURES 44.
An entity with substantially similar types of share-based payment arrangements may aggregate this information, unless separate disclosure of each arrangement is necessary to satisfy the principle in paragraph 44. (b) the number and weighted average exercise prices of share options for each of the following groups of options: (i) outstanding at the beginning of the period; (ii) granted during the period; (iii) forfeited during the period; (iv) exercised during the period; (v) expired during the period; (vi) outstanding at the end of the period; and (vii) exercisable at the end of the period. (c) for share options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise.
If the entity has measured directly the fair value of goods or services received during the period, the entity shall disclose how that fair value was determined, eg whether fair value was measured at a market price for those goods or services. 49.
To give effect to the principle in paragraph 50, the entity shall disclose at least the following: (a) the total expense recognised for the period arising from share-based payment transactions in which the goods or services received did not qualify for recognition as assets and hence were recognised immediately as an expense, including separate disclosure of that portion of the total expense that arises from transactions accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment transactions; (b) for liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions: (i) the total carrying amount at the end of the period; and (ii) the total intrinsic value at the end of the period of liabilities for which the counterparty’s right to cash or other assets had vested by the end of the period (eg vested share appreciation rights). 52.
If the information required to be disclosed by this IFRS does not satisfy the principles in paragraphs 44, 46 and 50, the entity shall disclose such additional information as is necessary to satisfy them.
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS 53.
For all grants of equity instruments to which this IFRS has not been applied (eg equity instruments granted on or before 7 November 2002), the entity shall nevertheless disclose the information required by paragraphs 44 and 45. 57.
The entity is encouraged, but not required, to apply retrospectively the IFRS to other liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions, for example, to liabilities that were settled during a period for which comparative information is presented.
An entity shall apply this IFRS for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
If an entity applies the IFRS for a period beginning before 1 January 2005, it shall disclose that fact. [1] This IFRS uses the phrase "by reference to" rather than "at", because the transaction is ultimately measured by multiplying the fair value of the equity instruments granted, measured at the date specified in paragraph 11 or 13 (whichever is applicable), by the number of equity instruments that vest, as explained in paragraph 19. [2] In the remainder of this IFRS, all references to employees also includes others providing similar services. [3] In paragraphs 35-43, all references to cash also include other assets of the entity. -------------------------------------------------- APPENDIX A Defined terms This appendix is an integral part of the IFRS.
employees and others providing similar services: Individuals who render personal services to the entity and either (a) the individuals are regarded as employees for legal or tax purposes, (b) the individuals work for the entity under its direction in the same way as individuals who are regarded as employees for legal or tax purposes, or (c) the services rendered are similar to those rendered by employees.
vesting period: The period during which all the specified vesting conditions of a share-based payment arrangement are to be satisfied. [1] The Framework defines a liability as a present obligation of the entity arising from past events, the settlement of which is expected to result in an outflow from the entity of resources embodying economic benefits (ie an outflow of cash or other assets of the entity). [2] In this appendix, monetary amounts are denominated in "currency units" (CU). -------------------------------------------------- APPENDIX B Application Guidance This appendix is an integral part of the IFRS.
Restrictions on transfer or other restrictions that exist during the vesting period shall not be taken into account when estimating the grant date fair value of the shares granted, because those restrictions stem from the existence of vesting conditions, which are accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 19–21.
In these instances, the Black-Scholes-Merton formula may produce a value that is substantially the same as a more flexible option pricing model.
B6 All option pricing models take into account, as a minimum, the following factors: (a) the exercise price of the option; (b) the life of the option; (c) the current price of the underlying shares; (d) the expected volatility of the share price; (e) the dividends expected on the shares (if appropriate); and (f) the risk-free interest rate for the life of the option.
The effects of expected early exercise shall be taken into account, as discussed in paragraphs B16-B21.
For example, for share options granted to employees, factors that affect the value of the option from the individual employee’s perspective only are not relevant to estimating the price that would be set by a knowledgeable, willing market participant.
Inputs to option pricing models B11 In estimating the expected volatility of and dividends on the underlying shares, the objective is to approximate the expectations that would be reflected in a current market or negotiated exchange price for the option.
For example, employee share options are typically non-transferable.
B18 Factors to consider in estimating early exercise include: (a) the length of the vesting period, because the share option typically cannot be exercised until the end of the vesting period.
The implications of vesting conditions are discussed in paragraphs 19–21. (b) the average length of time similar options have remained outstanding in the past. (c) the price of the underlying shares.
Experience may indicate that the employees tend to exercise options when the share price reaches a specified level above the exercise price. (d) the employee’s level within the organisation.
For example, experience might indicate that higher-level employees tend to exercise options later than lower-level employees (discussed further in paragraph B21). (e) expected volatility of the underlying shares.
When estimating the expected life of share options granted to a group of employees, the entity could base that estimate on an appropriately weighted average expected life for the entire employee group or on appropriately weighted average lives for subgroups of employees within the group, based on more detailed data about employees’ exercise behaviour (discussed further below).
B24 The expected annualised volatility of a share is the range within which the continuously compounded annual rate of return is expected to fall approximately two-thirds of the time.
For example, to say that a share with an expected continuously compounded rate of return of 12 per cent has a volatility of 30 per cent means that the probability that the rate of return on the share for one year will be between –18 per cent (12 % – 30 %) and 42 per cent (12 % + 30 %) is approximately two-thirds.
B25 Factors to consider in estimating expected volatility include: (a) implied volatility from traded share options on the entity’s shares, or other traded instruments of the entity that include option features (such as convertible debt), if any. (b) the historical volatility of the share price over the most recent period that is generally commensurate with the expected term of the option (taking into account the remaining contractual life of the option and the effects of expected early exercise). (c) the length of time an entity’s shares have been publicly traded.
A newly listed entity might have a high historical volatility, compared with similar entities that have been listed longer.
Unlisted entities B27 An unlisted entity will not have historical information to consider when estimating expected volatility.
B29 Alternatively, the entity could consider the historical or implied volatility of similar listed entities, for which share price or option price information is available, to use when estimating expected volatility.
B30 If the entity has not based its estimate of the value of its shares on the share prices of similar listed entities, and has instead used another valuation methodology to value its shares, the entity could derive an estimate of expected volatility consistent with that valuation methodology.
When the fair value of a share grant is estimated, that valuation should be reduced by the present value of dividends expected to be paid during the vesting period.
B35 Option pricing models generally call for expected dividend yield.
For example, if an entity’s policy has generally been to increase dividends by approximately 3 per cent per year, its estimated option value should not assume a fixed dividend amount throughout the option’s life unless there is evidence that supports that assumption.
B36 Generally, the assumption about expected dividends should be based on publicly available information.
Risk-free interest rate B37 Typically, the risk-free interest rate is the implied yield currently available on zero-coupon government issues of the country in whose currency the exercise price is expressed, with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the option being valued (based on the option’s remaining contractual life and taking into account the effects of expected early exercise).
Modifications to equity-settled share-based payment arrangements B42 Paragraph 27 requires that, irrespective of any modifications to the terms and conditions on which the equity instruments were granted, or a cancellation or settlement of that grant of equity instruments, the entity should recognise, as a minimum, the services received measured at the grant date fair value of the equity instruments granted, unless those equity instruments do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition (other than a market condition) that was specified at grant date.
B43 To apply the requirements of paragraph 27: (a) if the modification increases the fair value of the equity instruments granted (eg by reducing the exercise price), measured immediately before and after the modification, the entity shall include the incremental fair value granted in the measurement of the amount recognised for services received as consideration for the equity instruments granted.
If the modification occurs during the vesting period, the incremental fair value granted is included in the measurement of the amount recognised for services received over the period from the modification date until the date when the modified equity instruments vest, in addition to the amount based on the grant date fair value of the original equity instruments, which is recognised over the remainder of the original vesting period.
If the modification occurs after vesting date, the incremental fair value granted is recognised immediately, or over the vesting period if the employee is required to complete an additional period of service before becoming unconditionally entitled to those modified equity instruments. (b) similarly, if the modification increases the number of equity instruments granted, the entity shall include the fair value of the additional equity instruments granted, measured at the date of the modification, in the measurement of the amount recognised for services received as consideration for the equity instruments granted, consistently with the requirements in (a) above.
For example, if the modification occurs during the vesting period, the fair value of the additional equity instruments granted is included in the measurement of the amount recognised for services received over the period from the modification date until the date when the additional equity instruments vest, in addition to the amount based on the grant date fair value of the equity instruments originally granted, which is recognised over the remainder of the original vesting period. (c) if the entity modifies the vesting conditions in a manner that is beneficial to the employee, for example, by reducing the vesting period or by modifying or eliminating a performance condition (other than a market condition, changes to which are accounted for in accordance with (a) above), the entity shall take the modified vesting conditions into account when applying the requirements of paragraphs 19–21.
In some tax jurisdictions, an entity receives a tax deduction (ie an amount that is deductible in determining taxable profit) that relates to remuneration paid in shares, share options or other equity instruments of the entity.
For example, in some jurisdictions, an entity may recognise an expense for the consumption of employee services received as consideration for share options granted, in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, and not receive a tax deduction until the share options are exercised, with the measurement of the tax deduction based on the entity’s share price at the date of exercise. 68B.
As noted in paragraph 68A, the amount of the tax deduction (or estimated future tax deduction, measured in accordance with paragraph 68B) may differ from the related cumulative remuneration expense.
If the amount of the tax deduction (or estimated future tax deduction) exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense, this indicates that the tax deduction relates not only to remuneration expense but also to an equity item.
The Standard identifies four categories of employee benefits: … (c) …; and (d) termination benefits." Paragraph 11 is deleted.
Standard Paragraph 1 is amended to read as follows: "1.
This Standard should be applied by an employer in accounting for all employee benefits, except those to which IFRS 2 Share-based Payment applies." Paragraph 3 is amended to read as follows: "3.
Employee benefits include: … (c) …; and (d) termination benefits.
C7 In IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, a new paragraph 2(j) is inserted, as follows: "(j) financial instruments, contracts and obligations under share- based payment transactions to which IFRS 2 Share-based Payment applies, except for contracts within the scope of paragraphs 5-7 of this Standard, to which this Standard applies." C8 IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards is amended as described below.
Paragraph 13(f) and (g) is amended and a new subparagraph (h) is inserted, as follows: "(f) assets and liabilities of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (paragraphs 24 and 25); (g) designation of previously recognised financial instruments (paragraph 25A); and (h) share-based payment transactions (paragraphs 25B and 25C)." New paragraphs 25B and 25C are inserted, as follows: "25B.
However, if a first-time adopter elects to apply IFRS 2 to such equity instruments, it may do so only if the entity has disclosed publicly the fair value of those equity instruments, determined at the measurement date, as defined in IFRS 2.
For all grants of equity instruments to which IFRS 2 has not been applied (eg equity instruments granted on or before 7 November 2002), a first-time adopter shall nevertheless disclose the information required by paragraphs 44 and 45 of IFRS 2.
If a first-time adopter modifies the terms or conditions of a grant of equity instruments to which IFRS 2 has not been applied, the entity is not required to apply paragraphs 26-29 of IFRS 2 if the modification occurred before the later of (a) the date of transition to IFRSs and (b) 1 January 2005. 25C.
A first-time adopter is encouraged, but not required, to apply IFRS 2 to liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions that were settled before the date of transition to IFRSs.
A first-time adopter is also encouraged, but not required, to apply IFRS 2 to liabilities that were settled before 1 January 2005.
