PROCEDURE (1) By letter dated 12 August 2002, registered on 19 August (SG(2002) A/8328), the United Kingdom notified to the Commission, pursuant to Article 88(3) of the EC Treaty, the Government of Gibraltar corporation tax reform (hereinafter the reform). (2) On 16 October 2002, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 88(2) of the EC Treaty in respect of the reform (C(2002) 3734).
These comments were forwarded to the United Kingdom, who replied by letter dated 13 February 2003 (A/31313).
The Gibraltar Government estimates that its current very limited but essential income from corporate taxes of GBP 13,7 million (about EUR 20 million), representing 9,25 % of total Government revenue, will be largely maintained under the new system based on these three general taxes applicable to all Gibraltar companies.
This compares with personal income tax of GBP 53,6 million (about EUR 77 million) representing 36,3 % of revenue.
Income from top-up taxes on financial services and utilities activities will be limited, but will likely make up any shortfall in corporate tax revenue under the general system.
Payroll tax and business property occupation tax (10) Profits-based taxation will be replaced by a general payroll tax pursuant to which all Gibraltar companies will be liable in the amount of GBP 3000 per employee each year.
The definition of financial services also includes companies that advise or provide services in respect of finance, law, tax or accounting. (18) The definition of "utilities" activities encompasses the provision of services, equipment or premises for: - telecommunications (voice telephony, fax communications, data communications and transmissions, callback and call through services), - electricity (generation, distribution and supply), - water (production, import/export, supply of either potable or salt water), - sewage (provision, operation, management, maintenance, repair, replacement, modification, renovation, replacement, renewal of sewers and disposal/treatment of sewage), - petroleum (collection, production, import/export, treatment improvement, pumping, storage, distribution and supply of fuel oil). (19) Financial services companies will, in addition to the payroll and property taxes, be charged a top-up tax on profits from financial services activities at the rate of 8 % of profit (calculated in accordance with internationally accepted accounting standards).
Financial services companies will have their annual liability to payroll tax, business property occupation tax and top-up tax capped, in aggregate, at 15 % of profit. (20) Utility companies, in addition to the payroll and property taxes, will be charged a top-up tax on profits from utility activities at the rate of 35 % of profit (calculated in accordance with internationally accepted accounting standards).
Such unearned profits will be taxed at the 8 % or 35 % top-up rate to the proportion which the profits and gains from the financial services or utilities activities bears to the whole of the trading profits or gains made by the company.
Profits are computed in accordance with Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom as modified for use in Gibraltar by the Gibraltar Society of Chartered and Certified Accountancy Bodies. (25) For the purposes of determining profits, capital gains and capital losses are excluded. (26) For the purposes of determining profits, the following capital allowances, inter alia, are deductible: - in respect of entertainment centres, mills, factories and other premises, 4 % per annum; - in respect of plant and machinery, up to GBP 30000 for the first year in which the expenditure is made (up to GBP 50000 for computer equipment), and 33 1/3 % of the remainder in subsequent years.
Modifications to the reforms originally notified (27) In response to the opening of the formal State aid investigation procedure, the following changes have been made by the Government of Gibraltar to the tax reform proposals. (28) The provisions which would cap, at GBP 500000, the combined liability to payroll tax, business property occupation tax and, where applicable, the 8 % top-up tax on financial services activities, have been removed.
In particular: - the entire system would grant an advantage to Gibraltar companies compared with UK companies (regional selectivity), - the requirement to make a profit before incurring any payroll and property tax liability would confer an advantage on unprofitable companies; - the 15 % cap on liability to payroll and property taxes would confer an advantage on those companies to which it applies, - the GBP 500000 cap on liability to payroll and property taxes would confer an advantage on those companies to which it applies, - some technical features of the reform would be liable to give rise to State aid (certain exemptions from rates/property tax and exemptions for certain specified interest income for the purposes of determining profits). (32) The Commission also considered that these advantages would be granted via State resources, would affect trade between Member States and would be selective.
COMMENTS FROM THE UNITED KINGDOM (33) The observations of the United Kingdom can be summarised as follows. (34) The Commission's objections to the reform proposals as set out in the decision to open the formal State aid investigation procedure fall under six headings, all based on specificity: - the fact that companies are liable to taxes only if they make profits would confer an advantage on unprofitable companies compared with profitable ones, - the operation of the 15 % profits-based cap would benefit those undertakings to which it applies by reducing their liability to payroll tax, business property occupation tax, and financial services top-up tax, if applicable, - the operation of the GBP 500000 quantum cap would benefit those undertakings to which it applies by reducing their liability to payroll tax, business property occupation tax, and financial services top-up tax, if applicable, - the exemption for certain properties on the Upper Rock confers a tax advantage on undertakings occupying such premises, - the two provisions exempting interest on certain loans from the calculation of profits for purposes of the corporate tax rules confer an advantage on certain companies, - several features of the proposed tax scheme result in a lower tax burden for companies in Gibraltar when compared with companies in the United Kingdom and therefore constitute an advantage for the former (regional specificity). (35) Neither the United Kingdom nor the Government of Gibraltar shares the Commission's doubts as to the possible State aid character of certain elements of the reforms.
The Commission has itself conceded in point 25 of the Commission notice on the application of the State aid rules to measures relating to direct business taxation [5] (hereinafter the Notice) that such selectivity is justified by the nature of the tax system.
Limiting tax to 15 % of profits is not State aid (39) The proposed limitation is not selective.
The application of the 15 % cap will depend on the relationship between profit and the number of employees in a given year.
The Commission itself explains in point 14 of the Notice that the fact that some firms or some sectors benefit more than others from a tax measure does not necessarily mean that the measure is caught by the State aid rules. (40) The Government of Gibraltar has devised a general tax scheme based both on the simple factors of property and payroll, and of the existence of profitability.
The internal logic of the proposed payroll tax system therefore justifies capping payroll tax liability in relation to profits. (44) In contrast, utilities would have a corporate tax liability of 35 % of profits.
Regional specificity (45) There is no legal authority for the suggestion that where there are two separate genuinely autonomous tax jurisdictions in one Member State, the rates of tax in the two jurisdictions can be compared, and the lower rate of tax regarded as a State aid merely because it is lower than the other tax rate.
In one of a series of more recent cases concerning the Basque provinces, the Court of First Instance stated that the contested decision had no effect on the competence of Álava to adopt general tax measures applicable to the whole of the region [7]. (46) Such regional variations between autonomous jurisdictions are not State aid within the meaning of Article 87 EC.
A State aid measure is only present if State resources are used through a tax foregone.
Similarly, the analysis of a selective advantage relies on the assumption that there is a level of tax that would otherwise apply to a certain activity in the relevant territory. (47) The State aid criteria assume that the supposed aid may be compared with a standard or normal tax rate.
If the Member State concerned can function with two or more autonomous tax jurisdictions competing for corporate tax revenue within its territory without suffering significant distortive effects on competition, it does not under the subsidiarity principle of the EC Treaty become a Community task to intervene in the constitutional arrangements of the Member State.
There can be no State aid on the basis of regional specificity in circumstances where, as in Gibraltar, there is a genuinely autonomous tax jurisdiction which determines its tax system independently, and in which taxes imposed by the other tax jurisdictions in the State are not payable. (53) The Commission's position would seriously interfere with the possibilities for Member States to decentralise their powers and thereby establish the necessary fiscal autonomy in the regions to cover the expenditures incurred in the exercise of such decentralised powers.
It would be absurd to suggest that the State aid rules should be interpreted in such a way as to make it impossible for a Member State to decentralise taxing powers effectively when it amended its constitution. (54) The Commission states that in the absence of a specific company taxation regime in Gibraltar, companies in Gibraltar would be subject to the standard United Kingdom tax regime.
Clearance under State aid rules remains the last obstacle in the way of ensuring that Gibraltar, as required by the international community including the European Union, has now addressed all the perceived evils of a tax haven. (62) Two Gibraltar measures, the exempt and qualifying company regimes, were among eleven measures into which the Commission opened formal State aid investigations on 11 July 2001.
The mere fact that a tax regime is listed as harmful under the Code of Conduct does not, however, necessarily mean that it involves State aid (point 30 of the Notice).
Point 15 of the Notice confirms that differences between tax systems as such are not regulated by the State aid rules, but should rather be addressed under Articles 95 to 97 EC. (63) The new system will address the concerns regarding possible harmful tax competition.
The reform applies in a uniform way to all companies registered in Gibraltar.
Finally, financial services companies in Gibraltar will not be exempted from taxation, but will be subject to an extra top-up tax on profits attributable to such activities. (64) The 15 % profits-based cap and non-taxation of companies making no profit are of general application and do not constitute material selectivity.
The simple fact that one company may benefit from a general rule in a given year as compared to another company in the same tax jurisdiction cannot be sufficient to constitute a State aid under the rules of the EC Treaty.
This result is clearly not contemplated by the points 13 and 14 of the Notice. (65) Regional selectivity could arise if there was a tax, applicable throughout the whole State, but regional parliaments or authorities had power to reduce the rate of that tax (or to give exemptions from it) in their regions.
The situation is entirely different if the tax jurisdiction said to be giving aid is, and has been at all relevant times, a genuinely autonomous tax jurisdiction which determines its tax system independently under its own budgetary responsibility, and in which taxes imposed by the other tax jurisdictions in the State are not payable. (66) Without prejudice to whether generally applicable deviations from a national norm adopted by a fully autonomous region (in contrast to a region acting by ad hoc delegation of powers) without any link to the central budget would constitute State aid or not, the Gibraltar tax reform is also in that respect fundamentally different.
The CFI specifically noted in one case [12] that the Commission's decision to open procedures "has no effect on the competence of the Territorio Histórico de Álava to adopt general tax measures applicable to the whole of the region concerned". (68) The reform is not regional in scope for the purposes of the State aid rules because the fiscal measures in question, which constitute the entire and exclusive corporate tax system, would apply in the same way throughout the relevant tax jurisdiction.
The Åland Executive (69) The comments of the Åland Executive can be summarised as follows. (70) In deciding that the reform is likely to constitute State aid, the Commission states that the possible existence of regional selectivity is taken into account in order to reach its conclusions.
The account of previous Commission practice should refer only to the Commission's final decision. (71) If a self-governing region has sole power to legislate in matters relating to direct corporate taxation, and that region introduces a tax measure, the measure has to be assessed and authorised in accordance with the same principles that would apply if it were taken by a Member State.
This means that the compatibility of a tax measure with the rules on State aid is to be judged in the same way whether it is taken by a Member State or by a self-governing region.
Accordingly, a tax measure that is plainly a general one within a self-governing region is not to be regarded as selective, and does not constitute State aid for purposes of Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty, in so far as the region has exclusive power in tax matters, irrespective of whether the tax charged in the area is different from that in the Member State to which the region belongs.
The reform would continue to be harmful to the Spanish tax system since it would maintain a level of taxation substantially lower in Gibraltar than in Spain, where the standard rate of corporation tax is 35 %, and would differ greatly from the tax system in the United Kingdom, creating a risk that businesses would relocate to Gibraltar in order to benefit from more favourable tax arrangements.
It is likely that most firms in Gibraltar would pay less than the maximum liability of 15 %, at least 15 to 20 percentage points lower than in either Spain or the United Kingdom. (74) For the 28800 companies not liable to the top-up taxes on utilities and financial services activities, the proposed tax system is not in fact an overall corporation tax on business profits but a combination of various individual taxes subject to ceilings which render the tax liability either extremely small or non-existent (the reform is referred to as "zero rate tax" in Gibraltar).
This would be a clear example of maintenance of the status quo in favour of that type of company. (76) The financial services sector accounts for 30 % of gross domestic product.
This would confer an advantage exclusively on such firms, whose costs would be reduced and whose profitability would be increased in relation to their competitors. (80) The Advocate General of the European Court of Justice maintained [15] that all measures which involve a competitive advantage, including a financial advantage, "limited to companies which invest in a particular area of the Member State are attributable to the State in question and cannot therefore, by definition, in the scheme of the fiscal system of the State, be understood as measures of a general nature".
He also took the view that "the fact that the measures at issue were adopted by regional authorities with exclusive competence under national law" was "merely a matter of form", and "not sufficient to justify the preferential treatment reserved to companies which fall within the scope" of regional laws. (81) Although the stated aim of the planned reform is to adopt a new corporation tax scheme that does not involve any element of State aid, it cannot be exempted from the scope of Article 87 on the grounds that it is a tax measure or pursues company-law objectives.
By establishing a clear reduction in the tax burden for the businesses concerned, such regional selectivity would distort competition and affect trade between Member States. (82) The technical mechanism of the payroll tax can be regarded as harmful within the meaning of point B of the Code of Conduct, in addition to the fact that the Gibraltar tax regime as it stands creates a tax burden that is significantly lower than that generally imposed in the United Kingdom.
Employment figures for January 2003 show, for instance, that Spanish nationals lawfully employed in Gibraltar represent approximately 18 % of Gibraltar's workforce.
Competition between the tax systems of autonomous tax regions may arise not only from differences in tax rate, but also from differing methods of calculating taxable income.
Such differences in method of calculation do not constitute State aid if the tax system is applied in a genuinely non-discriminatory manner inside the autonomous tax territory.
The dropping of the GBP 500000 profit tax limit removes all possibility that the reform could benefit larger companies over smaller ones.
The tax autonomy referred to in certain Basque cases [17] is applied to grant tax rebates in relation to the general Spanish tax system, while in Gibraltar's case its autonomy is applied to create a fundamentally different tax system to that of the United Kingdom. (95) The allegations relating to, inter alia, tax evasion and money laundering are unfounded and irrelevant to the current State aid procedure.
This view has been corroborated by several international bodies, which have also commended Gibraltar's actions in combating money laundering.
ASSESSMENT Existence of aid (96) In order to be considered to be State aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty, a measure must satisfy the four following criteria.
Third, the measure must affect competition and trade between Member States.
Finally, the measure must be specific or selective in that it favours certain undertakings or the production of certain goods. (97) According to point 16 of the Notice, the main criterion in applying Article 87(1) EC to a tax measure is that it "provides in favour of certain undertakings in the Member State an exception to the application of the tax system.
The question of material selectivity of the different components of the reform in the Gibraltar context is examined separately below in paragraphs 128 to 152.
Neither the United Kingdom nor the Government of Gibraltar has contested the factual basis of this comparison and it is therefore repeated and refined below. (99) Under the United Kingdom corporation tax regime the maximum rate of corporation tax is 30 % of companies' profits.
These differences in tax treatment represent an advantage to companies other than utility companies established in Gibraltar compared with companies established in the United Kingdom. (101) Further advantages arise to companies in Gibraltar as compared with those in the United Kingdom through other differences in the tax regime.
In contrast, capital gains are generally chargeable to corporation tax in the United Kingdom.
In contrast to the 33 1/3 % allowance for capital expenditure on plant and machinery, the United Kingdom tax regime provides for an allowance of 25 % of the declining balance and has no generally applicable first year allowances. (102) As is evident from the previous paragraphs, the essence of the Commission's view on the regional selectivity of the Gibraltar tax reform proposals is that they provide, in general, for a lower level of taxation than that applicable in the United Kingdom and that this difference amounts to a selective advantage for companies active in Gibraltar.
This premise is consistent with point 16 of the Notice.
The settled practice of the Commission, confirmed by the Court of Justice, on the contrary consists of classifying as aid tax schemes applicable in particular regions or territories which are favourable in comparison to the general scheme of a Member State [23]. (105) Second, the United Kingdom's argument according to which benefits of limited territorial scope become general measures in the region concerned only because they are established by the regional rather than by the central authority, and that they apply throughout the territory under the region's jurisdiction, cannot be reconciled with the concept of aid.
If this were not the case, the State could easily avoid the application, in part of its own territory, of provisions of Community law on State aid simply by making changes to the internal allocation of competence on certain matters, thus raising the general nature, for that territory, of the measure in question". (106) The Commission points out that the use of a purely institutional criterion to differentiate "aid" from "general measures" would inevitably lead to differences in treatment in the application of the rules on aid to Member States, according to whether they had adopted a centralised or decentralised model of allocating tax competence (or other competence, such as in the area of social security).
If the United Kingdom's argument were accepted, Member States whose internal administrative organisation allowed certain regional authorities below State level to make changes to the general tax system in the form of tax benefits applicable to firms that operated in the respective regions would escape the rules on regional aid in relation to those regions and measures. (107) The Commission considers that if measures completely identical in their objectives, technique and effects were not subject to the same rules it would be contrary to equal treatment and would create serious distortions in the functioning of the common market.
The existence of the rules on aid to regional tax benefits should be based on objective criteria and cannot depend on a purely institutional factor such as the application at a particular time of more or less extensive tax autonomy in favour of an infra-State authority of more or less broad territorial scope.
If this technique were generalised it would undermine equality in applying the rules on State aid and therefore render them ineffective. (108) In the Commission's approach the tax autonomy of the regional authority that grants the benefits has never been considered as a factor that would make it possible not to regard measures as aid.
In a recent decision concerning tax advantages granted by the authorities of the Azores region, the Commission came to the conclusion that the measures at stake were selective although they applied to all undertakings active in that region [30]. (109) Lastly, the Commission would stress that classing these measures as aid does not call into question the tax autonomy of Gibraltar, resulting from the relevant constitutional arrangements and practice.
Although the assessment of a measure under State aid rules does not depend on the nature of the measures previously in force, it can be noted that the tax system currently applied in Gibraltar largely follows the model of the United Kingdom, with the exception of the advantages granted to the offshore economy. (113) In the same way, the arguments of the Gibraltar Government contrasting regional (or secondary) powers to reduce a national tax rate with its own, independent powers over the entire tax system concern the internal competences of the United Kingdom and its territories.
De facto, providing directly for a reduction of the tax rate, or granting to a territory the possibility to reduce a common tax rate, or exempting a territory from a common system and granting to it a power to establish a more advantageous taxation system comes to the same result; it allows companies in a certain region to pay lower taxes while State resources are foregone. (115) The Commission cannot accept the United Kingdom suggestion that a tax jurisdiction not covering the whole Member State would be prevented from adopting any tax rate except the one applicable in the other tax jurisdiction in the State.
As mentioned above, the key to any State aid analysis of tax measures is to establish the common system applicable, in this case, the United Kingdom tax system.
In any event, the fact that a fiscal advantage constitutes State aid does not mean that it cannot be held compatible with the common market. (116) The argument that imposing a higher rate of taxation in a given region would automatically have as a consequence that lower tax rates applied in the rest of the State become State aid has nothing to do with the present case, does not follow from the reasoning of the Commission and is not accurate.
This shows again that it remains possible for a Member State to grant fiscal autonomy to certain regions without necessarily granting State aid to given companies. (117) The parallels that the United Kingdom draws with the WTO agreement on subsidies are not relevant, as the legal order within the European Union is quite distinct from any international law provided for by WTO agreements, the regime of State aid control in a single market must obviously be stricter than rules applicable to subsidies laid down in a world agreement and the fact that a measure might not be considered to be a "specific subsidy" under the Agreement on subsidies cannot cut down the scope of the definition of aid in Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty [31]. (118) As for the consequences, in terms of State aid, of any future decision by the United Kingdom to share sovereignty over Gibraltar with Spain, the arguments advanced are purely hypothetical in nature and refer to a situation which, in any event, should be dealt with by specific arrangements concerning the application of EC law.
The differences identified constitute further elements of an analysis which demonstrates that when compared with the United Kingdom tax system (the common system applicable), undertakings in Gibraltar in general enjoy a lower fiscal pressure. (120) The United Kingdom invokes the subsidiarity principle in order to argue that if a Member State can function with two or more autonomous tax jurisdictions competing for corporate tax revenue within its territory without suffering significant distortive effects on competition, it does not under the subsidiarity principle of the EC Treaty become a Community task to intervene in the constitutional arrangements of the Member State.
More concretely, where tax powers are devolved but a central reference system remains, Member States must ensure that reductions in tax, insofar as they constitute aid, are compatible with the common market. (122) The United Kingdom argues, inter alia, that Gibraltar: is not part of the United Kingdom; has its own distinct institutions and constitutional order; and is autonomous, self-governing and economically self-sufficient. (123) The Commission accepts that Gibraltar does not form part of the United Kingdom for domestic law purposes and has distinct institutions, although the United Kingdom authorities retain certain competences and prerogatives, including the power to ensure that measures adopted by Gibraltar in domestic matters do not conflict with the United Kingdom's obligations under the EC Treaty.
Gibraltar must therefore be considered to form part of the United Kingdom for the purposes of the rules on State aid, including the application of Articles 87 and 88 to fiscal measures. (124) Whilst it may be true that EC law applies to Gibraltar by virtue of Article 299(4) of the EC Treaty rather than Article 299(1), that fact does not afford Gibraltar special status for the purposes of the application of the rules on State aid in general and on regional State aid in particular.
The fact that a measure is adopted at a sub-national level does not in any way affect the application of Article 87 of the EC Treaty [33]. (125) Finally, the fact that the budget of a given territory is self-sufficient is not immediately relevant for the assessment under State aid rules of the measures adopted by the authorities of that territory.
In addition, it appears from the institutional arrangements in place that financial responsibility for Gibraltar falls in the last resort to the United Kingdom. (126) As for the Åland Executive's comments to the effect that a general tax measure within a self-governing region is not selective, they rely on similar arguments to those advanced by the United Kingdom and the Government of Gibraltar.
The Commission refers to its reasoning developed above, and in particular in paragraphs 104 to 109.
In particular, it cannot be considered that any given feature of such a system forms part of the general scheme, since this would amount to accepting an automatic justification for such a system. (133) The Commission therefore concludes that the exemption of unprofitable companies from payroll tax and business property occupation tax through the operation of the 15 % cap is selective and, if the other conditions are fulfilled, may constitute State aid to those companies that benefit from it.
In particular point 14 covers, for example, tax incentives for specific investment and measures designed to reduce the taxation of labour "for all firms", which is not the case with the 15 % cap, benefiting only companies that make relatively small profit as compared to their number of employees.
In addition, the 15 % cap is not a purely technical measure in the sense of the first indent of point 13 of the Notice.
Whilst conventional systems of corporation tax limit the proportion of profits paid in taxes through the setting of the rates of tax (banded systems include a top or maximum tax rate), the equivalent technical measure in a payroll tax system is the rate of tax per employee, in the Gibraltar case, set at a uniform rate of GBP 3000.
The introduction in a payroll and property tax system of a cap linked to a different criterion, namely the level of profits, cannot be compared with the application of variable rates in a progressive system of profit taxation, which is justified by the nature and general scheme of the system (point 24 of the Notice).
Nor is the 15 % cap a measure pursuing a general economic policy objective, in the sense of the second indent of point 13 of the Notice, as it does not reduce the tax burden related to certain production costs for the whole economy of Gibraltar, but it only benefits a limited number of undertakings.
Similarly, the argument that a regressive element is not required in the taxation of utilities, which occupy monopoly or quasi-monopoly positions in the Gibraltar market, indicates that mobile capital is the target of the 15 % cap. (139) As for the suggestion that without a regressive element, a labour tax could trigger mass layoffs and instability in times of cyclical market fluctuations, the Commission would simply note that this is an inherent feature of such a system.
In any event, at GBP 3000 per employee, the payroll tax would represent only a small proportion of the overall unit labour costs [34].
Therefore the incentive to shed labour in order to control costs will exist to a similar extent with or without a payroll tax. (140) The Commission also notes the impact of the 15 % cap on the offshore and onshore sectors of the Gibraltar economy.
The vast majority of qualifying companies pay corporation tax at a rate of between 2 % and 10 % of profits.
The 15 % cap therefore limits any increase that qualifying companies would face on implementation of the reform.
In contrast, the onshore economy (other than utilities) would see their rate of tax fall from the current standard corporation tax rate of 35 %.
The Government of Gibraltar also appears to admit that the reform as a whole (which includes the 15 % cap) has been designed to suit the particular tax "needs and preferences" of sectors within the offshore financial services industry [35].
This suggests that capping tax liability is intended to favour financial services companies, many of which are qualifying companies, the principal source of employment in the Gibraltar "Finance Centre". (141) The Commission therefore concludes that in the circumstances of the present case the 15 % cap is selective and, if the other conditions are fulfilled, may constitute State aid to those companies that benefit from its application.
The proposed application of the payroll tax and of the business property occupation tax to the Gibraltar economy (142) Point 13 of the Notice states that "[t]ax measures which are open to all economic agents operating within a Member State are in principle general measures.
Provided that they apply without distinction to all firms and to the production of all goods, the following measures do not constitute State aid: - tax measures of a purely technical nature (for example, setting the rate of taxation, depreciation rules and rules on loss carry-overs; provisions to prevent double taxation or tax avoidance), - measures pursuing general economic policy objectives through a reduction of the tax burden related to certain production costs (research and development (R %amp% D), the environment, training, employment)." (143) Without prejudice to the considerations with regard to the effects of the reform proposals (as a whole) in paragraphs 147 to 152 or those concerning regional selectivity in paragraphs 98 to 127, a payroll tax under which all undertakings are liable in the amount of a fixed sum per employee per year can at least under certain circumstances be considered as selective when it is applied in the absence of a general system of taxation of company profits and replaces such a system.
In addition, the payroll tax proposed by Gibraltar essentially does not constitute a tax measure of a purely technical nature in the sense of the first indent of point 13 of the Notice, because it is not a technical adjustment of a general system, but it concerns the tax base.
The same reasoning applies equally to a business property occupation tax applied in the absence of a general system of taxation of company profits and replacing such a system, under which each undertaking's liability for tax is set at a rate equivalent to the same fixed percentage of its liability to general property rates.
As the United Kingdom points out, the GBP 150 (about EUR 225) difference in registration fee between the two classes of company falls well below the de minimis threshold [36] of EUR 100000 over a three year period.
The top-up taxes on financial services and utilities activities (146) Spain suggests that the absence of top-up taxation on sectors other than financial services and utilities confers an advantage on companies in such sectors.
It must be noted that, although in some cases the tax liability of any given company will also be determined by the number of employees or by the commercial use of property, the combined effect of the various caps and top-ups amounts to setting different overall level of taxation, measured on profits, for different sectors of the economy. | | Tax rate | | Number | Current | Post-reform | All companies (breakdown by sector) | 29000 | | | Financial services | 179 | 0-35 % | 5-15 % | Utilities | 23 | 35 % | 35 % | Other | 28798 | 0-35 % | 0-15 % | All companies (breakdown by income) | 29000 | | | With income | 10400 | 0-35 % | 0-15 % | No income | 18600 | — | — | Companies with income (breakdown by status) | 10400 | | | Non-exempt | 1400 | 0-35 % | 0-15 % | Exempt | 9000 | 0 % | 0-5 % | Non-exempt with income (breakdown by profit) | 1400 | | | Make profit | 540 | 0-35 % | 0-15 % | No profit | 500 | — | — | Non-exempt with income (breakdown by status) | 1400 | | | Qualifying | 140 | 2-10 % | 0-15 % | Non-qualifying | 1260 | 35 % | 0-15 % | Utilities | 23 | 35 % | 35 % | Exempt with income (breakdown by sector) | 9000 | | | Financial services | 70 | 0 % | 5 % | Non-financial services | 8930 | 0 % | 0 % | (148) Table 1 shows how certain clearly defined sectors in the Gibraltar economy would be affected on implementation of the reform in terms of taxation.
However, even if they are taxed for the first time, their privileged position in the Gibraltar economy will be largely maintained since 5 % of profits will be the limit of their tax liability.
In contrast, the rest of the Gibraltar economy will be subject to an upper limit of either 15 % or 35 %. (151) The Commission concludes that the reform perpetuates the existing situation in which exempt companies are the beneficiaries of State aid.
Advantage granted by the State or through State resources (153) The grant of the tax exemptions and reductions assessed in detail in paragraphs 98 to 152 above involves a loss of tax revenue which, according to point 10 of the Notice, is equivalent to the use of State resources in the form of fiscal expenditure.
Many of the companies established in Gibraltar (and the groups to which they belong) are likely to be active in sectors where there is trade between Member States.
Similarly, where a Member State grants aid to undertakings operating in the service and distribution industries, it is not necessary for the recipient undertakings themselves to carry on their business outside the Member State for the aid to have an effect on Community trade, especially in the case of undertakings established close to the frontier between two Member States.
Therefore to the extent that Gibraltar companies operating in sectors in which there is intra-Community trade benefit from this exemption, it affects trade between Member States, distorting or threatening to distort competition.
However, as observed by the Government of Gibraltar, the assessment of a measure as harmful (or otherwise, as is the case with the reform [47]) under the Code has no direct bearing on its evaluation for State aid purposes under Article 87 of the EC Treaty.
Although the Government of Gibraltar suggests that measures under Articles 95 to 97 of the EC Treaty constitute the appropriate course of action, the Commission notes that point 15 of the Notice must be read in conjunction with point 6 which clearly refers to possible courses of action in relation to the effects of general tax measures within Member States.
Implicit in this suggestion is a demand for Gibraltar to be treated as if it were a Member State in its own right, in the same way that the Åland Executive claims that direct taxation measures adopted by self-governing regions should be assessed as if they were adopted by a Member State.
None of the derogations provided for in Article 87(2) or Article 87(3) apply.
Done at Brussels, 30 March 2004.
See also Commission Decision 98/476/EC of 21 January 1998 on tax concessions under Article 52(8) of the German Income Tax Act (Einkommensteuergesetz) (OJ L 212, 30.7.1998, p. 50), on which the Court of Justice delivered judgment on 19 September 2000 in Case C-156/98 Germany v Commission [2000] ECR I-6857.
Average full-time wages in the United Kingdom are around GBP 24000 (source: New Earnings Survey 2002, http://www.statistics.gov.uk/pdfdir/nes1002.pdf).
