It is therefore advisable to establish a Community procedure for approving such discriminatory tests, once the remaining limitations of these tests have been overcome, and to authorise Member States to introduce the use of marker vaccines when appropriate in an emergency. (9) Special eradication measures should be applied in case of disease in feral pigs. (10) Provisions should be established to guarantee that harmonised procedures and methods are used for the diagnosis of classical swine fever, including the establishment of a Community reference laboratory as well as reference laboratories in the Member States. (11) Provisions should be established to ensure the necessary preparedness to effectively tackle the emergency situations related to one or more outbreaks of classical swine fever, in particular by drawing up plans to combat them and setting up control centres and expert groups. (12) Some of the measures so far adopted in the Community in the event of an outbreak of classical swine fever in accordance with Directive 80/217/EEC should be changed to take into account scientific advances, development of new diagnostic tools and vaccines and the experiences gained following the outbreaks of classical swine fever which recently occurred in the Community. (13) Experience shows that feeding catering waste to pigs can constitute a risk of spreading the classical swine fever virus as a result of lack of effectiveness of the treatment control measures.
Article 3 Classical swine fever notification 1.
Without prejudice to existing Community provisions on notification of outbreaks of animal diseases, the Member State in whose territory classical swine fever is confirmed shall: (a) give notification of the disease and provide information to the Commission and the other Member States in accordance with Annex I on: - the outbreaks of classical swine fever which are confirmed in holdings, - the cases of classical swine fever which are confirmed in a slaughterhouse or in means of transport, - the primary cases of classical swine fever which are confirmed in feral pigs, - the results of the epidemiological enquiry carried out in accordance with Article 8; (b) provide information to the Commission and the other Member States on the further cases confirmed in feral pigs in a classical swine fever infected area in accordance with Article 16(3)(a) and (4). 3.
The provisions of Annex I may be supplemented or amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2).
In any case, a sufficient number of samples shall be taken from the pigs when they are killed in order that the presence of classical swine fever virus can be confirmed or ruled out, in accordance with the diagnostic manual; (b) may establish a temporary control zone around the holding referred to in paragraph 2; some or all the measures referred to in paragraph 1 or 2 shall be applied in the pig holdings within this zone. 4.
If necessary, measures to prevent the spreading of the disease shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 27(2), which may include emergency vaccination in accordance with the procedure laid down to in Article 19.
Article 6 Measures in the event of confirmation of the presence of classical swine fever in holdings consisting of different production units 1.
Article 7 Measures in contact holdings 1.
Holdings shall be recognised as contact holdings where the official veterinarian finds, or considers on the basis of the epidemiological enquiry carried out in accordance with Article 8, that classical swine fever may have been introduced, either from other holdings to the holding referred to in Article 4 or Article 5, or from the holding referred to in Article 4 or Article 5 to other holdings.
The provisions of Article 4 shall be applied in such holdings until the suspicion of classical swine fever has been officially ruled out. 2.
A sufficient number of samples shall be taken in accordance with the diagnostic manual from the pigs when they are killed in order that the presence of classical swine fever virus in these holdings can be confirmed or ruled out. 3.
These criteria and risk factors may subsequently be amended or supplemented to take account of scientific developments and experiences, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2).
Article 8 Epidemiological enquiry Member States shall ensure that the epidemiological enquiry in relation to suspected cases or outbreaks of classical swine fever is carried out on the basis of questionnaires, prepared within the framework of the contingency plans referred to in Article 22.
Article 9 Establishment of protection and surveillance zones 1.
The measures referred to in Articles 10 and 11 shall be applied in the respective zones. 2.
The competent authority shall take all necessary measures, including the use of prominent signs and warning notices and use of media resources, such as the press and television, to ensure that all persons in the protection and surveillance zones are fully aware of the restrictions in force in accordance with Articles 10 and 11, and shall take such measures as they consider appropriate to ensure the adequate enforcement of these measures.
Article 10 Measures in the established protection zone 1.
The measures in the protection zone shall continue to be applied at least until: (a) cleaning and disinfection in the infected holdings have been carried out; (b) pigs on all holdings have undergone clinical and laboratory examinations carried out in accordance with the diagnostic manual in order to detect the possible presence of classical swine fever virus.
Article 11 Measures in the established surveillance zone 1.
The measures in the surveillance zone shall continue to be applied at least until: (a) cleaning and disinfection in the infected holdings have been carried out; (b) pigs on all holdings have undergone clinical and, where necessary, laboratory examinations as laid down in the diagnostic manual in order to detect the possible presence of classical swine fever virus.
Article 12 Cleaning and disinfection 1.
Member States shall ensure that: (a) the disinfectants to be used and their concentrations are officially approved by the competent authority; (b) the cleaning and disinfection operations are carried out under official supervision in accordance with: - the instructions given by the official veterinarian, and - the principles and procedures for cleaning, disinfecting and treatment laid down in Annex II. 2.
The principles and procedures for cleaning and disinfecting laid down in Annex II may subsequently be amended or supplemented to take account of scientific developments and experiences, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2).
Article 13 Repopulation of pig holdings following disease outbreaks 1.
Article 14 Measures in case of suspicion and confirmation of the presence of classical swine fever in pigs in a slaughterhouse or means of transport 1.
Where there is a suspicion of the presence of classical swine fever in a slaughterhouse or means of transport, Member States shall ensure that the competent authority immediately sets in motion official means of investigation to confirm or rule out the presence of the said disease in accordance with the procedures laid down in the diagnostic manual. 2.
Article 16 Plans for the eradication of classical swine fever from a feral pig population 1.
The plan, if necessary with amendments, shall be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 27(2).
The plan may subsequently be amended or supplemented to take account of developments in the situation.
If the amendments concern other provisions of the plan, Member States shall submit the amended plan to the Commission for examination and possible approval in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 27(2). 2.
After the measures provided for in the plan mentioned in paragraph 1 have been approved, they shall replace the initial measures laid down in Article 15, on a date which shall be decided upon when approval is given. 3.
More detailed rules relating to the information that is to be provided by the Member States on this matter may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2).
Article 17 Diagnostic procedures and bio-safety requirements 1.
The provisions of Annexes III and IV and the diagnostic manual may be supplemented or amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2).
Article 18 Use, manufacture and sale of classical swine fever vaccines 1.
If necessary, rules relating to the production, packaging, distribution and state of the stocks of classical swine fever vaccines in the Community may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2).
Article 19 Emergency vaccination in pig holdings 1.
Notwithstanding Article 18(1)(a), when classical swine fever has been confirmed in pig holdings and the epidemiological data available suggest that it threatens to spread, emergency vaccination may be introduced in pig holdings in accordance with the procedures and provisions laid down in paragraphs 2 to 9 of this Article. 2.
These criteria and risk factors may subsequently be amended or supplemented to take account of scientific developments and experiences, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2). 3.
In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 27(2), the emergency vaccination plan may be approved or amendments and additions may be requested before approval is given.
In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 27(2), the emergency vaccination plan may subsequently be amended or supplemented to take account of developments in the situation. 4.
Without prejudice to Articles 10 and 11, any Member State which carries out emergency vaccination shall ensure that during the vaccination period: (a) no live pigs leave the vaccination area, unless to be transported to a slaughterhouse designated by the competent authority and situated within the vaccination area or close to that area for immediate slaughter or to a rendering plant or to a suitable place where they are immediately killed and their carcases are processed under official supervision; (b) all fresh pig meat produced from pigs vaccinated during the emergency vaccination is either processed or marked and treated in accordance with the provisions referred to in Article 10(3)(f), fourth indent; (c) semen, ova and embryos collected from the pigs to be vaccinated during the 30 days prior to vaccination are traced and destroyed under official supervision. 5.
The provisions laid down in paragraph 4 shall apply for a minimum of 6 months following completion of the vaccination operations in the area in question. 6.
The specific plan and the decision to adopt emergency vaccination must be notified to the Commission before the start of the vaccination operations; (b) in addition to the information referred to in paragraph 3, the plan must prescribe that all the pigs in the holdings where the vaccine is to be used will be slaughtered or killed as quickly as possible after completion of the vaccination operations in accordance with paragraph 4(a), and the fresh meat produced from these pigs will be either processed or marked and treated in accordance with the provisions laid down in Article 10(3)(f), fourth indent.
In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 27(2), the plan may be approved or amendments and additions may be requested before approval is given. 8.
Notwithstanding the provisions laid down in paragraphs 5 and 6, the measures provided for in paragraph 4 may be lifted after: (a) all the pigs in the holdings where vaccine has been used have been slaughtered or killed in accordance with paragraph 4(a), and the fresh meat produced from these pigs has been either processed or marked and treated in accordance with Article 10(3)(f), fourth indent; (b) all the holdings where vaccinated pigs had been kept have been cleansed and disinfected in accordance with Article 12.
In those cases where a marker vaccine has been used during the vaccination campaign, derogations from the provisions referred to in paragraphs 4, 5 and 6 may be authorised in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 27(2), in particular with respect to the marking of meat of the vaccinated pigs and its subsequent use, and the destination of the treated products.
Article 20 Emergency vaccination of feral pigs 1.
Notwithstanding Article 18(1)(a), when classical swine fever has been confirmed in feral pigs and the epidemiological data available suggest that it threatens to spread, emergency vaccination of feral pigs may be introduced in accordance with the procedures and provisions laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3. 2.
In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 27(2), the emergency vaccination plan may be approved or amendments and additions may be requested before approval is given.
In accordance with the procedure above, the emergency vaccination plan may subsequently be amended or supplemented to take account of developments in the situation. 3.
Article 21 Community controls Experts from the Commission may make on-the-spot checks in cooperation with the competent authorities of the Member States, in so far as it is necessary to ensure uniform application of this Directive.
The rules of application of this Article and in particular those governing the procedure for cooperation with the national authorities shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2).
Article 22 Contingency plans 1.
The criteria and requirements to be applied for drawing up the contingency plan shall be those laid down in Annex VII.
In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2), those criteria and requirements may be amended or supplemented taking into account the specific nature of classical swine fever and progress made in the development of disease control measures. 3.
The plans, if necessary amended, shall be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2).
The plans may subsequently be amended or supplemented, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2), to take into account developments in the situation.
In any case, every five years each Member State shall update the plan and submit it to the Commission for approval in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2).
Article 23 Disease control centres and expert groups 1.
Member States shall ensure that a fully functional national disease control centre can be immediately established in the event of classical swine fever outbreaks. 2.
Member States shall ensure that fully functional local disease control centres can be established immediately in the event of classical swine fever outbreaks. 4.
Further criteria and requirements about the function and duties of the national disease control centres, local disease control centres and expert groups may be laid down in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 26(2).
Article 24 Use of catering waste 1.
The Member States shall ensure that: (a) the feeding of catering waste to pigs is prohibited; (b) catering waste from international means of transport such as ships, land vehicles and aircraft is collected and destroyed under official supervision; (c) the information on the application of the provisions of points (a) and (b) and the relevant checks carried out by Member States is transmitted to the Commission by 31 October each year at the latest, and for the first time in 2003.
Detailed rules for the control measures to be applied and the information to be supplied by Member States in this connection, in particular as regards the provisions of paragraph 1(c) may be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 26(2). 3.
Any detailed rules necessary for the implementation of this Directive may be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 26(2).
Article 26 Normal regulatory procedure 1.
Article 27 Accelerated regulatory procedure 1.
Article 28 Repeals 1.
References to the repealed Directive 80/217/EEC shall be construed as references to this Directive and shall be read in accordance with the correlation table set out in Annex VIII. 2.
Article 29 Transitional provisions 1.
By way of derogation from the first subparagraph of Article 28(1), Annexes I and IV to Directive 80/217/EEC shall continue to apply for the purposes of this Directive pending the entry into force of the Decision approving the diagnostic manual referred to in Article 17(3) of this Directive. 2.
Plans to eradicate classical swine fever from feral pigs, approved in accordance with Article 6a of Directive 80/217/EEC and in place at the date of entry into force of this Directive, shall continue to apply for the purposes of this Directive.
The plans, amended as necessary, shall be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 27(2). 3.
However, Member States shall, before 1 January 2003, submit to the Commission amendments to these plans, taking into account the provisions laid down in Article 22.
The plans, amended as necessary, shall be approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26(2). 4.
Article 31 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 32 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 23 October 2001.
Neyts-Uyttebroeck (1) OJ C 29 E, 30.1.2001, p. 199. (2) Opinion of the European Parliament of 14 June 2001 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (3) OJ C 123, 25.4.2001, p. 69. (4) OJ C 148, 18.5.2001, p. 21. (5) OJ L 47, 21.2.1980, p. 11.
Directive as last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (6) OJ L 319, 7.11.1981, p. 20.
Directive as last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (11) OJ L 340, 31.12.1993, p. 21. (12) Council Directive 64/432/EEC of 26 June 1964 on animal health problems affecting intra-Community trade in bovine animals and swine (OJ L 121, 29.7.1964, p. 1977/64).
Directive as last amended by the 1994 Act of Accession. (15) Council Directive 80/215/EEC of 22 January 1980 on animal health problems affecting intra-Community trade in meat products (OJ L 47, 21.2.1980, p. 4).
Directive as last amended by Directive 97/79/EC (OJ L 24, 30.1.1998, p. 31). (17) OJ L 255, 18.10.1968, p. 23.
Within 24 hours from the confirmation of each primary outbreak, primary case in feral pigs or case in a slaughterhouse or means of transport, the Member State concerned must notify by means of the Animal Disease Notification System established in accordance with Article 5 of Council Directive 82/894/EEC: (a) the date of dispatch; (b) the time of dispatch; (c) the name of the Member State; (d) the name of the disease; (e) the number of outbreaks or cases; (f) the date on which classical swine fever was suspected; (g) the date of confirmation; (h) the methods used for confirmation; (i) whether the presence of the disease has been confirmed in feral pigs or in pigs in a holding, slaughterhouse or means of transport; (j) the geographical location where the outbreak or the case of classical swine fever has been confirmed; (k) the disease control measures applied. 2.
In case of primary outbreaks or cases in slaughterhouses or means of transport, in addition to the data referred to in point 1, the Member State concerned must also forward the following information: (a) the number of susceptible pigs in the outbreak, slaughterhouse or means of transport; (b) the number of dead pigs of each category on the holding, slaughterhouse or means of transport; (c) for each category, the morbidity of the disease and the number of pigs in which classical swine fever has been confirmed; (d) the number of pigs killed in the outbreak, slaughterhouse or means of transport; (e) the number of carcases processed; (f) in case of an outbreak, its distance from the nearest pig holding; (g) if classical swine fever was confirmed in a slaughterhouse or means of transport, the location of the holding or holdings of origin of the infected pigs or carcases. 3.
ANNEX II Principles and procedures for cleansing and disinfection 1.
ANNEX III List and duties of national classical swine fever laboratories 1.
The national classical swine fever laboratories are as follows: Belgium Centre d'etude et de recherche vétérinaires et agrochimiques, 1180 Bruxelles Denmark Statens Veterinære Institut for Virusforskning, Lindholm, 4771 Kalvehave Germany Bundesforschungsanstalt für Viruskrankheiten der Tiere, 17498 Insel Riems Greece Veterinary Institute of Infectious and Parasitic Diseases, 15310 Ag.
ANNEX IV Community reference laboratory for classical swine fever 1.
The Community reference laboratory for classical swine fever is: Institut für Virologie, der Tierärztlichen Hochschule Hannover, Bünteweg 17, D-30559 Hannover, Germany. 2.
ANNEX VIII Part A Directive 80/217/EEC and its successive amending acts (Referred to in Article 28) %gt%TABLE%gt% Part B Deadlines for transposition into national law %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX IX Correlation table %gt%TABLE%gt%
