The structural measures implemented with Community financial assistance under this Regulation in the fisheries and aquaculture sector and the industry processing and marketing their products (hereinafter referred to as %quot%the sector%quot%) shall support the general objectives of Articles 33 and 100 of the Treaty and the objectives set out in Regulations (EEC) No 3760/92 and (EC) No 1260/1999. 2.
The tasks of the measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be: (a) to contribute to achieving a sustainable balance between fishery resources and their exploitation; (b) to strengthen the competitiveness of structures and the development of economically viable enterprises in the sector; (c) to improve market supply and the value added to fishery and aquaculture products; (d) to contribute to revitalising areas dependent on fisheries and aquaculture. 3.
Community financial assistance may be granted for the implementation of measures in support of one or more of the tasks referred to in paragraph 2, in accordance with Article 2. 4.
Measures implemented with assistance from the FIFG outside Objective 1 shall be subject to a single programming document in each Member State concerned. 3.
The measures mentioned in paragraph 2 shall include all structural measures in the sector in the following areas: - fleet renewal and modernisation of fishing vessels, - adjustment of fishing effort, - joint enterprises, - small-scale coastal fishing, - socioeconomic measures, - protection of marine resources in coastal waters, - aquaculture, - fishing port facilities, - processing and marketing of fishery and aquaculture products, - measures to find and promote new market outlets, - operations by members of the trade, - temporary cessation of activities and other financial compensation, - innovative actions and technical assistance.
In addition, and in accordance with Articles 22 and 23 of Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999, the FIFG shall contribute towards: (a) innovative action including transnational operations and the establishment of networks for those operating in the sector and areas dependent on fisheries and aquaculture; (b) technical assistance measures.
Article 4 Without prejudice to Article 5, the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 37 of the Treaty, shall adopt, not later than 31 December 1999, the detailed rules and conditions for the Community financial contribution to the structural measures referred to in Article 2.
Council Regulations (EEC) No 4028/86(10) and (EEC) No 4042/89(11) shall continue to apply to applications for aid submitted before 1 January 1994. 2.
Article 6 Regulation (EEC) No 2080/93 is hereby repealed with effect from 1 January 2000.
Article 7 The transitional arrangements provided for in Article 52 of Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999 shall apply mutatis mutandis to this Regulation.
Article 8 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Luxembourg, 21 June 1999.
