Member States shall ensure that the confirmation of swine vesicular disease and the differential diagnosis with foot-and-mouth disease are based on: (a) the detection of clinical signs of disease; (b) the detection of virus, antigen or genome in samples of epithelium tissue, vesicular fluid or faeces; (c) the demonstration of a specific antibody response in serum samples, in accordance with the procedures, sampling methods and criteria for evaluation of the results of laboratory tests laid down in the Manual annexed to this Decision. 2.
Article 3 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 4 July 2000.
For the Commission David Byrne Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 62, 15.3.1993, p. 69.
Member States shall ensure that when pigs show clinical signs suggesting swine vesicular disease or foot-and-mouth disease, differential diagnosis by means of appropriate sampling and laboratory investigations is carried out as quickly as possible, in accordance with the provisions referred to in Chapters IV, VII and VIII of this Manual.
Samples suspected to contain swine vesicular disease virus must only be analysed in a laboratory authorised to handle foot-and-mouth disease virus for diagnostic purposes, in accordance with Community legislation on the control of foot-and-mouth disease, unless foot-and-mouth disease has already been ruled out. 6.
The parcel must be addressed to: Institute for Animal Health, Pirbright Laboratory Community Reference Laboratory for swine vesicular disease Ash Road, Pirbright, Woking Surrey GU24 ONF United Kingdom , UK The following information must also be included on the label: %quot%Animal pathological material of no commercial value.
Suitable disinfectants are: - sodium hydroxide (1:100 dilution), - formalin (1:9 dilution of a solution of formalin containing a minimum of 34 % formaldehyde), and - sodium hypochlorite (2 % available chlorine).
CHAPTER V Sampling procedures for swine vesicular disease serosurveillance 1.
However, the competent authority may decide to lift the measures referred to in (1)(a) if: (a) the epidemiological enquiry carried out in accordance with Article 8 of Directive 92/119/EEC suggests that swine vesicular disease has not been introduced in the holding; (b) no clinical signs of swine vesicular disease have been detected in the holding; and (c) the holding is not located in a surveillance or restriction zone established following a confirmed outbreak of disease or subject to other restrictions applied in relation to a confirmed outbreak of disease, and provided that: - no pigs are moved from the holding for intra-Community trade; and - pigs from the holding in question are only moved to a slaughterhouse for immediate slaughter or to another holding from which no pigs are moved for intra-Community trade, until the results of the further checks and serological tests indicate that swine vesicular disease can be definitely ruled out. 3.
Without prejudice to the measures referred to in Article 9 of Directive 92/119/EEC, in case one or more seropositive pigs are detected following the surveillance activities referred to in Chapter V(1)(b) or V(1)(c), the competent authority shall ensure that: (a) where necessary and feasible, appropriate further checks including collection of samples are carried out to confirm or rule out swine vesicular disease in the place where these pigs have been detected, taking into account the local situation; (b) the measures referred to in Article 4 of Directive 92/119/EEC are applied in the holding of origin of these pigs; (c) a check is carried out in the holding of origin of these pigs in accordance with the provisions referred to in Chapter II(1); and (d) blood samples are collected for serological testing from the pigs in the holding of origin of the seropositive pigs, in accordance with the provisions referred to in Chapter V(2). 6.
CHAPTER VII Principles and applications of virological tests and evaluation of their results A.
The test is the same as that used for foot-and-mouth disease diagnosis.
A monoclonal antibody-based ELISA can be used to study antigenic variation among strains of swine vesicular disease virus.
For differential diagnosis from foot-and-mouth disease virus, primary bovine thyroid cells, or baby hamster kidney cells (BHK-21) must also be inoculated. 3.
The PCR technique is rapid (the results are usually available within 24 hours), detects all genotypes of swine vesicular disease virus, and is sufficiently sensitive for use on samples collected from cases of suspect clinical disease. 3.
CHAPTER VIII Principles and applications of serological tests and evaluation of their results A.
The quantitative VN micro-test for swine vesicular disease virus antibody detection is performed with IB-RS-2 cells or an equivalent cell system in flat-bottomed tissue culture grade microtitre plates. 2.
The sera are inactivated at 56 °C for 30 minutes before testing.
An indirect trapping ELISA using isotype-specific monocolonal antibodies to detect swine IgG or IgM specific for swine vesicular disease virus is helpful in assessing the time of infection in the pig or on the infected premise.
If the serum sample contains antibodies to swine vesicular disease virus, they are detected using an anti-pig IgG or an anti-pig IgM monoclonal antibody conjugated with peroxidase.
Application of serological tests and evaluation of results 1.
The monoclonal antibody competition ELISA is the most reliable swine vesicular disease antibody ELISA described to date.
However, the following additional criteria and principles must also be considered for the confirmation of a singleton reactor: (a) singleton reactors occur at a prevalence of approximately 1 per 1000 pigs; (b) sera from singleton reactors generally have the following profile: - low VN test antibody titre, - borderline positive in the monoclonal antibody-based competition ELISA, - exclusively IgM and no IgG in the swine vesicular disease isotype-specific ELISA(5).
Affected pigs may excrete virus from the nose and mouth and in the faeces up to 48 hours before the onset of clinical signs.
Virus can be isolated from the faeces for up to 20 days after infection, although it has been reported present for up to three months.
CHAPTER X Swine vesicular disease reference sera %gt%TABLE%gt% (1) OJ L 224, 18.8.1990, p. 19. (2) OJ L 224, 18.8.1990, p. 29. (3) Positive ELISA results are associated with the presence of at least 105 TCID50 (tissue culture infectious doses) of virus in the sample. (4) A small proportion of singleton reactors can be detected by any of the current serological tests for swine vesicular disease.
Serological cross-reactivity with swine vesicular disease virus might arise due to infection with another, as yet unidentified, picornavirus or may be due to other non-specific factors present in the serum. (5) Specific IgG alone or both IgG and IgM are usually detected in serum samples from swine vesicular disease virus infected pigs, whereas sera from singleton reactors generally contain IgM only.
See also Chapter IX and footnote 7. (6) Specific IgM can be usually detected in the blood from two to three days post infection and disappear after about 30 to 50 days; specific IgG can be usually detected in the blood from 10 to 14 days post infection and last for some years.
The Ig isotype can be determined by means of the ELISA described in Chapter VIII(B)(2).
