Amendments to the list of genera and species in Annex II shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22.
Moreover, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21, another legal person established on behalf of any body referred to in (i) and (ii) and acting under the authority and supervision of such body may be approved, provided that such person has no personal interest in the outcome of the measures it takes.
Detailed rules for the application of the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 shall be established in accordance with the produce laid down in Article 21.
Implementing measures concerning supervision and monitoring shall be adopted, as necessary, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21.
Detailed rules for the application of paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21.
Detailed rules for the application of points (a) and (b) shall be adopted as necessary in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21.
Detailed rules for the application of point (c) shall be adopted preferably before 1 January 1993, in accordance with the same procedure.
Articles 3 (2) and (4), 6, 7, 8, 10 (1), (2) and (4) and 11 to 15 of the said Directive shall apply mutatis mutandis to the procedures and formalities for acceptance and maintenance production.
Varieties officially accepted in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be entered in the Common Catalogue of Varieties of Vegetable Species referred to in Article 17 of Directive 70/458/EEC.
Articles 16 (2) and (3), 17, 18 and 19 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Article 13 In the event of temporary difficulties in the supply of vegetable propagating and planting material satisfying the requirements of this Directive, measures may be adopted, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21, concerning the marketing of vegetable propagating and planting material meeting less stringent requirements, without prejudice to the plant-health rules laid down in Directive 77/93/EEC.
In accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21, the date referred to in the first subparagraph may, for the various third countries, be deferred pending the decision referred to in paragraph 1.
Article 17 Member States shall ensure that official inspection by sampling checks on propagating and planting material is carried out during production and marketing, with the aim of verifying compliance with the requirements and conditions of this Directive.
Article 18 Detailed implementing procedures for the controls provided for in Article 5 and for the official inspection provided for in Articles 10 and 17, including sampling methods, shall be adopted, as necessary, in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 21.
The Commission shall ensure that, in appropriate cases, arrangements for coordinating, carrying out and inspecting the trials referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, and assessing their results, are made within the Commitee set up by Article 21.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The chairman shall not vote. 3.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The chairman shall not vote. 3.
Article 23 Amendments to the schedules referred to in Article 4 and to the conditions and detailed rules adopted for the implementation of this Directive shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive no later than 31 December 1992.
As far as Articles 5 to 11, 14, 15, 17, 19 and 24 are concerned, the date of application for each of the genera or species referred to in Annex II shall be fixed in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 21, when the schedule referred to Article 4 is drawn up.
Article 26 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 28 April 1992.
ANNEX I Conditions to be laid down in accordance with Article 4 Point A Conditions with which planting material must comply.
ANNEX II List of the genera and species referred to in article 1 (2) - Allium ascalonicum shallots - Allium cepa L.
onion - Allium fistulosum L.
chives - Allium porrum L.
leek - Allium sativum garlic - Anthriscus cerefolium (L.) Hoffm.
chervil - Apium graveolens L.
celery - Asparagus officinalis L.
asparagus - Beta vulgaris L.
vulgaris mangold - Beta vulgaris L.
red beet - Brassica oleracea L.
curly kale - Brassica oleracea L.
cauliflower - Brassica oleracea L.
broccoli - Brassica oleracea L.
Savoy cabbage - Brassica oleracea L.
gongylodes kohlrabi - Brassica pekinensis L.
Chinese cabbage - Brassica rapa L.
et Nakai watermelon - Cucumis melo L.
gherkin - Cucurbita maxima Duchesne gourd - Cucurbita pepo L.
courgette - Cynara cardunculus cardoon - Cynara scolymus artichoke - Daucus carota L.
lettuce - Lycopersicon lycopersicum (L.) Karsten ex Farw.
tomato - Petroselinum crispum (Mill.) Nyman ex A.
Hill parsley - Phaseolus coccineus L.
runner bean - Phaseolus vulgaris L.
French bean - Pisum sativum L. (partim) peas excepting fodder peas - Raphanus sativus L.
radishes - Rheum rhubarb - Scorzonera hispanica L.
scorzonera - Solanum melongena L.
corn salad - Vicia faba L. (partim) broad bean
