Directive 2002/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 November 2002 concerning life assurance Directive 2002/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 November 2002 concerning life assurance THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Articles 47(2) and Article 55 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission(1), Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee(2), Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty(3), Whereas: (1) First Council Directive 79/267/EEC of 5 March 1979 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking-up and pursuit of the business of direct life assurance(4), the second Council Directive 90/619/EEC of 8 November 1990 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to direct life assurance, laying down provisions to facilitate the effective exercise of freedom to provide services and amending Directive 79/267/EEC(5) and Council Directive 92/96/EEC of 10 November 1992 on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to direct life assurance and amending Directives 79/267/EEC and 90/619/EEC (third life assurance Directive)(6) have been substantially amended several times.
In order to achieve this objective and at the same time ensure adequate protection for policy holders and beneficiaries in all Member States, the provisions relating to the financial guarantees required of life assurance undertakings should be coordinated. (3) It is necessary to complete the internal market in direct life assurance, from the point of view both of the right of establishment and of the freedom to provide services in the Member States, to make it easier for assurance undertakings with head offices in the Community to cover commitments situated within the Community and to make it possible for policy holders to have recourse not only to assurers established in their own country, but also to assurers which have their head office in the Community and are established in other Member States. (4) Under the Treaty, any discrimination with regard to freedom to provide services based on the fact that an undertaking is not established in the Member State in which the services are provided is prohibited.
That prohibition applies to services provided from any establishment in the Community, whether it be the head office of an undertaking or an agency or branch. (5) This Directive therefore represents an important step in the merging of national markets into an integrated market and that stage must be supplemented by other Community instruments with a view to enabling all policy holders to have recourse to any assurer with a head office in the Community who carries on business there, under the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services, while guaranteeing them adequate protection. (6) This Directive forms part of the body of Community legislation in the field of life assurance which also includes Council Directive 91/674/EEC of 19 December 1991 on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of insurance undertakings(7). (7) The approach adopted consists in bringing about such harmonisation as is essential, necessary and sufficient to achieve the mutual recognition of authorisations and prudential control systems, thereby making it possible to grant a single authorisation valid throughout the Community and apply the principle of supervision by the home Member State. (8) As a result, the taking up and the pursuit of the business of assurance are subject to the grant of a single official authorisation issued by the competent authorities of the Member State in which an assurance undertaking has its head office.
The Member State of the branch or of the provision of services may not require assurance undertakings which wish to carry on assurance business there and which have already been authorised in their home Member State to seek fresh authorisation. (9) The competent authorities should not authorise or continue the authorisation of an assurance undertaking where they are liable to be prevented from effectively exercising their supervisory functions by the close links between that undertaking and other natural or legal persons.
Assurance undertakings already authorised must also satisfy the competent authorities in that respect. (10) The definition of %quot%close links%quot% in this Directive lays down minimum criteria and that does not prevent Member States from applying it to situations other than those envisaged by the definition. (11) The sole fact of having acquired a significant proportion of a company's capital does not constitute participation, within the meaning of %quot%close links%quot%, if that holding has been acquired solely as a temporary investment which does not make it possible to exercise influence over the structure or financial policy of the undertaking. (12) The principles of mutual recognition and of home Member State supervision require that Member States' competent authorities should not grant or should withdraw authorisation where factors such as the content of programmes of operations or the geographical distribution of the activities actually carried on indicate clearly that an assurance undertaking has opted for the legal system of one Member State for the purpose of evading the stricter standards in force in another Member State within whose territory it carries on or intends to carry on the greater part of its activities.
In order to preserve the confidential nature of the information forwarded, the list of addressees must remain within strict limits. (20) Certain behaviour, such as fraud and insider offences, is liable to affect the stability, including integrity, of the financial system, even when involving undertakings other than assurance undertakings. (21) It is necessary to specify the conditions under which the abovementioned exchanges of information are authorised. (22) Where it is stipulated that information may be disclosed only with the express agreement of the competent authorities, these may, where appropriate, make their agreement subject to compliance with strict conditions. (23) Member States may conclude agreements on exchange of information with third countries provided that the information disclosed is subject to appropriate guarantees of professional secrecy. (24) For the purposes of strengthening the prudential supervision of assurance undertakings and protection of clients of assurance undertakings, it should be stipulated that an auditor must have a duty to report promptly to the competent authorities, wherever, as provided for by this Directive, he/she becomes aware, while carrying out his/her tasks, of certain facts which are liable to have a serious effect on the financial situation or the administrative and accounting organisation of an assurance undertaking. (25) Having regard to the aim in view, it is desirable for Member States to provide that such a duty should apply in all circumstances where such facts are discovered by an auditor during the performance of his/her tasks in an undertaking which has close links with an assurance undertaking. (26) The duty of auditors to communicate, where appropriate, to the competent authorities certain facts and decisions concerning an assurance undertaking which they discover during the performance of their tasks in a non-assurance undertaking does not in itself change the nature of their tasks in that undertaking nor the manner in which they must perform those tasks in that undertaking. (27) The performance of the operations of management of group pension funds cannot under any circumstances affect the powers conferred on the respective authorities with regard to the entities holding the assets with which that management is concerned. (28) Certain provisions of this Directive define minimum standards.
A home Member State may lay down stricter rules for assurance undertakings authorised by its own competent authorities. (29) The competent authorities of the Member States must have at their disposal such means of supervision as are necessary to ensure the orderly pursuit of business by assurance undertakings throughout the Community whether carried on under the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services.
In particular, they must be able to introduce appropriate safeguards or impose sanctions aimed at preventing irregularities and infringements of the provisions on assurance supervision. (30) The provisions on transfers of portfolios should include provisions specifically concerning the transfer to another undertaking of the portfolio of contracts concluded by way of freedom to provide services. (31) The provisions on transfers of portfolios must be in line with the single legal authorisation system provided for in this Directive. (32) Undertakings formed after the dates referred to in Article 18(3) should not be authorised to carry on life assurance and non-life insurance activities simultaneously.
Member States should be given the option of requiring those existing undertakings established in their territory which carry on life assurance and non-life insurance simultaneously to put an end to this practice.
That coordination must take account of the liberalisation of capital movements provided for in Article 56 of the Treaty and the progress made by the Community towards economic and monetary union. (38) The home Member State may not require assurance undertakings to invest the assets covering their technical provisions in particular categories of assets, as such a requirement would be incompatible with the liberalisation of capital movements provided for in Article 56 of the Treaty. (39) It is necessary that, over and above technical provisions, including mathematical provisions, of sufficient amount to meet their underwriting liabilities, assurance undertakings should possess a supplementary reserve, known as the solvency margin, represented by free assets and, with the agreement of the competent authority, by other implicit assets, which shall act as a buffer against adverse business fluctuations.
The freedom to choose, as the law applicable to the contract, a law other than that of the State of the commitment may be granted in certain cases, in accordance with rules which take into account specific circumstances. (45) For life assurance contracts the policy holder should be given the opportunity of cancelling the contract within a period of between 14 and 30 days. (46) Within the framework of an internal market it is in the policy holder's interest that they should have access to the widest possible range of assurance products available in the Community so that they can choose that which is best suited to their needs.
It is therefore necessary to provide for other systems better suited to the requirements of an internal market which enable every Member State to guarantee policy holders adequate protection. (48) It is necessary to make provision for cooperation between the competent authorities of the Member States and between those authorities and the Commission. (49) Provision should be made for a system of penalties to be imposed when, in the Member State in which the commitment is entered into, an assurance undertaking does not comply with those provisions protecting the general good that are applicable to it. (50) It is necessary to provide for measures in cases where the financial position of the undertaking becomes such that it is difficult for it to meet its underwriting liabilities.
As long as such a situation exists, the competent authorities should be prevented from certifying that the insurance undertaking has a sufficient solvency margin. (51) For the purposes of implementing actuarial principles in conformity with this Directive, the home Member State may require systematic notification of the technical bases used for calculating scales of premiums and technical provisions, with such notification of technical bases excluding notification of the general and special policy conditions and the undertaking's commercial rates. (52) In an internal market for assurance the consumer will have a wider and more varied choice of contracts.
As regards the methods of supervision this Directive lays down special provisions for such agencies or branches, in view of the fact that the assets of the undertakings to which they belong are situated outside the Community. (58) It is desirable to provide for the conclusion of reciprocal agreements with one or more third countries in order to permit the relaxation of such special conditions, while observing the principle that such agencies and branches should not obtain more favourable treatment than Community undertakings. (59) A provision should be made for a flexible procedure to make it possible to assess reciprocity with third countries on a Community basis.
Any financial instruments dealt in on that market must be of a quality comparable to that of the instruments dealt in on the regulated market or markets of the Member State in question; (n) %quot%competent authorities%quot% shall mean the national authorities which are empowered by law or regulation to supervise assurance undertakings; (o) %quot%matching assets%quot% shall mean the representation of underwriting liabilities which can be required to be met in a particular currency by assets expressed or realisable in the same currency; (p) %quot%localisation of assets%quot% shall mean the existence of assets, whether movable or immovable, within a Member State but shall not be construed as involving a requirement that movable assets be deposited or that immovable assets be subjected to restrictive measures such as the registration of mortgages; assets represented by claims against debtors shall be regarded as situated in the Member State where they are realisable; (q) capital at risk shall mean the amount payable on death less the mathematical provision for the main risk; (r) %quot%close%quot% links shall mean a situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are linked by: (i) participation, which shall mean the ownership, direct or by way of control, of 20 % or more of the voting rights or capital of an undertaking; or (ii) control, which shall mean the relationship between a parent undertaking and a subsidiary, in all the cases referred to in Article 1(1) and (2) of Directive 83/349/EEC, or a similar relationship between any natural or legal person and an undertaking; any subsidiary undertaking of a subsidiary undertaking shall also be considered a subsidiary of the parent undertaking which is at the head of those undertakings.
A situation in which two or more natural or legal persons are permanently linked to one and the same person by a control relationship shall also be regarded as constituting a close link between such persons. 2.
Wherever this Directive refers to the euro, the conversion value in national currency to be adopted shall as from 31 December of each year be that of the last day of the preceding month of October for which euro conversion values are available in all the relevant Community currencies.
Article 5 Scope of authorisation 1.
Article 6 Conditions for obtaining authorisation 1.
The home Member State shall require every assurance undertaking for which authorisation is sought to: (a) adopt one of the following forms: - in the case of the Kingdom of Belgium: %quot%société anonyme/naamloze vennootschap%quot%, %quot%société en commandite par actions/commanditaire vennootschap op aandelen%quot%, %quot%association d'assurance mutuelle/onderlinge verzekeringsvereniging%quot%, %quot%société coopérative/coöperatieve vennootschap%quot%, - in the case of the Kingdom of Denmark: %quot%aktieselskaber%quot%, %quot%gensidige selskaber%quot%, %quot%pensionskasser omfattet af lov om forsikringsvirksomhed (tværgående pensionskasser)%quot%, - in the case of the Federal Republic of Germany: %quot%Aktiengesellschaft%quot%, %quot%Versicherungsverein auf Gegenseitigkeit%quot%, %quot%öffentlich-rechtliches Wettbewerbsversicherungsunternehmen%quot%, - in the case of the French Republic: %quot%société anonyme%quot%, %quot%société d'assurance mutuelle%quot%, %quot%institution de prévoyance régie par le code de la sécurité sociale%quot%, %quot%institution de prévoyance régie par le code rural%quot% and %quot%mutuelles régies par le code de la mutualité%quot%, - in the case of Ireland: %quot%incorporated companies limited by shares or by guarantee or unlimited%quot%, %quot%societies registered under the Industrial and Provident Societies Acts%quot% and %quot%societies registered under the Friendly Societies Acts,%quot% - in the case of the Italian Republic: %quot%societá per azioni%quot%, %quot%societá cooperativa%quot%, %quot%mutua di assicurazione%quot%, - in the case of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg: %quot%société anonyme%quot%, %quot%société en commandite par actions%quot%, %quot%association d'assurances mutuelles%quot%, %quot%société coopérative%quot%, - in the case of the Kingdom of the Netherlands: %quot%naamloze vennootschap%quot%, %quot%onderlinge waarborgmaatschappij%quot%, - in the case of the United Kingdom: %quot%incorporated companies limited by shares or by guarantee or unlimited%quot%, %quot%societies registered under the Industrial and Provident Societies Acts%quot%, %quot%societies registered or incorporated under the Friendly Societies Acts%quot%, %quot%the association of underwriters known as Lloyd's%quot%, - in the case of the Hellenic Republic: %quot%ανώνυμη εταιρία%quot%, - in the case of the Kingdom of Spain: %quot%sociedad anónima%quot%, %quot%sociedad mutua%quot%, %quot%sociedad cooperativa%quot%, - in the case of the Portuguese Republic: %quot%sociedade anónima%quot%, %quot%mútua de seguros%quot%, - in the case of the Republic of Austria: %quot%Aktiengesellschaft%quot%, %quot%Versicherungsverein auf Gegenseitigkeit%quot%, - in the case of the Republic of Finland: %quot%keskinäinen vakuutusyhtiö/ömsesidigt försäkringsbolag%quot%, %quot%vakuutusosakeyhtiö/försäkringsaktiebolag%quot%, %quot%vakuutusyhdistys/försäkringsförening%quot%, - in the case of Kingdom of Sweden: %quot%försäkringsaktiebolag%quot%, %quot%ömsesidiga försäkringsbolag%quot%, %quot%understödsföreningar%quot%.
Furthermore, Member States may, where appropriate, set up undertakings in any public-law form provided that such bodies have as their object insurance operations under conditions equivalent to those under which private-law undertakings operate; (b) limit its objects to the business provided for in this Directive and operations directly arising therefrom, to the exclusion of all other commercial business; (c) submit a scheme of operations in accordance with Article 7; (d) possess the minimum guarantee fund provided for in Article 29(2); (e) be effectively run by persons of good repute with appropriate professional qualifications or experience. 2.
Where close links exist between the assurance undertaking and other natural or legal persons, the competent authorities shall grant authorisation only if those links do not prevent the effective exercise of their supervisory functions.
It shall, furthermore, be required to show proof that it possesses the solvency margin provided for in Article 28 and the guarantee fund referred to in Article 29(1) and (2). 5.
Notwithstanding the first subparagraph, for the sole purpose of verifying compliance with national provisions concerning actuarial principles, the home Member State may require systematic notification of the technical bases used for calculating scales of premiums and technical provisions, without that requirement constituting a prior condition for an assurance undertaking to carry on its business.
Nothing in this Directive shall prevent Member States from maintaining in force or introducing laws, regulations or administrative provisions requiring approval of the memorandum and articles of association and the communication of any other documents necessary for the normal exercise of supervision.
Not later than 1 July 1999, the Commission shall submit a report to the Council on the implementation of this paragraph. 6.
Article 7 Scheme of operations The scheme of operations referred to in Article 6(1)(c) and (4) shall include particulars or evidence of: (a) the nature of the commitments which the assurance undertaking proposes to cover; (b) the guiding principles as to reassurance; (c) the items constituting the minimum guarantee fund; (d) estimates relating to the costs of setting up the administrative services and the organisation for securing business and the financial resources intended to meet those costs; in addition, for the first three financial years: (e) a plan setting out detailed estimates of income and expenditure in respect of direct business, reassurance acceptances and reassurance cessions; (f) a forecast balance sheet; (g) estimates relating to the financial resources intended to cover underwriting liabilities and the solvency margin.
Article 8 Shareholders and members with qualifying holdings The competent authorities of the home Member State shall not grant an undertaking authorisation to take up the business of assurance before they have been informed of the identities of the shareholders or members, direct or indirect, whether natural or legal persons, who have qualifying holdings in that undertaking and of the amounts of those holdings.
Article 9 Refusal of authorisation Any decision to refuse an authorisation shall be accompanied by the precise grounds for doing so and notified to the undertaking in question.
TITLE III CONDITIONS GOVERNING THE BUSINESS OF ASSURANCE CHAPTER 1 PRINCIPLES AND METHODS OF FINANCIAL SUPERVISION Article 10 Competent authorities and object of supervision 1.
Article 11 Supervision of branches established in another Member State The Member State of the branch shall provide that, where an assurance undertaking authorised in another Member State carries on business through a branch, the competent authorities of the home Member State may, after having first informed the competent authorities of the Member State of the branch, carry out themselves, or through the intermediary of persons they appoint for that purpose, on-the-spot verification of the information necessary to ensure the financial supervision of the undertaking.
Article 13 Accounting, prudential and statistical information: supervisory powers 1.
Article 14 Transfer of portfolio 1.
Under the conditions laid down by national law, each Member State shall authorise assurance undertakings with head offices within its territory to transfer all or part of their portfolios of contracts, concluded under either the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services, to an accepting office established within the Community, if the competent authorities of the home Member State of the accepting office certify that after taking the transfer into account, the latter possesses the necessary solvency margin. 2.
Article 15 Qualifying holdings 1.
Member States shall require any natural or legal person who proposes to hold, directly or indirectly, a qualifying holding in an assurance undertaking first to inform the competent authorities of the home Member State, indicating the size of the intended holding.
Such a person must likewise inform the competent authorities of the home Member State if he/she proposes to increase his/her qualifying holding so that the proportion of the voting rights or of the capital held by him/her would reach or exceed 20 %, 33 % or 50 % or so that the assurance undertaking would become his/her subsidiary.
Member States shall require any natural or legal person who proposes to dispose, directly or indirectly, of a qualifying holding in an assurance undertaking first to inform the competent authorities of the home Member State, indicating the size of his/her intended holding.
Such a person must likewise inform the competent authorities if he/she proposes to reduce his/her qualifying holding so that the proportion of the voting rights or of the capital held by him/her would fall below 20 %, 33 % or 50 % or so that the assurance undertaking would cease to be his/her subsidiary. 3.
Article 16 Professional secrecy 1.
That information shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy indicated in paragraph 1. 3.
Such exchange of information must be intended for the performance of the supervisory task of the authorities or bodies mentioned.
Where the information originates in another Member State, it may not be disclosed without the express agreement of the competent authorities which have disclosed it and, where appropriate, solely for the purposes for which those authorities gave their agreement. 4.
Competent authorities receiving confidential information under paragraphs 1 or 2 may use it only in the course of their duties: - to check that the conditions governing the taking-up of the business of assurance are met and to facilitate monitoring of the conduct of such business, especially with regard to the monitoring of technical provisions, solvency margins, administrative and accounting procedures and internal control mechanisms, or - to impose sanctions, or - in administrative appeals against decisions of the competent authority, or - in court proceedings initiated pursuant to Article 67 or under special provisions provided for in this Directive and other directives adopted in the field of assurance undertakings. 5.
Paragraphs 1 and 4 shall not preclude the exchange of information within a Member State, where there are two or more competent authorities in the same Member State, or, between Member States, between competent authorities and: - authorities responsible for the official supervision of credit institutions and other financial organisations and the authorities responsible for the supervision of financial markets, - bodies involved in the liquidation and bankruptcy of assurance undertakings and in other similar procedures, and - persons responsible for carrying out statutory audits of the accounts of assurance undertakings and other financial institutions, in the discharge of their supervisory functions, and the disclosure, to bodies which administer (compulsory) winding-up proceedings or guarantee funds, of information necessary to the performance of their duties.
The information received by these authorities, bodies and persons shall be subject to the obligation of professional secrecy laid down in paragraph 1. 6.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1 to 4, Member States may authorise exchanges of information between the competent authorities and: - the authorities responsible for overseeing the bodies involved in the liquidation and bankruptcy of assurance undertakings and other similar procedures, or - the authorities responsible for overseeing the persons charged with carrying out statutory audits of the accounts of insurance undertakings, credit institutions, investment firms and other financial institutions, or - independent actuaries of insurance undertakings carrying out legal supervision of those undertakings and the bodies responsible for overseeing such actuaries.
Member States which have recourse to the option provided for in the first subparagraph shall require at least that the following conditions are met: - this information shall be for the purpose of carrying out the overseeing or legal supervision referred to in the first subparagraph, - information received in this context shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy imposed in paragraph 1, - where the information originates in another Member State, it may not be disclosed without the express agreement of the competent authorities which have disclosed it and, where appropriate, solely for the purposes for which those authorities gave their agreement.
Member States shall communicate to the Commission and to the other Member States the names of the authorities, persons and bodies which may receive information pursuant to this paragraph. 7.
Member States which have recourse to the option provided for in the first subparagraph shall require at least that the following conditions are met: - the information shall be for the purpose of performing the task referred to in the first subparagraph, - information received in this context shall be subject to the conditions of professional secrecy imposed in paragraph 1, - where the information originates in another Member State, it may not be disclosed without the express agreement of the competent authorities which have disclosed it and, where appropriate, solely for the purposes for which those authorities gave their agreement.
Before 31 December 2000, the Commission shall draw up a report on the application of this paragraph. 8.
Member States may authorise the competent authorities to transmit: - to central banks and other bodies with a similar function in their capacity as monetary authorities, - where appropriate, to other public authorities responsible for overseeing payment systems, information intended for the performance of their task and may authorise such authorities or bodies to communicate to the competent authorities such information as they may need for the purposes of paragraph 4.
In addition, notwithstanding paragraphs 1 and 4, Member States may, under provisions laid down by law, authorise the disclosure of certain information to other departments of their central government administrations responsible for legislation on the supervision of credit institutions, financial institutions, investment services and assurance undertakings and to inspectors acting on behalf of those departments.
However, Member States shall provide that information received under paragraphs 2 and 5 and that obtained by means of the on-the-spot verification referred to in Article 11 may never be disclosed in the cases referred to in this paragraph except with the express consent of the competent authorities which disclosed the information or of the competent authorities of the Member State in which on-the-spot verification was carried out.
Member States shall provide at least that: (a) any person authorised within the meaning of Council Directive 84/253/EEC(14), performing in an assurance undertaking the task described in Article 51 of Council Directive 78/660/EEC(15), Article 37 of Directive 83/349/EEC or Article 31 of Council Directive 85/611/EEC(16) or any other statutory task, shall have a duty to report promptly to the competent authorities any fact or decision concerning that undertaking of which he/she has become aware while carrying out that task which is liable to: - constitute a material breach of the laws, regulations or administrative provisions which lay down the conditions governing authorisation or which specifically govern pursuit of the activities of assurance undertakings, or - affect the continuous functioning of the assurance undertaking or - lead to refusal to certify the accounts or to the expression of reservations; (b) that person shall likewise have a duty to report any facts and decisions of which he/she becomes aware in the course of carrying out a task as described in (a) in an undertaking having close links resulting from a control relationship with the assurance undertaking within which he/she is carrying out the abovementioned task. 2.
Article 18 Pursuit of life assurance and non-life insurance activities 1.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, Member States may provide that: - undertakings authorised pursuant to this Directive may also obtain authorisation, in accordance with Article 6 of Directive 73/239/EEC for the risks listed in classes 1 and 2 in the Annex to that Directive, - undertakings authorised pursuant to Article 6 of Directive 73/239/EEC solely for the risks listed in classes 1 and 2 in the Annex to that Directive may obtain authorisation pursuant to this Directive. 3.
Where an undertaking carrying on the activities referred to in the Annex to Directive 73/239/EEC has financial, commercial or administrative links with an assurance undertaking carrying on the activities covered by this Directive, the competent authorities of the Member States within whose territories the head offices of those undertakings are situated shall ensure that the accounts of the undertakings in question are not distorted by agreements between these undertakings or by any arrangement which could affect the apportionment of expenses and income. 6.
Any Member State may require assurance undertakings whose head offices are situated in its territory to cease, within a period to be determined by the Member State concerned, the simultaneous pursuit of activities in which they were engaged on the dates referred to in paragraph 3. 7.
The provisions of this Article shall be reviewed on the basis of a report from the Commission to the Council in the light of future harmonisation of the rules on winding-up, and in any case before 31 December 1999.
Article 19 Separation of life assurance and non-life insurance management 1.
The separate management referred to in Article 18(3) must be organised in such a way that the activities covered by this Directive are distinct from the activities covered by Directive 73/239/EEC in order that: - the respective interests of life policy holders and non-life policy holders are not prejudiced and, in particular, that profits from life assurance benefit life policy holders as if the assurance undertaking only carried on the activity of life assurance, - the minimum financial obligations, in particular solvency margins, in respect of one or other of the two activities, namely an activity under this Directive and an activity under Directive 73/239/EEC, are not borne by the other activity.
The home Member State shall require every assurance undertaking to establish sufficient technical provisions, including mathematical provisions, in respect of its entire business.
It may differ according to the currency in which the contract is denominated, provided that it is not more than 60 % of the rate on bond issues by the State in whose currency the contract is denominated.
Article 22 Assets covering technical provisions The assets covering the technical provisions shall take account of the type of business carried on by an assurance undertaking in such a way as to secure the safety, yield and marketability of its investments, which the undertaking shall ensure are diversified and adequately spread.
Article 23 Categories of authorised assets 1.
In particular, tangible fixed assets other than land and buildings may be accepted as cover for technical provisions only if they are valued on the basis of prudent amortisation; (iii) loans, whether to undertakings, to a State or international organisation, to local or regional authorities or to natural persons, may be accepted as cover for technical provisions only if there are sufficient guarantees as to their security, whether these are based on the status of the borrower, mortgages, bank guarantees or guarantees granted by assurance undertakings or other forms of security; (iv) derivative instruments such as options, futures and swaps in connection with assets covering technical provisions may be used in so far as they contribute to a reduction of investment risks or facilitate efficient portfolio management.
They must be valued on a prudent basis and may be taken into account in the valuation of the underlying assets; (v) transferable securities which are not dealt in on a regulated market may be accepted as cover for technical provisions only if they can be realised in the short term or if they are holdings in credit institutions, in assurance undertakings, within the limits permitted by Article 6, or in investment undertakings established in a Member State; (vi) debts owed by and claims against a third party may be accepted as cover for the technical provisions only after deduction of all amounts owed to the same third party; (vii) the value of any debts and claims accepted as cover for technical provisions must be calculated on a prudent basis, with due allowance for the risk of any amounts not being realisable.
In particular, debts owed by policy holders and intermediaries arising out of assurance and reassurance operations may be accepted only in so far as they have been outstanding for not more than three months; (viii) where the assets held include an investment in a subsidiary undertaking which manages all or part of the assurance undertaking's investments on its behalf, the home Member State must, when applying the rules and principles laid down in this Article, take into account the underlying assets held by the subsidiary undertaking; the home Member State may treat the assets of other subsidiaries in the same way; (ix) deferred acquisition costs may be accepted as cover for technical provisions only to the extent that this is consistent with the calculation of the mathematical provisions. 4.
Notwithstanding paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, in exceptional circumstances and at an assurance undertaking's request, the home Member State may, temporarily and under a properly reasoned decision, accept other categories of assets as cover for technical provisions, subject to Article 22.
Article 24 Rules for investment diversification 1.
As regards the assets covering technical provisions, the home Member State shall require every assurance undertaking to invest no more than: (a) 10 % of its total gross technical provisions in any one piece of land or building, or a number of pieces of land or buildings close enough to each other to be considered effectively as one investment; (b) 5 % of its total gross technical provisions in shares and other negotiable securities treated as shares, bonds, debt securities and other money- and capital-market instruments from the same undertaking, or in loans granted to the same borrower, taken together, the loans being loans other than those granted to a State, regional or local authority or to an international organisation of which one or more Member States are members.
This limit may be raised to 10 % if an undertaking invests not more than 40 % of its gross technical provisions in the loans or securities of issuing bodies and borrowers in each of which it invests more than 5 % of its assets; (c) 5 % of its total gross technical provisions in unsecured loans, including 1 % for any single unsecured loan, other than loans granted to credit institutions, assurance undertakings - in so far as Article 6 allows it - and investment undertakings established in a Member State.
The limits may be raised to 8 % and 2 % respectively by a decision taken on a case-by-case basis by the competent authority of the home Member State; (d) 3 % of its total gross technical provisions in the form of cash in hand; (e) 10 % of its total gross technical provisions in shares, other securities treated as shares and debt securities which are not dealt in on a regulated market. 2.
The absence of a limit in paragraph 1 on investment in any particular category does not imply that assets in that category should be accepted as cover for technical provisions without limit.
In particular it shall ensure, in the determination and the application of those rules, that the following principles are complied with: (i) assets covering technical provisions must be diversified and spread in such a way as to ensure that there is no excessive reliance on any particular category of asset, investment market or investment; (ii) investment in particular types of asset which show high levels of risk, whether because of the nature of the asset or the quality of the issuer, must be restricted to prudent levels; (iii) limitations on particular categories of asset must take account of the treatment of reassurance in the calculation of technical provisions; (iv) where the assets held include an investment in a subsidiary undertaking which manages all or part of the assurance undertaking's investments on its behalf, the home Member State must, when applying the rules and principles laid down in this Article, take into account the underlying assets held by the subsidiary undertaking; the home Member State may treat the assets of other subsidiaries in the same way; (v) the percentage of assets covering technical provisions which are the subject of non-liquid investments must be kept to a prudent level; (vi) where the assets held include loans to or debt securities issued by certain credit institutions, the home Member State may, when applying the rules and principles contained in this Article, take into account the underlying assets held by such credit institutions.
In the context of the detailed rules laying down the conditions for the use of acceptable assets, the Member State shall give more limitative treatment to: - any loan unaccompanied by a bank guarantee, a guarantee issued by an assurance undertaking, a mortgage or any other form of security, as compared with loans accompanied by such collateral, - UCITS not coordinated within the meaning of Directive 85/611/EEC and other investment funds, as compared with UCITS coordinated within the meaning of that Directive, - securities which are not dealt in on a regulated market, as compared with those which are, - bonds, debt securities and other money- and capital-market instruments not issued by States, local or regional authorities or undertakings belonging to zone A as defined in Directive 2000/12/EC or the issuers of which are international organisations not numbering at least one Community Member State among their members, as compared with the same financial instruments issued by such bodies. 4.
Member States may raise the limit laid down in paragraph 1(b) to 40 % in the case of certain debt securities when these are issued by a credit institution which has its head office in a Member State and is subject by law to special official supervision designed to protect the holders of those debt securities.
Member States shall not require assurance undertakings to invest in particular categories of assets. 6.
Article 25 Contracts linked to UCITS or share index 1.
Where the benefits provided by a contract are directly linked to the value of units in an UCITS or to the value of assets contained in an internal fund held by the insurance undertaking, usually divided into units, the technical provisions in respect of those benefits must be represented as closely as possible by those units or, in the case where units are not established, by those assets. 2.
Where the benefits provided by a contract are directly linked to a share index or some other reference value other than those referred to in paragraph 1, the technical provisions in respect of those benefits must be represented as closely as possible either by the units deemed to represent the reference value or, in the case where units are not established, by assets of appropriate security and marketability which correspond as closely as possible with those on which the particular reference value is based. 3.
Articles 22 and 24 shall not apply to assets held to match liabilities which are directly linked to the benefits referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2.
References to the technical provisions in Article 24 shall be to the technical provisions excluding those in respect of such liabilities. 4.
Where the benefits referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 include a guarantee of investment performance or some other guaranteed benefit, the corresponding additional technical provisions shall be subject to Articles 22, 23, and 24.
Article 26 Matching rules 1.
CHAPTER 3 RULES RELATING TO THE SOLVENCY MARGIN AND TO THE GUARANTEE FUND Article 27 Available solvency margin 1.
Each Member State shall require of every assurance undertaking whose head office is situated in its territory an adequate available solvency margin in respect of its entire business at all times which is at least equal to the requirements in this Directive. 2.
The available solvency margin shall consist of the assets of the assurance undertaking free of any foreseeable liabilities, less any intangible items, including: (a) the paid-up share capital or, in the case of a mutual assurance undertaking, the effective initial fund plus any members' accounts which meet all the following criteria: (i) the memorandum and articles of association must stipulate that payments may be made from these accounts to members only in so far as this does not cause the available solvency margin to fall below the required level, or, after the dissolution of the undertaking, if all the undertaking's other debts have been settled; (ii) the memorandum and articles of association must stipulate, with respect to any payments referred to in point (i) for reasons other than the individual termination of membership, that the competent authorities must be notified at least one month in advance and can prohibit the payment within that period; (iii) the relevant provisions of the memorandum and articles of association may be amended only after the competent authorities have declared that they have no objection to the amendment, without prejudice to the criteria stated in points (i) and (ii); (b) reserves (statutory and free) not corresponding to underwriting liabilities; (c) the profit or loss brought forward after deduction of dividends to be paid; (d) in so far as authorised under national law, profit reserves appearing in the balance sheet where they may be used to cover any losses which may arise and where they have not been made available for distribution to policy holders.
The available solvency margin may also consist of: (a) cumulative preferential share capital and subordinated loan capital up to 50 % of the lesser of the available solvency margin and the required solvency margin, no more than 25 % of which shall consist of subordinated loans with a fixed maturity, or fixed-term cumulative preferential share capital, provided that binding agreements exist under which, in the event of the bankruptcy or liquidation of the assurance undertaking, the subordinated loan capital or preferential share capital ranks after the claims of all other creditors and is not to be repaid until all other debts outstanding at the time have been settled.
In the latter event the assurance undertaking must notify the competent authorities at least six months before the date of the proposed repayment, specifying the available solvency margin and the required solvency margin both before and after that repayment.
The competent authorities shall authorise repayment only if the assurance undertaking's available solvency margin will not fall below the required level; (iv) the loan agreement must not include any clause providing that in specified circumstances, other than the winding-up of the assurance undertaking, the debt will become repayable before the agreed repayment dates; (v) the loan agreement may be amended only after the competent authorities have declared that they have no objection to the amendment; (b) securities with no specified maturity date and other instruments, including cumulative preferential shares other than those mentioned in point (a), up to 50 % of the lesser of the available solvency margin and the required solvency margin for the total of such securities and the subordinated loan capital referred to in point (a) provided they fulfil the following: (i) they may not be repaid on the initiative of the bearer or without the prior consent of the competent authority; (ii) the contract of issue must enable the assurance undertaking to defer the payment of interest on the loan; (iii) the lender's claims on the assurance undertaking must rank entirely after those of all non-subordinated creditors; (iv) the documents governing the issue of the securities must provide for the loss-absorption capacity of the debt and unpaid interest, while enabling the assurance undertaking to continue its business; (v) only fully paid-up amounts may be taken into account. 4.
Upon application, with supporting evidence, by the undertaking to the competent authority of the home Member State and with the agreement of that competent authority, the available solvency margin may also consist of: (a) until 31 December 2009 an amount equal to 50 % of the undertaking's future profits, but not exceeding 25 % of the lesser of the available solvency margin and the required solvency margin.
The estimated annual profit shall not exceed the arithmetical average of the profits made over the last five financial years in the activities listed in Article 2(1).
This figure may not, however, exceed 3,5 % of the sum of the differences between the relevant capital sums of life assurance activities and the mathematical provisions for all policies for which Zillmerising is possible.
The difference shall be reduced by the amount of any undepreciated acquisition costs entered as an asset; (c) any hidden net reserves arising out of the valuation of assets, in so far as such hidden net reserves are not of an exceptional nature; (d) one half of the unpaid share capital or initial fund, once the paid-up part amounts to 25 % of that share capital or fund, up to 50 % of the lesser of the available and required solvency margin. 5.
Article 28 Required solvency margin 1.
For the supplementary insurance referred to in Article 2(1)(c) the required solvency margin shall be equal to the required solvency margin for insurance undertakings as laid down in Article 16a of Directive 73/239/EEC, excluding the provisions of Article 17 of that Directive. 4.
For permanent health insurance not subject to cancellation referred to in Article 2(1)(d), the required solvency margin shall be equal to: (a) a 4 % fraction of the mathematical provisions, calculated in compliance with paragraph 2(a) of this Article; plus (b) the required solvency margin for insurance undertakings as laid down in Article 16a of Directive 73/239/EEC, excluding the provisions of Article 17 of that Directive.
For capital redemption operations referred to in Article 2(2)(b), the required solvency margin shall be equal to a 4 % fraction of the mathematical provisions calculated in compliance with paragraph 2(a) of this Article. 6.
For tontines, referred to in Article 2(2)(a), the required solvency margin shall be equal to 1 % of their assets. 7.
For assurances covered by Article 2(1)(a) and (b) linked to investment funds and for the operations referred to in Article 2(2)(c), (d) and (e), the required solvency margin shall be equal to the sum of the following: (a) in so far as the assurance undertaking bears an investment risk, a 4 % fraction of the technical provisions, calculated in compliance with paragraph 2(a) of this Article; (b) in so far as the undertaking bears no investment risk but the allocation to cover management expenses is fixed for a period exceeding five years, a 1 % fraction of the technical provisions, calculated in compliance with paragraph 2(a) of this Article; (c) in so far as the undertaking bears no investment risk and the allocation to cover management expenses is not fixed for a period exceeding five years, an amount equivalent to 25 % of the last financial year's net administrative expenses pertaining to such business; (d) in so far as the assurance undertaking covers a death risk, a 0,3 % fraction of the capital at risk calculated in compliance with paragraph 2(b) of this Article.
Article 29 Guarantee fund 1.
Article 30 Review of the amount of the guarantee fund 1.
The amount in euro as laid down in Article 29(2) shall be reviewed annually starting on 20 September 2003, in order to take account of changes in the European index of consumer prices comprising all Member States as published by Eurostat.
If the percentage change since the last adaptation is less than 5 %, no adaptation shall take place. 2.
Article 31 Assets not used to cover technical provisions 1.
Article 33 General good The Member State of the commitment shall not prevent a policy holder from concluding a contract with an assurance undertaking authorised under the conditions of Article 4 as long as that does not conflict with legal provisions protecting the general good in the Member State of the commitment.
Article 34 Rules relating to conditions of assurance and scales of premiums Member States shall not adopt provisions requiring the prior approval or systematic notification of general and special policy conditions, scales of premiums, technical bases used in particular for calculating scales of premiums and technical provisions or forms and other printed documents which an assurance undertaking intends to use in its dealings with policy holders.
Notwithstanding the first subparagraph, for the sole purpose of verifying compliance with national provisions concerning actuarial principles, the home Member State may require systematic communication of the technical bases used in particular for calculating scales of premiums and technical provisions, without that requirement constituting a prior condition for an assurance undertaking to carry on its business.
Not later than 1 July 1999 the Commission shall submit a report to the Council on the implementation of those provisions.
Article 35 Cancellation period 1.
Article 36 Information for policy holders 1.
Before the assurance contract is concluded, at least the information listed in Annex III(A) shall be communicated to the policy holder. 2.
The policy-holder shall be kept informed throughout the term of the contract of any change concerning the information listed in Annex III(B). 3.
CHAPTER 5 ASSURANCE UNDERTAKINGS IN DIFFICULTY OR IN AN IRREGULAR SITUATION Article 37 Assurance undertakings in difficulty 1.
If the solvency margin falls below the guarantee fund as defined in Article 29, the competent authority of the home Member State shall require the assurance undertaking to submit a short-term finance scheme for its approval.
Each Member State shall take the measures necessary to be able in accordance with its national law to prohibit the free disposal of assets located within its territory at the request, in the cases provided for in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, of the assurance undertaking's home Member State, which shall designate the assets to be covered by such measures.
Article 38 Financial recovery plan 1.
The financial recovery plan must as a minimum include particulars or proof concerning for the next three financial years: (a) estimates of management expenses, in particular current general expenses and commissions; (b) a plan setting out detailed estimates of income and expenditure in respect of direct business, reinsurance acceptances and reinsurance cessions; (c) a forecast balance sheet; (d) estimates of the financial resources intended to cover underwriting liabilities and the required solvency margin; (e) the overall reinsurance policy. 2.
The level of this higher required solvency margin shall be based on a financial recovery plan referred to in paragraph 1. 3.
Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities have the powers to decrease the reduction, based on reinsurance, to the solvency margin as determined in accordance with Article 28 where: (a) the nature or quality of reinsurance contracts has changed significantly since the last financial year; (b) there is no or an insignificant risk transfer under the reinsurance contracts. 5.
If the competent authorities have required a financial recovery plan for the insurance undertaking in accordance with paragraph 1, they shall refrain from issuing a certificate in accordance with Article 14(1), Article 40(3), second subparagraph, and Article 42(1)(a), as long as they consider that policy holders' rights are threatened within the meaning of paragraph 1.
Article 39 Withdrawal of authorisation 1.
Authorisation granted to an assurance undertaking by the competent authority of its home Member State may be withdrawn by that authority if that undertaking: (a) does not make use of the authorisation within 12 months, expressly renounces it or ceases to carry on business for more than six months, unless the Member State concerned has made provision for authorisation to lapse in such cases; (b) no longer fulfils the conditions for admission; (c) has been unable, within the time allowed, to take the measures specified in the restoration plan or finance scheme referred to in Article 37; (d) fails seriously in its obligations under the regulations to which it is subject.
In the event of the withdrawal or lapse of the authorisation, the competent authority of the home Member State shall notify the competent authorities of the other Member States accordingly and they shall take appropriate measures to prevent the assurance undertaking from commencing new operations within their territories, under either the freedom of establishment or the freedom to provide services.
TITLE IV PROVISIONS RELATING TO RIGHT OF ESTABLISHMENT AND FREEDOM TO PROVIDE SERVICES Article 40 Conditions for branch establishment 1.
The competent authorities of the home Member State shall also attest that the assurance undertaking has the minimum solvency margin calculated in accordance with Articles 28 and 29.
That refusal or failure to act shall be subject to a right to apply to the courts in the home Member State. 4.
In the event of a change in any of the particulars communicated under paragraph 2(b), (c) or (d), an assurance undertaking shall give written notice of the change to the competent authorities of the home Member State and of the Member State of the branch at least one month before making the change so that the competent authorities of the home Member State and the competent authorities of the Member State of the branch may fulfil their respective roles under paragraphs 3 and 4.
Article 41 Freedom to provide services: prior notification to the home Member State Any assurance undertaking that intends to carry on business for the first time in one or more Member States under the freedom to provide services shall first inform the competent authorities of the home Member State, indicating the nature of the commitments it proposes to cover.
Article 42 Freedom to provide services: notification by the home Member State 1.
Within one month of the notification provided for in Article 41, the competent authorities of the home Member State shall communicate to the Member State or Member States within the territory of which the assurance undertaking intends to carry on business by way of the freedom to provide services: (a) a certificate attesting that the assurance undertaking has the minimum solvency margin calculated in accordance with Articles 28 and 29; (b) the classes which the assurance undertaking has been authorised to offer; (c) the nature of the commitments which the assurance undertaking proposes to cover in the Member State of the provision of services.
The refusal shall be subject to a right to apply to the courts in the home Member State. 3.
Article 43 Freedom to provide services: changes in the nature of commitments Any change which an assurance undertaking intends to make to the information referred to in Article 41 shall be subject to the procedure provided for in Articles 41 and 42.
Article 44 Language The competent authorities of the Member State of the branch or the Member State of the provision of services may require that the information which they are authorised under this Directive to request with regard to the business of assurance undertakings operating in the territory of that State shall be supplied to them in the official language or languages of that State.
Article 45 Rules relating to conditions of assurance and scales of premiums The Member State of the branch or of the provision of services shall not lay down provisions requiring the prior approval or systematic notification of general and special policy conditions, scales of premiums, technical bases used in particular for calculating scales of premiums and technical provisions, forms and other printed documents which an assurance undertaking intends to use in its dealings with policy holders.
For the purpose of verifying compliance with national provisions concerning assurance contracts, it may require an assurance undertaking that proposes to carry on assurance business within its territory, under the right of establishment or the freedom to provide services, to effect only non-systematic notification of those policy conditions and other printed documents without that requirement constituting a prior condition for an assurance undertaking to carry on its business.
Article 46 Assurance undertakings not complying with the legal provisions 1.
Any measure adopted under paragraphs 3 to 7 involving penalties or restrictions on the conduct of assurance business must be properly reasoned and communicated to the assurance undertaking concerned. 9.
Article 47 Advertising Nothing in this Directive shall prevent assurance undertakings with head offices in other Member States from advertising their services through all available means of communication in the Member State of the branch or Member State of the provision of services, subject to any rules governing the form and content of such advertising adopted in the interest of the general good.
Article 48 Winding-up Should an assurance undertaking be wound up, commitments arising out of contracts underwritten through a branch or under the freedom to provide services shall be met in the same way as those arising out of that undertaking's other assurance contracts, without distinction as to nationality as far as the lives assured and the beneficiaries are concerned.
Article 49 Statistical information on cross-border activities Every assurance undertaking shall inform the competent authority of its home Member State, separately in respect of transactions carried out under the right of establishment and those carried out under the freedom to provide services, of the amount of the premiums, without deduction of reassurance, by Member State and by each of classes I to IX, as defined in Annex I.
Article 50 Taxes on premiums 1.
The law applicable to the contract pursuant to Article 32 shall not affect the fiscal arrangements applicable. 3.
TITLE V RULES APPLICABLE TO AGENCIES OR BRANCHES ESTABLISHED WITHIN THE COMMUNITY AND BELONGING TO UNDERTAKINGS WHOSE HEAD OFFICES ARE OUTSIDE THE COMMUNITY Article 51 Principles and conditions of authorisation 1.
Each Member State shall make access to the activities referred to in Article 2 by any undertaking whose head office is outside the Community subject to an official authorisation. 2.
A Member State may grant an authorisation if the undertaking fulfils at least the following conditions: (a) it is entitled to undertake insurance activities covered by Article 2 under its national law; (b) it establishes an agency or branch in the territory of such Member State; (c) it undertakes to establish at the place of management of the agency or branch accounts specific to the activity which it carries on there and to keep there all the records relating to the business transacted; (d) it designates a general representative, to be approved by the competent authorities; (e) it possesses in the Member State where it carries on an activity assets of an amount equal in value to at least one half of the minimum amount prescribed in Article 29(2), first subparagraph, in respect of the guarantee fund and deposits one quarter of the minimum amount as security; (f) it undertakes to keep a solvency margin complying with Article 55; (g) it submits a scheme of operations in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3. 3.
Articles 13 and 37 shall apply mutatis mutandis to agencies and branches referred to in this title.
Article 53 Transfer of portfolio 1.
Under the conditions laid down by national law, each Member State shall authorise agencies and branches set up within its territory and covered by this Title to transfer all or part of their portfolios of contracts to an accepting office established in the same Member State if the competent authorities of that Member State or, if appropriate, those of the Member State referred to in Article 56 certify that after taking the transfer into account the accepting office possesses the necessary solvency margin. 2.
Under the conditions laid down by national law, each Member State shall authorise agencies and branches set up within its territory and covered by this Title to transfer all or part of their portfolios of contracts to an assurance undertaking with a head office in another Member State, if the competent authorities of that Member State certify that after taking the transfer into account the accepting office possesses the necessary solvency margin. 3.
If under the conditions laid down by national law, a Member State authorises agencies and branches set up within its territory and covered by this Title to transfer all or part of their portfolios of contracts to an agency or branch covered by this Title and set up within the territory of another Member State, it shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member State of the accepting office or, if appropriate, of the Member State referred to in Article 56 certify that after taking the transfer into account the accepting office possesses the necessary solvency margin, that the law of the Member State of the accepting office permits such a transfer and that the State has agreed to the transfer. 4.
Article 54 Technical provisions Member States shall require undertakings to establish provisions, referred to in Article 20, adequate to cover the underwriting liabilities assumed in their territories.
Article 55 Solvency margin and guarantee fund 1.
The guarantee fund and the minimum of such fund shall be constituted in accordance with Article 29. 3.
Article 56 Advantages to undertakings authorised in more than one Member State 1.
Any undertaking which has requested or obtained authorisation from more than one Member State may apply for the following advantages which may be granted only jointly: (a) the solvency margin referred to in Article 55 shall be calculated in relation to the entire business which it carries on within the Community; in such case, account shall be taken only of the operations effected by all the agencies or branches established within the Community for the purposes of this calculation; (b) the deposit required under Article 51(2)(e) shall be lodged in only one of those Member States; (c) the assets representing the guarantee fund shall be localised in any one of the Member States in which it carries on its activities. 2.
The competent authority selected shall obtain from the other Member States the information necessary for the supervision of the overall solvency of the agencies and branches established in their territory. 4.
Article 57 Agreements with third countries The Community may, by means of agreements concluded pursuant to the Treaty with one or more third countries, agree to the application of provisions different from those provided for in this Title, for the purpose of ensuring, under conditions of reciprocity, adequate protection for policy holders in the Member States.
TITLE VI RULES APPLICABLE TO SUBSIDIARIES OF PARENT UNDERTAKINGS GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF A THIRD COUNTRY AND TO THE ACQUISITIONS OF HOLDINGS BY SUCH PARENT UNDERTAKINGS Article 58 Information from Member States to the Commission The competent authorities of the Member States shall inform the Commission: (a) of any authorisation of a direct or indirect subsidiary one or more parent undertakings of which are governed by the laws of a third country.
The Commission shall inform the Committee referred to in Article 65(1) accordingly.
Article 59 Third-country treatment of Community assurance undertakings 1.
The Council shall decide by a qualified majority. 4.
In the circumstances described in the first subparagraph, it may also be decided at any time, and in addition to initiating negotiations, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 65(2), that the competent authorities of the Member States must limit or suspend their decisions: - regarding requests pending at the moment of the decision or future requests for authorisations, and - regarding the acquisition of holdings by direct or indirect parent undertakings governed by the laws of the third country in question.
TITLE VII TRANSITIONAL AND OTHER PROVISIONS Article 60 Derogations and abolition of restrictive measures 1.
Undertakings set up in the United Kingdom by Royal Charter or by private Act or by special Public Act may carry on their activity in the legal form in which they were constituted on 15 March 1979 for an unlimited period.
The societies registered in the United Kingdom under the Friendly Societies Acts may continue the activities of life assurance and savings operations which, in accordance with their objects, they were carrying on on 15 March 1979.
Article 61 Proof of good repute 1.
Member States shall designate the authorities and bodies competent to issue the documents referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 and shall forthwith inform the other Member States and the Commission thereof.
TITLE VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 62 Cooperation between the Member States and the Commission The Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States shall collaborate closely with a view to facilitating the supervision of the kinds of insurance and the operations referred to in this Directive within the Community.
Article 63 Reports on the development of the market under the freedom to provide services The Commission shall forward to the European Parliament and to the Council regular reports, the first on 20 November 1995, on the development of the market in assurance and operations transacted under conditions of freedom to provide services.
Article 64 Technical adjustment The following technical adjustments to be made to this Directive shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 65(2): - extension of the legal forms provided for in Article 6(1)(a), - amendments to the list set out in Annex I, or adaptation of the terminology used in that list to take account of the development of assurance markets, - clarification of the items constituting the solvency margin listed in Article 27 to take account of the creation of new financial instruments, - alteration of the minimum guarantee fund provided for in Article 29(2) to take account of economic and financial developments, - amendments, to take account of the creation of new financial instruments, to the list of assets acceptable as cover for technical provisions set out in Article 23 and to the rules on the spreading of investments laid down in Article 24, - changes in the relaxations in the matching rules laid down in Annex II, to take account of the development of new currency-hedging instruments or progress made in economic and monetary union, - clarification of the definitions in order to ensure uniform application of this Directive throughout the Community, - the technical adjustments necessary to the rules for setting the maxima applicable to interest rates, pursuant to Article 20, in particular to take account of progress made in economic and monetary union.
Article 65 Committee procedure 1.
Article 66 Rights acquired by existing branches and assurance undertakings 1.
They shall be governed, from that date by Articles 13, 20, 37, 39 and 46. 2.
Articles 41 and 42 shall not affect rights acquired by assurance undertakings carrying on business under the freedom to provide services before 1 July 1994.
Article 67 Right to apply to the courts Member States shall ensure that decisions taken in respect of an assurance undertaking under laws, regulations and administrative provisions adopted in accordance with this Directive may be subject to the right to apply to the courts.
Article 68 Review of amounts expressed in euro 1.
The Commission shall submit to the Council before 15 March 1985 a report dealing with the effects of the financial requirements imposed by this Directive on the situation in the insurance markets of the Member States. 2.
They shall immediately inform the Commission thereof. 2.
They shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof.
Member States shall adopt by 20 September 2003 the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with Articles 3(6), 27, 28, 29, 30 and 38.
They shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof.
Not later than 1 January 2007 the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council a report on the application of Articles 3(6), 27, 28, 29, 30 and 38 and, if necessary, on the need for further harmonisation.
Article 70 Information to the Commission The Member States shall communicate to the Commission the texts of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive.
Article 71 Transitional period for Articles 3(6), 27, 28, 29, 30 and 38 1.
Member States may allow assurance undertakings which at 20 March 2002 provided assurance in their territories in one or more of classes referred to in Annex I, a period of five years, commencing on that same date, in order to comply with the requirements set out in Articles 3(6), 27, 28, 29, 30 and 38. 2.
Article 72 Repealed directives and their correlation with this Directive 1.
Article 73 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 74 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 5 November 2002.
Cox For the Council The President T.
ANNEX I Classes of assurance I.
The operations referred to in Article 2(2)(e) IX.
However, such information may be in another language if the policy holder so requests and the law of the Member State so permits or the policy holder is free to choose the law applicable.
Before concluding the contract %gt%TABLE%gt% B.
Professional secrecy Until 17 November 2002, Member States may conclude cooperation agreements, providing for exchanges of information, with the competent authorities of third countries only if the information disclosed is subject to guarantees of professional secrecy at least equivalent to those referred to in Article 16 of this Directive. 2.
If this amount is exceeded for three consecutive years this Directive shall apply with effect from the fourth year. 3.
Solvency margin Each Member State shall require of every assurance undertaking whose head office is situated in its territory an adequate solvency margin in respect of its entire business.
In the latter event the assurance undertaking must notify the competent authorities at least six months before the date of the proposed repayment, specifying the actual and required solvency margin both before and after that repayment.
When the competent authorities have defined the concept of profits made, the Commission shall submit proposals for the harmonisation of this concept by means of a Directive on the harmonisation of the annual accounts of insurance undertakings and providing for the coordination set out in Article 1(2) of Directive 78/660/EEC; (b) where Zillmerising is not practised or where, if practised, it is less than the loading for acquisition costs included in the premium, the difference between a non-Zillmerised or partially Zillmerised mathematical provision and a mathematical provision Zillmerised at a rate equal to the loading for acquisition costs included in the premium; this figure may not, however, exceed 3,5 % of the sum of the differences between the relevant capital sums of life assurance activities and the mathematical provisions for all policies for which Zillmerising is possible; the difference shall be reduced by the amount of any undepreciated acquisition costs entered as an asset; (c) where approval is given by the competent authorities of the Member States concerned in which the assurance undertaking is carrying on its activities any hidden reserves resulting from the underestimation of assets and overestimation of liabilities other than mathematical provisions in so far as such hidden reserves are not of an exceptional nature.
Minimum solvency margin Subject to section C, the minimum solvency margin shall be determined as shown below according to the classes of assurance underwritten. (a) For the kinds of assurance referred to in Article 2(1)(a) and (b) of this Directive other than assurance linked to investment funds and for the operations referred to in Article 2(3) of this Directive, it must be equal to the sum of the following two results: - first result: a 4 % fraction of the mathematical provisions relating to direct business gross of reinsurance cessions and to reinsurance acceptances shall be multiplied by the ratio, for the last financial year, of the total mathematical provisions net of reinsurance cessions to the gross total mathematical provisions as specified above; that ratio may in no case be less than 85 %, - second result: for policies on which the capital at risk is not a negative figure, a 0,3 % fraction of such capital underwritten by the assurance undertaking shall be multiplied by the ratio, for the last financial year, of the total capital at risk retained as the undertaking's liability after reinsurance cessions and retrocessions to the total capital at risk gross of reinsurance; that ratio may in no case be less than 50 %.
The result shall be obtained by multiplying the sum so calculated by the ratio existing in respect of the last financial year between the amount of claims remaining to be borne by the assurance undertaking after deduction of transfers for reinsurance and the gross amount of claims; this ratio may in no case be less than 50 %.
The details together with the relevant calculations shall be sent to the competent authorities of the countries in whose territory Lloyd's is established. (c) For permanent health insurance not subject to cancellation referred to in Article 2(1)(d) of this Directive, and for capital redemption operations referred to in Article 2(2)(b) thereof, it shall be equal to a 4 % fraction of the mathematical provisions calculated in compliance with the conditions set out in the first result in (a) of this section. (d) For tontines, referred to in Article 2(2)(a) of this Directive, it shall be equal to 1 % of their assets. (e) For assurance covered by Article 2(1)(a) and (b) of this Directive linked to investment funds and for the operations referred to in Article 2(2)(c), (d) and (e) of this Directive it shall be equal to: - a 4 % fraction of the mathematical provisions, calculated in compliance with the conditions set out in the first result in (a) of this section in so far as the assurance undertaking bears an investment risk, and a 1 % fraction of the provisions calculated in the same way, in so far as the undertaking bears no investment risk provided that the term of the contract exceeds five years and the allocation to cover management expenses set out in the contract is fixed for a period exceeding five years, plus - a 0,3 % fraction of the capital at risk calculated in compliance with the conditions set out in the first subparagraph of the second result of (a) of this section in so far as the assurance undertaking covers a death risk.
Guarantee fund 1.
