CHAPTER II Rules for the movement of equidae Article 3 Member States shall authorize the movement of equidae registered in their territory or send equidae to another Member State only where they satisfy the conditions laid down in Articles 4 and 5.
The equidae must be identified in the following manner: i(i) in the case of registered horses, by means of an identification document, as provided for in Directive 90/427/EEC (5), which must certify in particular that Article 5 (5) and (6) have been complied with.
The offical veterinarian will have to suspend the validity of this document for the period of the prohibitions provided for in paragraph 5 or in Article 5.
Where appropriate it shall approve them in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24.
Programmes submitted by Member States may be amended or supplemented in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 25.
Only equidae meeting the requirements laid down in paragraph 3 may leave the zones referred to in (b). 3.
The Commission may, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 25, amend the decision taken in accordance with paragraph 4, in the light of epidemiological circumstances. 6.
Member States shall ensure that: - registered equidae which leave their holdings are accompanied by the identification document laid down in Article 4 (4) together - if they are intended for intra-Community trade - with the attestation provided for in Annex B, - equidae for breeding, production and slaughter are, during their transportion, accompanied by a health certificate complying with Annex C to this Directive.
The certificate, or in the case of an identification document, the form containing the health particulars, must, without prejudice to Article 6, be drawn up during the 48 hours preceding their embarkation or else no later than the last working day prior to it, in at least one of the official languages of the Member States of dispatch and destination.
Imports of equidae other than registered equidae may be covered by a single health certificate per consignment rather than by the individual certificate referred to in the second indent of paragraph 1.
Article 9 The rules on checks and safeguard measures applicable to intra-Community trade in equidae shall be adopted by the Council under its Decision on veterinary checks applicable to intra-Community trade in live animals with a view to the completion of the internal market.
Article 10 Veterinary experts from the Commission may, to the extent necessary to ensure uniform application of this Directive and in cooperation with the competent national authorities, carry out on-the-spot inspections.
CHAPTER III Rules for imports from third countries Article 11 1.
Equidae imported into the Community must satisfy the conditions laid down in Articles 12 to 16. 2.
Until the date of entry into force of the decisions adopted pursuant to Articles 12 to 16, the Member States shall apply to imports of equidae from third countries conditions at least equivalent to those resulting from the application of Chapter II.
In order to be imported, the equidae must come from a third country or part of a third country appearing on a list included in a separate column to be added to the list drawn up in accordance with Article 3 of Directive 72/462/EEC. 2.
The procedures and criteria for the preparation, modification and publication of the list of third countries or parts of third countries provided for in Article 3 of Directive 72/462/EEC shall apply to the list applicable to imports of equidae.
The equidae must come from third countries: (a) free from African horse sickness; (b) which have been free for two years from Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis (VEE); (c) which have been free for six months from dourine and glanders. 2.
Article 14 Before the day of loading for transportation to the Member State of destination, the equidae must have remained without interruption in the territory or part of the territory of a third country or, in the event of regionalization, in the part of the territory defined pursuant to Article 13 (2) (a) for a period to be determined in the decisions to be adopted pursuant to Article 15.
Article 15 Importation of equidae from the territory of a third country or part thereof as defined in accordance with Article 13 (2) (a) on the list drawn up in accordance with Article 12 (1) shall be authorized only if the equidae, over and above the requirements of Article 13: (a) comply with the animal health requirements adopted, with reference to the species in question and the categories of equidae, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24 for imports of equidae from that country.
The reference basis for fixing animal health conditions in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be the standards laid down in Articles 4 and 5; and (b) in the case of a third country not free of vesicular stomatitis or viral arteritis for at least six months, the equidae must meet the following requirements: i(i) they must come from a holding which has been free of vesicular stomatitis for at least six months and they must have reacted negatively to a serological test prior to dispatch; (ii) in the case of viral arteritis, male equidae must - notwithstanding Article 19 (ii) - have reacted negatively to a serological test or to a virus isolation test or to any other test recognized in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24 which would guarantee freedom from the virus.
The final decision shall be taken according to the procedure provided for in Article 25.
The frequency of and the procedure for these checks shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24.
Article 19 The Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24: ii(i) may decide that imports from a third country or part of a third country are to be confined to particular species or categories; i(ii) shall, notwithstanding Article 15, establish the special conditions for the temporary entry into Community territory of registered equidae or equidae intended for special uses or their re-entry into Community territory after being temporarily exported; (iii) shall determine the conditions for converting temporary entry into permanent entry.
The general procedures applicable during checks to be carried out in third countries or during checks on imported equidae from third countries shall be determined by the Council not later than 31 December 1990.
The Standing Veterinary Committee shall meet as soon as possible after the communication referred to in the first subparagraph and shall decide, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 25, whether these measures should be amended, in particular in order to ensure their coordination with measures adopted by the other Member States, or withdrawn.
CHAPTER IV Final provisions Article 22 The provisions of this Directive, and in particular those contained in the second sentence of Article 4 (1) and in Articles 6, 8 and 21, shall be re-examined before 1 January 1993 in the framework of the proposals relating to the completion of the internal market, on which the Council will decide by a qualified majority.
Article 23 The Annexes to this Directive shall be amended by the Commission in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 25.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The chairman shall not vote. 3.
The Committee shall deliver its opinion on the draft within two days.
The opinion shall be delivered by the majority laid down in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty in the case of decisions which the Council is required to adopt on a proposal from the Commission.
The chairman shall not vote. 3.
Article 26 Article 34 of Directive 72/462/EEC shall apply to the requirements set out in Chapter III of this Directive.
Article 28 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 June 1990.
O'KENNEDY (1) OJ No C 327, 30. 12. 1989, p. 61. (2) OJ No C 149, 18. 6. 1990. (3) OJ No C 62, 12. 3. 1990, p. 46.(4) OJ No L 224, 18. 8. 1990, p. 55.(5) OJ No L 224, 18. 8. 1990, p. 55.(6) OJ No L 255, 18. 10. 1968, p. 23.
Date Lieu Place Cachet et signature du vétérinaire officiel (¹) Stamp and signature of the official veterinarian (¹) Name in block capitals and capacity. (a) Not required where there is a bilateral agreement in accordance with Article 6. (b) Valid for 10 days.
Ministry responsible: .
Territorial Department responsible: . .
Number of equidae: .....................
Name and address of consignee: . .
Health information (a) I, the undersigned, certify that the animal/s described above meet/s the following requirements: (1) it/they has/have been examined today and show/s no clinical sign of disease; (2) it/they is/are not intended for slaughter under a national programme of contagious or infectious disease eradication; (3) (a) it/they does/do not come from the territory or part of the territory of a Member State/third country which is the subject of restrictions for reasons of African horse sickness; (b) it/they was/were vaccinated against African horse sickness on ................................... (b); it/they is/are not vaccinated against African horse sickness (b); (4) it/they has/have not been obtained from a holding which was subject to prohibition for animal health reasons nor had contact with equidae from a holding which was subject to prohibition for animal health reasons for the periods of time set out in Article 4 (6) of Directive 90/426/EEC; (5) to the best of my knowledge, it/they has/have not been in contact with equidae suffering from an infectious or contagious disease during the period prior to inspection as laid down in Article 4 (2) of the said Directive.
Stamp . (Signature) (Name in block letters and capacity of signing veterinarian) (1) (a) This information is not required where there is a bilateral agreement in accordance with Article 6 of Directive 90/426/EEC. (b) Delete whichever does not apply.
In Germany 'Beamteter Tierarzt'; in Belgium 'Inspecteur vétérinaire' or 'Inspecteur Dierenarts'; in France 'Vétérinaire officiel'; in Italy 'Veterinario provinciale'; in Luxembourg 'Inspecteur vétérinaire'; in the Netherlands 'Officieel Dierenarts'; in Denmark 'Autoriseret Dyrlaege'; in Ireland 'Veterinary Inspector'; in the United Kingdom 'Veterinary Inspector'; in Greece 'Episimos ktiniatros'; in Spain 'Inspector Veterinario' and in Portugal 'Inspector Veterinário'. (1) ANNEX D AFRICAN HORSE SICKNESS DIAGNOSIS Complement fixation test The antigen is prepared from the brains of one-month-old mice inoculated intracerebrally with a neurotropic strain of the virus.
The brains are frozen and then ground in Veronal buffer at the rate of 10 brains for 12 ml buffer.
The resulting suspension is centrifuged for one hour at 10 000 rpm at 4 gC.
Inactivation may be effected by adding 0,1 ml of a 3 % solution of beta-propiolactone in distilled water to each 0,9 ml of antigen and shaking the mixture for three hours at room temperature in a ventilated cabinet and for 18 hours at 4 gC.
Sera should be heated for 30 minutes at 60 gC.
Mix and leave for 15 minutes at room temperature.
Add two volumes of complement containing five units, mix, cover the plates and leave for 18 hours at 4 gC.
After leaving the plates for a further 15 minutes at room temperature, add one volume of sensitized sheep erythrocytes diluted to 3 %.
Mix and incubate at 37 gC for 30 minutes, mixing again after 15 minutes of incubation.
If plates are used, centrifuge the plates for five minutes at 1 500 rpm at 4 gC.
