Article 2 This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 15 January 2004.
The following slight defects, however, may be allowed provided these do not affect the general appearance of the produce, the quality, the keeping quality and presentation in the package: - a slight defect in shape, - a slight defect in development, - a slight defect in colouring, - slight skin defects which must not extend over more than: - 2 cm in length for defects of elongated shape, - 1 cm2 of total surface area for other defects, with the exception of scab (Venturia pirina and V.
inaequalis), which must not extend over more than 0,25 cm2 of total surface area, - slight bruising not exceeding 1 cm2 of total surface area and not discoloured.
The following defects are allowed provided the fruit retains its essential characteristics as regards the quality, the keeping quality and presentation: - defects in shape, - defects in development, - defects in colouring, - slight rough russeting(3), - skin defects which must not extend over more than: - 4 cm in length for defects of elongated shape, - 2,5 cm2 of total surface area for other defects, with the exception of scab (Venturia pirina and V.
inaequalis), which must not extend over more than 1 cm2 of total surface area, - slight bruising not exceeding 1 cm2 of total surface area which may be slightly discoloured.
A minimum size is required for each class as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% Exceptionally, and for summer pears included in the Appendix to this standard, no minimum size will be laid down for consignments harvested and dispatched between 10 June and 31 July (inclusive) of any year.
To ensure there is uniformity of size within a package, the difference in diameter between fruit in the same package shall be limited to: - 5 mm for Extra Class fruit and for Class I and II fruit packed in rows and layers, - 10 mm for Class I fruit packed loose in the package or in sales packages.
Within this tolerance, a maximum of 2 per cent by number or weight of fruit is allowed which shows the following defects: - slight damage or unhealed cracks, - very slight traces of rot, - presence of internal feeding pests and/or damage to the flesh caused by pests.
Size tolerances For all classes: 10 per cent by number or weight of fruit corresponding to the size immediately above or below that marked on the package, with, for fruit classified in the smallest grade allowed a maximum variation of 5 mm below the minimum.
PROVISIONS CONCERNING PRESENTATION A.
The visible part of the contents of the package must be representative of the entire contents.
Official control mark (optional) (1) This does not apply when this russeting is a characteristic of the variety. (2) This does not apply when this russeting is a characteristic of the variety. (3) This does not apply when this russeting is a characteristic of the variety. (4) OJ L 7, 11.1.2003, p. 65.
