Regulation (EC) No%nbsp%726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31%nbsp%March 2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency (Text with EEA relevance) Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Medicines Agency THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 95 and Article 152(4)(b) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission(1), Having regard to the Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee(2), After consulting the Committee of the Regions, In accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty(3), Whereas: (1) Article 71 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 laying down Community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products(4) provides that, within six years of the entry into force of the Regulation, the Commission is to publish a general report on the experience acquired as a result of the operation of the procedures laid down in the Regulation. (2) In the light of the Commission's report on the experience gained, it has proved necessary to improve the operation of the authorisation procedures for the placing of medicinal products on the market in the Community and to amend certain administrative aspects of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products.
It also emerges from the report that the general principles previously established which govern the centralised procedure should be maintained. (4) Moreover, since the European Parliament and the Council have adopted Directive 2001/83/EC of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relating to medicinal products for human use(5) and Directive 2001/82/EC of 6 November 2001 on the Community code relating to veterinary medicinal products(6), all the references to the codified Directives in Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 should be updated. (5) For the sake of clarity, it is necessary to replace the said Regulation with a new Regulation. (6) It is appropriate to preserve the Community mechanism set up by the repealed Community legislation for concertation prior to any national decision relating to a high-technology medicinal product. (7) Experience gained since the adoption of Council Directive 87/22/EEC of 22 December 1986 on the approximation of national measures relating to the placing on the market of high-technology medicinal products, particularly those derived from biotechnology(7) has shown that it is necessary to create a centralised authorisation procedure that is compulsory for high-technology medicinal products, particularly those resulting from biotechnical processes, in order to maintain the high level of scientific evaluation of these medicinal products in the European Union and thus to preserve the confidence of patients and the medical professions in the evaluation.
It should be possible to review the provisions in point 3 of the Annex via a simplified decision-making procedure not earlier than four years after the entry into force of this Regulation. (9) As regards medicinal products for human use, optional access to the centralised procedure should also be provided for in cases where use of a single procedure produces added value for the patient.
Optional access to the centralised procedure should be maintained for veterinary medicinal products containing a new active substance. (11) For medicinal products for human use, the period for protection of data relating to pre-clinical tests and clinical trials should be the same as that provided for in Directive 2001/83/EC.
Moreover, a veterinary medicinal product is not to be authorised by the Community if its use would contravene the rules laid down within the framework of the Common Agricultural Policy or if presented for a use prohibited under other Community provisions, inter alia Directive 96/22/EC(8). (14) Provision should be made for the quality, safety and efficacy criteria in Directives 2001/83/EC and 2001/82/EC to apply to medicinal products authorised by the Community and it should be possible to assess the risk-benefit balance of all medicinal products when they are placed on the market, at the time of the renewal of the authorisation and at any other time the competent authority deems appropriate. (15) The Community is required, pursuant to Article 178 of the Treaty, to take account of the development policy aspects of any measure and to promote the creation of conditions fit for human beings worldwide.
Only after a single scientific evaluation procedure addressing the quality, safety and efficacy of high-technology medicinal products has been conducted by the Agency, applying the highest possible standards, should marketing authorisation be granted by the Community, and this should be done by means of a rapid procedure ensuring close cooperation between the Commission and Member States. (20) In order to ensure close cooperation between the Agency and scientists operating in Member States, the composition of the Management Board should be such as to guarantee that the competent authorities of the Member States are closely involved in the overall management of the Community system for authorising medicinal products. (21) The Agency's budget should be composed of fees paid by the private sector and contributions paid out of the Community budget to implement Community policies. (22) Paragraph 25 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and improvement of budgetary procedure(10) provides for the Financial Perspective to be adjusted in order to cover the new needs resulting from enlargement. (23) Exclusive responsibility for preparing the Agency's opinions on all questions concerning medicinal products for human use should be vested in a Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use.
As regards orphan medicinal products, the task should fall to the Committee on Orphan Medicinal Products set up under Regulation (EC) No 141/2000 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1999 on orphan medicinal products(11).
The re-examination procedures should be amended to provide a better guarantee for applicants' rights. (26) The number of members of the Scientific Committees participating in the centralised procedure should be established with a view to ensuring that the committees remain of an efficient size after the enlargement of the European Union. (27) It is also necessary to reinforce the role of the Scientific Committees in such a way as to enable the Agency to participate actively in international scientific dialogue and to develop certain activities that will be necessary, in particular regarding international scientific harmonisation and technical cooperation with the World Health Organisation. (28) Furthermore, in order to create greater legal certainty it is necessary to define the responsibilities regarding the transparency rules for the Agency's work, to set certain conditions for the marketing of medicinal products authorised by the Community, to confer on the Agency powers to monitor the distribution of medicinal products authorised by the Community and to specify the sanctions and the procedures for implementing them in the event of failure to observe the provisions of this Regulation and the conditions contained in the authorisations granted under the procedures it establishes. (29) It is also necessary to take measures for the supervision of medicinal products authorised by the Community, and in particular for the intensive supervision of undesirable effects of these medicinal products within the framework of Community pharmacovigilance activities, so as to ensure the rapid withdrawal from the market of any medicinal product presenting a negative risk-benefit balance under normal conditions of use. (30) In order to enhance the efficiency of market surveillance, the Agency should be responsible for coordinating Member States' pharmacovigilance activities.
Any medicinal product not appearing in the Annex may be granted a marketing authorisation by the Community in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation, if: (a) the medicinal product contains a new active substance which, on the date of entry into force of this Regulation, was not authorised in the Community; or (b) the applicant shows that the medicinal product constitutes a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation or that the granting of authorisation in accordance with this Regulation is in the interests of patients or animal health at Community level.
Immunological veterinary medicinal products for the treatment of animal diseases that are subject to Community prophylactic measures may also be granted such authorisation. 3.
A generic medicinal product of a reference medicinal product authorised by the Community may be authorised by the competent authorities of the Member States in accordance with Directive 2001/83/EC and Directive 2001/82/EC under the following conditions: (a) the application for authorisation is submitted in accordance with Article 10 of Directive 2001/83/EC or Article 13 of Directive 2001/82/EC; (b) the summary of the product characteristics is in all relevant respects consistent with that of the medicinal product authorised by the Community except for those parts of the summary of product characteristics referring to indications or dosage forms which were still covered by patent law at the time when the generic medicine was marketed; and (c) the generic medicinal product is authorised under the same name in all the Member States where the application has been made.
Such amendments shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(2).
Applications for the marketing authorisations referred to in Article 3 shall be submitted to the Agency. 2.
TITLE II AUTHORISATION AND SUPERVISION OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS FOR HUMAN USE Chapter 1 Submission and examination of applications - Authorisations Article 5 1.
The Committee shall be part of the Agency. 2.
Each application for the authorisation of a medicinal product for human use shall specifically and completely include the particulars and documents as referred to in Articles 8(3), 10, 10a, 10b or 11 of, and Annex I to, Directive 2001/83/EC.
In the case of a medicinal product for human use containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms within the meaning of Article 2 of Directive 2001/18/EC, the application shall be accompanied by: (a) a copy of the competent authorities' written consent to the deliberate release into the environment of the genetically modified organisms for research and development purposes where provided for in Part B of Directive 2001/18/EC or in Part B of Council Directive 90/220/EEC of 23 April 1990 on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms(16); (b) the complete technical dossier supplying the information required by Annexes III and IV to Directive 2001/18/EC; (c) the environmental risk assessment in accordance with the principles set out in Annex II to Directive 2001/18/EC; and (d) the results of any investigations performed for the purposes of research or development.
Articles 13 to 24 of Directive 2001/18/EC shall not apply to medicinal products for human use containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms. 3.
Article 7 In order to prepare its opinion, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use: (a) shall verify that the particulars and documents submitted in accordance with Article 6 comply with the requirements of Directive 2001/83/EC, and shall examine whether the conditions specified in this Regulation for granting a marketing authorisation are satisfied; (b) may request that an Official Medicines Control Laboratory or a laboratory that a Member State has designated for that purpose test the medicinal product for human use, its starting materials and, if need be, its intermediate products or other constituent materials in order to ensure that the control methods employed by the manufacturer and described in the application documents are satisfactory; (c) may request that the applicant supplement the particulars accompanying the application within a specific time period.
Where the said Committee avails itself of this option, the time-limit laid down in Article 6(3), first subparagraph, shall be suspended until such time as the supplementary information requested has been provided.
Upon receipt of a written request from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, a Member State shall forward the information showing that the manufacturer of a medicinal product or the importer from a third country is able to manufacture the medicinal product concerned and/or carry out the necessary control tests in accordance with the particulars and documents supplied pursuant to Article 6. 2.
Such inspections may be made unannounced.
The inspection shall be carried out within the time-limit laid down in the first subparagraph of Article 6(3) by inspectors from the Member State holding the appropriate qualifications; they may be accompanied by a rapporteur or an expert appointed by the Committee.
The Agency shall forthwith inform the applicant if the opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use is that: (a) the application does not satisfy the criteria for authorisation set out in this Regulation; (b) the summary of the product characteristics proposed by the applicant needs to be amended; (c) the labelling or package leaflet of the product is not in compliance with Title V of Directive 2001/83/EC; (d) the authorisation needs to be granted subject to the conditions provided for in Article 14(7) and (8). 2.
Within 15 days after receipt of the opinion referred to in paragraph 1, the applicant may give written notice to the Agency that he wishes to request a re-examination of the opinion.
In that case, the applicant shall forward to the Agency the detailed grounds for the request within 60 days after receipt of the opinion.
If an opinion is favourable to the granting of the relevant authorisation to place the medicinal product concerned on the market, the following documents shall be annexed to the opinion: (a) a draft summary of the product characteristics, as referred to in Article 11 of Directive 2001/83/EC; (b) details of any conditions or restrictions which should be imposed on the supply or use of the medicinal product concerned, including the conditions under which the medicinal product may be made available to patients, in accordance with the criteria laid down in Title VI of Directive 2001/83/EC; (c) details of any recommended conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product; (d) the draft text of the labelling and package leaflet proposed by the applicant, presented in accordance with Title V of Directive 2001/83/EC; (e) the assessment report.
Within 15 days after receipt of the opinion referred to in Article 5(2), the Commission shall prepare a draft of the decision to be taken in respect of the application.
Where a draft decision envisages the granting of a marketing authorisation, it shall include or make reference to the documents mentioned in Article 9(4)(a), (b), (c) and (d).
The Commission shall take a final decision in accordance with, and within 15 days after the end of, the procedure referred to in Article 87(3). 3.
The Standing Committee on Medicinal Products for Human Use referred to in Article 87(1) shall adjust its rules of procedure so as to take account of the tasks incumbent upon it under this Regulation.
This time-limit shall not, otherwise than in exceptional circumstances, be shorter than 5 days; (c) Member States may request in writing that the draft decision referred to in paragraph 1 be discussed by a plenary meeting of the said Standing Committee, stating their reasons in detail. 4.
The Commission shall adopt the provisions necessary for the implementation of paragraph 4 in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(2). 6.
Article 11 If an applicant withdraws an application for a marketing authorisation submitted to the Agency before an opinion has been given on the application, the applicant shall communicate its reasons for doing so to the Agency.
Authorisation shall likewise be refused if particulars or documents provided by the applicant in accordance with Article 6 are incorrect or if the labelling and package leaflet proposed by the applicant are not in accordance with Title V of Directive 2001/83/EC. 2.
It shall confer the same rights and obligations in each of the Member States as a marketing authorisation granted by that Member State in accordance with Article 6 of Directive 2001/83/EC.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 4, 5 and 7 a marketing authorisation shall be valid for five years. 2.
Once renewed, the marketing authorisation shall be valid for an unlimited period, unless the Commission decides, on justified grounds relating to pharmacovigilance, to proceed with one additional five-year renewal in accordance with paragraph 2. 4.
Such exemptions must be duly justified. 7.
The list of these obligations shall be made publicly accessible.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, such authorisation shall be valid for one year, on a renewable basis.
The provisions for granting such authorisation shall be laid down in a Commission Regulation adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(2). 8.
If the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use accepts the request, the time-limit laid down in Article 6(3), first subparagraph, shall be reduced to 150 days. 10.
When adopting its opinion, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use shall include a proposal concerning the criteria for the prescription or use of the medicinal products in accordance with Article 70(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC. 11.
Article 15 The granting of authorisation shall not affect the civil or criminal liability of the manufacturer or of the holder of the marketing authorisation pursuant to the applicable national law in Member States.
Chapter 2 Supervision and penalties Article 16 1.
After an authorisation has been granted in accordance with this Regulation, the holder of the marketing authorisation for a medicinal product for human use shall, in respect of the methods of manufacture and control provided for in Article 8(3)(d) and (h) of Directive 2001/83/EC, take account of technical and scientific progress and make any variations that may be required to enable the medicinal products to be manufactured and checked by means of generally accepted scientific methods.
The holder of the marketing authorisation shall forthwith supply to the Agency, to the Commission and to the Member States any new information which might entail the variation of the particulars or documents referred to in Articles 8(3), 10, 10a, 10b and 11 of Directive 2001/83/EC, in Annex I thereto, or in Article 9(4) of this Regulation.
If the holder of the authorisation for a medicinal product for human use proposes to make any variation of the particulars and documents referred to in paragraph 2, he shall submit the relevant application to the Agency. 4.
The Commission shall, after consulting the Agency, adopt appropriate provisions for the examination of variations to marketing authorisations in the form of a regulation in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(2).
Article 17 The applicant or the holder of a marketing authorisation shall be responsible for the accuracy of the documents and of the data submitted.
In the case of medicinal products for human use manufactured within the Community, the supervisory authorities shall be the competent authorities of the Member State or Member States which granted the manufacturing authorisation provided for in Article 40(1) of Directive 2001/83/EC in respect of the medicinal product concerned. 2.
In the case of medicinal products imported from third countries, the supervisory authorities shall be the competent authorities of the Member State or Member States that granted the authorisation provided for in Article 40(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC to the importer, unless appropriate agreements have been made between the Community and the exporting country to ensure that those controls are carried out in the exporting country and that the manufacturer applies standards of good manufacturing practice at least equivalent to those laid down by the Community.
A Member State may request assistance from another Member State or from the Agency.
The supervisory authorities shall be responsible for verifying on behalf of the Community that the holder of the marketing authorisation for the medicinal product for human use or the manufacturer or importer established within the Community satisfies the requirements laid down in Titles IV, IX and XI of Directive 2001/83/EC. 2.
Subject to any agreements which may have been concluded between the Community and third countries in accordance with Article 18(2), the Commission may, following a reasoned request from a Member State or from the said Committee, or on its own initiative, require a manufacturer established in a third country to submit to an inspection.
Where the supervisory authorities or the competent authorities of any other Member State are of the opinion that the manufacturer or importer established within the Community territory is no longer fulfilling the obligations laid down in Title IV of Directive 2001/83/EC, they shall forthwith inform the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use and the Commission, stating their reasons in detail and indicating the course of action proposed.
The same shall apply where a Member State or the Commission considers that one of the measures envisaged in Titles IX and XI of Directive 2001/83/EC should be applied in respect of the medicinal product concerned or where the said Committee has delivered an opinion to that effect in accordance with Article 5 of this Regulation. 2.
A final decision shall be adopted within six months, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(3). 4.
Where urgent action is essential to protect human health or the environment, a Member State may, on its own initiative or at the Commission's request, suspend the use in its territory of a medicinal product for human use which has been authorised in accordance with this Regulation.
The Agency shall inform the other Member States without delay.
The Commission shall immediately initiate the procedure provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3. 5.
The Member States shall inform the Commission and the Agency of actions taken for this purpose. 6.
The suspensive measures referred to in paragraph 4 may be maintained in force until such time as a definitive decision has been reached in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(3). 7.
The Agency shall, upon request, inform any person concerned of the final decision and make the decision publicly accessible immediately after it has been taken.
Article 22 The Agency, acting in close cooperation with the national pharmacovigilance systems established in accordance with Article 102 of Directive 2001/83/EC, shall receive all relevant information concerning suspected adverse reactions to medicinal products for human use which have been authorised by the Community in accordance with this Regulation.
Where appropriate, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use shall, in accordance with Article 5 of this Regulation, draw up opinions on the measures necessary.
These opinions shall be made publicly accessible.
The measures referred to in the first paragraph may include amendments to the marketing authorisation granted in accordance with Article 10.
They shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(3).
The holder of the marketing authorisation and the competent authorities of Member States shall ensure that all relevant information concerning suspected adverse reactions to the medicinal products authorised under this Regulation are brought to the attention of the Agency in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation.
Article 23 The holder of an authorisation for a medicinal product for human use granted in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation shall have permanently and continuously at his disposal an appropriately qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance.
That qualified person shall reside in the Community and shall be responsible for the following: (a) establishing and managing a system which ensures that information concerning all suspected adverse reactions which are reported to the personnel of the company and to medical representatives is collected, evaluated and collated so that it may be accessed at a single point within the Community; (b) preparing the reports referred to in Article 24(3) for the competent authorities of the Member States and the Agency in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation; (c) ensuring that any request from the competent authorities for the provision of additional information necessary for the evaluation of the risks and benefits of a medicinal product is answered fully and promptly, including the provision of information regarding the volume of sales or prescriptions for the medicinal product concerned; (d) providing the competent authorities with any other information relevant to the evaluation of the risks and benefits of a medicinal product, particularly information concerning post-authorisation safety studies.
The holder of the marketing authorisation for a medicinal product for human use shall ensure that all suspected serious adverse reactions to a medicinal product authorised in accordance with this Regulation occurring within the Community which a health-care professional brings to his attention are recorded and reported promptly to Member States within the territory of which the incident occurred, and no later than 15 days following the receipt of the information.
The holder of the marketing authorisation for a medicinal product for human use shall ensure that all suspected serious unexpected adverse reactions and any suspected transmission via a medicinal product of any infectious agent occurring in the territory of a third country are reported promptly to Member States and the Agency, and no later than 15 days following receipt of the information.
The provisions for the reporting of suspected unexpected adverse reactions which are not serious, whether occurring in the Community or in a third country, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(2).
Save in exceptional circumstances, these reactions shall be transmitted electronically in the form of a report and in accordance with the guide referred to in Article 26. 3.
The Commission shall adopt any such provisions in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(2). 5.
Article 25 Each Member State shall ensure that all suspected serious adverse reactions occurring within their territory to a medicinal product for human use authorised in accordance with this Regulation which are brought to their attention are recorded and reported promptly to the Agency and the marketing authorisation holder, and no later than 15 days following receipt of the information.
The Agency shall forward the information to the national pharmacovigilance systems set up in accordance with Article 102 of Directive 2001/83/EC.
Article 26 The Commission, in consultation with the Agency, Member States and interested parties, shall draw up a guide on the collection, verification and presentation of adverse-reaction reports.
The Agency, in consultation with Member States and the Commission, shall set up a data-processing network for the rapid transmission of information to the competent Community authorities in the event of an alert relating to faulty manufacture, serious adverse reactions and other pharmacovigilance data regarding medicinal products authorised in accordance with Article 6 of Directive 2001/83/EC.
Article 27 The Agency shall collaborate with the World Health Organisation in matters of international pharmacovigilance and shall take the necessary steps to submit to it, promptly, appropriate and adequate information regarding the measures taken in the Community which may have a bearing on public health protection in third countries; it shall send a copy thereof to the Commission and the Member States.
Article 28 The Agency and Member States' competent authorities shall cooperate to continuously develop pharmacovigilance systems capable of achieving high standards of public health protection for all medicinal products, regardless of routes of authorisation, including the use of collaborative approaches, to maximise use of resources available within the Community.
Article 29 Any amendment which may be necessary to update the provisions of this Chapter in order to take account of scientific and technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(2).
TITLE III AUTHORISATION AND SUPERVISION OF VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS Chapter 1 Submission and examination of applications - Authorisations Article 30 1.
The Committee shall be part of the Agency. 2.
Each application for the authorisation of a medicinal product for veterinary use shall specifically and exhaustively include the particulars and documents as referred to in Articles 12(3), 13, 13a, 13b and 14 of, and Annex I to, Directive 2001/82/EC.
In the case of a veterinary medicinal product containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms within the meaning of Article 2 of Directive 2001/18/EC, the application shall also be accompanied by: (a) a copy of the written consent of the competent authorities to the deliberate release into the environment of the genetically modified organisms for research and development purposes, as provided for in Part B of Directive 2001/18/EC or in Part B of Directive 90/220/EEC; (b) the complete technical file supplying the information required under Annexes III and IV to Directive 2001/18/EC; (c) the environmental risk assessment in accordance with the principles set out in Annex II to Directive 2001/18/EC; and (d) the results of any investigations performed for the purposes of research or development.
Articles 13 to 24 of Directive 2001/18/EC shall not apply to veterinary medicinal products containing or consisting of genetically modified organisms. 3.
In order to prepare its opinion, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use: (a) shall verify that the particulars and documents submitted in accordance with Article 31 comply with the requirements of Directive 2001/82/EC and examine whether the conditions specified in this Regulation for granting a marketing authorisation are satisfied; (b) may request that an Official Medicines Control Laboratory or a laboratory that a Member State has designated for that purpose test the veterinary medicinal product, its starting materials and, where appropriate, its intermediate products or other constituent materials in order to ensure that the control methods employed by the manufacturer and described in the application are satisfactory; (c) may request a Community reference laboratory, Official Medicines Control Laboratory or laboratory that a Member State has designated for that purpose to verify, using samples provided by the applicant, that the analytical detection method proposed by the applicant for the purposes of Article 12(3)(j), second indent, of Directive 2001/82/EC is satisfactory and is suitable for use to reveal the presence of residue levels, particularly those above the maximum residue level accepted by the Community in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 2377/90; (d) may request the applicant to supplement the particulars accompanying the application within a specific time-limit.
Where the said Committee avails itself of this option, the time-limit laid down in Article 31(3), first subparagraph shall be suspended until such time as the supplementary information requested has been provided.
Upon receipt of a written request from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use, a Member State shall forward the information establishing that the manufacturer of a veterinary medicinal product or the importer from a third country is able to manufacture the veterinary medicinal product concerned and/or carry out the necessary control tests in accordance with the particulars and documents supplied pursuant to Article 31. 2.
Such inspections may be made unannounced.
The inspection, which shall be completed within the time-limit referred to in Article 31(3), first subparagraph, shall be undertaken by inspectors from the Member State who possess the appropriate qualifications; they may be accompanied by a rapporteur or expert appointed by the said Committee.
The Agency shall forthwith inform the applicant if the opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use is that: (a) the application does not satisfy the criteria for authorisation set out in this Regulation; (b) the summary of the product characteristics should be amended; (c) the labelling or package leaflet of the product is not in compliance with Title V of Directive 2001/82/EC; (d) the authorisation should be granted subject to the conditions provided for in Article 39(7). 2.
Within 15 days after receipt of the opinion referred to in paragraph 1, the applicant may provide written notice to the Agency that he wishes to request a re-examination of the opinion.
In that case the applicant shall forward to the Agency the detailed grounds for the request within 60 days after receipt of the opinion.
Within 60 days after receipt of the grounds for the request, the said Committee shall re-examine its opinion in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 62(1), fourth subparagraph.
If an opinion is favourable to the granting of the relevant authorisation to place the relevant veterinary medicinal product on the market, the following documents shall be annexed to the opinion: (a) a draft summary of the product characteristics, as referred to in Article 14 of Directive 2001/82/EC; where appropriate, this draft shall reflect differences in the veterinary conditions in the Member States; (b) in the case of a veterinary medicinal product intended for administration to food-producing animals, a statement of the maximum residue level which may be accepted by the Community in accordance with Regulation (EEC) No 2377/90; (c) details of any conditions or restrictions which should be imposed on the supply or use of the veterinary medicinal product concerned, including the conditions under which the veterinary medicinal product may be made available to users, in conformity with the criteria laid down in Directive 2001/82/EC; (d) details of any recommended conditions or restrictions with regard to the safe and effective use of the medicinal product; (e) the draft text of the labelling and package leaflet proposed by the applicant, presented in accordance with Title V of Directive 2001/82/EC; (f) the assessment report.
Within 15 days after receipt of the opinion referred to in Article 30(2), the Commission shall prepare a draft of the decision to be taken in respect of the application.
Where a draft decision envisages the granting of marketing authorisation, it shall include or make reference to the documents mentioned in Article 34(4)(a) to (e).
The Commission shall take a final decision in accordance with, and within 15 days after the end of, the procedure referred to in Article 87(3). 3.
The Standing Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products referred to in Article 87(1) shall adjust its rules of procedure so as to take account of the tasks assigned to it by this Regulation.
This time-limit shall not, otherwise than in exceptional circumstances, be shorter than 5 days; (c) Member States may request in writing that the draft decision referred to in paragraph 1 be discussed at a plenary meeting of the said Standing Committee, stating their reasons in detail. 4.
Where, in the opinion of the Commission, the written observations of a Member State raise important new questions of a scientific or technical nature which have not been addressed in the opinion delivered by the Agency, the Chairman shall suspend the procedure and refer the application back to the Agency for further consideration. 5.
The provisions necessary for the implementation of paragraph 4 shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(2). 6.
Article 36 If an applicant withdraws an application for a marketing authorisation submitted to the Agency before an opinion has been given on the application, the applicant shall communicate its reasons for doing so to the Agency.
Authorisation shall likewise be refused if particulars or documents provided by the applicant in accordance with Article 31 are incorrect or if the labelling and package leaflets proposed by the applicant are not in accordance with Title V of Directive 2001/82/EC. 2.
Without prejudice to Article 71 of Directive 2001/82/EC, a marketing authorisation which has been granted in accordance with this Regulation shall be valid throughout the Community.
It shall confer the same rights and obligations in each of the Member States as a marketing authorisation granted by that Member State in accordance with Article 5 of Directive 2001/82/EC.
After a marketing authorisation has been granted, the holder of the authorisation shall inform the Agency of the dates of actual placing on the market of the veterinary medicinal product in Member States, taking into account the various presentations authorised.
Once renewed, the marketing authorisation shall be valid for an unlimited period, unless the Commission decides, on justified grounds relating to pharmacovigilance, to proceed with one additional five-year renewal in accordance with paragraph 2. 4.
Such exemptions must be duly justified. 7.
If the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use accepts the request, the time-limit laid down in Article 31(3), first subparagraph, shall be reduced to 150 days. 9.
When adopting its opinion, the said Committee shall include a proposal concerning the conditions for the prescription or use of the veterinary medicinal products. 10.
Article 40 The granting of authorisation shall not affect the civil or criminal liability of the manufacturer or the holder of the marketing authorisation pursuant to the applicable national law in Member States.
Chapter 2 Supervision and sanctions Article 41 1.
The holder of the marketing authorisation shall forthwith supply to the Agency, the Commission and the Member States any new information which might entail the variation of the particulars or documents referred to in Articles 12(3), 13, 13a, 13b and 14 of Directive 2001/82/EC, in Annex I thereto, or in Article 34(4) of this Regulation.
If the holder of the marketing authorisation for the veterinary medicinal product proposes to make any variation of the particulars and documents referred to in paragraph 4, he shall submit the relevant application to the Agency. 6.
The Commission shall, after consulting the Agency, adopt appropriate provisions for the examination of variations to marketing authorisations in the form of a regulation in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(2).
Article 42 The applicant or the holder of a marketing authorisation shall be responsible for the accuracy of the documents and of the data submitted.
In the case of veterinary medicinal products manufactured within the Community, the supervisory authorities shall be the competent authorities of the Member State or Member States which granted the manufacturing authorisation provided for in Article 44(1) of Directive 2001/82/EC in respect of the manufacture of the medicinal product concerned. 2.
In the case of veterinary medicinal products imported from third countries, the supervisory authorities shall be the competent authorities of the Member State or Member States that granted the authorisation provided for in Article 44(3) of Directive 2001/82/EC to the importer, unless appropriate agreements have been made between the Community and the exporting country to ensure that those controls are carried out in the exporting country and that the manufacturer applies standards of good manufacturing practice at least equivalent to those laid down by the Community.
A Member State may request assistance from another Member State or the Agency.
The supervisory authorities shall be responsible for verifying on behalf of the Community that the holder of the marketing authorisation for the veterinary medicinal product or the manufacturer or importer established within the Community satisfies the requirements laid down in Titles IV, VII and VIII of Directive 2001/82/EC. 2.
Subject to any agreements which may have been concluded between the Community and third countries in accordance with Article 43(2), the Commission may, upon receipt of a reasoned request from a Member State or from the said Committee, or on its own initiative, require a manufacturer established in a third country to submit to an inspection.
Where the supervisory authorities or the competent authorities of any other Member State are of the opinion that the manufacturer or importer established within the Community is no longer fulfilling the obligations laid down in Title VII of Directive 2001/82/EC, they shall forthwith inform the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use and the Commission, stating their reasons in detail and indicating the course of action proposed.
The same shall apply where a Member State or the Commission considers that one of the measures envisaged in Title VIII of Directive 2001/82/EC should be applied in respect of the veterinary medicinal product concerned or where the said Committee has delivered an opinion to that effect in accordance with Article 30 of this Regulation. 2.
A final decision shall be adopted within six months, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(3). 4.
Where urgent action is essential to protect human or animal health or the environment, a Member State may, on its own initiative or at the Commission's request, suspend the use on its territory of a veterinary medicinal product which has been authorised in accordance with this Regulation.
The Agency shall inform the other Member States without delay.
The Commission shall immediately initiate the procedure provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3. 5.
Member States shall inform the Commission and the Agency of actions taken for this purpose. 6.
The suspensive measures referred to in paragraph 4 may be maintained until such time as a definitive decision has been reached in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(3). 7.
The Agency shall, upon request, inform any person concerned of the final decision and make the decision publicly accessible, immediately after it has been taken.
Article 47 The Agency, acting in close cooperation with the national pharmacovigilance systems established in accordance with Article 73 of Directive 2001/82/EC, shall receive all relevant information about suspected adverse reactions to veterinary medicinal products which have been authorised by the Community in accordance with this Regulation.
Where appropriate the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use shall, in accordance with Article 30 of this Regulation, draw up opinions on the measures necessary.
These opinions shall be made publicly accessible.
These measures may include amendments to the marketing authorisation granted in accordance with Article 35.
They shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(3).
The holder of the marketing authorisation and the competent authorities of the Member States shall ensure all relevant information about suspected adverse reactions to the veterinary medicinal products authorised under this Regulation is brought to the attention of the Agency in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation.
Article 48 The holder of the marketing authorisation for a veterinary medicinal product granted in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation shall have permanently and continuously at his disposal an appropriately qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance.
That qualified person shall reside in the Community and shall be responsible for the following: (a) establishing and managing a system which ensures that information about all suspected adverse reactions which are reported to the personnel of the company and to medical representatives is collected, evaluated and collated so that it may be accessed at a single point within the Community; (b) preparing the reports referred to in Article 49(3) for the competent authorities of the Member States and the Agency in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation; (c) ensuring that any request from the competent authorities for the provision of additional information necessary for the evaluation of the risks and benefits of a veterinary medicinal product is answered fully and promptly, including the provision of information about the volume of sales or prescriptions for the veterinary medicinal product concerned; (d) providing the competent authorities with any other information relevant to the evaluation of the risks and benefits of a veterinary medicinal product, particularly information concerning post-authorisation safety studies, including information regarding the validity of the withdrawal period or lack of expected efficacy or potential environmental problems.
The holder of the marketing authorisation for a veterinary medicinal product shall ensure that all suspected serious adverse reactions, and adverse human reactions to a veterinary medicinal product authorised in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation occurring within the Community which a health-care professional brings to his attention are recorded and reported promptly to the Member States in the territory of which the incident occurred no later than 15 days following receipt of the information.
The holder of the marketing authorisation for a veterinary medicinal product shall ensure that all suspected serious unexpected adverse reactions, and adverse human reactions, and any suspected transmission via a medicinal product of any infectious agent occurring in the territory of a third country are reported promptly to the Member States and the Agency, and no later than 15 days following receipt of the information.
The provisions for the reporting of suspected unexpected adverse reactions which are not serious, whether occurring in the Community or in a third country, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(2).
Save in exceptional circumstances, these reactions shall be transmitted electronically in the form of a report and in accordance with the guide referred to in Article 51. 3.
The Commission shall adopt any such provisions in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(2). 5.
The holder of a marketing authorisation may not communicate information relating to pharmacovigilance concerns to the general public in relation to its authorised medicinal product without giving prior or simultaneous notification to the Agency.
Article 50 Each Member State shall ensure that all suspected serious adverse reactions, and adverse human reactions, occurring within its territory to a veterinary medicinal product authorised in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation which are brought to its attention are recorded and reported promptly to the Agency and the holder of the marketing authorisation for the veterinary medicinal product, and no later than 15 days following receipt of the information.
The Agency shall forward the information to the national pharmacovigilance systems set up in accordance with Article 73 of Directive 2001/82/EC.
Article 51 The Commission, in consultation with the Agency, Member States and interested parties, shall draw up a guide on the collection, verification and presentation of adverse-reaction reports.
The Agency, in consultation with the Member States and the Commission, shall set up a data-processing network for the rapid transmission of data between the competent Community authorities in the event of an alert relating to faulty manufacture, serious adverse reactions and other pharmacovigilance data regarding veterinary medicinal products authorised in accordance with Article 5 of Directive 2001/82/EC.
Article 52 The Agency shall cooperate with international organisations concerned with veterinary pharmacovigilance.
Article 53 The Agency and the Member States' competent authorities shall cooperate to continuously develop pharmacovigilance systems capable of achieving high standards of public health protection for all medicinal products, regardless of routes of authorisation, including the use of collaborative approaches, to maximise use of resources available within the Community.
Article 54 Any amendment which may be necessary to update the provisions of this Chapter in order to take account of scientific and technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 87(2).
The Agency shall comprise: (a) the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, which shall be responsible for preparing the opinion of the Agency on any question relating to the evaluation of medicinal products for human use; (b) the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use, which shall be responsible for preparing the opinion of the Agency on any question relating to the evaluation of medicinal products for veterinary use; (c) the Committee on Orphan Medicinal Products; (d) the Committee on Herbal Medicinal Products; (e) a Secretariat, which shall provide technical, scientific and administrative support for the committees and ensure appropriate coordination between them; (f) an Executive Director, who shall exercise the responsibilities set out in Article 64; (g) a Management Board, which shall exercise the responsibilities set out in Articles 65, 66 and 67. 2.
The committees referred to in paragraph 1(a) to (d) may each establish standing and temporary working parties.
The committees referred to in paragraph 1(a) and (b) may establish scientific advisory groups in connection with the evaluation of specific types of medicinal products or treatments, to which the committee concerned may delegate certain tasks associated with drawing up the scientific opinions referred to in Articles 5 and 30.
When establishing working parties and scientific advisory groups, the committees shall in their rules of procedures referred to in Article 61(8) provide for: (a) the appointment of members of these working parties and scientific advisory groups on the basis of the lists of experts referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 62(2); and (b) consultation of these working parties and scientific advisory groups. 3.
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use and the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use may, if they consider it appropriate, seek guidance on important questions of a general scientific or ethical nature.
The database shall be developed in stages, priority being given to medicinal products authorised under this Regulation and those authorised under Chapter 4 of Title III of Directive 2001/83/EC and of Directive 2001/82/EC respectively.
Where appropriate, the database shall also include references to data on clinical trials currently being carried out or already completed, contained in the clinical trials database provided for in Article 11 of Directive 2001/20/EC.
The Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use may, after consulting the World Health Organisation, draw up a scientific opinion in accordance with Articles 6 to 9.
This document shall be published immediately after its adoption. 4.
Article 60 At the request of the Commission, the Agency shall, in respect of authorised medicinal products, collect any available information on methods that Member States' competent authorities use to determine the added therapeutic value that any new medicinal product provides.
Members and alternates shall be chosen for their role and experience in the evaluation of medicinal products for human and veterinary use as appropriate and shall represent the competent national authorities. 2.
These rules shall, in particular, lay down: (a) procedures for appointing and replacing the Chairman; (b) procedures relating to working parties and scientific advisory groups; and (c) a procedure for the urgent adoption of opinions, particularly in relation to the provisions of this Regulation on market surveillance and pharmacovigilance.
The applicant may request that the Committee consult a scientific advisory group in connection with the re-examination. 2.
Member States shall transmit to the Agency the names of national experts with proven experience in the evaluation of medicinal products who would be available to serve on working parties or scientific advisory groups of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, the Committee on Herbal Medicinal Products or the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use, together with an indication of their qualifications and specific areas of expertise.
The Management Board shall adopt the appropriate procedures on a proposal from the Executive Director. 5.
The Agency or any of the committees referred to in Article 56(1) may use the services of experts for the discharge of other specific tasks for which they are responsible.
Each year the Executive Director shall submit a draft report covering the activities of the Agency in the previous year and a draft work programme for the coming year to the Management Board for approval, making a distinction between the Agency's activities concerning medicinal products for human use, those concerning herbal medicinal products and those concerning veterinary medicinal products.
The members of the Management Board shall be appointed on the basis of their relevant expertise in management and, if appropriate, experience in the field of medicinal products for human or veterinary use. 3.
Each Member State and the Commission shall appoint their members of the Management Board as well as an alternate who will replace the member in his absence and vote on his behalf. 4.
Decisions of the Management Board shall be adopted by a majority of two-thirds of its members. 7.
The Management Board shall adopt its rules of procedure. 8.
The Management Board shall adopt the annual report on the Agency's activities and forward it by 15 June at the latest to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Court of Auditors and the Member States.
Article 66 The Management Board shall: (a) adopt an opinion on the rules of procedures of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use and the Committee for Medicinal Products for Veterinary Use (Article 61); (b) adopt procedures for the performance of scientific services (Article 62); (c) appoint the Executive Director (Article 64); (d) adopt the annual work programme and forward it to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Member States (Article 65); (e) approve the annual report on the Agency's activities and forward it by 15 June at the latest to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Court of Auditors and the Member States (Article 65); (f) adopt the budget of the Agency (Article 67); (g) adopt the internal financial provisions (Article 67); (h) adopt provisions implementing the Staff Regulations (Article 75); (i) develop contacts with stakeholders and stipulate the conditions applicable (Article 78); (j) adopt provisions for providing assistance to pharmaceutical companies (Article 79); (k) adopt rules to ensure the availability to the public of information concerning the authorisation or supervision of medicinal products (Article 80).
This estimate, which shall include a draft establishment plan, shall be forwarded by the Management Board to the Commission by 31 March at the latest. 7.
The estimate shall be forwarded by the Commission to the budgetary authority together with the preliminary draft general budget of the European Union. 8.
On the basis of the estimate, the Commission shall enter in the preliminary draft general budget of the European Union the estimates it deems necessary for the establishment plan and the amount of the subsidy to be charged to the general budget, which it shall place before the budgetary authority in accordance with Article 272 of the Treaty. 9.
The budgetary authority shall authorise the appropriations for the subsidy to the Agency.
The budgetary authority shall adopt the establishment plan for the Agency. 10.
The Executive Director shall implement the budget of the Agency. 2.
The Commission's accounting officer shall consolidate the provisional accounts of the institutions and decentralised bodies in accordance with Article 128 of the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities(19) (hereinafter referred to as the %quot%general Financial Regulation%quot%). 3.
By 31 March at the latest following each financial year, the Commission's accounting officer shall submit the Agency's provisional accounts to the Court of Auditors, together with a report on the budgetary and financial management for that financial year.
The Agency's Executive Director shall send the Court of Auditors a reply to its observations by 30 September at the latest.
He shall also send this reply to the Management Board. 9.
The Executive Director shall submit to the European Parliament, at the latter's request, any information required for the smooth application of the discharge procedure for the financial year in question, as laid down in Article 146(3) of the general Financial Regulation. 10.
The European Parliament, on a recommendation from the Council acting by a qualified majority, shall, before 30 April of year N + 2, give a discharge to the Executive Director in respect of the implementation of the budget for year N. 11.
They may not depart from Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002 of 19 November 2002 on the framework Financial Regulation for the bodies referred to in Article 185 of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities(20), unless specifically required for the Agency's operation and with the Commission's prior consent.
In order to combat fraud, corruption and other unlawful activities the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF)(21) shall apply without restriction. 2.
Chapter 3 General Provisions governing the Agency Article 71 The Agency shall have legal personality.
Article 73 Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 May 2001 regarding public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents(22) shall apply to documents held by the Agency.
The Agency shall set up a register pursuant to Article 2(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 to make available all documents that are publicly accessible pursuant to this Regulation.
The Management Board shall adopt the arrangements for implementing Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 within six months of entry into force of this Regulation.
Decisions taken by the Agency pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001 may give rise to the lodging of a complaint with the Ombudsman or form the subject of an action before the Court of Justice, under the conditions laid down in Articles 195 and 230 of the Treaty respectively.
Article 74 The Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities shall apply to the Agency.
Article 75 The staff of the Agency shall be subject to the rules and regulations applicable to officials and other staff of the European Communities.
Article 76 Members of the Management Board, members of the committees referred to in Article 56(1), and experts and officials and other servants of the Agency, shall be required, even after their duties have ceased, not to disclose information of the kind covered by the obligation of professional secrecy.
Article 77 The Commission may, in agreement with the Management Board and the relevant committee, invite representatives of international organisations with an interest in the harmonisation of regulations applicable to medicinal products to participate as observers in the work of the Agency.
These contacts may include the participation of observers in certain aspects of the Agency's work, under conditions determined beforehand by the Management Board, in agreement with the Commission. 2.
Article 79 The Management Board shall, in the case of veterinary medicinal products which have limited markets, or in the case of veterinary medicinal products intended for diseases with a regional distribution, adopt the necessary measures to provide assistance to companies at the time of submission of their applications.
Article 80 To ensure an appropriate level of transparency, the Management Board, on the basis of a proposal by the Executive Director and in agreement with the Commission, shall adopt rules to ensure the availability to the public of regulatory, scientific or technical information concerning the authorisation or supervision of medicinal products which is not of a confidential nature.
TITLE V GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 81 1.
As regards medicinal products for human use, Article 98(3) of Directive 2001/83/EC shall apply to medicinal products authorised under this Regulation. 3.
Without prejudice to the unique, Community nature of the content of the documents referred to in Article 9(4)(a), (b), (c) and (d) and in Article 34(4)(a) to (e), this Regulation shall not prohibit the use of two or more commercial designs for a given medicinal product covered by a single authorisation.
By way of exemption from Article 6 of Directive 2001/83/EC Member States may make a medicinal product for human use belonging to the categories referred to in Article 3(1) and (2) of this Regulation available for compassionate use. 2.
When a Member State makes use of the possibility provided for in paragraph 1 it shall notify the Agency. 4.
The opinions referred to in paragraph 4 shall not affect the civil or criminal liability of the manufacturer or of the applicant for marketing authorisation. 8.
This Article shall be without prejudice to Directive 2001/20/EC and to Article 5 of Directive 2001/83/EC.
Member States shall inform the Commission of these provisions no later than 31 December 2004.
Article 86 At least every ten years, the Commission shall publish a general report on the experience acquired as a result of the operation of the procedures laid down in this Regulation, in Chapter 4 of Title III of Directive 2001/83/EC and in Chapter 4 of Title III of Directive 2001/82/EC.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Standing Committee on Medicinal Products for Human Use set up by Article 121 of Directive 2001/83/EC and by the Standing Committee on Veterinary Medicinal Products set up by Article 89 of Directive 2001/82/EC. 2.
Article 88 Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93/EC is hereby repealed.
Article 90 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
By way of derogation from the first paragraph, Titles I, II, III and V shall apply from 20 November 2005 and point 3, fifth and sixth indent of the Annex shall apply from 20 May 2008.
Done at Strasbourg 31 March 2004.
Cox For the Council The President D.
Roche (1) OJ C 75 E, 26.3.2002, p. 189 and OJ C ... (not yet published in the Official Journal). (2) OJ C 61, 14.3.2003, p. 1. (3) Opinion of the European Parliament of 23 October 2002 (OJ C 300 E, 11.12.2003, p. 308), Council Common Position of 29 September 2003 (OJ C 297 E, 9.12.2003, p. 1), Position of the European Parliament of 17 December 2003 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and Council Decision of 11 March 2004. (4) OJ L 214, 24.8.1993, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1647/2003 (OJ L 245, 29.9.2003, p. 19). (5) OJ L 311, 28.11.2001, p. 67.
Directive as last amended by Council Directive 2004/27/EC (see p. 34 of this Official Journal). (6) OJ L 311, 28.11.2001, p. 1.
Directive as amended by Council Directive 2004/28/EC (see p. 58 of this Official Journal). (7) OJ L 15, 17.1.1987, p. 38.
Directive repealed by Directive 93/41/EEC (OJ L 214, 24.8.1993, p. 40). (8) Council Directive 96/22/EC of 29 April 1996 concerning the prohibition on the use in stockfarming of certain substances having a hormonal or thyrostatic action and of -agonists (OJ L 125, 23.5.1996, p. 3). (9) OJ L 121, 1.5.2001, p. 34. (10) OJ C 172, 18.6.1999, p. 1. (11) OJ L 18, 22.1.2000, p. 1. (12) OJ C 218, 31.7.2000, p. 10. (13) OJ L 106, 17.4.2001, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 24). (14) OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. (15) OJ L 245, 29.9.2003, p. 19. (16) OJ L 117, 8.5.1990, p. 15.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1029/2003 (OJ L 149, 17.6.2003, p. 15). (18) OJ L 125, 23.5.1996, p. 10.
Directive as amended by Regulation (EC) No 806/2003 (OJ L 122, 16.5.2003, p. 1). (19) Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities (OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1). (20) OJ L 357, 31.12.2002, p. 72. (21) OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 1. (22) OJ L 145, 31.5.2001, p. 43. (23) Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety (OJ L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1).
Medicinal products for human use containing a new active substance which, on the date of entry into force of this Regulation, was not authorised in the Community, for which the therapeutic indication is the treatment of any of the following diseases: - acquired immune deficiency syndrome, - cancer, - neurodegenerative disorder, - diabetes, and with effect from 20 May 2008 - auto-immune diseases and other immune dysfunctions, - viral diseases.
