Measures in force (1) In July 2000, the Council, by Regulation (EC) No 1522/2000 [2], imposed a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of synthetic staple fibres of polyesters (polyester staple fibres or PSF) originating in Australia, Indonesia and Thailand.
The investigation that led to these measures will be referred to as "the original investigation 1". (2) In December 2000, the Council, by Regulation (EC) No 2852/2000 [3], imposed a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of PSF originating in India and the Republic of Korea.
Requests for reviews (4) Following the publication of two notices of impending expiry, one concerning the anti-dumping measures in force on imports of PSF originating in Australia, Indonesia and Thailand [6] and another regarding the anti-dumping measures in force on imports of PSF originating in India [7], the Commission, on 13 April 2005 and 23 September 2005, received requests to review these measures pursuant to Article 11(2) of the basic Regulation. (5) These requests were lodged by the Comité International de la Rayonne et des Fibres Synthétiques (CIRFS) on behalf of producers representing a major proportion, in this case more than 50 %, of the total Community production of PSF.
The requests were based on the grounds that the expiry of the measures would be likely to result in a recurrence of dumping and injury to the Community industry. (6) Furthermore, a request for a partial interim review of Regulation (EC) No 1522/2000 was received from Tuntex (Thailand) Public Company Limited (Tuntex), a producer of PSF in Thailand subject to the anti-dumping measures in force. (7) In the request pursuant to Article 11(3) of the basic Regulation, Tuntex provided prima facie evidence to support its claims that, as far as it is concerned, the circumstances on the basis of which measures were established have changed and that these changes are of a lasting nature.
Investigations (9) The Commission officially advised the producers in Australia, India, Indonesia and Thailand, importers, users and their associations in the Community known to be concerned, the representatives of the exporting countries concerned, CIRFS and known Community producers of the initiation of the expiry reviews.
Interested parties were also given the opportunity to make their views known in writing and to request a hearing within the time limit set out in the notice of initiation. (11) In view of the large number of Indian, Indonesian and Thai producers as well as Community producers listed in the requests for the expiry reviews, and the large number of Community importers of PSF known to be concerned, it was considered appropriate, in conformity with Article 17 of the basic Regulation, to examine whether sampling should be used.
The five non-sampled Community producers were requested to provide information on certain injury indicators and to comment on the impact of the repeal or maintenance of the anti-dumping measures. (16) Replies to the questionnaires were received from four out of five sampled Community producers (so the sample represented 38 % of production and sales in the Community), one producer in Australia, three producers in India, four producers in Indonesia, four producers in Thailand (two of them related) and eight users.
Product concerned (19) The definition of the product concerned corresponds to the one that was used in the original investigations mentioned in recitals 1 and 2. (20) The product concerned is synthetic staple fibres of polyesters, not carded, combed or otherwise processed for spinning originating in Australia, India, Indonesia and Thailand, currently classifiable within CN code 55032000.
Finally, the quality may be first grade or sub-standard. (23) The investigation has shown that all types of the product concerned as defined in recital 20, despite differences in a variety of factors as defined in the preceding recital, have the same basic physical and chemical characteristics and the same uses.
LIKELIHOOD OF A CONTINUATION OR RECURRENCE OF DUMPING 1.
According to Eurostat, imports from the countries concerned amounted to only 1056 tonnes during the RIP (0,1 % of Community consumption), whilst they were more than 69000 tonnes during the investigation periods of the original investigations. (27) All cooperating producers had no or negligible export sales of PSF to the Community in the RIP and, thus, no representative dumping calculations could be made in order to determine the likelihood of continuation of dumping. (28) Consequently, for the likelihood of recurrence of dumping analysis account was taken, amongst others, of prices for exports to other third countries. (29) Given the findings of the expiry reviews set out below, it was not considered necessary to pursue the interim review requested by Tuntex. 2.
However, as set out in recital 32, the company has no capacity to resume any significant volume of exports to the Community.
The analysis was based on the information provided by the cooperating producers mentioned in recital 17.
Relationship between export prices to third countries and the price level in India (37) Data from the three Indian cooperating producers showed that export prices to third countries were lower than domestic prices in India.
This may indicate a likelihood of recurrence of dumping on exports to the Community should measures be repealed.
Relationship between export prices to third countries and the price level in the Community (38) It was found that the sales prices of the Community producers in the Community were on average considerably higher than the export prices of the cooperating Indian producers to other third countries in the RIP.
However, since prices in the Community are considerably higher than export prices to other third countries, it is unlikely that any exports to the Community would be made at dumped prices should measures be repealed.
It is noted that the above production capacity increase represents more than 50 % of the total production capacity of the three cooperating Indian producers in the RIP.
It is, however, noted that stocks can not be considered a meaningful indicator in the case of India because the production of one of the cooperating producers is based on orders from customers and another cooperating producer manufactures significant quantities of PSF for captive use. (41) Overall, it is considered that there is no likelihood of resumption of exports to the Community in significant quantities and that, even if a part of the new production capacities in India would end up in the Community should measures be repealed, it is unlikely that such exports would be made at dumped prices (see recital 38). 2.3.
Data concerning the other three producers showed that export prices to third countries were in general slightly lower than domestic prices in Indonesia for two of them.
In fact, the investigation established that this price difference was on average around 4 % in the RIP.
This does not indicate a likelihood of recurrence of any significant dumping on exports to the Community should measures be repealed.
However, since prices in the Community are considerably higher than export prices to other third countries, it is unlikely that any exports to the Community would be made at dumped prices should measures be repealed.
Unused capacity and stocks (47) There was no uniform pattern concerning capacity utilisation of the cooperating producers in Indonesia during the RIP.
On this basis, it was estimated that the existing spare production capacity in Indonesia is maximum around 90000 tonnes.
Therefore, the spare capacity in Indonesia would be probably used for domestic sales rather than export sales to the Community. (48) Stock levels for the four Indonesian producers did not show any significant change in the period considered.
It is, however, noted that stocks cannot be considered a meaningful indicator because the production of PSF is mostly based on orders from customers and/or captive use. (49) Overall, it is considered that there is no likelihood of resumption of exports to the Community in significant quantities and that, even if a part of the spare production capacity in Indonesia would end up in the Community should measures be repealed, it is rather unlikely for the reasons set out in recitals 45 and 46 that the prices of such exports would be dumped. 2.4.
Relationship between export prices to third countries and the price level in Thailand (54) Data from the four cooperating producers showed that sales to third countries were made at prices below those on the domestic market or below cost of production — differences ranging overall from 10 % to 15 %.
This may indicate a likelihood of recurrence of dumping on exports to the Community should measures be repealed.
Relationship between export prices to third countries and the price level in the Community (55) The export prices to third countries charged by the cooperating producers in Thailand were on average significantly below the sales prices of the Community producers in the Community, which may indicate that the prevailing price level of PSF on the Community market would make this market attractive for producers in Thailand if the anti-dumping measures were repealed.
However, since prices in the Community are considerably higher than export prices to other third countries, it is unlikely that any exports to the Community would be made at dumped prices should measures be repealed.
Production is mostly based on orders from customers and, therefore, stocks are mainly made up of PSF that is waiting to be shipped to already known buyers. (58) Overall, it is considered that there is no likelihood of resumption of exports to the Community in significant quantities and that, even if a part of the spare production capacity in Thailand would end up in the Community should measures be repealed, it is rather unlikely for the reason set out in recital 55 that the prices of such exports would be dumped. 2.5.
They noted that sales on the domestic market were below normal value and, taking into account that injurious dumping on exports to the Community was found in the original investigation as well as in another investigation on PET, a product closely related to PSF, it should be concluded that there is likelihood of recurrence of injurious dumping. (66) CIRFS and certain Community producers considered that an increase of the capacity of two major Indian producers by 361000 tonnes in 2007 and the existence of at least one new PSF producer in the start-up phase with an estimated capacity of 180000 tonnes means overall Indian capacity will exceed domestic demand for PSF by more than 300000 tonnes in the whole period to 2010.
This fact coupled with dumping margins between 15 % and 27 % on exports to third countries in the RIP, as well as the Commission's own admission that the prevailing price level on the Community market could make it attractive for Indian producers, shows that there can be little doubt as to the likelihood of recurrence of injurious dumped imports if the measures are repealed. (67) As regards Indonesia, they stressed the fact that the Commission draws conclusions only from the analysis of four cooperating producers when the market and financial situation of the non-cooperating producers, which the Commission estimates as having more than half of the total installed capacity in Indonesia, is significantly worse.
They also considered that there are over 140000 tonnes of spare capacity, i.e. 50000 tonnes more than the Commission's estimate, and that excess capacity will still be over 100000 tonnes in several years' time.
Even the 90000 tonnes of spare capacity estimated by the Commission make it likely that Indonesian producers, which already have commercial contacts in the Community for sales of polyester filament, will significantly increase their exports to the Community once the measures are repealed.
As their margins on exports to third countries are still above de minimis levels, imports originating in Indonesia would be made at injurious dumped prices. (68) CIRFS and certain Community producers noted that dumping margins of 10 % to 15 % on exports of Thai cooperating producers to third countries, significant spare capacity and the fact that Thai PSF producers are already exporting polyester textile filament to the Community clearly indicate a likelihood of a rapid recurrence of dumping on imports originating in Thailand should measures be repealed. (69) They also claimed that countries such as China, India and Vietnam, which were until recently net importers of PSF and important export markets for the countries concerned, have built up capacity to an extent that they will be soon net exporters, thus putting further pressure on the countries concerned to resume exports of significant quantities to the Community at injurious dumped prices. (70) Finally, a Community producer stressed the strategic importance of upstream recycling industries, which could be negatively affected by the downsizing or even closure of Community producers of PSF. (71) In an expiry review, the findings on likelihood of continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury are prospective and, therefore, include an element of appreciation.
However, the fact that certain producers in the countries concerned may export other products to the Community does not show by itself that there is a likelihood of resumption of significant quantities of dumped exports of PSF to the Community should measures be repealed. (72) In the current case, the fact that the price difference between exports from India, Indonesia and Thailand to third countries and their domestic sales in the RIP was found significantly lower than that established in the original investigations on their exports to the Community is an indication that the price situation in the markets has changed.
In Indonesia, the same ratio was 80 %.
In Thailand, where this ratio was around 40 %, the estimated spare capacity was rather low and in any event significantly lower than that in India and Indonesia.
As already indicated, the existing capacity in Australia, even if it is to be used completely for exports to the Community, could not reach a share above the de minimis threshold of 1 % of the Community market.
Article 2 The partial interim review of the anti-dumping measures applicable to imports of synthetic staple fibres of polyesters, not carded, combed or otherwise processed for spinning originating in Thailand is hereby terminated.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Luxembourg, 10 October 2006.
Heinäluoma [1] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2117/2005 (OJ L 340, 23.12.2005, p. 17). [2] OJ L 175, 14.7.2000, p. 10. [3] OJ L 332, 28.12.2000, p. 17. [4] OJ L 332, 28.12.2000, p. 116. [5] OJ L 71, 17.3.2005, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1333/2005 (OJ L 211, 13.8.2005, p. 1). [6] OJ C 261, 23.10.2004, p. 2. [7] OJ C 130, 27.5.2005, p. 8. [8] OJ C 174, 14.7.2005, p. 15; OJ C 307, 3.12.2005, p. 2; OJ C 323, 20.12.2005, p. 21. --------------------------------------------------
