This Directive, which is the first individual directive within the meaning of Article 16 (1) of Directive 89/391/EEC, lays down minimum requirements for safety and health at the workplace, as defined in Article 2. 2.
Article 2 Definition For the purposes of this Directive, 'workplace' means the place intended to house workstations on the premises of the undertaking and/or establishment and any other place within the area of the undertaking and/or establishment to which the worker has access in the course of his employment.
SECTION II EMPLOYERS' OBLIGATIONS Article 3 Workplaces used for the first time Workplaces used for the first time after 31 December 1992 must satisfy the minimum safety and health requirements laid down in Annex I.
Article 4 Workplaces already in use Workplaces already in use before 1 January 1993 must satisfy the minimum safety and health requirements laid down in Annex II at the latest three years after that date.
However, as regards the Portuguese Republic, workplaces used before 1 January 1993 must satisfy, at the latest four years after that date, the minimum safety and health requirements appearing in Annex II.
Article 5 Modifications to workplaces When workplaces undergo modifications, extensions and/or conversions after 31 December 1992, the employer shall take the measures necessary to ensure that those modifications, extensions and/or conversions are in compliance with the corresponding minimum requirements laid down in Annex I.
Article 6 General requirements To safeguard the safety and health of workers, the employer shall see to it that: - traffic routes to emergency exits and the exits themselves are kept clear at all times, - technical maintenance of the workplace and of the equipment and devices, and in particular those referred to in Annexes I and II, is carried out and any faults found which are liable to affect the safety and health of workers are rectified as quickly as possible, - the workplace and the equipment and devices, and in particular those referred to in Annex I, point 6, and Annex II, point 6, are regularly cleaned to an adequate level of hygiene, - safety equipment and devices intended to prevent or eliminate hazards, and in particular those referred to in Annexes I and II, are regularly maintained and checked.
Article 7 Information of workers Without prejudice to Article 10 of Directive 89/391/EEC, workers and/or their representatives shall be informed of all measures to be taken concerning safety and health at the workplace.
Article 8 Consultation of workers and workers' participation Consultation and participation of workers and/or of their representatives shall take place in accordance with Article 11 of Directive 89/391/EEC on the matters covered by this Directive, including the Annexes thereto.
SECTION III MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Article 9 Amendments to the Annexes Strictly technical amendments to the Annexes as a result of: - the adoption of Directives on technical harmonization and standardization of the design, manufacture or construction of parts of workplaces, and/or - technical progress, changes in international regulations or specifications and knowledge with regard to workplaces, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17 of Directive 89/391/EEC.
Article 10 Final provisions 1.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by 31 December 1992.
However, the date applicable for the Hellenic Republic shall be 31 December 1994. 2.
Article 11 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 30 November 1989.
ANNEX I MINIMUM SAFETY AND HEALTH REQUIREMENTS FOR WORKPLACES USED FOR THE FIRST TIME, AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 3 OF THE DIRECTIVE 1.
Emergency routes and exits 4.1.
Emergency routes and exits must remain clear and lead as directly as possible to the open air or to a safe area. 4.2.
Specific emergency routes and exits must be indicated by signs in accordance with the national regulations transposing Directive 77/576/EEC (8) into law.
Such signs must be placed at appropriate points and be made to last. 4.6.
Emergency routes and exits requiring illumination must be provided with emergency lighting of adequate intensity in case the lighting fails. 5.
Such signs must be placed at appropriate points and be made to last. 6.
Any breakdown must be indicated by a control system where this is necessary for workers' health. 6.2.
If air-conditioning or mechanical ventilation installations are used, they must operate in such a way that workers are not exposed to draughts which cause discomfort.
Room temperature 7.1.
During working hours, the temperature in rooms containing workplaces must be adequate for human beings, having regard to the working methods being used and the physical demands placed on the workers. 7.2.
The temperature in rest areas, rooms for duty staff, sanitary facilities, canteens and first aid rooms must be appropriate to the particular purpose of such areas. 7.3.
Workplaces must as far as possible receive sufficient natural light and be equipped with artificial lighting adequate for the protection of workers' safety and health. 8.2.
Lighting installations in rooms containing workplaces and in passageways must be placed in such a way that there is no risk of accident to workers as a result of the type of lighting fitted. 8.3.
Workplaces in which workers are especially exposed to risks in the event of failure of artificial lighting must be provided with emergency lighting of adequate intensity. 9.
When open, they must not be positioned so as to constitute a hazard to workers. 10.2.
Doors and gates 11.1.
Transparent doors must be appropriately marked at a conspicuous level. 11.3.
Swing doors and gates must be transparent or have see-through panels. 11.4.
They must be fitted with easily identifiable and accessible emergency shut-down devices and, unless they open automatically in the event of a power failure, it must also be possible to open them manually. 12.
Traffic routes - danger areas 12.1.
If the workplaces contain danger areas in which, owing to the nature of the work, there is a risk of the worker or objects falling, the places must be equipped, as far as possible, with devices preventing unauthorized workers from entering those areas.
They must be fitted with easily identifiable and accessible emergency shut-down devices. 14.
Loading bays must have at least one exit point.
Loading ramps must as far as possible be safe enough to prevent workers from falling off. 15.
Rest rooms 16.1.
Where the safety or health of workers, in particular because of the type of activity carried out or the presence of more than a certain number of employees, so require, workers must be provided with an easily accessible rest room.
Changing rooms must be easily accessible, be of sufficient capacity and be provided with seating. 18.1.2.
dangerous substances, humidity, dirt), lockers for work clothes must be separate from those for ordinary clothes. 18.1.3.
Provision must be made for separate changing rooms or separate use of changing rooms for men and women. 18.1.4.
If changing rooms are not required under 18.1.1, each worker must be provided with a place to store his clothes. 18.2.
Provision must be made for separate shower rooms or separate use of shower rooms for men and women. 18.2.2.
Where the rooms housing the showers or washbasins are separate from the changing rooms, there must be easy communication between the two. 18.3.
Lavatories and washbasins Separate facilities must be provided in the vicinity of workstations, rest rooms, changing rooms and rooms housing showers or washbasins, with an adequate number of lavatories and washbasins.
Provision must be made for separate lavatories or separate use of lavatories for men and women. 19.
They must be signposted in accordance with the national regulations transposing Directive 77/576/EEC into law. 19.3.
This provision applies in particular to the doors, passageways, staircases, showers, washbasins, lavatories and workstations used or occupied directly by handicapped persons. 21.
Sections 12, 13 and 14 also apply to main traffic routes on the site of the undertaking (traffic routes leading to fixed workstations), to traffic routes used for the regular maintenance and supervision of the undertaking's installations and to loading bays.
Section 12 is also applicable to outdoor workplaces. 21.2.
ANNEX II MINIMUM HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR WORKPLACES ALREADY IN USE, AS REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 4 OF THE DIRECTIVE 1.
Emergency routes and exits 4.1.
Emergency routes and exits must remain clear and lead as directly as possible to the open air or to a safe area. 4.2.
Specific emergency routes and exits must be indicated by signs in accordance with the national regulations transposing Directive 77/576/EEC into law.
Such signs must be placed at appropriate points and be made to last. 4.6.
Emergency routes and exits requiring illumination must be provided with emergency lighting of adequate intensity in case the lighting fails. 5.
Such signs must be placed at appropriate points and be made to last. 6.
Any breakdown must be indicated by a control system where this is necessary for the workers' health. 7.
Room temperature 7.1.
During working hours, the temperature in rooms containing workplaces must be adequate for human beings, having regard to the working methods being used and the physical demands placed on the workers. 7.2.
Workplaces must as far as possible receive sufficient natural light and be equipped with artificial lighting adequate for workers' safety and health. 8.2.
Workplaces in which workers are especially exposed to risks in the event of failure of artificial lighting must be provided with emergency lighting of adequate intensity. 9.
Doors and gates 9.1.
Transparent doors must be appropriately marked at a conspicuous level. 9.2.
Swing doors and gates must be transparent or have see-through panels. 10.
Danger areas If the workplaces contain danger areas in which, owing to the nature of the work, there is a risk of the worker or objects falling, the places must be equipped, as far as possible, with devices preventing unauthorized workers from entering those areas.
Where the safety or health of workers, in particular because of the type of activity carried out or the presence of more than a certain number of employees, so require, workers must be provided with an easily accessible rest room or appropriate rest area.
Rest rooms and rest areas must be equipped with tables and seats with backs. 11.3.
Changing rooms must be easily accessible and of sufficient capacity. 13.1.2.
dangerous substances, humidity, dirt), lockers for work clothes must be separate from those for ordinary clothes. 13.1.3.
Provision must be made for separate changing rooms or separate use of changing rooms for men and women. 13.2.
Workplaces must be fitted out in such a way that workers have in the vicinity: - showers, if required by the nature of their work, - special facilities equipped with an adequate number of lavatories and washbasins. 13.2.2.
The showers and washbasins must be equipped with running water (hot water if necessary). 13.2.3.
Provision must be made for separate showers or separate use of showers for men and women.
This provision applies in particular to the doors, passageways, staircases, showers, washbasins, lavatories and workstations used or occupied directly by handicapped persons. 16.
