CHAPTER II Approvals Article 2 1.
Approval of silos and warehouses as referred to in paragraph 1 shall be given only for: (a) a total quantity, in the case of silos for bulk storage equipped with bagging facilities, not exceeding 50 times the daily capacity for bagging, using bags as specified in Article 18(2), and removal that the applicant undertakes to place at the disposal of the intervention agency concerned for the removal of the sugar; (b) a total quantity, in the case of warehouses for the storage of sugar in bags, not exceeding 50 times the daily removal capacity for sugar packed in bags as specified in Article 18(2) that the applicant undertakes to place at the disposal of the intervention agency concerned for the removal of the sugar; (c) a total quantity, in the case of silos and warehouses for the bulk storage of raw sugar, not exceeding 50 times the daily removal capacity for bulk sugar that the applicant undertakes to place at the disposal of the intervention agency concerned for the removal of the sugar. 3.
The approval shall indicate, in particular, the total quantity for which it is given, the daily removal capacity, and, where applicable, the bagging capacity as referred to in paragraph 2(a). 4.
A %quot%specialised sugar trader%quot% within the meaning of Article 1(1)(b) is a person: (a) who engages in wholesale sugar trading as one of their principal activities and who buys, or may be regarded as likely to buy, a minimum of 10000 tonnes of Community sugar per marketing year; and (b) who is not engaged in the retail sale of sugar. 2.
Subject to paragraphs 3 to 6, the approval provided for in Article 1(1)(b) shall be given by the Member State concerned to all applicants who satisfy, or are considered capable of satisfying, the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article for the marketing year concerned. 3.
CHAPTER III Offers Article 4 1.
However, sugar produced in the marketing year immediately preceding that of the offer may be offered: - until the following 31 August, in Italy, - until the following 30 September in the other European regions of the Community; (b) it shall be in crystal form. 2.
White sugar offered to intervention shall, in addition to meeting the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, be of sound and fair marketable quality, free-flowing, with a moisture content not exceeding 0,06 %. 3.
Raw sugar offered to intervention shall, in addition to meeting the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, be of sound and fair marketable quality with a yield, calculated in accordance with point II of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1260/2001, of not less than 89 %.
In addition: (a) raw cane sugar shall have a safety factor not exceeding 0,30; (b) raw beet sugar shall have: - a pH value not less than 7,9 at the time the offer is accepted, - an invert sugar content not exceeding 0,07 %, - a temperature which does not entail any risk of deterioration, - a safety factor not exceeding 0,45 when the degree of polarisation is 97 or above, or - a moisture content not exceeding 1,4 % when the degree of polarisation is below 97.
The safety factor shall be determined by dividing the percentage moisture content of the sugar concerned by the difference between 100 and the degree of polarisation of that sugar. 4.
Article 5 Only sugar which has not previously been bought in to intervention and which is owned by the party making the offer may be offered for intervention.
Article 6 All sugar offered for intervention shall be put up in lots.
For the purposes of this Regulation %quot%lot%quot% means 500 tonnes of sugar of uniform quality and packing, all of which is stored in the same place.
However, if a larger quantity is offered, the excess over 500 tonnes or a multiple thereof shall also constitute a lot.
The intervention agency may require additional information. 3.
However, they may be withdrawn during that period with the consent of the intervention agency. 2.
CHAPTER IV Storage contracts Article 9 1.
Storage contracts shall, in particular: (a) provide for expiry of the contract under the conditions set out in this Regulation after at least 10 days' notice has been given; (b) provide that, where the intervention agency determines that the party making the offer has not observed the undertaking referred to in Article 2(2), it may require the contract to be extended beyond the time limit set for removal, in which case paragraph 4 shall not apply; (c) specify the amount of the storage costs to be borne by the intervention agency; (d) require the seller to load the sugar on to a means of transport indicated by the intervention agency and to bear the cost of such loading. 4.
Such storage costs for sugar stored in silos or warehouses of sugar undertakings may not exceed EUR 0,048 per 100 kilograms and per 10-day period.
However, the intervention agency may increase that by a percentage not exceeding 35 % where the sugar is stored in silos or warehouses rented by the party making the offer outside sugar undertakings and, in special circumstances, by a percentage not exceeding 50 %. 6. %quot%10-day period%quot% means one of the following periods of a calendar month: from the first to the 10th, from the 11th to the 20th, or from the 21st to the end of the month.
CHAPTER V Buying-in price Article 12 White sugar shall be classified into four grades as follows: (a) Grade 1: sugar which is superior in quality to the standard quality; (b) Grade 2: sugar of the standard quality; (c) Grades 3 and 4: sugar which is inferior in quality to the standard quality.
Grade 1 sugar shall have the following characteristics: (a) sound and fair marketable quality, dry, in homogeneously granulated, free-flowing crystals; (b) maximum moisture content: 0,06 %; (c) maximum invert sugar content: 0,04 %; (d) in addition, the characteristics of Grade 1 sugar shall be such that the number of points shall not exceed a total of eight, or: - six for the ash content, - four for the colour type determined according to the method of the Brunswick Institute for Agricultural Technology and the Sugar Industry, hereinafter referred to as the %quot%Brunswick Method%quot%, - three for the colour of the solution determined according to the method of the International Commission for Uniform Methods of Sugar Analysis, hereinafter referred to as the %quot%ICUMSA Method%quot%.
One point shall correspond to: (a) 0,0018 % ash content determined according to the ICUMSA Method at 28째 Brix; (b) 0,5 unit of colour type determined according to the Brunswick Method; (c) 7,5 units of solution colour determined according to the ICUMSA Method. 2.
Grade 3 sugar shall have the following characteristics: (a) sound and fair marketable quality, dry, in homogeneously granulated, free-flowing crystals; (b) minimum polarisation: 99,7째 S; (c) maximum moisture content: 0,06 %; (d) maximum invert sugar content: 0,04 %; (e) colour type: maximum No 6 determined according to the Brunswick Method. 3.
Article 14 The intervention price applicable per 100 kilograms of white sugar shall be: (a) reduced by EUR 0,73 for Grade 3 sugar; (b) reduced by EUR 1,31 for Grade 4 sugar.
The intervention price applicable per 100 kilograms of raw sugar shall be: (a) increased where the yield of the sugar is more than 92 %; (b) reduced where the yield of the sugar is less than 92 %. 2.
The amount of the increase or reduction, expressed in euro per 100 kilograms, shall be equal to the difference between the intervention price for raw sugar and the same price multiplied by a coefficient.
The coefficient shall be obtained by dividing the yield of the raw sugar concerned by 92 %. 3.
The yield of raw sugar shall be calculated in accordance with point II of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1260/2001.
The amount of the provisional payment referred to in the first subparagraph for raw sugar shall be calculated on the basis of a flat-rate yield of 92 %. 2.
The provisional payment shall be made on condition that the seller lodges a security equal to 5 % of the amount involved as a guarantee that the information in the offer is correct. 3.
Any discrepancies between the weight as verified and the final results of the sample analyses, on the one hand, and the corresponding information in the offer, on the other, shall be taken into account when final payment of the buying-in price is made, in accordance with Articles 14 and 15, in particular. 4.
CHAPTER VI Removal Article 17 1.
Without prejudice to Article 34, sugar bought in shall be removed: (a) in the case of offers accepted between 1 October and the following 31 March, not later than the following 30 September; (b) in the case of offers accepted between 1 April and the following 30 September, not later than the end of the seventh month following that in which the offer was accepted. 5.
However, the intervention agency may agree with the seller that removal as referred to in paragraph 4 will take place after the time limits referred to in that paragraph.
In such cases, the intervention agency: (a) shall conclude a storage contract with the seller covering the agreed period; (b) shall, before the end of the said period and at its own expense, instruct the experts referred to in Article 19 to make the sample analyses referred to therein and ascertain the weight of the sugar; (c) shall make final payment of the buying-in price in accordance with Article 16; (d) may, at the seller's request, agree that the obligation to load the sugar bought in shall be discharged by payment of the costs relating thereto.
These costs shall be determined on the basis of the rates in force on the date on which the corresponding maximum period referred to in paragraph 4 expires.
Intervention agencies may require the sugar to be delivered in one or more of the following types of packing: (a) new jute bags with a net capacity of 50 kilograms lined with polythene of a minimum thickness of 0,04 mm and with a minimum combined weight of jute and polythene of 450 grams; (b) new jute bags with a net capacity of 50 kilograms lined with polythene of a minimum thickness of 0,05 mm and with a minimum combined weight of jute and polythene of 420 grams.
Intervention agencies may accept sugar sold into intervention in new jute bags with a net capacity of 50 kilograms lined with polythene of a combined weight of jute and polythene of 400 grams.
The flat-rate amount to cover the cost of the packing referred to under the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 is fixed at EUR 1,57 per 100 kilograms of sugar. 4.
However, at the request of either of the contracting parties, an arbitral analysis shall be carried out by the laboratory referred to in paragraph 1.
However, the differences referred to in (a) shall be replaced by: - 1,0 unit of colour type for Grade 3 sugar, - 0,2째 S for polarisation, - 0,02 % for moisture content, - 0,01 % for invert sugar content. 3.
The costs of an arbitral analysis: (a) under the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a), shall be borne by the party requesting the analysis; (b) under paragraph 2(b), shall be shared equally by the intervention agency and the seller. 4.
TITLE II SALE CHAPTER I General provisions Article 21 1.
Intervention agencies may sell sugar only after a decision to this effect has been taken in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 42(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1260/2001. 2.
The sale of sugar for the purposes referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 9(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1260/2001 shall be by tendering procedure. 3.
CHAPTER II Sale by tender Article 22 1.
The invitation shall indicate in particular: (a) the name and address of the intervention agency issuing the invitation to tender; (b) the terms of the tendering procedure; (c) the time limit for submission of tenders; (d) the lots of sugar put up for tender, and for each lot: in particular: - the reference number, - the quantity, - the quality of the sugar concerned, - the type of packaging, - the location of the warehouse in which the sugar is stored, - the delivery stage, - any facilities at the warehouse for loading onto a means of transport by inland waterway, sea or rail.
The price to be paid by the successful tenderer shall be: (a) the price indicated in the tender, in the case of paragraph 2(a); (b) the price indicated in the terms of the invitation to tender, in the case of paragraph 2(b) and (c).
For the purposes of the tendering procedure, the following terms shall be determined: (a) the total quantity or quantities put up for tender; (b) the intended use; (c) the time limit for submission of tenders; (d) the price to be paid by the successful tenderer if the sugar is intended for animal feed or for export. 2.
Tenders shall indicate: (a) the procedure to which the tender relates; (b) the name and address of the tenderer; (c) the number of the lot; (d) the quantity tendered for; (e) per 100 kilograms, as appropriate, expressed in euro to three decimal places: - the price proposed, excluding internal charges, - the amount of the premium proposed, or - the amount of the refund proposed.
The intervention agency may require additional information. 3.
Tenders shall be valid only if: (a) proof is supplied before expiry of the time limit for submission of tenders that the tendering security has been lodged; (b) they include a declaration by the tenderer undertaking, for any quantity of sugar awarded for either a premium or a refund: - to apply for a certificate and lodge the security required in that connection, where the tendering procedure relates to sugar intended for animal feed, - to apply for a licence and lodge the security required in that connection, where the tendering procedure relates to sugar intended for export. 5.
The tendering security per 100 kilograms of white or raw sugar shall be: (a) EUR 0,73 for the intended uses referred to in Article 24(1)(a) and (c); (b) EUR 1,46 for the intended use referred to in Article 24(1)(b). 2.
If the sugar is intended for animal feed, awards shall: (a) confer the right to the issue of a certificate for the quantity for which the premium is awarded, showing in particular the premium specified in the tender; (b) entail the obligation to apply for such a certificate for that quantity to the intervention agency to which the tender was submitted.
If the sugar is intended for export, awards shall: (a) confer the right to the issue of a licence for the quantity for which the refund is awarded, showing in particular the refund and, in the case of white sugar, the grade specified in the invitation to tender; (b) entail the obligation to apply for such a licence for that quantity and, in the case of white sugar, that grade, to the intervention agency to which the tender was submitted. 2.
Except in cases of force majeure, the security referred to in Article 35(2) shall be released only for the quantity for which the successful tenderer has paid the purchase price to the account of the intervention agency within the time limit referred to in paragraph 1.
Where application of Article 19 establishes that white sugar is of a grade lower than that indicated in the invitation to tender, the price for that sugar intended for the uses referred to in Article 24(1)(b) and (c) shall be adjusted by applying Article 14. 2.
If it is found that white sugar intended for export is of a grade other than that indicated in the invitation to tender, the grade shown in the licence shall be corrected. 3.
Where application of Article 19 establishes that the yield of raw sugar is other than that indicated in the invitation to tender: (a) the price for that sugar shall be adjusted by applying Article 15; (b) the amount of the premium or refund shall be adjusted by multiplying it by a coefficient equal to the yield established divided by the yield indicated in the invitation to tender.
Except in cases of force majeure, the tendering security shall be released only for the quantity for which: (a) the successful tenderer: - after fulfilling the requirements, has applied for either a certificate or a licence, - has lodged the security or provided the negotiable instrument referred to in Article 35(2), - has removed the sugar from storage within the time limit laid down, or (b) no award is made. 2.
TITLE III FINAL PROVISIONS Article 41 Regulations (EEC) No 258/72 and (EEC) No 2103/77 are hereby repealed.
Article 42 This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 July 2001.
Done at Brussels, 27 June 2001.
For the Commission Franz Fischler Member of the Commission (1) See page 1 of this Official Journal. (2) OJ L 371, 30.12.1987, p. 11. (3) OJ L 227, 22.7.1989, p. 1. (4) OJ L 163, 4.7.1969, p. 1. (5) OJ L 133, 19.6.1971, p. 34. (6) OJ L 31, 4.2.1972, p. 22. (7) OJ L 34, 13.2.1996, p. 16. (8) OJ L 246, 27.9.1977, p. 12.
