It was further alleged that as the basic characteristics and uses of the product remain unchanged, there was insufficient due cause or economic justification for these practices other than the existence of the anti-dumping duties on zinc oxides originating in the PRC. (5) Finally, the applicant alleged that the remedial effects of the existing anti-dumping duties on zinc oxides originating in the PRC were being undermined both in terms of quantities and prices and that dumping was taking place in relation to the normal values previously established. 3.
Initiation (6) The Commission initiated an investigation by Regulation (EC) No 2261/2002(3) (the initiating Regulation) and, pursuant to Article 13(3) and Article 14(5) of the basic Regulation, directed the customs authorities to register imports of zinc oxides consigned from Vietnam, whether declared as originating in Vietnam or not, under TARIC code 2817 00 00 11, and imports of the zinc oxides mixed with other substances originating in the PRC under TARIC code 2817 00 00 19, as from 20 December 2002. 4.
The Commission carried out verification visits at the premises of the following companies: Unrelated importers: - Norkem Ltd, Knutsford, United Kingdom, - Norkem BV, Enkhuizen, The Netherlands, - Almiberia, SA, San Antonio de BenagĂŠber, Spain, - Explorer, srl, Sassuolo, Italy.
Chinese producers/exporters: - Liuzhou Fuxin Chemical Industry Co.
Ltd, Liuzhou, China, - Liuzhou Nonferrous Metals Smelting Co.
Ltd, Liuzhou, China, and its related exporter, - Liuzhou Nonferrous Metals Smelting Import %amp% Export Co.
Data was collected from 2000 up to the IP to investigate the change in the pattern of trade.
General considerations/degree of cooperation (a) Vietnam (10) No producers/exporters of zinc oxides in Vietnam cooperated in the investigation.
It was made clear to the companies involved that non-cooperation may lead to the application of Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
It was made clear to these non-cooperating companies that non-cooperation may lead to the application of Article 18 of the basic Regulation. (13) One Chinese Company, for which an individual duty had been established in the original investigation and which was subject to a periodical monitoring by the Commission(4) on a six-monthly basis, argued that it was not necessary for it to fill in the questionnaire since the Commission had previously visited the company in the context of the periodical monitoring and all the data requested in the present investigation were already available.
As the company did not submit any questionnaire response, they were informed that it would be treated as a non-cooperating party and that therefore, in their respect, findings would be made on the basis of the facts available in accordance with Article 18 of the basic Regulation. 2.
Product concerned and like product (14) The product concerned is, as defined in the original investigation, zinc oxide (chemical formula ZnO) with a purity of not less than 93 % zinc oxide, currently classifiable within CN code ex 2817 00 00 (TARIC code 2817 00 00 12 ). (15) The investigation has shown that the product concerned, zinc oxides, are imported into the Community presented in two different forms: either as zinc oxides or as zinc oxides mixed with silica.
Eurostat data at CN level, which were the most appropriate information available in such a situation, were therefore used to establish the export prices and quantities from Vietnam to the Community. (20) Imports of zinc oxides from Vietnam increased from 0 tonnes both in 2000 and 2001 to 6523 tonnes at the end of the IP (September 2002).
However, in the year 2002 these exports increased dramatically to 12609 tonnes.
In the period between the imposition of the duties in March 2002 and the end of the IP in September 2002, the exports amounted to 8482 tonnes.
As indicated above, in the same time period, 6523 tonnes have been exported to the Community from Vietnam.
The verification of the data of one cooperating importer has confirmed the fact that zinc oxides have been imported mixed with silica.
These imports were purchased from a Chinese producer/exporter which did not cooperate in the investigation and they were declared, on the basis of binding tariff information (BTI) from the customs authorities of one Member State, under CN code 3824 90 99, which makes the imports concerned not subject to anti-dumping duties. (24) For this importer, it has been established that the imports of zinc oxides presented mixed with silica started after the imposition of the measures in March 2002.
However, in consideration of the fact that the cooperating importers only cover 65 % of the total imports to the Community it cannot be excluded that other non-cooperating importers have used the same practice.
Indeed the request contained evidence that this practice may have been applied by at least another importer which did not cooperate in the investigation. (25) Considering that the exporting companies cooperating in this investigation only represented 22 % of the exports during the IP of the original, but close to 100 % in the current investigation and that the total exports from the PRC into the Community have dropped from 47367 tonnes to 16873 tonnes, it is reasonable to conclude that part of this decrease could be explained by the imports of zinc oxides presented mixed with silica.
Given the high percentage of non-cooperation, it was considered that significant quantities of zinc oxides presented mixed with silica may have been exported from China to the Community, declared under CN codes not subject to the duties. (26) Based on best evidence available pursuant to Article 18 of the basic Regulation, a change in the pattern of trade is established, which coincided with the entry into force of the anti-dumping measures on the product concerned originating in the PRC in March 2002. 4.
Moreover, it can be inferred from the parallelism of the trends that the imports from the PRC to Vietnam were not meant for the Vietnamese market, but were meant to be re-exported. (See recitals 20 and 21). (29) As far as zinc oxides presented mixed with silica are concerned, no due cause or economic justification has been provided to explain the change in the pattern of trade.
Undermining of the remedial effects of the duty in terms of the prices and/or the quantities of the like products (31) It is evident from the trade flow analysis made in recitals 20 and 21 that a change in the pattern of Community imports occurred since the imposition of the measures, and that this marked change in trade flows undermined the remedial effects of the anti-dumping measures in terms of quantities imported into the Community market. (32) With regard to prices of the products consigned from Vietnam and in the absence of cooperation from exporters, Eurostat data revealed that export prices from Vietnam were even lower than the export prices established for the PRC in the original investigation.
As concerns imports from Vietnam it has been established that prices from Vietnam are more than 15 % lower than the Chinese export prices in the original investigation.
As concerns the export prices for the zinc oxides presented mixed with silica, taking into account the quantity of silica in the mix, it has been established that these export prices are more than 22 % lower than the Chinese export prices in the original investigation. (36) It has to be recalled that Article 13(1) of the basic Regulation requires evidence of dumping in relation to the normal values previously established for the like or similar products but does not require the establishment of a new dumping margin.
The definitive anti-dumping duty of 28 % imposed by Regulation (EC) No 408/2002 on imports of zinc oxide (chemical formula: ZnO) with a purity of not less than 93 % zinc oxide, normally declared under CN code ex 2817 00 00 (TARIC codes 2817 00 00 12 and 2817 00 00 18 ) originating in the People's Republic of China, is hereby extended to imports of zinc oxide (chemical formula: ZnO) with a purity of not less than 93 % zinc oxide, consigned from Vietnam (whether declared as originating in Vietnam or not) (TARIC code 2817 00 00 12 ) and to imports of zinc oxide presented mixed with silica, but where the purity of the zinc oxide itself is not less than 93 % zinc oxide.
In the latter case, the duty should be collected in proportion to the content of zinc oxide with a purity of not less than 93 % zinc oxide in the mixture originating in the People's Republic of China (TARIC code 3824 90 99 87 ). 2.
The request must be sent to the following address: European Commission Directorate-General for Trade Directorate B Office: J-79 05/17 B - 1049 Brussels Fax (32 2) 295 65 05 Telex COMEU B 21877. 2.
Article 3 Customs authorities are hereby directed to discontinue the registration of imports, established in accordance with Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 2261/2002.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 11 September 2003.
