It is also necessary to take into account the fact that technological progress and scientific developments have made available new types of additives, such as those to be used on silage or in water. (9) This Regulation should also cover mixtures of additives sold to the end-user, and the marketing and use of those mixtures should comply with the conditions laid down in the authorisation of each single additive. (10) Premixtures should not be regarded as preparations covered by the definition of additives. (11) The basic principle in this field should be that only those additives approved under the procedure provided for in this Regulation may be placed on the market, used and processed in animal feeding under conditions set out in the authorisation. (12) Categories of feed additives should be defined in order to facilitate the assessment procedure with a view to authorisation.
Amino acids, their salts and analogues, and urea and its derivatives, which are currently covered by Council Directive 82/471/EEC of 30 June 1982 concerning certain products used in animal nutrition(6), should be included as a category of feed additives and therefore transferred from the scope of that Directive to this Regulation. (13) Implementing rules concerning applications for authorisation of feed additives should take into account different documentation requirements for food-producing and other animals. (14) In order to ensure a harmonised scientific assessment of feed additives, such assessment should be carried out by the European Food Safety Authority, established by Regulation (EC) No 178/2002.
Therefore, the authorisation of an additive should be granted by the Commission. (18) In order to ensure the necessary level of protection for animal welfare and consumer safety, applicants should be encouraged to seek authorisation extensions for minor species by being granted one year's additional data protection in addition to the 10 years' data protection for all species for which the additive is authorised. (19) Competence for authorising feed additives and establishing conditions for their use and for maintaining and publishing a register of authorised feed additives should be conferred on the Commission in accordance with a procedure by which close collaboration between Member States and the Commission is guaranteed in the framework of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health. (20) It is necessary to introduce, where appropriate, an obligation for the holder of the authorisation to implement a post-market monitoring plan in order to trace and identify any direct or indirect, immediate, delayed, or unforeseen effect resulting from the use of feed additives on human or animal health or the environment using a product tracing framework similar to that which already exists in other sectors and in line with the traceability requirements laid down in food law. (21) In order to allow technological progress and scientific development to be taken into account, it is necessary to revise the authorisations of feed additives regularly.
Article 2 Definitions 1.
Where necessary, it may be determined, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2), whether a substance, micro-organism or preparation is a feed additive within the scope of this Regulation.
CHAPTER II AUTHORISATION, USE, MONITORING AND TRANSITIONAL MEASURES APPLICABLE FOR FEED ADDITIVES Article 3 Placing on the market, processing and use 1.
No person shall place on the market, process or use a feed additive unless: (a) it is covered by an authorisation granted in accordance with this Regulation; (b) the conditions for use set out in this Regulation, including the general conditions set out in Annex IV, unless otherwise provided for in the authorisation, and in the authorisation of the substance are met; and (c) the conditions on labelling set out in this Regulation are met. 2.
Where necessary as a result of technological progress or scientific development, the general conditions set out in Annex IV may be adapted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2).
Article 4 Authorisation 1.
An authorisation shall not be granted, refused, renewed, modified, suspended or revoked except on the grounds and under the procedures set out in this Regulation, or in accordance with Articles 53 and 54 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002. 3.
Article 5 Conditions for authorisation 1.
No feed additive shall be authorised unless the applicant for such authorisation has adequately and sufficiently demonstrated in accordance with the implementing measures referred to in Article 7 that, when used in accordance with conditions to be set out in the Regulation authorising the use of the additive, it satisfies the requirements of paragraph 2, and has at least one of the characteristics set out in paragraph 3. 2.
Article 6 Categories of feed additives 1.
A feed additive shall be allocated to one or more of the following categories, depending on its functions and properties, in accordance with the procedure set out at Articles 7, 8 and 9: (a) technological additives: any substance added to feed for a technological purpose; (b) sensory additives: any substance, the addition of which to feed improves or changes the organoleptic properties of the feed, or the visual characteristics of the food derived from animals; (c) nutritional additives; (d) zootechnical additives: any additive used to affect favourably the performance of animals in good health or used to affect favourably the environment; (e) coccidiostats and histomonostats. 2.
Within the categories referred to in paragraph 1, feed additives shall further be allocated within one or more of the functional groups mentioned in Annex I, according to their principal function or functions, in accordance with the procedure specified in Articles 7, 8 and 9. 3.
Article 7 Application for authorisation 1.
After the Authority has been consulted, specific guidelines for the authorisation of additives shall be established, where necessary for each category of additive referred to in Article 6(1) in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 22(2).
After the Authority has been consulted, further rules for the implementation of this Article may be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2).
Article 8 Opinion of the Authority 1.
In order to prepare its opinion, the Authority: (a) shall verify that the particulars and documents submitted by the applicant are in accordance with Article 7 and undertake an assessment in order to determine whether the feed additive complies with the conditions laid down in Article 5; (b) shall verify the report of the Community Reference Laboratory. 4.
In the event of an opinion in favour of authorising the feed additive, the opinion shall also include the following elements: (a) the name and address of the applicant; (b) the designation of the feed additive including its categorisation and allocation within functional groups provided for in Article 6, its specification, including, where applicable, purity criteria and method of analysis; (c) depending on the outcome of the assessment, specific conditions or restrictions in relation to handling, post-market monitoring requirements and use, including animal species and categories of animal species for which the additive is to be used; (d) specific additional requirements for the labelling of the feed additive necessary as a result of conditions and restrictions imposed under (c); (e) a proposal for the establishment of Maximum Residues Limits (MRLs) in the relevant foodstuffs of animal origin, unless the opinion of the Authority concludes that the establishment of MRLs is not necessary for the protection of consumers or MRLs have already been established in Annex I or III to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2377/90 of 26 June 1990 laying down a Community procedure for the establishment of maximum residue limits of veterinary medicinal products in foodstuffs of animal origin(17). 5.
The Authority shall without delay forward its opinion to the Commission, the Member States and the applicant, including a report describing its assessment of the feed additive and stating the reasons for its conclusion. 6.
Article 9 Authorisation by the Community 1.
In exceptionally complex cases, the three-month deadline may be extended. 2.
The draft shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2). 3.
Rules for the implementation of this Article and in particular concerning an identification number for authorised additives may be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2). 4.
The Commission shall without delay inform the applicant of the Regulation adopted in accordance with paragraph 2. 5.
A Regulation granting authorisation for additives belonging to categories (d) and (e) referred to in Article 6(1) and also for additives consisting of, containing or produced from GMOs, shall include the name of the holder of the authorisation, and, where appropriate, the unique identifier attributed to the GMO as referred to in Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 concerning traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and traceability of food and feed products produced from genetically modified organisms and amending Directive 2001/18/EC(18). 7.
Where an MRL for the substance concerned has already been established in Community rules, that MRL shall also apply to residues of the active substance or its metabolites originating from the use of the substance as a feed additive. 8.
The authorisation granted in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Regulation shall be valid throughout the Community for 10 years and shall be renewable in accordance with Article 14.
The authorised feed additive shall be entered in the Register referred to in Article 17 (hereinafter referred to as the Register).
Each entry in the Register shall state the date of authorisation and shall include the particulars referred to in paragraphs 5, 6 and 7. 9.
Article 10 Status of existing products 1.
An application shall be submitted in accordance with Article 7, at the latest one year before the expiry date of the authorisation given pursuant to Directive 70/524/EEC for additives with a limited authorisation period, and within a maximum of seven years after the entry into force of this Regulation for additives authorised without a time limit or pursuant to Directive 82/471/EEC.
Products entered in the Register shall be subject to the provisions of this Regulation, in particular Articles 8, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 16, which without prejudice to specific conditions concerning the labelling, placing on the market and use of each substance pursuant to paragraph 1, shall apply to such products as if they had been authorised pursuant to Article 9. 4.
In the case of authorisations not issued to a specific holder, any person who imports or manufactures the products referred to in this Article or any other interested party may submit the information as referred to in paragraph 1 or the application as referred to in paragraph 2 to the Commission. 5.
The Commission shall inform the applicant of this extension of the authorisation. 7.
Article 12 Supervision 1.
After an additive has been authorised in accordance with this Regulation, any person using or placing on the market that substance, or a feedingstuff into which it has been incorporated, or any other interested party shall ensure that any conditions or restrictions which have been imposed on the placing on the market, use and handling of the additive or feedingstuffs containing it are respected. 2.
Where monitoring requirements, as referred to in Article 8(4)(c), have been imposed, the holder of the authorisation shall ensure that monitoring is carried out and shall submit reports to the Commission in accordance with the authorisation.
Article 13 Modification, suspension and revocation of authorisations 1.
Any appropriate measures shall be taken in accordance with Articles 53 and 54 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002.
The Commission shall examine the opinion of the Authority without delay and decide in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2). 4.
Article 14 Renewal of authorisations 1.
In the case of authorisations not issued to a specific holder, any person who first places the additive on the market or any other interested party may submit the application to the Commission and shall be considered as the applicant.
In the case of authorisations issued to a specific holder, the holder of the authorisation or his legal successor or successors may submit the application to the Commission and shall be deemed to be the applicant. 2.
Articles 7(1), (2), (4) and (5), 8 and 9 shall apply accordingly. 4.
Information on this extension of the authorisation shall be made available to the public in the Register referred to in Article 17.
Article 15 Urgent authorisation In specific cases where urgent authorisation is needed to ensure the protection of animal welfare, the Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2), provisionally authorise the use of an additive for a maximum period of five years.
CHAPTER III LABELLING AND PACKAGING Article 16 Labelling and packaging of feed additives and premixtures 1.
No person shall place on the market a feed additive or a premixture of additives unless its packaging or container is labelled under the responsibility of a producer, packer, importer, seller or distributor established within the Community and bears the following information, in a conspicuous, clearly legible and indelible manner, in at least the national language or languages of the Member State in which it is marketed, in relation to each additive contained in the material: (a) the specific name given to the additives upon authorisation, preceded by the name of the functional group as mentioned in the authorisation; (b) the name or business name and the address or registered place of business of the person responsible for the particulars referred to in this Article; (c) the net weight or, in the case of liquid additives and premixtures, either the net volume or the net weight; (d) where appropriate, the approval number assigned to the establishment or the intermediary pursuant to Article 5 of Directive 95/69/EC or the registration number assigned to the establishment or the intermediary pursuant to Article 10 of that Directive; (e) directions for use, and any safety recommendations regarding the use and, where applicable, the specific requirements mentioned in the authorisation, including animal species and categories for which the additive or premixture of additives is intended; (f) the identification number; (g) the batch reference number and date of manufacture. 2.
In addition to the information specified in paragraph 1, the packaging or container of an additive belonging to a functional group specified in Annex III must bear the information, presented in a conspicuous, clearly legible and indelible manner, indicated in that Annex. 4.
Amendments to Annex III to take technological progress and scientific development into account may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(2).
CHAPTER IV GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 17 Community Register of Feed Additives 1.
Article 18 Confidentiality 1.
Verifiable reasons must be given in such cases. 2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 2, the Authority shall, on request, supply the Commission and Member States with all information in its possession, including any identified as confidential pursuant to paragraph 2. 5.
Member States shall handle applications for access to documents received under this Regulation in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001. 7.
Article 20 Data protection 1.
Article 21 Reference laboratories The Community Reference Laboratory and its duties and tasks shall be those laid down in the Annex II.
Article 22 Committee procedure 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health established by Article 58 of Regulation EC No 178/2002 (hereinafter referred to as the Committee). 2.
Article 23 Repeals 1.
However, Article 16 of Directive 70/524/EEC shall remain in force until Directive 79/373/EEC has been revised to include rules concerning the labelling of feedingstuffs incorporating additives. 2.
Points 2.1, 3 and 4 of the Annex to Directive 82/471/EEC shall be deleted with effect from the date of application of this Regulation. 3.
However, the Annex to that Directive shall remain in force until the implementing rules provided for in Article 7(4) of this Regulation are adopted. 4.
Article 24 Penalties Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
Article 25 Transitional measures 1.
Any Member State selected as rapporteur in respect of any such application shall immediately forward the dossier submitted in support of that application to the Commission.
Notwithstanding Article 23(1), such applications shall continue to be treated in accordance with Article 4 of Directive 70/524/EEC where the initial comments provided for under Article 4(4) of Directive 70/524/EEC have already been forwarded to the Commission. 2.
Article 26 Entry into force 1.
Done at Brussels, 22 September 2003.
Cox For the Council The President R.
ANNEX I ADDITIVE GROUPS 1.
ANNEX II DUTIES AND TASKS OF THE COMMUNITY REFERENCE LABORATORY 1.
The Community reference laboratory referred to in Article 21 is the Joint Research Centre of the Commission (JRC). 2.
