2006/35/EC: Council Decision of 23 January 2006 on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the Accession Partnership with Turkey Council Decision of 23 January 2006 on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the Accession Partnership with Turkey (2006/35/EC) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 390/2001 of 26 February 2001 on assistance to Turkey in the framework of the pre-accession strategy, and in particular on the establishment of an Accession Partnership [1], and in particular to Article 2 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Whereas: (1) Regulation (EC) No 390/2001 provides that the Council is to decide, by a qualified majority and following a proposal from the Commission, on the principles, priorities, intermediate objectives and conditions contained in the Accession Partnership, as it will be submitted to Turkey, as well as on subsequent significant adjustments applicable to it. (2) On that basis the Council adopted an Accession Partnership with Turkey in 2001 and 2003 [2]. (3) The Commission's 2004 recommendation on Turkey stressed that the European Union should continue the monitoring of the political reform process and that a revised Accession Partnership should be proposed in 2005. (4) In December 2004, the European Council concluded that the European Union will continue to monitor closely progress of the political reforms on the basis of an Accession Partnership setting out priorities for the reform process. (5) On 3 October 2005, the Member States started negotiations with Turkey on its accession to the European Union.
Article 2 The implementation of the Accession Partnership shall be examined and monitored in the bodies established under the Association Agreement and by the Council on the basis of annual reports by the Commission.
Article 3 This Decision shall take effect on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 23 January 2006.
Pröll [1] OJ L 58, 28.2.2001, p. 1. [2] Decision 2001/235/EC (OJ L 85, 24.3.2001, p. 13) and Decision 2003/398/EC (OJ L 145, 12.6.2003, p. 40). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX TURKEY: 2005 ACCESSION PARTNERSHIP 1.
PRINCIPLES The main priorities identified for Turkey relate to its capacity to meet the criteria defined by the Copenhagen European Council of 1993 and the requirements of the negotiating framework adopted by the Council on 3 October 2005. 3.
Monitor human rights cases, including sound statistical data. - Extend the training of law enforcement agencies on human rights issues and investigation techniques, in particular in order to strengthen the fight against torture and ill-treatment. - Ratify the optional protocols to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
Comply with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, including full execution of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. - Implement legal provisions on the right to retrial in line with the relevant judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. - Guarantee in law and in practice the full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms by all individuals without discrimination and irrespective of language, political opinion, race, sex, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation. - Ratify Protocol No 12 to the European Convention on Human Rights on the general prohibition of discrimination by public authorities.
Implement measures to prevent the excessive use of force by security forces. - Align the relevant provisions applying to political parties on European practice. - Align financing and auditing of political parties on European practice. - Facilitate and encourage the domestic development of civil society and its involvement in the shaping of public policies. - Facilitate and encourage open communication and cooperation between all sectors of Turkish civil society and European partners.
This includes legal and judicial protection (inter alia through access to legal personality) of the communities, their members and their assets, teaching, appointing and training of clergy, and the enjoyment of property rights in line with Protocol No 1 to the European Convention on Human Rights.
Ensure specialised training for judges and prosecutors, law enforcement agencies, municipalities and other responsible institutions and establish shelters for women at risk of violence in all larger municipalities, in line with current legislation. - Further promote the role of women in society, including their education and participation in the labour market and in political and social life, and support the development of women’s organisations to fulfil these goals.
Children’s rights - Promote protection of children’s rights in line with EU and international standards. - Continue efforts to tackle the problem of street children.
Ensure effective in-market control and free movement of goods. - Complete the identification of measures contrary to Articles 28 to 30 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, and remove them.
Public procurement - Accelerate alignment of the public procurement legislation with the acquis, in particular as regards concessions in the utilities sector and in relation with review procedures. - Increase the capacity of the Public Procurement Authority to implement the new public procurement law.
Competition - Align with the acquis concerning State aids, including in sensitive sectors such as steel, establish a national state aid monitoring authority and ensure a strict control of state aids. - Ensure transparency and continuous exchange of information in the competition and state aid field. - Complete alignment in secondary legislation in the anti-trust field.
Financial services - Adopt the necessary implementing measures under the new banking law.
Ensure consistent progress towards the implementation of the roadmap for the new capital requirements framework for credit institutions and investment firms. - Strengthen prudential and supervisory standards in the non-bank financial sector, including by rationalising the supervisory structures where necessary.
Ensure adequate training of staff and improve the administrative capacity. - Reinforce the strategy for the development of statistics in particular in priority areas, such as: demographic and labour market statistics, regional statistics, business statistics (including business register) and agriculture statistics. - Adopt the pending classifications, and introduce the relevant statistical units in the business register. - Improve the national accounts methodology in line with ESA 95.
Social policy and employment - Develop a yearly plan for financing investment, based on a realistic assessment of costs of alignment and of available public and private resources. - Establish conditions for an effective social dialogue, inter alia, by abolishing restrictive provisions on trade union activities and ensuring respect for trade union rights. - Support social partners' capacity building efforts, in particular with a view to their future role in the elaboration and implementation of employment and social policy, notably through autonomous social dialogue. - Continue efforts to tackle the problem of child labour. - Reinforce the capacity of all institutions involved in the transposition of the acquis in the field.
Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments - Continue to develop the strategic framework for economic and social cohesion, aimed at reducing regional disparities. - Establish the necessary legislative and administrative framework to absorb EU pre-accession funds.
Implement and enforce the amended environmental impact assessment directive. - Pursue the integration of environmental requirements into other sectoral policies. - Develop a plan to strengthen administrative capacity, implementation and enforcement of environmental legislation. - Pursue the development of transboundary water cooperation, in line with the water framework directive and international conventions to which the EC is a party.
Ability to assume the obligations of membership Right of establishment and freedom to provide services - Remove restrictions on the right of establishment and on the freedom to provide cross-border services. - Start alignment with the acquis on postal services.
Financial services - Make substantial progress towards the implementation of the new capital requirements framework, in line with the BRSA’s detailed roadmap. - Make substantial progress towards the alignment of legislation with the acquis in the non-bank financial sector.
Company Law - Complete alignment with the acquis. - Adopt a general-purpose financial reporting framework in line with EU standards, making full use of the exemptions foreseen in the acquis. - Strengthen disclosure requirements.
Agriculture and rural development - Continue work on the setting up of the integrated administration and control system, in particular with regard to a land parcel identification system.
Modernise dairy farms. - Implement food safety control systems. - Set up a system of collections of cadavers and treatment of animal by-products. - Implement eradication plans for the main diseases. - Align the system of plant variety registration with EU requirements. - Further align the requirements on pesticide residues with EU provisions.
Fisheries - Complete the establishment of adequate administrative structures and equipment at central and regional level that can ensure the implementation of the common fisheries policy.
Transport policy - Complete the legislative and administrative alignment on all modes of transport.
Statistics - Bring the business register up to EU standards. - Align macroeconomic statistics further on the acquis, in particular as regards GDP estimates, harmonised consumer price indexes, short-term indicators, balance of payments, and labour statistics. - Strengthen the coordination role of the State Institute of Statistics in order to improve the collection and processing of data originating in different governmental offices. - Intensify the use of administrative sources for data collection. - Complete harmonisation of finance statistics with the ESA 95 requirements.
Social policy and employment - Complete transposition of the acquis and strengthen the related administrative and enforcement structures, including the labour inspectorates. - Ensure implementation and enforcement of the social policy and employment acquis. - Prepare a national employment strategy with a view to participation in the European Employment Strategy, including preparation and implementation of a joint employment policy review, and develop a capacity to monitor labour market and social developments. - Prepare a national strategy on social inclusion, including data collection, in line with EU practice. - Further develop social protection, notably by consolidating the reform of the social security and pension system with a view to financial sustainability, while strengthening the social safety net.
Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments - Continue to strengthen the administrative capacity for the implementation of regional policy at both central and regional level. - Establish multi-annual budgeting procedures setting out priority criteria for public investment in the regions.
CONDITIONALITY Community assistance for financing projects through the pre-accession instruments is conditional on the respect by Turkey of its commitments under the EC-Turkey Agreements, including Customs Union Decision 1/95 and other decisions, further concrete steps towards satisfying effectively the Copenhagen criteria and in particular progress in meeting the specific priorities of this revised Accession Partnership.
Failure to respect these general conditions could lead to a decision by the Council on the suspension of financial assistance on the basis of Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 2500/2001.
The Accession Partnership will continue to be amended as necessary in accordance with Article 2 of Council Regulation (EC) No 622/98 of 16 March 1998 on assistance to the applicant states in the framework of the pre-accession strategy, and in particular on the establishment of Accession Partnerships [3]. [1] See also the declaration by the European Community and its Member States of 21 September 2005. [2] OJ L 342, 27.12.2001, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2112/2005 (OJ L 344, 27.12.2005, p. 23). [3] OJ L 85, 20.3.1998, p. 1. --------------------------------------------------
