Council Regulation (EC) No%nbsp%1942/2004 of 2 November 2004 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of okoum%eacute% plywood originating in the People's Republic of China Council Regulation (EC) No 1942/2004 of 2 November 2004 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of okoumé plywood originating in the People's Republic of China THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community [1] (the basic Regulation), and in particular Article 9 thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
PROVISIONAL MEASURES (1) The Commission, by Regulation (EC) No 988/2004 [2] (the provisional Regulation) imposed provisional anti-dumping duties on imports of okoumé plywood, defined as plywood consisting solely of sheets of wood, each ply not exceeding 6 mm thickness, with at least one outer ply of okoumé, falling within CN code ex44121310, originating in the People's Republic of China (PRC). (2) It is recalled that the investigation of dumping and injury covered the period from 1 July 2002 to 30 June 2003 (investigation period or IP).
The examination of trends relevant for the injury analysis covered the period from 1 January 1999 to the end of the IP (period under consideration).
SUBSEQUENT PROCEDURE (3) Following the imposition of a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of okoumé plywood originating in the PRC, some interested parties submitted comments in writing.
After the imposition of provisional measures, an on-spot verification visit was carried out at the premises of Ekol Kontraplak, Taskopru, Turkey, in view of the fact that Turkey was considered as a possible analogue country for establishing normal value. (5) All parties were informed of the essential facts and considerations on the basis of which it was intended to recommend the imposition of definitive anti-dumping duties and the definitive collection of amounts secured by way of provisional duties.
Product concerned (7) The product concerned is plywood consisting solely of sheets of wood, each ply not exceeding 6 mm thickness, with at least one outer ply of okoumé, originating in the PRC, currently classifiable within CN code ex44121310.
Therefore, the claim that full okoumé and faced okoumé cannot be considered the same product was rejected. (11) In the provisional Regulation, it was decided to exclude film-faced okoumé plywood from the scope of the investigation for the reasons set out in recital 19 of the provisional Regulation.
Therefore, this argument should be dismissed. (12) In the absence of any other comments, the conclusions on the definition of the product concerned set out in recitals 18 and 19 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
Specifically, it was claimed that: (a) the Chinese exporting producers sell faced okoumé, whereas the Community industry sells full okoumé; (b) the Chinese exporting producers sell the standard 2440 × 1220 mm and 2500 × 1250 mm panel sizes, whereas the Community industry sells the so-called %quot%jumbo%quot% sizes of 3100 × 1530 mm and 3100 × 1700 mm; (c) the Chinese exporting producers sell interior grade plywood, whereas the Community industry sells weather-resistant, or exterior grade plywood; (d) the quality of the faces is generally lower in the case of the panels sold by the Chinese exporting producers (B/BB against BB/CC quality); (e) the faces of the panels sold by the Chinese exporting producers are thinner than those of the panels sold by the Community industry (0,6 mm against 1 mm); (f) the quality of the inner layers is generally lower in the case of the panels sold by the Chinese exporting producers; (g) the quality of the glue is generally lower in the case of the panels sold by the Chinese exporting producers. (14) Regarding the first three characteristics referred to under recital 13(a) to 13(c), the investigation has shown that the Chinese exporting producers, as well as the Community industry, sold both full and faced okoumé, both interior and exterior grade plywood, and a wide range of panel sizes.
An adjustment for these differences was thus applied when calculating the undercutting and injury margins, as set out in recital 80 of the provisional Regulation. (17) It should also be noted that these quality differences are not sufficient to create a perception from the buyers that the product concerned exported by the PRC is an entirely different product.
Since these differences in any event do not change the fact that the product concerned and the product manufactured and sold in the Community by the Community industry have the same basic characteristics and uses, the claim that the product concerned and the product manufactured and sold in the Community by the Community industry are not alike, must be dismissed. (19) In the absence of any other comments concerning the like product, recital (20) of the provisional Regulation is hereby confirmed.
However, its arguments were examined and explicitly addressed in recitals 29 to 32 of the provisional Regulation.
This claim was therefore rejected. (22) In the absence of other comments, recitals 21 to 35 of the provisional Regulation concerning market economy treatment are hereby confirmed. 2.
Individual treatment (23) In the absence of any comments, recitals 36 to 40 of the provisional Regulation concerning individual treatment are hereby confirmed. 3.
Normal value 3.1.
Determination of normal value for cooperating exporting producers granted MET (24) One of the cooperating exporting producers claimed that the calculation of the cost of its purchases of poplar veneers, as explained in recital 49 of the provisional Regulation, was not correct, and that some tax credits allegedly received on the purchase of these veneers should have been deducted from this cost.
However, as set out in recital (56) of the provisional Regulation, three exporting producers had opposed this choice. (28) The Commission's investigation had shown that there was only one producer on the Moroccan domestic market, where, in addition, a high import customs duty existed.
Export price (33) In the absence of any comments, the provisional findings concerning the determination of the export price, as described in recitals 60 and 61 of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed.
Therefore, the claim had to be rejected. (35) One exporting producer objected to an adjustment made on its export price to take into account a deferred discount granted to one of its traders, as described in recital 63 of the provisional Regulation.
Therefore, this claim had to be rejected. (36) One exporting producer argued that its sales of the product concerned were made to different categories of customers when for export or for its domestic market and that the data submitted by the company showed consistent price differences between the various categories of customers.
Dumping margins (37) Some claims having been accepted, as set out above, and the methodology and calculations refined, namely with respect to the choice of the analogue country, the dumping margins finally determined, expressed as a percentage of the cif Community frontier price, duty unpaid, are: +++++ TABLE +++++ (38) In the absence of any comments, the methodology for calculating the country-wide dumping margin, as described in recitals 67 to 69 of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed.
Due to the use of Turkey as analogue country, as explained in recitals 27 to 32, a new country-wide level of dumping was established at 66,7 % of the cif Community frontier price, duty unpaid.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (39) In the absence of any comments, the provisional findings concerning the Community industry, as described in recitals 70 to 72 of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed.
Community consumption (40) In the absence of any comments, the provisional findings concerning the Community consumption, as described in recitals 74 to 75 of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed. 2.
Imports from the country concerned (41) For the purpose of analysing price undercutting, the provisional Regulation added a 10 % adjustment to the CIF Community frontier price of the cooperating exporting producers.
The cumulative impact of those quality differences could thus correspond to a price difference in the range of 10-15 %.
Rather, the investigation has shown that the Chinese exporting producers offer products of varying and evolving quality and characteristics. (42) One importer argued that the allowance should be 25 % rather than 10 %, but did not provide any objective justification for the higher figure.
Under those circumstances, there appears to be no reason to change the approach set out in the provisional Regulation. (43) In the absence of any other comments, the conclusions drawn in recitals 76 to 81 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 3.
Situation of the Community industry (44) Two exporting producers questioned the injurious impact of imports by pointing out that prices have remained rather stable, with a nominal increase of 3 %, or a slight decrease in real terms, during the period under consideration.
It should be recalled, however, that the average prices shown in recital 91 of the provisional Regulation refer to a range of different product types, of which the lower-priced types suffered most from the effects of the Chinese imports.
This shift in the product mix of the Community producers was already pointed out in recital 91 of the provisional Regulation.
In such conditions, the Community industry did not have much room to face competition by decreasing its prices, and most of the injurious effects of imports took place via a volume effect, as explained in recitals 85 to 90 of the provisional Regulation.
Therefore, the above argument has to be rejected. (45) In the absence of any other comments, the conclusions drawn in recitals 82 to 99 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 4.
Conclusion on injury (46) In the absence of any other comments on the injury findings, the conclusions reached, as set out in recitals 100 to 102 of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed.
As noted in recital 113 of the provisional Regulation, the development in costs of the sampled Community producers is not out of line with the development of costs and prices in the Community in general.
The argument cannot, therefore, be accepted. (48) With regard to the possible effect of imports originating in third countries other than the PRC, recital 109 of the provisional Regulation noted that the average prices of other major exporters, such as Gabon and Morocco, are about 50 % higher than those of the PRC and could therefore not be considered a determinant factor in the injury to the Community industry.
Although this remark may be correct, the price difference between the prices of full and faced okoumé, which the investigation has shown to be around 15 %, does not account for the 50 % price difference mentioned above.
Therefore, the above-mentioned remark does not invalidate the conclusion that imports from these third countries did not exert a competitive pressure on the Community industry to the extent that imports from the PRC did, and have not been a determining reason for the injurious situation of the Community industry. (49) The same exporters argued that the decline of the export performance of the Community industry, mentioned in recital 111 of the provisional Regulation, was not negligible and, added to other factors not related to the Chinese exports, would account for the deterioration of the financial situation of the Community industry.
This argument is therefore dismissed. (50) In the absence of any other comments on causation, the findings and the conclusion reached, as set out in recitals 103 to 117 of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed.
As noted in recital 125 of the provisional Regulation, however, the anti-dumping measures are intended only to restore a level playing field in this market, and not to foreclose competition, which should be ensured in view of the number of different producers and exporting countries besides China.
Therefore, this argument must be dismissed. (53) In the absence of any other new information submitted on the Community interest, the findings and the conclusion reached, as set out in recitals 118 to 127 of the provisional Regulation, are hereby confirmed.
DEFINITIVE ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
Injury elimination level (54) In the absence of any comments, the methodology used for establishing the injury elimination level, as described in recitals 128 to 132 of the provisional Regulation, is hereby confirmed. (55) Based on this methodology, an injury elimination level has been calculated for the purposes of establishing the level of measures to be definitively imposed. 2.
Form and level of the duties (56) In the light of the foregoing and in accordance with Article 9(4) of the basic Regulation, a definitive anti-dumping duty should be imposed at the level of the dumping margins found, since for all the exporting producers concerned the injury margins were found to be higher than the dumping margins. (57) On the basis of the above, the definitive duties are as follows: +++++ TABLE +++++ (58) The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of the findings of the present investigation.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of okoumé plywood, defined as plywood consisting solely of sheets of wood, each ply not exceeding 6 mm thickness, with at least one outer ply of okoumé not coated by a permanent film of other materials, falling within CN code ex44121310 (TARIC code 4412131010) and originating in the People's Republic of China. 2.
The rate of the definitive anti-dumping duty applicable to the net, free-at-Community-frontier price, before duty, shall be as follows, provided that they are imported in conformity with paragraph 3: +++++ TABLE +++++ 3.
The application of the individual duty rates specified for the four companies mentioned in paragraph 2 shall be conditional upon presentation to the customs authorities of the Member States of a valid commercial invoice, which shall conform to the requirements set out in the Annex.
Article 2 Amounts secured by way of provisional anti-dumping duties pursuant to Commission Regulation (EC) No 988/2004 on imports of okoumé plywood falling within CN code ex44121310 (TARIC code 4412131010), originating in the People's Republic of China shall be definitively collected, in accordance with the rules set out below.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 2 November 2004.
