Furthermore, foods covered by an authorisation granted under this Regulation will be exempted from the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 258/97 concerning novel foods and novel food ingredients, except where they fall under one or more of the categories referred to in Article 1(2)(a) of Regulation (EC) No 258/97 in respect of a characteristic which has not been considered for the purpose of the authorisation granted under this Regulation. (12) Council Directive 89/107/EEC of 21 December 1988 on the approximation of laws of the Member States concerning food additives authorised for use in foodstuffs intended for human consumption(9) provides for authorisation of additives used in foodstuffs.
In addition to this authorisation procedure, food additives containing, consisting of or produced from GMOs should fall also within the scope of this Regulation for the safety assessment of the genetic modification, while the final authorisation should be granted under the procedure referred to in Directive 89/107/EEC. (13) Flavourings falling within the scope of Council Directive 88/388/EEC of 22 June 1988 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to flavourings for use in foodstuffs and to source materials for their production(10) which contain, consist of or are produced from GMOs should also fall within the scope of this Regulation for the safety assessment of the genetic modification. (14) Council Directive 82/471/EEC of 30 June 1982 concerning certain products used in animal nutrition(11) provides for an approval procedure for feed materials produced using different technologies that may pose risk to human or animal health and the environment.
These feed materials containing, consisting of or produced from GMOs should fall instead within the scope of this Regulation. (15) Council Directive 70/524/EEC of 23 November 1970 concerning additives in feedingstuffs(12), provides for an authorisation procedure for placing on the market additives used in feedingstuffs.
Thus, products obtained from animals fed with genetically modified feed or treated with genetically modified medicinal products will be subject neither to the authorisation requirements nor to the labelling requirements referred to in this Regulation. (17) In accordance with Article 153 of the Treaty, the Community is to contribute to promoting the right of consumers to information.
In addition to other types of information to the public provided for in this Regulation, the labelling of products enables the consumer to make an informed choice and facilitates fairness of transactions between seller and purchaser. (18) Article 2 of Directive 2000/13/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 March 2000 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs(13) provides that labelling must not mislead the purchaser as to the characteristics of the foodstuff and among other things, in particular, as to its nature, identity, properties, composition, method of production and manufacturing. (19) Additional requirements for the labelling of genetically modified foods are laid down in Regulation (EC) No 258/97, in Council Regulation (EC) No 1139/98 of 26 May 1998 concerning the compulsory indication, on the labelling of certain foodstuffs produced from genetically modified organisms, of particulars other than those provided for in Directive 79/112/EEC(14) and in Commission Regulation (EC) No 50/2000 of 10 January 2000 on the labelling of foodstuffs and food ingredients containing additives and flavourings that have been genetically modified or have been produced from genetically modified organisms(15). (20) Harmonised labelling requirements should be laid down for genetically modified feed to provide final users, in particular livestock farmers, with accurate information on the composition and properties of feed, thereby enabling the user to make an informed choice. (21) The labelling should include objective information to the effect that a food or feed consists of, contains or is produced from GMOs.
In order to achieve this objective, a threshold should be established for the adventitious or technically unavoidable presence of genetically modified material in foods or feed, both when the marketing of such material is authorised in the Community and when this presence is tolerated by virtue of this Regulation. (25) It is appropriate to provide that, when the combined level of adventitious or technically unavoidable presence of genetically modified materials in a food or feed or in one of its components is higher than the set threshold, such presence should be indicated in accordance with this Regulation and that detailed provisions should be adopted for its implementation.
However, in order to ensure the practicability and feasibility of this Regulation, a specific threshold, with the possibility of establishing lower levels in particular for GMOs sold directly to the final consumer, should be established as a transitional measure for minute traces in food or feed of this genetically modified material, where the presence of such material is adventitious or technically unavoidable and provided that all specific conditions set in this Regulation are met.
The application of this measure should be reviewed in the context of the general review of the implementation of this Regulation. (27) In order to establish that the presence of this material is adventitious or technically unavoidable, operators must be in a position to demonstrate to the competent authorities that they have taken appropriate steps to avoid the presence of the genetically modified food or feed. (28) Operators should avoid the unintended presence of GMOs in other products.
It is also appropriate, in accordance with Article 12(4) of Directive 2001/18/EC, for the national competent authorities designated under the said Directive in all cases concerning GMOs and food and/or feed containing or consisting of a GMO to be consulted by the Authority before it finalises the environmental risk assessment. (34) In the case of GMOs to be used as seeds or other plant-propagating materials falling within the scope of this Regulation, the Authority should be under an obligation to delegate the environmental risk assessment to a national competent authority.
Article 4 Requirements 1.
The authorisation referred to in paragraph 2 may cover: (a) a GMO and foods containing or consisting of that GMO as well as foods produced from or containing ingredients produced from that GMO; or (b) food produced from a GMO as well as foods produced from or containing that food; (c) an ingredient produced from a GMO as well as food containing that ingredient. 5.
In the case of GMOs or food containing or consisting of GMOs, the application shall also be accompanied by: (a) the complete technical dossier supplying the information required by Annexes III and IV to Directive 2001/18/EC and information and conclusions about the risk assessment carried out in accordance with the principles set out in Annex II to Directive 2001/18/EC or, where the placing on the market of the GMO has been authorised under part C of Directive 2001/18/EC, a copy of the authorisation decision; (b) a monitoring plan for environmental effects conforming with Annex VII to Directive 2001/18/EC, including a proposal for the duration of the monitoring plan; this duration may be different from the proposed period for the consent.
In such case, Articles 13 to 24 of Directive 2001/18/EC shall not apply. 6.
The Commission, having first consulted the Authority, shall establish, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2), implementing rules for the application of this Article, including rules concerning the preparation and the presentation of the application. 8.
Article 6 Opinion of the Authority 1.
The competent authorities shall have three months after the date of receiving the request within which to make their opinion known. 5.
The Authority shall forward its opinion to the Commission, the Member States and the applicant, including a report describing its assessment of the food and stating the reasons for its opinion and the information on which this opinion is based, including the opinions of the competent authorities when consulted in accordance with paragraph 4. 7.
The Authority, in conformity with Article 38(1) of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, shall make its opinion public, after deletion of any information identified as confidential in accordance with Article 30 of this Regulation.
The public may make comments to the Commission within 30 days from such publication.
Article 7 Authorisation 1.
Within three months after receiving the opinion of the Authority, the Commission shall submit to the Committee referred in Article 35 a draft of the decision to be taken in respect of the application, taking into account the opinion of the Authority, any relevant provisions of Community law and other legitimate factors relevant to the matter under consideration.
Any draft decision which envisages the granting of authorisation shall include the particulars referred to in Article 6(5), the name of the authorisation-holder and, where appropriate, the unique identifier attributed to the GMO as referred to in the Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003. 3.
A final decision on the application shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2). 4.
Each entry in the Register shall mention the date of authorisation and shall include the particulars referred to in paragraph 2. 6.
References made in parts A and D of Directive 2001/18/EC to GMOs authorised under part C of that Directive shall be considered as applying equally to GMOs authorised under this Regulation.
Article 8 Status of existing products 1.
By way of derogation from Article 4(2), products falling within the scope of this Section which have been lawfully placed on the market in the Community before the date of application of this Regulation may continue to be placed on the market, used and processed provided that the following conditions are met: (a) in the case of products placed on the market under Directive 90/220/EEC before the entry into force of Regulation (EC) No 258/97 or in accordance with the provisions referred to in Regulation (EC) No 258/97, operators responsible for placing on the market the products concerned shall, within six months after the date of application of this Regulation, notify the Commission of the date on which they were first placed on the market in the Community; (b) in the case of products which have been lawfully placed on the market in the Community but are not covered by point (a), operators responsible for placing on the market the products concerned shall, within six months after the date of application of this Regulation, notify the Commission that the products were placed on the market in the Community before the date of application of this Regulation. 2.
Within nine years from the date on which the products referred to in paragraph 1(a) were first placed on the market, but in no case earlier than three years after the date of application of this Regulation, operators responsible for placing them on the market shall submit an application in accordance with Article 11, which shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Within three years from the date of application of this Regulation, operators responsible for placing on the market products referred to in paragraph 1(b) shall submit an application in accordance with Article 11, which shall apply mutatis mutandis. 5.
Products referred to in paragraph 1 and food containing them or produced from them shall be subject to the provisions of this Regulation, in particular Articles 9, 10 and 34, which shall apply mutatis mutandis. 6.
In the case of authorisations not issued to a specific holder, the operator who imports, produces or manufactures the products referred to in this Article shall submit the information or the application to Commission. 8.
Detailed rules for implementing this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2).
The monitoring reports referred to shall be made accessible to the public after deletion of any information identified as confidential in accordance with Article 30. 2.
Articles 5, 6 and 7 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 3.
In particular, the authorisation-holder shall forthwith inform the Commission of any prohibition or restriction imposed by the competent authority of any third country in which the food is placed on the market. 4.
Article 10 Modification, suspension and revocation of authorisations 1.
Any appropriate measures shall be taken in accordance with Article 34.
If appropriate, the authorisation shall be modified, suspended or revoked in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 7. 3.
Articles 5(2), 6 and 7 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Article 11 Renewal of authorisations 1.
The application shall be accompanied by the following: (a) a copy of the authorisation for placing the food on the market; (b) a report on the results of the monitoring, if so specified in the authorisation; (c) any other new information which has become available with regard to the evaluation of the safety in use of the food and the risks of the food to the consumer or the environment; (d) where appropriate, a proposal for amending or complementing the conditions of the original authorisation, inter alia the conditions concerning future monitoring. 3.
Articles 5(2), 6 and 7 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 4.
The Commission, having first consulted the Authority, may establish, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2), implementing rules for the application of this Article, including rules concerning the preparation and the presentation of the application. 6.
The Authority shall publish detailed guidance to assist the applicant in the preparation and the presentation of its application.
Section 2 Labelling Article 12 Scope 1.
This Section shall apply to foods which are to be delivered as such to the final consumer or mass caterers in the Community and which: (a) contain or consist of GMOs; or (b) are produced from or contain ingredients produced from GMOs. 2.
This Section shall not apply to foods containing material which contains, consists of or is produced from GMOs in a proportion no higher than 0,9 per cent of the food ingredients considered individually or food consisting of a single ingredient, provided that this presence is adventitious or technically unavoidable. 3.
In order to establish that the presence of this material is adventitious or technically unavoidable, operators must be in a position to supply evidence to satisfy the competent authorities that they have taken appropriate steps to avoid the presence of such material. 4.
Article 13 Requirements 1.
Without prejudice to the other requirements of Community law concerning the labelling of foodstuffs, foods falling within the scope of this Section shall be subject to the following specific labelling requirements: (a) where the food consists of more than one ingredient, the words %quot%genetically modified%quot% or %quot%produced from genetically modified (name of the ingredient)%quot% shall appear in the list of ingredients provided for in Article 6 of Directive 2000/13/EC in parentheses immediately following the ingredient concerned; (b) where the ingredient is designated by the name of a category, the words %quot%contains genetically modified (name of organism)%quot% or %quot%contains (name of ingredient) produced from genetically modified (name of organism)%quot% shall appear in the list of ingredients; (c) where there is no list of ingredients, the words %quot%genetically modified%quot% or %quot%produced from genetically modified (name of organism)%quot% shall appear clearly on the labelling; (d) the indications referred to in (a) and (b) may appear in a footnote to the list of ingredients.
Where there is no list of ingredients, they shall appear clearly on the labelling; (e) where the food is offered for sale to the final consumer as non-pre-packaged food, or as pre-packaged food in small containers of which the largest surface has an area of less than 10 cm2, the information required under this paragraph must be permanently and visibly displayed either on the food display or immediately next to it, or on the packaging material, in a font sufficiently large for it to be easily identified and read. 2.
In addition to the labelling requirements referred to in paragraph 1, the labelling shall also mention any characteristic or property, as specified in the authorisation, in the following cases: (a) where a food is different from its conventional counterpart as regards the following characteristics or properties: (i) composition; (ii) nutritional value or nutritional effects; (iii) intended use of the food; (iv) implications for the health of certain sections of the population; (b) where a food may give rise to ethical or religious concerns. 3.
Article 14 Implementing measures 1.
Detailed rules for implementing this Section, amongst other things regarding the measures necessary for operators to comply with the labelling requirements, may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2). 2.
Specific rules concerning the information to be given by mass caterers providing food to the final consumer may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2).
Article 16 Requirements 1.
Article 17 Application for authorisation 1.
In the case of GMOs or feed containing or consisting of GMOs, the application shall also be accompanied by: (a) the complete technical dossier supplying the information required by Annexes III and IV to Directive 2001/18/EC and information and conclusions about the risk assessment carried out in accordance with the principles set out in Annex II to Directive 2001/18/EC or, where the placing on the market of the GMOs has been authorised under part C of Directive 2001/18/EC, a copy of the authorisation decision; (b) a monitoring plan for environmental effects conforming with Annex VII to Directive 2001/18/EC, including a proposal for the duration of the monitoring plan; this duration may be different from the proposed period for the consent.
In such case, Articles 13 to 24 of Directive 2001/18/EC shall not apply. 6.
The Commission, having first consulted the Authority, shall establish, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2), implementing rules for the application of this Article, including rules concerning the preparation and the presentation of the application. 8.
Article 18 Opinion of the Authority 1.
The competent authorities shall have three months after the date of receiving the request within which to make their opinion known. 5.
The Authority shall forward its opinion to the Commission, the Member States and the applicant, including a report describing its assessment of the feed and stating the reasons for its opinion and the information on which this opinion is based, including the opinions of the competent authorities when consulted in accordance with paragraph 4. 7.
The Authority, in conformity with Article 38(1) of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, shall make its opinion public, after deletion of any information identified as confidential in accordance with Article 30 of this Regulation.
The public may make comments to the Commission within 30 days from such publication.
Article 19 Authorisation 1.
Within three months after receiving the opinion of the Authority, the Commission shall submit to the Committee referred in Article 35 a draft of the decision to be taken in respect of the application, taking into account the opinion of the Authority, any relevant provisions of Community law and other legitimate factors relevant to the matter under consideration.
Any draft decision which envisages the granting of authorisation shall include the particulars referred to in Article 18(5), the name of the authorisation-holder and, where appropriate, the unique identifier attributed to the GMO as referred to in Regulation (EC) No 1830/2003. 3.
A final decision on the application shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2). 4.
Each entry in the Register shall mention the date of authorisation and shall include the particulars referred to in paragraph 2. 6.
References made in parts A and D of Directive 2001/18/EC to GMOs authorised under part C of that Directive shall be considered as applying equally to GMOs authorised under this Regulation.
Article 20 Status of existing products 1.
Within nine years from the date on which the products referred to in paragraph 1(a) were first placed on the market, but in no case earlier than three years after the date of application of this Regulation, operators responsible for placing them on the market shall submit an application in accordance with Article 23, which shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Within three years from the date of application of this Regulation, operators responsible for placing on the market products referred to in paragraph 1(b) shall submit an application in accordance with Article 23, which shall apply mutatis mutandis. 5.
Products referred to in paragraph 1 and feed containing them or produced from them shall be subject to the provisions of this Regulation, in particular Articles 21, 22 and 34, which shall apply mutatis mutandis. 6.
In the case of authorisations not issued to a specific holder, the operator who imports, produces or manufactures the products referred to in this Article shall submit the information or the application to the Commission. 8.
Detailed rules for implementing this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2).
The monitoring reports referred to shall be made accessible to the public after deletion of any information identified as confidential in accordance with Article 30. 2.
Articles 17, 18 and 19 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 3.
Article 22 Modification, suspension and revocation of authorisations 1.
Any appropriate measures shall be taken in accordance with Article 34.
If appropriate, the authorisation shall be modified, suspended or revoked in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 19. 3.
Articles 17(2), 18 and 19 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Article 23 Renewal of authorisations 1.
Articles 17(2), 18 and 19 shall apply mutatis mutandis. 4.
The Commission, having first consulted the Authority, may establish, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2), implementing rules for the application of this Article, including rules concerning the preparation and the presentation of the application. 6.
The Authority shall publish detailed guidance to assist the applicant in the preparation and the presentation of its application.
Section 2 Labelling Article 24 Scope 1.
This Section shall not apply to feed containing material which contains, consists of or is produced from GMOs in a proportion no higher than 0,9 per cent of the feed and of each feed of which it is composed, provided that this presence is adventitious or technically unavoidable. 3.
In order to establish that the presence of this material is adventitious or technically unavoidable, operators must be in a position to supply evidence to satisfy the competent authorities that they have taken appropriate steps to avoid the presence of such materials. 4.
Article 25 Requirements 1.
Article 26 Implementing measures Detailed rules for implementing this Section, amongst other things regarding the measures necessary for operators to comply with the labelling requirements, may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2).
Article 28 Community register 1.
The Register shall be made available to the public.
Article 29 Public access 1.
The application for authorisation, supplementary information from the applicant, opinions from the competent authorities designated in accordance with Article 4 of Directive 2001/18/EC, monitoring reports and information from the authorisation holder, excluding confidential information, shall be made accessible to the public. 2.
Member States shall handle applications for access to documents received under this regulation in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001.
Article 30 Confidentiality 1.
Notwithstanding paragraph 2, the Authority shall on request supply the Commission and Member States with all information in its possession. 5.
Article 32 Community reference laboratory The Community reference laboratory and its duties and tasks shall be those referred to in the Annex.
National reference laboratories may be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2).
Article 33 Consultation with the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies 1.
The Commission, on its own initiative or at the request of a Member State, may consult the European Group on Ethics in Science and New Technologies or any other appropriate body it might establish, with a view to obtaining its opinion on ethical issues. 2.
The Commission shall make these opinions available to the public.
Article 34 Emergency measures Where it is evident that products authorised by or in accordance with this Regulation are likely to constitute a serious risk to human health, animal health or the environment, or where, in the light of an opinion of the Authority issued under Article 10 or Article 22, the need to suspend or modify urgently an authorisation arises, measures shall be taken under the procedures provided for in Articles 53 and 54 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health, set up by Article 58 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, hereinafter referred to as the %quot%Committee%quot%. 2.
Article 36 Administrative review Any decision taken under, or failure to exercise, the powers vested in the Authority by this Regulation may be reviewed by the Commission on its own initiative or in response to a request from a Member State or from any person directly and individually concerned.
To this effect a request shall be submitted to the Commission within two months from the day on which the party concerned became aware of the act or omission in question.
Article 37 Repeals The following Regulations shall be repealed with effect from the date of application of this Regulation: - Regulation (EC) No 1139/98, - Regulation (EC) No 49/2000, - Regulation (EC) No 50/2000.
Placing on the market of traces of a GMO or combination of GMOs in products intended for direct use as food or feed or for processing shall be exempted from Articles 13 to 21 provided that they meet the conditions referred to in Article 47 of Regulation (EC) No 1829/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2003 on genetically modified food and feed(37). 2.
Article 45 Penalties The Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
Article 46 Transitional measures for requests, labelling and notifications 1.
Requests submitted under Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 258/97 before the date of application of this Regulation shall be transformed into applications under Chapter II, Section 1 of this Regulation where the initial assessment report provided for under Article 6(3) of Regulation (EC) No 258/97 has not yet been forwarded to the Commission, as well as in all cases where an additional assessment report is required in accordance with Article 6(3) or (4) of Regulation (EC) No 258/97.
Other requests submitted under Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 258/97 before the date of application of this Regulation shall be processed under the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 258/97, notwithstanding Article 38 of this Regulation. 2.
Notifications concerning products including their use as feed submitted under Article 13 of Directive 2001/18/EC before the date of application of this Regulation shall be transformed into applications under Chapter III, Section 1 of this Regulation where the assessment report provided for in Article 14 of Directive 2001/18/EC has not yet been sent to the Commission. 4.
Requests submitted for products referred to in Article 15(1)(c) of this Regulation under Article 7 of Directive 82/471/EEC before the date of application of this Regulation shall be transformed into applications under Chapter III, Section 1 of this Regulation. 5.
Article 47 Transitional measures for adventitious or technically unavoidable presence of genetically modified material which has benefited from a favourable risk evaluation 1.
The presence in food or feed of material which contains, consists of or is produced from GMOs in a proportion no higher than 0,5 % shall not be considered to be in breach of Article 4(2) or Article 16(2), provided that: (a) this presence is adventitious or technically unavoidable; (b) the genetically modified material has benefited from a favourable opinion from the Community Scientific Committee(s) or the Authority before the date of application of this Regulation; (c) the application for its authorisation has not been rejected in accordance with the relevant Community legislation; and (d) detection methods are publicly available. 2.
In order to establish that the presence of this material is adventitious or technically unavoidable, operators must be in a position to demonstrate to the competent authorities that they have taken appropriate steps to avoid the presence of such materials. 3.
The thresholds referred to in paragraph 1 may be lowered in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2), in particular for GMOs sold directly to the final consumer. 4.
Detailed rules for implementing this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 35(2). 5.
Article 48 Review 1.
The report and any proposal shall be made accessible to the public. 2.
Article 49 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 22 September 2003.
Cox For the Council The President R.
Directive amended by Commission Decision 2003/66/EC (OJ L 25, 30.1.2003, p. 42). (26) OJ L 193, 20.7.2002, p. 74.
The Community reference laboratory referred to in Article 32 is the Commission's Joint Research Centre. 2.
