Member States should therefore make use of the existing network of operational contact points referred to in the Council Recommendation of 25 June 2001 on contact points maintaining a 24-hour service for combating high-tech crime [5], for the exchange of information. (17) Since the objectives of this Framework Decision, ensuring that attacks against information systems be sanctioned in all Member States by effective, proportionate and dissuasive criminal penalties and improving and encouraging judicial cooperation by removing potential complications, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States, as rules have to be common and compatible, and can therefore be better achieved at the level of the Union, the Union may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the EC Treaty.
Article 2 Illegal access to information systems 1.
Each Member State may decide that the conduct referred to in paragraph 1 is incriminated only where the offence is committed by infringing a security measure.
Article 3 Illegal system interference Each Member State shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the intentional serious hindering or interruption of the functioning of an information system by inputting, transmitting, damaging, deleting, deteriorating, altering, suppressing or rendering inaccessible computer data is punishable as a criminal offence when committed without right, at least for cases which are not minor.
Article 5 Instigation, aiding and abetting and attempt 1.
Each Member State shall ensure that the attempt to commit the offences referred to in Articles 2, 3 and 4 is punishable as a criminal offence. 3.
Article 6 Penalties 1.
Each Member State shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the offences referred to in Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5 are punishable by effective, proportional and dissuasive criminal penalties. 2.
Each Member State shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the offences referred to in Articles 3 and 4 are punishable by criminal penalties of a maximum of at least between one and three years of imprisonment.
Article 7 Aggravating circumstances 1.
Each Member State shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the offence referred to in Article 2(2) and the offence referred to in Articles 3 and 4 are punishable by criminal penalties of a maximum of at least between two and five years of imprisonment when committed within the framework of a criminal organisation as defined in Joint Action 98/733/JHA apart from the penalty level referred to therein. 2.
A Member State may also take the measures referred to in paragraph 1 when the offence has caused serious damages or has affected essential interests.
Article 8 Liability of legal persons 1.
Each Member State shall take the necessary measures to ensure that legal persons can be held liable for offences referred to in Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5, committed for their benefit by any person, acting either individually or as part of an organ of the legal person, who has a leading position within the legal person, based on: (a) a power of representation of the legal person, or (b) an authority to take decisions on behalf of the legal person, or (c) an authority to exercise control within the legal person. 2.
Apart from the cases provided for in paragraph 1, Member States shall ensure that a legal person can be held liable where the lack of supervision or control by a person referred to in paragraph 1 has made possible the commission of the offences referred to in Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5 for the benefit of that legal person by a person under its authority. 3.
Liability of a legal person under paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not exclude criminal proceedings against natural persons who are involved as perpetrators, instigators or accessories in the commission of the offences referred to in Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5.
Article 9 Penalties for legal persons 1.
Article 10 Jurisdiction 1.
Each Member State shall establish its jurisdiction with regard to the offences referred to in Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5 where the offence has been committed: (a) in whole or in part within its territory; or (b) by one of its nationals; or (c) for the benefit of a legal person that has its head office in the territory of that Member State. 2.
A Member State may decide not to apply, or to apply only in specific cases or circumstances, the jurisdiction rules set out in paragraphs 1(b) and 1(c). 6.
Article 11 Exchange of information 1.
For the purpose of exchange of information relating to the offences referred to in Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5, and in accordance with data protection rules, Member States shall ensure that they make use of the existing network of operational points of contact available 24 hours a day and seven days a week. 2.
Article 12 Implementation 1.
Member States shall take the necessary measures to comply with the provisions of this Framework Decision by 16 March 2007. 2.
By 16 September 2007, on the basis of a report established on the basis of information and a written report by the Commission, the Council shall assess the extent to which Member States have complied with the provisions of this Framework Decision.
Article 13 Entry into force This Framework Decision shall enter into force on the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 24 February 2005.
Schmit [1] OJ C 300 E, 11.12.2003, p. 26. [2] OJ C 43, 16.2.2002, p. 2. [3] OJ C 19, 23.1.1999, p. 1. [4] OJ L 351, 29.12.1998, p. 1. [5] OJ C 187, 3.7.2001, p. 5. --------------------------------------------------
