Article 5 Notification of existing agreements, decisions and practices 1.
The second sentence of paragraph 1 shall not apply to agreements, decisions or concerted practices falling within Article 4 (2) and Article 5 (2), nor to those falling within Article 5 (1) which have been notified within the time limit specified in Article 5 (1).
Where agreements, decisions and concerted practices in existence at the date of entry into force of this Regulation and notified before 1 August 1962 do not satisfy the requirements of Article 85 (3) of the Treaty and the undertakings or associations of undertakings concerned cease to give effect to them or modify them in such manner that they no longer fall within the prohibition contained in Article 85 (1) or that they satisfy the requirements of Article 85 (3), the prohibition contained in Article 85 (1) shall apply only for a period fixed by the Commission.
A decision in application of Article 85 (3) of the Treaty shall be issued for a specified period and conditions and obligations may be attached thereto. 2.
The Commission may revoke or amend its decision or prohibit specified acts by the parties: (a) where there has been a change in any of the facts which were basic to the making of the decision; (b) where the parties commit a breach of any obligation attached to the decision; (c) where the decision is based on incorrect information or was induced by deceit; (d) where the parties abuse the exemption from the provisions of Article 85 (1) of the Treaty granted to them by the decision.
Article 9 Powers 1.
Article 10 Liaison with the authorities of the Member States 1.
An Advisory Committee on Restrictive Practices and Monopolies shall be consulted prior to the taking of any decision following upon a procedure under paragraph 1, and of any decision concerning the renewal, amendment or revocation of a decision pursuant to Article 85 (3) of the Treaty. 4.
In carrying out the duties assigned to it by Article 89 and by provisions adopted under Article 87 of the Treaty, the Commission may obtain all necessary information from the Governments and competent authorities of the Member States and from undertakings and associations of undertakings. 2.
In its request the Commission shall state the legal basis and the purpose of the request and also the penalties provided for in Article 15 (1) (b) for supplying incorrect information. 4.
The decision shall specify what information is required, fix an appropriate time limit within which it is to be supplied and indicate the penalties provided for in Article 15 (1) (b) and Article 16 (1) (c) and the right to have the decision reviewed by the Court of Justice. 6.
Article 12 Inquiry into sectors of the economy 1.
If in any sector of the economy the trend of trade between Member States, price movements, inflexibility of prices or other circumstances suggest that in the economic sector concerned competition is being restricted or distorted within the common market, the Commission may decide to conduct a general inquiry into that economic sector and in the course thereof may request undertakings in the sector concerned to supply the information necessary for giving effect to the principles formulated in Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty and for carrying out the duties entrusted to the Commission. 2.
Article 10 (3) to (6) and Articles 11, 13 and 14 shall apply correspondingly.
Article 13 Investigations by the authorities of the Member States 1.
In carrying out the duties assigned to it by Article 89 and by provisions adopted under Article 87 of the Treaty, the Commission may undertake all necessary investigations into undertakings and associations of undertakings.
The decision shall specify the subject matter and purpose of the investigation, appoint the date on which it is to begin and indicate the penalties provided for in Article 15 (1) (c) and Article 16 (1) (d) and the right to have the decision reviewed by the Court of Justice. 4.
Article 15 Fines 1.
Article 16 Periodic penalty payments 1.
Article 17 Review by the Court of Justice The Court of Justice shall have unlimited jurisdiction within the meaning of Article 172 of the Treaty to review decisions whereby the Commission has fixed a fine or periodic penalty payment ; it may cancel, reduce or increase the fine or periodic penalty payment imposed.
Article 18 Unit of account For the purposes of applying Articles 15 to 17 the unit of account shall be that adopted in drawing up the budget of the Community in accordance with Articles 207 and 209 of the Treaty.
Article 19 Hearing of the parties and of third persons 1.
Article 20 Professional secrecy 1.
Article 21 Publication of decisions 1.
Article 22 Special provisions 1.
Article 23 Transitional provisions applicable to decisions of authorities of the Member States 1.
