Article 2 Task The task of the FUND shall be to contribute to the pursuit of Community objectives.
Article 3 Activities 1.
The unit of account shall be defined as being the ecu used by the COMMUNITY. 3.
The members of the FUND shall be liable, in their capacity as members of the FUND, for the obligations of the FUND only up to the amount of their share of the capital subscribed and not paid in.
Article 7 Subscription of Shares 1.
The founder members of the FUND shall subscribe at par to the number of shares stipulated in Annex II to these Statutes. 2.
Article 8 Shares 1.
In the event of an increase in subscribed capital, the arrangements for paying in shares shall be the subject of a decision of the General Meeting. 3.
The General Meeting, acting on a proposal from the Supervisory Board, may require payment, in whole or in part, of the balance of the subscribed capital to such extent as may be required for the FUND to meet its liabilities towards its creditors. 4.
The shares so called shall be paid in within 90 days following notification to members of the call for funds. 6.
Article 9 Rights attaching to Shares On the terms laid down in Articles 31 and 38 of these Statutes, each share shall confer rights in respect of ownership of the assets of the FUND, the sharing of net profit and, where appropriate, the proceeds of liquidation pro rata to the number of existing shares.
Article 10 Management and Administration of the FUND The FUND shall be managed and administered by the following three organs : - the General Meeting - the Supervisory Board - the Financial Committee.
Article 12 Participation - Representation - Quorum - Majority 1.
The COMMUNITY shall be represented by one of the members of the COMMISSION, nominated by the latter. 3.
The FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS shall be represented by one person for each FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. 5.
Article 13 Powers of the General Meeting 1.
The General Meeting shall have full powers over the management, operation and administration of the FUND. 2.
The operating procedures of the General Meeting shall be laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
Article 14 Chairmanship of the General Meeting 1.
Article 15 Minutes - Extracts The minutes of the General Meeting shall be drawn up and copies or extracts thereof certified and issued by the Secretariat of the FUND which shall be provided by the BANK.
Article 16 Supervisory Board 1.
The Supervisory Board shall consist of seven members appointed as to: two members representing the COMMISSION, three members representing the BANK, two members representing the FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS. 2.
The members representing the FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS and their alternates shall be nominated by this category of member in accordance with arrangements laid down in the Rules of Procedure. 6.
The operating procedures of the Supervisory Board shall be laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
Article 18 Chairmanship of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board shall be chaired by the President of the BANK or, where he is prevented from attending, by one of its Vice-Presidents.
Article 19 Supervisory Board - Meetings - Quorum 1.
The Supervisory Board shall meet as often as required by the interests of the FUND and at least once a quarter.
Article 20 Minutes Minutes of the proceedings of the Supervisory Board shall be drawn up and copies or extracts thereof certified and issued by the Secretariat of the FUND.
Article 21 Financial Committee 1.
Article 22 Chairmanship 1.
The Financial Committee shall be chaired by the member representing the BANK. 2.
The chairman of the Financial Committee shall represent the FUND in its relations with third parties. 3.
Article 23 Meetings of the Financial Committee 1.
The Financial Committee shall meet as often as required by the activities of the FUND, when convened by its chairman. 2.
Meetings shall be held either at the seat of the FUND or at any other place mentioned in the notice convening them. 3.
The Financial Committee shall, where appropriate, appoint a Secretary who may be chosen from outside its number. 4.
Article 24 Powers of the Financial Committee 1.
Article 25 Audit The accounts of the FUND shall be audited annually by a board of two auditors appointed by the General Meeting in accordance with the terms laid down in the Rules of Procedure and acting in keeping with the customary standards of their profession.
Article 26 Operations Within the framework of these Statutes, the FUND shall conduct guarantee, equity participation and similar operations for investment projects to be implemented in the territory of the Member States of the COMMUNITY or in adjacent countries insofar as crossborder projects are involved in which case operations shall require a decision of the Supervisory Board acting unanimously.
Article 27 Remuneration of the FUND 1.
The above principles shall be the subject of the Rules of Procedure.
Article 28 Equity Participations The equity participations which the FUND may acquire in enterprises under Article 3 of these Statutes must be of a minority and temporary nature.
Article 29 Limits on the Operations of the FUND With respect to the provision of guarantees, the limits on the commitments of the FUND in relation to any individual establishment or financial institution, or to any individual enterprise or project shall be laid down in the Rules of Procedure.
Article 30 Ceiling on the overall Commitments of the FUND The overall commitments of the FUND may not exceed: - for guarantee operations: three times the amount of subscribed capital; this ceiling may be raised by successive decisions of the General Meeting without however exceeding five times the subscribed capital.
After a reserve has been built up equivalent to 7.5% of the amount of subscribed capital, this ceiling may be raised to up to eight times the subscribed capital; - for equity participations: the amount decided by the General Meeting pursuant to Article 13 of these Statutes.
Article 31 Appropriation and Distribution of Net Income 1.
The General Meeting shall determine at least annually what part of the net income of the FUND shall be appropriated to reserves or other purposes, or distributed.
However, prior to any appropriation, there shall be deducted each year from the net revenue of the FUND an amount at least equal to 20% of such revenue and which shall be appropriated towards building up a reserve.
Article 32 Cooperation with Third Parties 1.
Article 34 Suspension or Expulsion of Members 1.
Article 35 Settlement of Accounts with Members expelled from the FUND 1.
Termination of membership shall entail partial settlement of accounts with the member in question. 2.
Article 36 Termination of Operations 1.
The General Meeting may decide permanently to terminate the operations of the FUND which shall then cease all its activities apart from those relating to liquidation of the FUND. 2.
Article 37 Liability of the Members of the FUND 1.
In the event of permanent cessation of the operations of the FUND, outstanding claims on the FUND shall be settled by means of the following resources in the order given below: - assets of the FUND - sums owed to the FUND in respect of shares to be paid in. 2.
Article 38 Distribution of Assets 1.
In the event of cessation of the activities of the FUND, the assets shall not be distributed among its members on account of their subscription to the capital of the FUND until: - all liabilities to creditors of the FUND have been fully discharged,- the General Meeting has decided to make a distribution of assets. 2.
Article 39 Amendments 1.
Article 40 Law and Jurisdiction 1.
However, if, within a period of not more than three months following ratification by the Member States of the Act amending the Protocol on the Statute of the BANK, this condition has not been met, the Board of Governors of the BANK, acting unanimously, may decide that : - the FUND is satisfactorily tripartite; - these Statutes shall consequently enter into force.
ANNEX I PROVISIONAL LIST OF FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS TO BECOME FOUNDER MEMBERS OF THE FUND - Kingdom of Belgium Kredietbank S.A.
Société Nationale de Crédit à l'Industrie (SNCI) Générale de Banque Crédit Professionnel - Kingdom of Denmark Finansieringsinstituttet for Industri og Haandvaerk A/S - Federal Republic of Germany Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau WestLB Girozentrale Deutsche Girozentrale-Deutsche Kommunalbank Landeskreditbank Baden-Wuerttemberg Suedwest LB Bayerische Landesanstalt fuer Aufbaufinanzierung Landesbank Rheinland-Pfalz - Hellenic Republic Ionian Bank Commercial Bank of Greece - Kingdom of Spain Instituto de Crédito Oficial Banco de Negocios Argentaria Banco Central Hispano Americano Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Banco Español de Crédito Caja de Ahorros de Madrid - French Republic Crédit National Crédit Local de France Caisse Nationale de Crédit Agricole Groupe des Banques Populaires Groupe Crédit Coopératif Crédit Mutuel - Ireland AIB Group - Italian Republic Crediop/San Paolo IMI S.p.A.
Banca di Roma Banco di Napoli Banca Nazionale del Lavoro Cassa di Risparmio delle Province Lombarde Banca Commerciale Italiana Credito Italiano Istituto di Credito delle Casse di Risparmio Italiane Ambroveneto Società Finanziaria di Partecipazione S.p.A. - Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg Bacob Bank Luxembourg S.A.
