Moreover, the national systems for the conformity assessment and certification of these machines diverge considerably.
It is necessary to provide for transitional arrangements enabling Member States to authorise the placing on the market and putting into service of such machinery manufactured in accordance with national provisions in force upon adoption of this Directive, including those implementing the Convention of 1 July 1969 on the Reciprocal Recognition of Proofmarks on Small Arms.
Member States should ensure their capacity to carry out effective market surveillance, taking account of guidelines developed by the Commission, in order to achieve the proper and uniform application of this Directive. (11) In the context of market surveillance, a clear distinction should be established between the disputing of a harmonised standard conferring a presumption of conformity on machinery and the safeguard clause relating to machinery. (12) The putting into service of machinery within the meaning of this Directive can relate only to the use of the machinery itself for its intended purpose or for a purpose which can reasonably be foreseen.
Since such measures are not directly applicable to economic operators, Member States should take all necessary measures for their implementation. (14) The essential health and safety requirements should be satisfied in order to ensure that machinery is safe; these requirements should be applied with discernment to take account of the state of the art at the time of construction and of technical and economic requirements. (15) Where the machinery may be used by a consumer, that is to say, a non-professional operator, the manufacturer should take account of this in the design and construction.
These procedures should be devised in the light of the extent of the danger inherent in such machinery.
Those penalties should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. (27) The application of this Directive to a number of machines intended for lifting persons requires a better delimitation of the products covered by this Directive with respect to those covered by Directive 95/16/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 June 1995 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to lifts [10].
The following are excluded from the scope of this Directive: (a) safety components intended to be used as spare parts to replace identical components and supplied by the manufacturer of the original machinery; (b) specific equipment for use in fairgrounds and/or amusement parks; (c) machinery specially designed or put into service for nuclear purposes which, in the event of failure, may result in an emission of radioactivity; (d) weapons, including firearms; (e) the following means of transport: - agricultural and forestry tractors for the risks covered by Directive 2003/37/EC, with the exclusion of machinery mounted on these vehicles, - motor vehicles and their trailers covered by Council Directive 70/156/EEC of 6 February 1970 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the type-approval of motor vehicles and their trailers [13], with the exclusion of machinery mounted on these vehicles, - vehicles covered by Directive 2002/24/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 March 2002 relating to the type-approval of two or three-wheel motor vehicles [14], with the exclusion of machinery mounted on these vehicles, - motor vehicles exclusively intended for competition, and - means of transport by air, on water and on rail networks with the exclusion of machinery mounted on these means of transport; (f) seagoing vessels and mobile offshore units and machinery installed on board such vessels and/or units; (g) machinery specially designed and constructed for military or police purposes; (h) machinery specially designed and constructed for research purposes for temporary use in laboratories; (i) mine winding gear; (j) machinery intended to move performers during artistic performances; (k) electrical and electronic products falling within the following areas, insofar as they are covered by Council Directive 73/23/EEC of 19 February 1973 on the harmonisation of the laws of Member States relating to electrical equipment designed for use within certain voltage limits [15]: - household appliances intended for domestic use, - audio and video equipment, - information technology equipment, - ordinary office machinery, - low-voltage switchgear and control gear, - electric motors; (l) the following types of high-voltage electrical equipment: - switch gear and control gear, - transformers.
Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Directive, %quot%machinery%quot% designates the products listed in Article 1(1)(a) to (f).
The following definitions shall apply: (a) %quot%machinery%quot% means: - an assembly, fitted with or intended to be fitted with a drive system other than directly applied human or animal effort, consisting of linked parts or components, at least one of which moves, and which are joined together for a specific application, - an assembly referred to in the first indent, missing only the components to connect it on site or to sources of energy and motion, - an assembly referred to in the first and second indents, ready to be installed and able to function as it stands only if mounted on a means of transport, or installed in a building or a structure, - assemblies of machinery referred to in the first, second and third indents or partly completed machinery referred to in point (g) which, in order to achieve the same end, are arranged and controlled so that they function as an integral whole, - an assembly of linked parts or components, at least one of which moves and which are joined together, intended for lifting loads and whose only power source is directly applied human effort; (b) %quot%interchangeable equipment%quot% means a device which, after the putting into service of machinery or of a tractor, is assembled with that machinery or tractor by the operator himself in order to change its function or attribute a new function, in so far as this equipment is not a tool; (c) %quot%safety component%quot% means a component: - which serves to fulfil a safety function, - which is independently placed on the market, - the failure and/or malfunction of which endangers the safety of persons, and - which is not necessary in order for the machinery to function, or for which normal components may be substituted in order for the machinery to function.
Partly completed machinery is only intended to be incorporated into or assembled with other machinery or other partly completed machinery or equipment, thereby forming machinery to which this Directive applies; (h) %quot%placing on the market%quot% means making available for the first time in the Community machinery or partly completed machinery with a view to distribution or use, whether for reward or free of charge; (i) %quot%manufacturer%quot% means any natural or legal person who designs and/or manufactures machinery or partly completed machinery covered by this Directive and is responsible for the conformity of the machinery or the partly completed machinery with this Directive with a view to its being placed on the market, under his own name or trademark or for his own use.
In the absence of a manufacturer as defined above, any natural or legal person who places on the market or puts into service machinery or partly completed machinery covered by this Directive shall be considered a manufacturer; (j) %quot%authorised representative%quot% means any natural or legal person established in the Community who has received a written mandate from the manufacturer to perform on his behalf all or part of the obligations and formalities connected with this Directive; (k) %quot%putting into service%quot% means the first use, for its intended purpose, in the Community, of machinery covered by this Directive; (l) %quot%harmonised standard%quot% means a non-binding technical specification adopted by a standardisation body, namely the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN), the European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardisation (CENELEC) or the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), on the basis of a remit issued by the Commission in accordance with the procedures laid down in Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 June 1998 laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations and of rules on Information Society services [16].
Article 3 Specific Directives Where, for machinery, the hazards referred to in Annex I are wholly or partly covered more specifically by other Community Directives, this Directive shall not apply, or shall cease to apply, to that machinery in respect of such hazards from the date of implementation of those other Directives.
Member States shall institute or appoint the competent authorities to monitor the conformity of machinery and partly completed machinery with the provisions set out in paragraphs 1 and 2. 4.
Member States shall define the tasks, organisation and powers of the competent authorities referred to in paragraph 3 and shall notify the Commission and other Member States thereof and also of any subsequent amendment.
Article 5 Placing on the market and putting into service 1.
Before placing machinery on the market and/or putting it into service, the manufacturer or his authorised representative shall: (a) ensure that it satisfies the relevant essential health and safety requirements set out in Annex I; (b) ensure that the technical file referred to in Annex VII, part A is available; (c) provide, in particular, the necessary information, such as instructions; (d) carry out the appropriate procedures for assessing conformity in accordance with Article 12; (e) draw up the EC declaration of conformity in accordance with Annex II, part 1, Section A and ensure that it accompanies the machinery; (f) affix the CE marking in accordance with Article 16. 2.
Before placing partly completed machinery on the market, the manufacturer or his authorised representative shall ensure that the procedure referred to in Article 13 has been completed. 3.
For the purposes of the procedures referred to in Article 12, the manufacturer or his authorised representative shall have, or shall have access to, the necessary means of ensuring that the machinery satisfies the essential health and safety requirements set out in Annex I. 4.
However, where one or more of those Directives allow the manufacturer or his authorised representative to choose, during a transitional period, the system to be applied, the CE marking shall indicate conformity only to the provisions of those Directives applied by the manufacturer or his authorised representative.
Article 6 Freedom of movement 1.
Member States shall not prohibit, restrict or impede the placing on the market of partly completed machinery where the manufacturer or his authorised representative makes a declaration of incorporation, referred to in Annex II, part 1, Section B, stating that it is to be incorporated into machinery or assembled with other partly completed machinery to form machinery. 3.
Article 7 Presumption of conformity and harmonised standards 1.
Member States shall regard machinery bearing the CE marking and accompanied by the EC declaration of conformity, the content of which is set out in Annex II, part 1, Section A, as complying with the provisions of this Directive. 2.
Machinery manufactured in conformity with a harmonised standard, the references to which have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union, shall be presumed to comply with the essential health and safety requirements covered by such a harmonised standard. 3.
Article 8 Specific measures 1.
The Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 22(3), may take any appropriate measure to implement the provisions relating to the following points: (a) updating of the indicative list of safety components in Annex V referred to in point (c) in Article 2; (b) restriction of the placing on the market of machinery referred to in Article 9. 2.
Article 9 Specific measures to deal with potentially hazardous machinery 1.
When, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 10, the Commission considers that a harmonised standard does not entirely satisfy the essential health and safety requirements which it covers and which are set out in Annex I, the Commission may, in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article, take measures requiring Member States to prohibit or restrict the placing on the market of machinery with technical characteristics presenting risks due to the shortcomings in the standard or to make such machinery subject to special conditions.
When, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 11, the Commission considers that a measure taken by a Member State is justified, the Commission may, in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article, take measures requiring Member States to prohibit or restrict the placing on the market of machinery presenting the same risk by virtue of its technical characteristics or to make such machinery subject to special conditions. 2.
Any Member State may request the Commission to examine the need for the adoption of the measures referred to in paragraph 1. 3.
Article 10 Procedure for disputing a harmonised standard Where a Member State or the Commission considers that a harmonised standard does not entirely satisfy the essential health and safety requirements which it covers and which are set out in Annex I, the Commission or the Member State shall bring the matter before the committee set up by Directive 98/34/EC, setting out the reasons therefor.
Article 11 Safeguard clause 1.
Where the measures referred to in paragraph 1 are based on a shortcoming in the harmonised standards and if the Member State which instigated the measures maintains its position, the Commission or the Member State shall initiate the procedure referred to in Article 10. 5.
The Commission shall inform the other Member States. 6.
Article 12 Procedures for assessing the conformity of machinery 1.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative shall, in order to certify the conformity of machinery with the provisions of this Directive, apply one of the procedures for assessment of conformity described in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. 2.
Where the machinery is not referred to in Annex IV, the manufacturer or his authorised representative shall apply the procedure for assessment of conformity with internal checks on the manufacture of machinery provided for in Annex VIII. 3.
Where the machinery is referred to in Annex IV and manufactured in accordance with the harmonised standards referred to in Article 7(2), and provided that those standards cover all of the relevant essential health and safety requirements, the manufacturer or his authorised representative shall apply one of the following procedures: (a) the procedure for assessment of conformity with internal checks on the manufacture of machinery, provided for in Annex VIII; (b) the EC type-examination procedure provided for in Annex IX, plus the internal checks on the manufacture of machinery provided for in Annex VIII, point 3; (c) the full quality assurance procedure provided for in Annex X. 4.
Where the machinery is referred to in Annex IV and has not been manufactured in accordance with the harmonised standards referred to in Article 7(2), or only partly in accordance with such standards, or if the harmonised standards do not cover all the relevant essential health and safety requirements or if no harmonised standards exist for the machinery in question, the manufacturer or his authorised representative shall apply one of the following procedures: (a) the EC type-examination procedure provided for in Annex IX, plus the internal checks on the manufacture of machinery provided for in Annex VIII, point 3; (b) the full quality assurance procedure provided for in Annex X.
Article 13 Procedure for partly completed machinery 1.
The manufacturer of partly completed machinery or his authorised representative shall, before placing it on the market, ensure that: (a) the relevant technical documentation described in Annex VII, part B is prepared; (b) assembly instructions described in Annex VI are prepared; (c) a declaration of incorporation described in Annex II, part 1, Section B has been drawn up. 2.
Article 14 Notified bodies 1.
The Member States shall ensure that the notified bodies are monitored regularly to check that they comply at all times with the criteria set out in Annex XI.
Member States shall apply the criteria set out in Annex XI in assessing the bodies to be notified and the bodies already notified. 4.
The Commission shall provide for the organisation of an exchange of experience between the authorities responsible for appointment, notification and monitoring of notified bodies in the Member States, and the notified bodies, in order to coordinate the uniform application of this Directive. 8.
Article 15 Installation and use of machinery This Directive shall not affect Member States' entitlement to lay down, in due observance of Community law, such requirements as they may deem necessary to ensure that persons, and in particular workers, are protected when using machinery, provided that this does not mean that such machinery is modified in a way not specified in this Directive.
The CE conformity marking shall consist of the initials %quot%CE%quot% as shown in Annex III. 2.
The CE marking shall be affixed to the machinery visibly, legibly and indelibly in accordance with Annex III. 3.
Article 17 Non-conformity of marking 1.
Where a Member State ascertains that marking does not conform to the relevant provisions of this Directive, the manufacturer or his authorised representative shall be obliged to make the product conform and to put an end to the infringement under conditions fixed by that Member State. 3.
Where non-conformity persists, the Member State shall take all appropriate measures to restrict or prohibit the placing on the market of the product in question or to ensure that it is withdrawn from the market in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 11.
Article 18 Confidentiality 1.
The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not affect the obligations of the Member States and the notified bodies with regard to mutual exchange of information and the issuing of warnings. 3.
Any decisions taken by the Member States and by the Commission in accordance with Articles 9 and 11 shall be published.
Article 19 Cooperation between Member States 1.
Article 20 Legal remedies Any measure taken pursuant to this Directive which restricts the placing on the market and/or putting into service of any machinery covered by this Directive shall state the exact grounds on which it is based.
Article 21 Dissemination of information The Commission shall take the necessary measures for appropriate information concerning the implementation of this Directive to be made available.
Article 22 Committee 1.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 3 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof. 3.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof.
Article 23 Penalties Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
in Article 1, paragraphs 2 and 3 shall be replaced by the following: 2. %quot%For the purposes of this Directive, %quot%lift%quot% shall mean a lifting appliance serving specific levels, having a carrier moving along guides which are rigid and inclined at an angle of more than 15 degrees to the horizontal, intended for the transport of: - persons, - persons and goods, - goods alone if the carrier is accessible, that is to say a person may enter it without difficulty, and fitted with controls situated inside the carrier or within reach of a person inside the carrier.
This Directive shall not apply to: - lifting appliances whose speed is not greater than 0,15 m/s, - construction site hoists, - cableways, including funicular railways, - lifts specially designed and constructed for military or police purposes, - lifting appliances from which work can be carried out, - mine winding gear, - lifting appliances intended for lifting performers during artistic performances, - lifting appliances fitted in means of transport, - lifting appliances connected to machinery and intended exclusively for access to workstations including maintenance and inspection points on the machinery, - rack and pinion trains, - escalators and mechanical walkways.%quot%; 2.
Where the lift is intended for the transport of persons, and where its dimensions permit, the car must be designed and constructed in such a way that its structural features do not obstruct or impede access and use by disabled persons and so as to allow any appropriate adjustments intended to facilitate its use by them.%quot% Article 25 Repeal Directive 98/37/EC is hereby repealed.
They shall apply those provisions with effect from 29 December 2009.
Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive, together with a table showing how the provisions of this Directive correspond to the national provisions adopted.
Article 28 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 29 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Strasbourg, 17 May 2006.
Borrell Fontelles For the Council The President H.
Winkler [1] OJ C 154 E, 29.5.2001, p. 164. [2] OJ C 311, 7.11.2001, p. 1. [3] Opinion of the European Parliament of 4 July 2002 (OJ C 271 E, 12.11.2003, p. 491), Council Common Position of 18 July 2005 (OJ C 251 E, 11.10.2005, p. 1) and Position of the European Parliament of 15 December 2005 (not yet published in the Official Journal).
Council Decision of 25 April 2006. [4] OJ L 207, 23.7.1998, p. 1.
Directive as amended by Directive 98/79/EC (OJ L 331, 7.12.1998, p. 1). [5] Council Directive 89/392/EEC of 14 June 1989 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to machinery (OJ L 183, 29.6.1989, p. 9). [6] OJ L 256, 13.9.1991, p. 51. [7] OJ L 393, 30.12.1989, p. 13.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2001/45/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 195, 19.7.2001, p. 46). [8] OJ L 171, 9.7.2003, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2005/67/EC (OJ L 273, 19.10.2005, p. 17). [9] OJ L 220, 30.8.1993, p. 23. [10] OJ L 213, 7.9.1995, p. 1.
Directive as amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). [11] OJ C 321, 31.12.2003, p. 1. [12] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [13] OJ L 42, 23.2.1970, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2006/28/EC (OJ L 65, 7.3.2006, p. 27). [14] OJ L 124, 9.5.2002, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2005/30/EC (OJ L 106, 27.4.2005, p. 17). [15] OJ L 77, 26.3.1973, p. 29.
Directive as amended by Directive 93/68/EEC (OJ L 220, 30.8.1993, p. 1). [16] OJ L 204, 21.7.1998, p. 37.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX I Essential health and safety requirements relating to the the design and construction of machinery GENERAL PRINCIPLES 1.
The manufacturer of machinery or his authorised representative must ensure that a risk assessment is carried out in order to determine the health and safety requirements which apply to the machinery.
The machinery must then be designed and constructed taking into account the results of the risk assessment.
By the iterative process of risk assessment and risk reduction referred to above, the manufacturer or his authorised representative shall: - determine the limits of the machinery, which include the intended use and any reasonably foreseeable misuse thereof, - identify the hazards that can be generated by the machinery and the associated hazardous situations, - estimate the risks, taking into account the severity of the possible injury or damage to health and the probability of its occurrence, - evaluate the risks, with a view to determining whether risk reduction is required, in accordance with the objective of this Directive, - eliminate the hazards or reduce the risks associated with these hazards by application of protective measures, in the order of priority established in section 1.1.2(b). 2.
The obligations laid down by the essential health and safety requirements only apply when the corresponding hazard exists for the machinery in question when it is used under the conditions foreseen by the manufacturer or his authorised representative or in foreseeable abnormal situations.
In any event, the principles of safety integration referred to in section 1.1.2 and the obligations concerning marking of machinery and instructions referred to in sections 1.7.3 and 1.7.4 apply. 3.
The first one has a general scope and is applicable to all kinds of machinery.
When machinery is being designed, the requirements of the general part and the requirements of one or more of the other parts shall be taken into account, depending on the results of the risk assessment carried out in accordance with point 1 of these General Principles. 1.
GENERAL REMARKS 1.1.1.
Where the weight, size or shape of machinery or its various component parts prevents them from being moved by hand, the machinery or each component part must: - either be fitted with attachments for lifting gear, or - be designed so that it can be fitted with such attachments, or - be shaped in such a way that standard lifting gear can easily be attached.
Where machinery or one of its component parts is to be moved by hand, it must: - either be easily moveable, or - be equipped for picking up and moving safely.
Operating positions The operating position must be designed and constructed in such a way as to avoid any risk due to exhaust gases and/or lack of oxygen.
CONTROL SYSTEMS 1.2.1.
Safety and reliability of control systems Control systems must be designed and constructed in such a way as to prevent hazardous situations from arising.
Above all, they must be designed and constructed in such a way that: - they can withstand the intended operating stresses and external influences, - a fault in the hardware or the software of the control system does not lead to hazardous situations, - errors in the control system logic do not lead to hazardous situations, - reasonably foreseeable human error during operation does not lead to hazardous situations.
Particular attention must be given to the following points: - the machinery must not start unexpectedly, - the parameters of the machinery must not change in an uncontrolled way, where such change may lead to hazardous situations, - the machinery must not be prevented from stopping if the stop command has already been given, - no moving part of the machinery or piece held by the machinery must fall or be ejected, - automatic or manual stopping of the moving parts, whatever they may be, must be unimpeded, - the protective devices must remain fully effective or give a stop command, - the safety-related parts of the control system must apply in a coherent way to the whole of an assembly of machinery and/or partly completed machinery.
If necessary, means must be provided to ensure that the machinery can be controlled only from control positions located in one or more predetermined zones or locations.
Starting It must be possible to start machinery only by voluntary actuation of a control device provided for the purpose.
The same requirement applies: - when restarting the machinery after a stoppage, whatever the cause, - when effecting a significant change in the operating conditions.
However, the restarting of the machinery or a change in operating conditions may be effected by voluntary actuation of a device other than the control device provided for the purpose, on condition that this does not lead to a hazardous situation.
Stopping 1.2.4.1.
If machinery has been designed and constructed to allow its use in several control or operating modes requiring different protective measures and/or work procedures, it must be fitted with a mode selector which can be locked in each position.
If, for certain operations, the machinery must be able to operate with a guard displaced or removed and/or a protective device disabled, the control or operating mode selector must simultaneously: - disable all other control or operating modes, - permit operation of hazardous functions only by control devices requiring sustained action, - permit the operation of hazardous functions only in reduced risk conditions while preventing hazards from linked sequences, - prevent any operation of hazardous functions by voluntary or involuntary action on the machine's sensors.
Particular attention must be given to the following points: - the machinery must not start unexpectedly, - the parameters of the machinery must not change in an uncontrolled way when such change can lead to hazardous situations, - the machinery must not be prevented from stopping if the command has already been given, - no moving part of the machinery or piece held by the machinery must fall or be ejected, - automatic or manual stopping of the moving parts, whatever they may be, must be unimpeded, - the protective devices must remain fully effective or give a stop command. 1.3.
Risks related to combined machinery Where the machinery is intended to carry out several different operations with manual removal of the piece between each operation (combined machinery), it must be designed and constructed in such a way as to enable each element to be used separately without the other elements constituting a risk for exposed persons.
However, when certain moving parts directly involved in the process cannot be made completely inaccessible during operation owing to operations requiring operator intervention, such parts must be fitted with: - fixed guards or interlocking movable guards preventing access to those sections of the parts that are not used in the work, and - adjustable guards as referred to in section 1.4.2.3 restricting access to those sections of the moving parts where access is necessary. 1.3.9.
Interlocking movable guards Interlocking movable guards must: - as far as possible remain attached to the machinery when open, - be designed and constructed in such a way that they can be adjusted only by means of an intentional action.
Interlocking movable guards must be associated with an interlocking device that: - prevents the start of hazardous machinery functions until they are closed and - gives a stop command whenever they are no longer closed.
Interlocking movable guards must be designed in such a way that the absence or failure of one of their components prevents starting or stops the hazardous machinery functions. 1.4.2.3.
Special requirements for protective devices Protective devices must be designed and incorporated into the control system in such a way that: - moving parts cannot start up while they are within the operator's reach, - persons cannot reach moving parts while the parts are moving, and - the absence or failure of one of their components prevents starting or stops the moving parts.
Energy supply other than electricity Where machinery is powered by source of energy other than electricity, it must be so designed, constructed and equipped as to avoid all potential risks associated with such sources of energy. 1.5.4.
Fire Machinery must be designed and constructed in such a way as to avoid any risk of fire or overheating posed by the machinery itself or by gases, liquids, dust, vapours or other substances produced or used by the machinery. 1.5.7.
Explosion Machinery must be designed and constructed in such a way as to avoid any risk of explosion posed by the machinery itself or by gases, liquids, dust, vapours or other substances produced or used by the machinery.
Vibrations Machinery must be designed and constructed in such a way that risks resulting from vibrations produced by the machinery are reduced to the lowest level, taking account of technical progress and the availability of means of reducing vibration, in particular at source.
Emissions of hazardous materials and substances Machinery must be designed and constructed in such a way that risks of inhalation, ingestion, contact with the skin, eyes and mucous membranes and penetration through the skin of hazardous materials and substances which it produces can be avoided.
Risk of slipping, tripping or falling Parts of the machinery where persons are liable to move about or stand must be designed and constructed in such a way as to prevent persons slipping, tripping or falling on or off these parts.
MAINTENANCE 1.6.1.
If one or more of the above conditions cannot be satisfied for technical reasons, measures must be taken to ensure that these operations can be carried out safely (see section 1.2.5).
In the case of automated machinery and, where necessary, other machinery, a connecting device for mounting diagnostic fault-finding equipment must be provided.
In this case, special steps must be taken to ensure operator safety. 1.6.4.
If operator intervention cannot be avoided, it must be possible to carry it out easily and safely. 1.6.5.
INFORMATION 1.7.1.
Any written or verbal information and warnings must be expressed in an official Community language or languages, which may be determined in accordance with the Treaty by the Member State in which the machinery is placed on the market and/or put into service and may be accompanied, on request, by versions in any other official Community language or languages understood by the operators. 1.7.1.1.
Warning devices Where the health and safety of persons may be endangered by a fault in the operation of unsupervised machinery, the machinery must be equipped in such a way as to give an appropriate acoustic or light signal as a warning.
Marking of machinery All machinery must be marked visibly, legibly and indelibly with the following minimum particulars: - the business name and full address of the manufacturer and, where applicable, his authorised representative, - designation of the machinery, - the CE Marking (see Annex III), - designation of series or type, - serial number, if any, - the year of construction, that is the year in which the manufacturing process is completed.
Where a machine part must be handled during use with lifting equipment, its mass must be indicated legibly, indelibly and unambiguously. 1.7.4.
Instructions All machinery must be accompanied by instructions in the official Community language or languages of the Member State in which it is placed on the market and/or put into service.
Contents of the instructions Each instruction manual must contain, where applicable, at least the following information: (a) the business name and full address of the manufacturer and of his authorised representative; (b) the designation of the machinery as marked on the machinery itself, except for the serial number (see section 1.7.3); (c) the EC declaration of conformity, or a document setting out the contents of the EC declaration of conformity, showing the particulars of the machinery, not necessarily including the serial number and the signature; (d) a general description of the machinery; (e) the drawings, diagrams, descriptions and explanations necessary for the use, maintenance and repair of the machinery and for checking its correct functioning; (f) a description of the workstation(s) likely to be occupied by operators; (g) a description of the intended use of the machinery; (h) warnings concerning ways in which the machinery must not be used that experience has shown might occur; (i) assembly, installation and connection instructions, including drawings, diagrams and the means of attachment and the designation of the chassis or installation on which the machinery is to be mounted; (j) instructions relating to installation and assembly for reducing noise or vibration; (k) instructions for the putting into service and use of the machinery and, if necessary, instructions for the training of operators; (l) information about the residual risks that remain despite the inherent safe design measures, safeguarding and complementary protective measures adopted; (m) instructions on the protective measures to be taken by the user, including, where appropriate, the personal protective equipment to be provided; (n) the essential characteristics of tools which may be fitted to the machinery; (o) the conditions in which the machinery meets the requirement of stability during use, transportation, assembly, dismantling when out of service, testing or foreseeable breakdowns; (p) instructions with a view to ensuring that transport, handling and storage operations can be made safely, giving the mass of the machinery and of its various parts where these are regularly to be transported separately; (q) the operating method to be followed in the event of accident or breakdown; if a blockage is likely to occur, the operating method to be followed so as to enable the equipment to be safely unblocked; (r) the description of the adjustment and maintenance operations that should be carried out by the user and the preventive maintenance measures that should be observed; (s) instructions designed to enable adjustment and maintenance to be carried out safely, including the protective measures that should be taken during these operations; (t) the specifications of the spare parts to be used, when these affect the health and safety of operators; (u) the following information on airborne noise emissions: - the A-weighted emission sound pressure level at workstations, where this exceeds 70 dB(A); where this level does not exceed 70 dB(A), this fact must be indicated, - the peak C-weighted instantaneous sound pressure value at workstations, where this exceeds 63 Pa (130 dB in relation to 20 μPa), - the A-weighted sound power level emitted by the machinery, where the A-weighted emission sound pressure level at workstations exceeds 80 dB(A).
Where the workstation(s) are undefined or cannot be defined, A-weighted sound pressure levels must be measured at a distance of 1 metre from the surface of the machinery and at a height of 1,6 metres from the floor or access platform.
Where specific Community Directives lay down other requirements for the measurement of sound pressure levels or sound power levels, those Directives must be applied and the corresponding provisions of this section shall not apply; (v) where machinery is likely to emit non-ionising radiation which may cause harm to persons, in particular persons with active or non-active implantable medical devices, information concerning the radiation emitted for the operator and exposed persons. 1.7.4.3.
SUPPLEMENTARY ESSENTIAL HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN CATEGORIES OF MACHINERY Foodstuffs machinery, machinery for cosmetics or pharmaceutical products, hand-held and/or hand-guided machinery, portable fixing and other impact machinery, machinery for working wood and material with similar physical characteristics must meet all the essential health and safety requirements described in this chapter (see General Principles, point 4). 2.1.
The handles of portable machinery must be designed and constructed in such a way as to make starting and stopping straightforward. 2.2.1.1.
Portable fixing and other impact machinery 2.2.2.1.
General Portable fixing and other impact machinery must be designed and constructed in such a way that: - energy is transmitted to the impacted element by the intermediary component that does not leave the device, - an enabling device prevents impact unless the machinery is positioned correctly with adequate pressure on the base material, - involuntary triggering is prevented; where necessary, an appropriate sequence of actions on the enabling device and the control device must be required to trigger an impact, - accidental triggering is prevented during handling or in case of shock, - loading and unloading operations can be carried out easily and safely.
Instructions The instructions must give the necessary information regarding: - the accessories and interchangeable equipment that can be used with the machinery, - the suitable fixing or other impacted elements to be used with the machinery, - where appropriate, the suitable cartridges to be used. 2.3.
MACHINERY FOR WORKING WOOD AND MATERIAL WITH SIMILAR PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS Machinery for working wood and materials with similar physical characteristics must comply with the following requirements: (a) the machinery must be designed, constructed or equipped in such a way that the piece being machined can be placed and guided in safety; where the piece is hand-held on a work-bench, the latter must be sufficiently stable during the work and must not impede the movement of the piece; (b) where the machinery is likely to be used in conditions involving the risk of ejection of workpieces or parts of them, it must be designed, constructed, or equipped in such a way as to prevent such ejection, or, if this is not possible, so that the ejection does not engender risks for the operator and/or exposed persons; (c) the machinery must be equipped with an automatic brake that stops the tool in a sufficiently short time if there is a risk of contact with the tool whilst it runs down; (d) where the tool is incorporated into a non-fully automated machine, the latter must be designed and constructed in such a way as to eliminate or reduce the risk of accidental injury. 3.
The driver may be transported by the machinery or may be on foot, accompanying the machinery, or may guide the machinery by remote control. 3.2.
WORK POSITIONS 3.2.1.
Seating Where there is a risk that operators or other persons transported by the machinery may be crushed between parts of the machinery and the ground should the machinery roll or tip over, in particular for machinery equipped with a protective structure referred to in section 3.4.3 or 3.4.4, their seats must be designed or equipped with a restraint system so as to keep the persons in their seats, without restricting movements necessary for operations or movements relative to the structure caused by the suspension of the seats.
In the case of remote controls, each control unit must clearly identify the machinery to be controlled from that unit.
The remote control system must be designed and constructed in such a way as to affect only: - the machinery in question, - the functions in question.
It must not be possible for unintentional movement of the machinery to occur while the engine is being started. 3.3.3.
The driver must be able to slow down and stop self-propelled machinery by means of a main device.
Remote-controlled machinery must be equipped with devices for stopping operation automatically and immediately and for preventing potentially dangerous operation in the following situations: - if the driver loses control, - if it receives a stop signal, - if a fault is detected in a safety-related part of the system, - if no validation signal is detected within a specified time.
Section 1.2.4 does not apply to the travelling function. 3.3.4.
In particular, it must not be possible for movement to occur while the engine is being started.
The control systems for pedestrian-controlled machinery must be designed in such a way as to minimise the risks arising from inadvertent movement of the machine towards the driver, in particular: - crushing, - injury from rotating tools.
The speed of travel of the machinery must be compatible with the pace of a driver on foot.
In order to verify that the structure complies with the requirement laid down in the second paragraph, the manufacturer or his authorised representative must, for each type of structure concerned, perform appropriate tests or have such tests performed. 3.4.4.
Falling objects Where, in the case of self-propelled machinery with a ride-on driver, operator(s) or other person(s), there is a risk due to falling objects or material, the machinery must be designed and constructed in such a way as to take account of this risk and fitted, if its size allows, with an appropriate protective structure.
In order to verify that the structure complies with the requirement laid down in the second paragraph, the manufacturer or his authorised representative must, for each type of structure concerned, perform appropriate tests or have such tests performed. 3.4.5.
All recipient machinery, the operation of which requires a removable mechanical transmission device to connect it to self-propelled machinery (or a tractor), must have a system for attaching the removable mechanical transmission device so that, when the machinery is uncoupled, the removable mechanical transmission device and its guard are not damaged by contact with the ground or part of the machinery.
INFORMATION AND INDICATIONS 3.6.1.
Without prejudice to the provisions of road traffic regulations, machinery with a ride-on driver must have the following equipment: - an acoustic warning device to alert persons, - a system of light signals relevant to the intended conditions of use; the latter requirement does not apply to machinery intended solely for underground working and having no electrical power, - where necessary, there must be an appropriate connection between a trailer and the machinery for the operation of signals.
Marking The following must be shown legibly and indelibly on all machinery: - nominal power expressed in kilowatts (kW), - mass of the most usual configuration, in kilograms (kg); and, where appropriate: - maximum drawbar pull provided for at the coupling hook, in Newtons (N), - maximum vertical load provided for on the coupling hook, in Newtons (N). 3.6.3.
Instructions 3.6.3.1.
Multiple uses The instructions for machinery allowing several uses depending on the equipment used and the instructions for the interchangeable equipment must contain the information necessary for safe assembly and use of the basic machinery and the interchangeable equipment that can be fitted. 4.
SUPPLEMENTARY ESSENTIAL HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS TO OFFSET HAZARDS DUE TO LIFTING OPERATIONS Machinery presenting hazards due to lifting operations must meet all the relevant essential health and safety requirements described in this chapter (see General Principles, point 4). 4.1.
Mechanical strength Machinery, lifting accessories and their components must be capable of withstanding the stresses to which they are subjected, both in and, where applicable, out of use, under the installation and operating conditions provided for and in all relevant configurations, with due regard, where appropriate, to the effects of atmospheric factors and forces exerted by persons.
Machinery and lifting accessories must be designed and constructed in such a way as to prevent failure from fatigue and wear, taking due account of their intended use.
Machinery and lifting accessories must be designed and constructed in such a way as to withstand the overload in the static tests without permanent deformation or patent defect.
In order to verify that an adequate working coefficient has been attained, the manufacturer or his authorised representative must, for each type of chain and rope used directly for lifting the load and for the rope ends, perform the appropriate tests or have such tests performed. 4.1.2.5.
The working coefficient of chains must be chosen in such a way as to guarantee an adequate level of safety; this coefficient is, as a general rule, equal to 4; (c) the working coefficient for textile ropes or slings is dependent on the material, method of manufacture, dimensions and use.
Machinery with guided loads must be designed and constructed in such a way as to prevent persons from being injured by movement of the load, the carrier or the counterweights, if any. 4.1.2.8.
Machinery serving fixed landings 4.1.2.8.1.
Access to the carrier Where persons have access to the carrier, the machinery must be designed and constructed in such a way as to ensure that the carrier remains stationary during access, in particular while it is being loaded or unloaded.
The machinery must be designed and constructed in such a way as to ensure that the difference in level between the carrier and the landing being served does not create a risk of tripping. 4.1.2.8.3.
Risks due to contact with the moving carrier Where necessary in order to fulfil the requirement expressed in the second paragraph of section 4.1.2.7, the travel zone must be rendered inaccessible during normal operation.
Risk due to the load falling off the carrier Where there is a risk due to the load falling off the carrier, the machinery must be designed and constructed in such a way as to prevent this risk. 4.1.2.8.5.
Landings Risks due to contact of persons at landings with the moving carrier or other moving parts must be prevented.
Where there is a risk due to persons falling into the travel zone when the carrier is not present at the landings, guards must be fitted in order to prevent this risk.
They must be fitted with an interlocking device controlled by the position of the carrier that prevents: - hazardous movements of the carrier until the guards are closed and locked, - hazardous opening of a guard until the carrier has stopped at the corresponding landing. 4.1.3.
Fitness for purpose When lifting machinery or lifting accessories are placed on the market or are first put into service, the manufacturer or his authorised representative must ensure, by taking appropriate measures or having them taken, that the machinery or the lifting accessories which are ready for use — whether manually or power-operated — can fulfil their specified functions safely.
The static and dynamic tests referred to in section 4.1.2.3 must be performed on all lifting machinery ready to be put into service.
Control of movements Hold-to-run control devices must be used to control the movements of the machinery or its equipment.
However, for partial or complete movements in which there is no risk of the load or the machinery colliding, the said devices may be replaced by control devices authorising automatic stops at pre-selected positions without the operator holding a hold-to-run control device. 4.2.2.
Loading control Machinery with a maximum working load of not less than 1000 kilograms or an overturning moment of not less than 40000 Nm must be fitted with devices to warn the driver and prevent dangerous movements in the event: - of overloading, either as a result of the maximum working load or the maximum working moment due to the load being exceeded, or - of the overturning moment being exceeded. 4.2.3.
INFORMATION AND MARKINGS 4.3.1.
In the case of lifting accessories on which marking is physically impossible, the particulars referred to in the first paragraph must be displayed on a plate or other equivalent means and securely affixed to the accessory.
Where the maximum working load depends on the configuration of the machinery, each operating position must be provided with a load plate indicating, preferably in diagrammatic form or by means of tables, the working load permitted for each configuration.
INSTRUCTIONS 4.4.1.
Lifting machinery Lifting machinery must be accompanied by instructions containing information on: (a) the technical characteristics of the machinery, and in particular: - the maximum working load and, where appropriate, a copy of the load plate or load table described in the second paragraph of section 4.3.3, - the reactions at the supports or anchors and, where appropriate, characteristics of the tracks, - where appropriate, the definition and the means of installation of the ballast; (b) the contents of the logbook, if the latter is not supplied with the machinery; (c) advice for use, particularly to offset the lack of direct vision of the load by the operator; (d) where appropriate, a test report detailing the static and dynamic tests carried out by or for the manufacturer or his authorised representative; (e) for machinery which is not assembled on the premises of the manufacturer in the form in which it is to be used, the necessary instructions for performing the measures referred to in section 4.1.3 before it is first put into service. 5.
SUPPLEMENTARY ESSENTIAL HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR MACHINERY INTENDED FOR UNDERGROUND WORK Machinery intended for underground work must meet all the essential health and safety requirements described in this chapter (see General Principles, point 4). 5.1.
The control devices must be protected against any accidental release. 5.4.
SUPPLEMENTARY ESSENTIAL HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR MACHINERY PRESENTING PARTICULAR HAZARDS DUE TO THE LIFTING OF PERSONS Machinery presenting hazards due to the lifting of persons must meet all the relevant essential health and safety requirements described in this chapter (see General Principles, point 4). 6.1.
Mechanical strength The carrier, including any trapdoors, must be designed and constructed in such a way as to offer the space and strength corresponding to the maximum number of persons permitted on the carrier and the maximum working load.
Machinery intended for lifting persons or persons and goods must be fitted with a suspension or supporting system for the carrier designed and constructed in such a way as to ensure an adequate overall level of safety and to prevent the risk of the carrier falling.
The control devices for these movements must be of the hold-to-run type except where the carrier itself is completely enclosed. 6.3.
Risks due to movements of the carrier Machinery for lifting persons must be designed, constructed or equipped in such a way that the acceleration or deceleration of the carrier does not engender risks for persons. 6.3.2.
Any trapdoor in floors or ceilings or side doors must be designed and constructed in such a way as to prevent inadvertent opening and must open in a direction that obviates any risk of falling, should they open unexpectedly. 6.3.3.
Risk due to objects falling on the carrier Where there is a risk of objects falling on the carrier and endangering persons, the carrier must be equipped with a protective roof. 6.4.
Risks to persons in or on the carrier The carrier must be designed and constructed in such a way as to prevent risks due to contact between persons and/or objects in or on the carrier with any fixed or moving elements.
Where necessary in order to fulfil this requirement, the carrier itself must be completely enclosed with doors fitted with an interlocking device that prevents hazardous movements of the carrier unless the doors are closed.
The machinery must be designed, constructed and, where necessary, equipped with devices in such a way as to prevent uncontrolled upward or downward movement of the carrier.
Access to the carrier The guards at the landings and on the carrier must be designed and constructed in such a way as to ensure safe transfer to and from the carrier, taking into consideration the foreseeable range of goods and persons to be lifted. 6.5.
MARKINGS The carrier must bear the information necessary to ensure safety including: - the number of persons permitted on the carrier, - the maximum working load. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX II Declarations 1.
CUSTODY The manufacturer of machinery or his authorised representative shall keep the original EC declaration of conformity for a period of at least 10 years from the last date of manufacture of the machinery.
The manufacturer of partly completed machinery or his authorised representative shall keep the original declaration of incorporation for a period of at least 10 years from the last date of manufacture of the partly completed machinery. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX III CE marking The CE conformity marking shall consist of the initials %quot%CE%quot% taking the following form: +++++ TIFF +++++ If the CE marking is reduced or enlarged the proportions shown in the above drawing must be respected.
The various components of the CE marking must have substantially the same vertical dimension, which may not be less than 5 mm.
The CE marking must be affixed in the immediate vicinity of the name of the manufacturer or his authorised representative, using the same technique.
Where the full quality assurance procedure referred to in Article 12(3)(c) and 12(4)(b) has been applied, the CE marking must be followed by the identification number of the notified body. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX IV Categories of machinery to which one of the procedures referred to in Article 12(3) and (4) must be applied 1.
Combined machinery of the types referred to in points 1 to 4 and in point 7 for working with wood and material with similar physical characteristics. 6.
Hand-fed vertical spindle moulding machinery for working with wood and material with similar physical characteristics. 8.
Presses, including press-brakes, for the cold working of metals, with manual loading and/or unloading, whose movable working parts may have a travel exceeding 6 mm and a speed exceeding 30 mm/s. 10.
Injection or compression plastics-moulding machinery with manual loading or unloading. 11.
Machinery for underground working of the following types: 12.1.
locomotives and brake-vans; 12.2.
Removable mechanical transmission devices including their guards. 15.
Guards for removable mechanical transmission devices. 16.
Devices for the lifting of persons or of persons and goods involving a hazard of falling from a vertical height of more than three metres. 18.
Portable cartridge-operated fixing and other impact machinery. 19.
Power-operated interlocking movable guards designed to be used as safeguards in machinery referred to in points 9, 10 and 11. 21.
Roll-over protective structures (ROPS). 23.
Falling-object protective structures (FOPS). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX V Indicative list of the safety components referred to in Article 2(c) 1.
Guards for removable mechanical transmission devices. 2.
Power-operated interlocking movable guards designed to be used as safeguards in machinery referred to in items 9, 10 and 11 of Annex IV. 4.
Valves with additional means for failure detection intended for the control of dangerous movements on machinery. 6.
Guards and protective devices designed to protect persons against moving parts involved in the process on the machinery. 8.
Emergency stop devices. 11.
Discharging systems to prevent the build-up of potentially dangerous electrostatic charges. 12.
Energy limiters and relief devices referred to in sections 1.5.7, 3.4.7 and 4.1.2.6 of Annex I. 13.
Roll-over protective structures (ROPS). 15.
Falling-object protective structures (FOPS). 16.
Two-hand control devices. 17.
Components for machinery designed for lifting and/or lowering persons between different landings and included in the following list: (a) devices for locking landing doors; (b) devices to prevent the load-carrying unit from falling or unchecked upwards movement; (c) overspeed limitation devices; (d) energy-accumulating shock absorbers, - non-linear, or - with damping of the return movement; (e) energy-dissipating shock absorbers; (f) safety devices fitted to jacks of hydraulic power circuits where these are used as devices to prevent falls; (g) electric safety devices in the form of safety switches containing electronic components. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX VI Assembly instructions for partly completed machinery The assembly instructions for partly completed machinery must contain a description of the conditions which must be met with a view to correct incorporation in the final machinery, so as not to compromise safety and health.
The assembly instructions must be written in an official Community language acceptable to the manufacturer of the machinery in which the partly completed machinery will be assembled, or to his authorised representative. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX VII A.
The technical file must demonstrate that the machinery complies with the requirements of this Directive.
The technical file must be compiled in one or more official Community languages, except for the instructions for the machinery, for which the special provisions of Annex I, section 1.7.4.1 apply. 1.
The technical file shall comprise the following: (a) a construction file including: - a general description of the machinery, - the overall drawing of the machinery and drawings of the control circuits, as well as the pertinent descriptions and explanations necessary for understanding the operation of the machinery, - full detailed drawings, accompanied by any calculation notes, test results, certificates, etc., required to check the conformity of the machinery with the essential health and safety requirements, - the documentation on risk assessment demonstrating the procedure followed, including: (i) a list of the essential health and safety requirements which apply to the machinery, (ii) the description of the protective measures implemented to eliminate identified hazards or to reduce risks and, when appropriate, the indication of the residual risks associated with the machinery, - the standards and other technical specifications used, indicating the essential health and safety requirements covered by these standards, - any technical report giving the results of the tests carried out either by the manufacturer or by a body chosen by the manufacturer or his authorised representative, - a copy of the instructions for the machinery, - where appropriate, the declaration of incorporation for included partly completed machinery and the relevant assembly instructions for such machinery, - where appropriate, copies of the EC declaration of conformity of machinery or other products incorporated into the machinery, - a copy of the EC declaration of conformity; (b) for series manufacture, the internal measures that will be implemented to ensure that the machinery remains in conformity with the provisions of this Directive.
The technical file referred to in point 1 must be made available to the competent authorities of the Member States for at least 10 years following the date of manufacture of the machinery or, in the case of series manufacture, of the last unit produced.
Failure to present the technical file in response to a duly reasoned request by the competent national authorities may constitute sufficient grounds for doubting the conformity of the machinery in question with the essential health and safety requirements.
The documentation must be compiled in one or more official Community languages.
It shall comprise the following: (a) a construction file including: - the overall drawing of the partly completed machinery and drawings of the control circuits, - full detailed drawings, accompanied by any calculation notes, test results, certificates, etc., required to check the conformity of the partly completed machinery with the applied essential health and safety requirements, - the risk assessment documentation showing the procedure followed, including: (i) a list of the essential health and safety requirements applied and fulfilled, (ii) the description of the protective measures implemented to eliminate identified hazards or to reduce risks and, where appropriate, the indication of the residual risks, (iii) the standards and other technical specifications used, indicating the essential health and safety requirements covered by these standards, (iv) any technical report giving the results of the tests carried out either by the manufacturer or by a body chosen by the manufacturer or his authorised representative, (v) a copy of the assembly instructions for the partly completed machinery; (b) for series manufacture, the internal measures that will be implemented to ensure that the partly completed machinery remains in conformity with the essential health and safety requirements applied.
Failure to present the relevant technical documentation in response to a duly reasoned request by the competent national authorities may constitute sufficient grounds for doubting the conformity of the partly completed machinery with the essential health and safety requirements applied and attested. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX VIII Assessment of conformity with internal checks on the manufacture of machinery 1.
This Annex describes the procedure by which the manufacturer or his authorised representative, who carries out the obligations laid down in points 2 and 3, ensures and declares that the machinery concerned satisfies the relevant requirements of this Directive. 2.
For each representative type of the series in question, the manufacturer or his authorised representative shall draw up the technical file referred to in Annex VII, part A. 3.
The manufacturer must take all measures necessary in order that the manufacturing process ensures compliance of the manufactured machinery with the technical file referred to in Annex VII, part A, and with the requirements of this Directive. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX IX EC type-examination EC type-examination is the procedure whereby a notified body ascertains and certifies that a representative model of machinery referred to in Annex IV (hereafter named the type) satisfies the provisions of this Directive. 1.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative must, for each type, draw up the technical file referred to in Annex VII, part A. 2.
For each type, the application for an EC type-examination shall be submitted by the manufacturer or his authorised representative to a notified body of his choice.
The application shall include: - the name and address of the manufacturer and, where appropriate, his authorised representative, - a written declaration that the application has not been submitted to another notified body, - the technical file.
The notified body may ask for further samples if the test programme so requires. 3.
The notified body shall: 3.1.
where harmonised standards referred to in Article 7(2) were used, carry out or have carried out appropriate inspections, measurements and tests to verify that those standards were actually applied; 3.4.
If the type satisfies the provisions of this Directive, the notified body shall issue the applicant with an EC type-examination certificate.
The manufacturer and the notified body shall retain a copy of this certificate, of the technical file and of all the relevant documents for a period of 15 years from the date of issue of the certificate. 9.4.
In the event that the validity of the EC-type examination certificate is not renewed, the manufacturer shall cease the placing on the market of the machinery concerned. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX X Full quality assurance This Annex describes the conformity assessment of machinery referred to in Annex IV, manufactured using a full quality assurance system, and the procedure whereby a notified body assesses and approves the quality system and monitors its application. 1.
The manufacturer must operate an approved quality system for design, manufacture, final inspection and testing, as specified in point 2, and shall be subject to the surveillance referred to in point 3. 2.
Quality system 2.1.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative shall lodge an application for assessment of his quality system to a notified body of his choice.
The application shall contain: - the name and address of the manufacturer and, where appropriate, his authorised representative, - the places of design, manufacture, inspection, testing and storage of the machinery, - the technical file described in Annex VII, Part A, for one model of each category of machinery referred to in Annex IV which he intends to manufacture, - the documentation on the quality system, - a written declaration that the application has not been submitted to another notified body. 2.2.
It must contain, in particular, an adequate description of: - the quality objectives, the organisational structure, and the responsibilities and powers of the management with regard to the design and quality of the machinery, - the technical design specifications, including standards that will be applied and, where the standards referred to in Article 7(2) are not applied in full, the means that will be used to ensure that the essential health and safety requirements of this Directive are fulfilled, - the design inspection and design verification techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used when designing machinery covered by this Directive, - the corresponding manufacturing, quality control and quality assurance techniques, processes and systematic actions that will be used, - the inspections and tests that will be carried out before, during and after manufacture, and the frequency with which they will be carried out, - the quality records, such as inspection reports and test data, calibration data, and reports on the qualifications of the personnel concerned, - the means of monitoring the achievement of the required design and quality of the machinery, as well as the effective operation of the quality system. 2.3.
Surveillance under the responsibility of the notified body 3.1.
The manufacturer or his authorised representative shall keep available for the national authorities, for a period of ten years from the last date of manufacture: - the documentation referred to in point 2.1, - the decisions and reports of the notified body referred to in point 2.4, third and fourth subparagraphs, and in points 3.3 and 3.4. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX XI Minimum criteria to be taken into account by Member States for the notification of bodies 1.
