It should carry a certificate of compliance issued by the Administration of the flag State, which should be accepted by all other Member States. (23) The SOLAS 90 Standard provides a level of safety equivalent to the specific stability requirements established by this Directive for ships operating in sea areas where the significant wave height is equal to or less than 1,5 m. (24) In view of the structural modifications that the existing ro-ro passenger ships may need to undergo in order to comply with the specific stability requirements, those requirements should be introduced over a period of years in order to allow to the part of the industry affected sufficient time to comply: to that end, a phasing-in timetable for existing ships should be provided.
This Directive shall apply to all ro-ro passenger ships operating to or from a port of a Member State on a regular service, regardless of their flag, when engaged on international voyages. 2.
Each Member State, in its capacity as host State, shall ensure that ro-ro passenger ships, flying the flag of a State which is not a Member State, comply fully with the requirements of this Directive before they may be engaged on voyages from or to ports of that Member State in accordance with Article 4 of Directive 1999/35/EC.
Article 4 Significant wave heights The significant wave heights (hS) shall be used for determining the height of water on the car deck when applying the specific stability requirements contained in Annex I.
The figures of significant wave heights shall be those which are not exceeded by a probability of more than 10 % on a yearly basis.
Article 5 Sea areas 1.
Host States shall establish, not later than 17 May 2004, a list of sea areas crossed by ro-ro passenger ships operating on regular service to or from their ports as well as the corresponding values of significant wave heights in these areas. 2.
Article 6 Specific stability requirements 1.
Without prejudice to the requirements of Regulation II-I/B/8 of the SOLAS Convention (SOLAS 90 standard) relating to watertight subdivision and stability in damaged condition, all ro-ro passenger ships referred to in Article 3(1) shall comply with the specific stability requirements set out in Annex I to this Directive. 2.
For ro-ro passenger ships operating exclusively in sea areas where the significant wave height is equal to or lower than 1,5 metres, compliance with the requirements of the regulation referred to in paragraph 1 shall be considered equivalent to compliance with the specific stability requirements set out in Annex I. 3.
In applying the requirements set out in Annex I, Member States shall use the guidelines set out in Annex II, in so far this is practicable and compatible with the design of the ship in question.
Article 7 Introduction of the specific stability requirements 1.
Existing ro-ro passenger ships which on 17 May 2003 are in compliance with the requirements of the regulation referred to in Article 6(1) shall comply with the specific stability requirements as set out in Annex I not later than 1 October 2015. 3.
Article 8 Certificates 1.
All new and existing ro-ro passenger ships flying the flag of a Member State shall carry a certificate confirming compliance with the specific stability requirements established in Article 6 and Annex I.
Each Member State acting in its capacity as host State shall recognise certificates issued by another Member State in pursuance of this Directive. 3.
Article 9 Seasonal and short-time period operations 1.
The value of the significant wave height applicable for this shorter time period shall be agreed between the Member States or, wherever applicable and possible, between Member States and third countries at both ends of the route. 4.
Article 11 Committee 1.
Article 12 Penalties Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and shall take all the measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
Article 13 Implementation Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before 17 November 2004.
Article 14 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 15 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 14 April 2003.
Cox For the Council The President A.
In addition to the requirements of Regulation II-1/B/8 of the SOLAS Convention relating to watertight subdivision and stability in damaged condition, all ro-ro passenger ships referred to in Article 3(1) shall comply with the requirements of this Annex. 1.1.
The amount of assumed accumulated sea water shall be calculated on the basis of a water surface having a fixed height above: (a) the lowest point of the deck edge of the damaged compartment of the ro-ro deck; or (b) when the deck edge of the damaged compartment is submerged then the calculation is based on a fixed height above the still water surface at all heel and trim angles; as follows: 0,5 m if the residual freeboard (fr) is 0,3 m or less, 0,0 m if the residual freeboard (fr) is 2,0 m or more, and intermediate values to be determined by linear interpolation, if the residual freeboard (fr) is 0,3 m or more but less than 2,0 m, where the residual freeboard (fr) is the minimum distance between the damaged ro-ro deck and the final waterline at the location of the damage in the damage case being considered without taking into account the effect of the volume of assumed accumulated water on the damaged ro-ro deck, 1.2.
For ships in geographically defined restricted areas of operation, the administration of the flag State may reduce the height of the water surface prescribed in accordance with point 1.1 by substituting such height of the water surface by the following: 1.3.1. 0,0 m if the significant wave height (hs) defining the area concerned is 1,5 m or less; 1.3.2.
the value determined in accordance with paragraph 1.1 if the significant wave height (hs) defining the area concerned is 4,0 m or above; 1.3.3.
intermediate values to be determined by linear interpolation if the significant wave height (hs) defining the area concerned is 1,5 m or more but less than 4,0 m, provided that the following conditions are fulfilled: 1.3.4.
the flag State administration is satisfied that the defined area is represented by the significant wave height (hs) which is not exceeded with a probability of more than 10 %; and 1.3.5.
the information supplied to the master in accordance with Regulations II-1/B/8.7.1 and II-1/B/8.7.2, as developed for compliance with Regulations II-1/B/8.2.3 to II-1/B/8.2.3.4, shall apply unchanged for ro-ro passenger ships approved according to these requirements. 2.
For assessing the effect of the volume of the assumed accumulated sea water on the damaged ro-ro deck in paragraph 1, the following provisions shall prevail: 2.1.
A %amp%gt;= 0,3 l where A is the total area of freeing ports on each side of the deck in m2; and l is the length of the compartment in m; 2.5.2.
the ship shall maintain a residual freeboard of at least 1,0 m in the worst damage condition without taking into account the effect of the assumed volume of water on the damaged ro-ro deck; and 2.5.3.
such freeing ports shall be located within the height of 0,6 m above the damaged ro-ro deck, and the lower edge of the ports shall be within 2 cm above the damaged ro-ro deck; and 2.5.4.
When determining significant wave height, the wave heights given on the maps or list of sea areas established by Member States in line with Article 5 of this Directive shall be used. 3.1.
Objectives In the tests provided for in paragraph 1.4 of the stability requirements included in Annex I, the ship should be capable of withstanding a seaway as defined in paragraph 3 hereunder in the worst-damage-case scenario. 2.
Ship model 2.1.
An additional test is required at a level keel midship damage, if the worst damage location according to the SOLAS 90 standard is outside the range ± 10 % Lpp from the midship.
isosceles triangular profile in the horizontal plane with a height equal to B/5 according to Regulation II-1/B/8.4.2 of the SOLAS Convention. 3.
The model should be subjected to a long-crested irregular seaway defined by the Jonswap spectrum with a significant wave height hs defined in paragraph 1.3 of the stability requirements and having peak enhancement factor γ and peak period Tp as follows: 3.1.1.
Tp = 4[radic ]hs with γ = 3,3; and 3.1.2.
Tp equal to the roll resonant period for the damaged ship without water on deck at the specified loading condition but not higher than 6[radic ]hs and with γ = 1. 3.2.
the worst midship damage case with regard to the residual freeboard in the midship area if required by paragraph 2.1. 4.
Test approval 5.1.
Paragraph 1 As a first step all ro-ro passenger ships referred to in Article 3(1) of this Directive must comply with the SOLAS 90 standard of residual stability as it applies to all passenger ships constructed on or after 29 April 1990.
It is the application of this requirement that defines the residual freeboard fr, necessary for the calculations required in paragraph 1.1.
The height (hw) of water on deck is dependent on the residual freeboard (fr) after damage, and is measured in way of the damage (see figure 1).
The residual freeboard, is the minimum distance between the damaged ro-ro deck and the final waterline (after equalisation measures if any have been taken) in way of the assumed damage after examining all possible damage scenarios in determining the compliance with the SOLAS 90 standard as required in paragraph 1 of Annex I.
No account should be taken of the effect of the hypothetical volume of water assumed to have accumulated on the damaged ro-ro deck when calculating fr. 3.
If fr is 2,0 m or more, no water is assumed to accumulate on the ro-ro deck.
If fr is 0,3 m or less, then height hw is assumed to be 0,5 m.
These areas are designated in accordance with the significant wave height (hs) defining the area in line with the provisions of Article 5 of this Directive. 2.
If the significant wave height (hs), in the area concerned, is 1,5 m or less then no additional water is assumed to accumulate on the damaged ro-ro deck.
If the significant wave height in the area concerned is 4,0 m or more then the height of the assumed accumulated water shall be the value calculated in accordance with paragraph 1.1.
It should be noted that the assumed permeability of the car deck spaces is to be taken as 90 % (MSC/Circ.649 refers), whereas other assumed flooded spaces permeabilities are to be those prescribed in the SOLAS Convention. 4.
Paragraphs 1.4 and 1.5 As an alternative to complying with the new stability requirements in paragraph 1.1 or 1.3 an administration may accept proof of compliance via model tests.
Guidance notes on the model tests are contained in part II of this Annex.
Paragraph 2.2 If side structural sponsons are fitted to enable compliance with Regulation II-1/B/8, and as a consequence there is an increase in the breadth (B) of the ship and hence the vessel's B/5 distance from the ship's side, such modification shall not cause the relocation of any existing structural parts or any existing penetrations of the main transverse watertight bulkheads below the bulkhead deck (see figure 5).
Paragraph 2.3 1.
The height (Bh) of transverse and longitudinal bulkheads/barriers shall be not less than (8 x hw) metres, where hw is the height of the accumulated water as calculated by application of the residual freeboard and significant wave height ( as referred to in paragraphs 1.1 and 1.3).
Paragraph 2.5.1 The area %quot%A%quot% relates to permanent openings.
The lower edge of the freeing port opening must be no higher than 2 cm above the bulkhead deck and the upper edge of the opening no higher than 0,6 m (see figure 8).
Model particulars 2.2.1.
It is therefore recommended that the model length is not less than that corresponding to 1:40 scale.
The transverse radius of gyration of the actual ship is not to be taken as being greater than 0,4B and the longitudinal radius of gyration is not to be taken as being more than 0,25L.
Nevertheless the damaged model must be rolled in order to obtain the rolling period required to perform the tests as per paragraph 3.1.2. 2.2.4.
Paragraph 3 - Procedure for experiments 3.1.
Therefore an error margin of 5 % is allowed.
Paragraphs 3.2, 3.3, 3.4 The contents of these paragraphs are considered self-explanatory.
Paragraph 4 - Survival criteria The contents of this paragraph are considered self-explanatory.
Paragraph 5 - Test approval The following documents are to be part of the report to the administration: (a) damage stability calculations for worst SOLAS and mid-ship damage (if different); (b) general arrangement drawing of the model together with details of construction and instrumentation; (c) inclining experiment and rolling test reports; (d) calculations of actual ship and model rolling periods; and (e) nominal and measured wave spectra (near the wave-making machine and near the model respectively); (f) representative record of model motions, attitude and drift; (g) relevant video recordings.
If fr %amp%gt;= 2,0 metres, height of water on deck (hw) = 0,0 metres. 2.
If fr %amp%lt; 0,3 metres, height of water on deck (hw) = 0,5 metres.
Figure 3 %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2003123EN.003702.TIF%quot%%gt% 1.
