Article 3 Without prejudice to Article 5(1) this Directive shall not apply: - where genetic modification is obtained through the use of the techniques/methods listed in Annex II, Part A, or - for contained uses involving only types of GMMs meeting the criteria listed in Annex II, Part B which establish their safety to human health and the environment.
The assessment referred to in paragraph 2 shall result in the final classification of the contained uses in four classes applying the procedure set out in Annex III, which will result in the assignment of containment levels in accordance with Article 6: %gt%TABLE%gt% 4.
A record of the assessment referred to in paragraph (2) shall be kept by the user and made available in an appropriate form to the competent authority as part of the notification pursuant to Articles 7, 9 and 10 or on request.
Article 7 When premises are to be used for the first time for contained uses, the user shall be required to submit to the competent authorities, before commencing such use, a notification containing at least the information listed in Annex V, Part A.
Article 8 Following the notification referred to in Article 7, subsequent class 1 contained use may proceed without further notification.
If the premises have not been the subject of a previous notification to carry out class 2 or a higher class of contained uses, the class 2 contained use may, in the absence of any indication to the contrary from the competent authority, proceed 45 days after submission of the notification referred to in paragraph 1, or earlier with the agreement of the competent authority.
Member States shall designate the authority or authorities competent to implement the measures which they adopt in application of this Directive and to receive and acknowledge the notifications referred to in Articles 7, 9 and 10. 2.
Article 12 If the user becomes aware of relevant new information or modifies the contained use in a way which could have significant consequences for the risks posed by it, the competent authority shall be informed as soon as possible and the notification pursuant to Articles 7, 9 and 10 shall be modified.
Article 13 Where a Member State considers it appropriate, it may provide that the public shall be consulted on aspects of the proposed contained use, without prejudice to Article 19.
Article 14 The competent authorities shall ensure that before a contained use commences: (a) an emergency plan is drawn up for contained uses where failure of the containment measures could lead to serious danger, whether immediate or delayed, to humans outside the premises and/or to the environment, except where such an emergency plan has been drawn up under other Community legislation; (b) information on such emergency plans, including the relevant safety measures to be applied, is supplied in an appropriate manner, and without their having to request it, to bodies and authorities liable to be affected by the accident.
Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that, in the event of an accident, the user shall be required to inform immediately the competent authority specified in Article 11 and provide the following information: - the circumstances of the accident, - the identity and quantities of the GMMs concerned, - any information necessary to assess the effects of the accident on the health of the general population and the environment, - the measures taken. 2.
It shall also set up and keep at the disposal of the Member States a register of accidents within the scope of this Directive, including an analysis of the causes of the accidents, experience gained and measures taken to avoid similar accidents in the future.` 2.
Every three years, the Commission shall publish a summary based on the reports referred to in paragraph 2, the first time being on 5 June 2004. 4.
In no case may the following information, when submitted according to Articles 7, 9 or 10, be kept confidential: - the general characteristics of the GMMs, name and address of the notifier, and location of use, - class of contained use and measures of containment, - the evaluation of foreseeable effects, in particular any harmful effects on human health and the environment. 4.
If, for whatever reasons, the notifier withdraws the notification, the competent authority must respect the confidentiality of the information supplied. (*) OJ L 158, 23.6.1990, p. 56.
Article 3 This Directive enters into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 October 1998.
The following should be considered as potentially harmful effects: - disease to humans including allergenic or toxic effects, - disease to animals or plants, - deleterious effects due to the impossibility of treating a disease or providing an effective prophylaxis, - deleterious effects due to establishment or dissemination in the environment, - deleterious effects due to the natural transfer of inserted genetic material to other organisms. 2.
The hazard identification process carried out in accordance with paragraphs 3 to 5, should lead to the identification of the level of risk associated with the GMM. 7.
Table I B presents additions to and modifications of Table I A for glasshouse/growth-room activities involving GMMs.
Table I C presents additions to and modifications of Table I A for activities with animals involving GMMs.
Member states may, in implementing this Annex, incorporate in addition the general principles in paragraphs 1 and 2 in the following tables for the sake of clarity of the requirements.%gt%TABLE%gt% Table I B Containment and other protective measures for glasshouses and growth-rooms The terms %quot%glasshouse%quot% and %quot%growth-room%quot% refer to a structure with walls, a roof and a floor designed and used principally for growing plants in a controlled and protected environment.
All provisions of Table I A shall apply with the following additions/modifications: %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX V PART A Information required for the notification referred to in Article 7: - name of user(s) including those responsible for supervision and safety, - information on the training and qualifications of the persons responsible for supervision and safety, - details of any biological committees or subcommittees, - address and general description of the premises, - a description of the nature of the work which will be undertaken, - the class of the contained uses, - only for class 1 contained uses, a summary of the assessment referred to in Article 5(2) and information on waste management.
