Initiation (1) On 18 December 2002 the Commission announced by a notice (%quot%notice of initiation%quot%) published in the Official Journal of the European Communities the initiation of an anti-dumping proceeding with regard to imports into the Community of bed linen of cotton fibres, pure or mixed with man-made fibres or flax (flax not being the dominant fibre), bleached, dyed or printed (%quot%cotton-type bed linen%quot% or %quot%bed linen%quot%) originating in Pakistan(2). (2) The proceeding was initiated following a complaint lodged in November 2002 by the Committee of the Cotton and Allied Textile Industries of the European Communities (%quot%Eurocoton%quot% or %quot%the complainant%quot%) on behalf of producers representing a major proportion of the total Community production of cotton-type bed linen.
All parties who so requested within the above time limits and showed that there were particular reasons why they should be heard were granted the opportunity to be heard. (5) It was submitted that more than 45 days have lapsed between the lodging date and the initiation date.
Therefore, 4 November 2002 must be considered as the lodging date of the complaint. (6) The notice of initiation has been published on 18 December 2002, which is clearly within 45 days of the lodging of the complaint.
In the light of this, the sample was extended by including the sixth biggest Pakistani exporter. (12) The six selected companies, which represented more than 32 % of Pakistan's volume of exports of bed linen to the Community during the IP, were requested to submit a reply to the anti-dumping questionnaire as determined by the notice of initiation. (13) Requests for individual examination have been submitted by three companies not selected in the sample.
Investigation (17) Questionnaire replies were received from the five sampled complainant Community producers, from the six sampled exporting producers in Pakistan, three exporting producers requesting individual examination and two unrelated importers in the Community. (18) The Commission sought and verified all the information it deemed necessary for the purpose of a determination of dumping, injury, causality and Community interest.
The examination of trends relevant for the assessment of injury covered the period from 1999 to the end of the IP (%quot%period considered%quot%). (20) Given the need to further examine certain aspects of dumping, injury, causality and Community interest, no provisional anti-dumping measures were imposed.
Product concerned (21) The product concerned is bed linen of cotton fibres, pure or mixed with man-made fibres or flax (flax not being the dominant fibre), bleached, dyed or printed originating in Pakistan, currently classifiable within CN codes ex 6302 21 00 (TARIC codes 6302 21 00*81, 6302 21 00*89 ), ex 6302 22 90 (TARIC code 6302 22 90*19 ), ex 6302 31 10 (TARIC code 6302 31 10*90 ), ex 6302 31 90 (TARIC code 6302 31 90*90 ) and ex 6302 32 90 (TARIC code 6302 32 90*19 ).
Like product (27) It was examined whether cotton-type bed linen produced by the Community industry and sold on the Community market, as well as cotton-type bed linen produced in Pakistan and sold on the Community market and on the domestic market were alike to the product concerned. (28) The investigation revealed that although there are different processes in finishing the fabrics (bleaching, dying, printing), products of all finishes share the same physical characteristics and essentially the same use. (29) It was therefore concluded that although there were in some instances differences between product types produced in the Community and those sold for export to the Community, there were no differences in the basic characteristics and uses of the different product types and qualities of bed linen of cotton-type fibres.
By comparing the export prices with the costs of production reported by each company, profits on sales of the product concerned to the Community ranged from more than 20 % to almost 40 % per company, expressed as a percentage of turnover, on average more than 30 %.
These margins were furthermore in sharp contrast with the average negative profit margins (-9,4 % on turnover) reported by the same companies for sales of the product concerned to other countries, and they were also in contrast to the 1,6 % profit margin on turnover reported on average for exports of other textile products including very similar products (processed fabric, table linen, curtains) with similar cost structures, sold also to the same type of clients, or even to the same clients.
It should also be noted that the audited accounts, for the IP or for a period covering most of the IP, of the companies concerned which are producers and sellers of almost exclusively textile products, showed on average an overall profit margin on turnover of approximately 5 %. (31) Besides their conspicuous commercial unreasonableness, the reported profit rates for exports of the product concerned to the Community were furthermore strongly contradicted by all other information available on profit rates for the product concerned exported from Pakistan to the Community, including information made available by the sampled exporting producers themselves. (32) In their injury submission, the exporting producers stated that the low profitability of bed linen is inherent to this industry, which is characterised by large volumes of production and very high competition.
Disruption of on-spot verifications (34) The Commission has sought to verify the highly implausible figures reported in the replies to the anti-dumping questionnaire submitted by the six companies selected in the sample, in line with Article 16 of the basic Regulation. (35) During the verification of the second company, the Commission has received an anonymous life threatening letter addressed personally to the officials carrying out the verifications.
Consequently, the verification visits had to be interrupted. (36) For these reasons, it was only possible to carry out a full verification at the premises of one exporting producer, while a partial verification was carried out at the premises of another exporting producer.
The exports of these two companies represent more than 50 % of the total cif export value to the Community of the sampled exporting producers.
Furthermore, the company acknowledged on spot, and in line with other information available (see recital 32), that there was considerable competition on the Community market amongst different exporting countries, which further indicated that the high profit figures reported for sales of the product concerned by this company were indeed unreasonable. (39) With regard to the partial verification visit carried out at the premises of the second company, it was found that the pricing policy for sales of bed linen to the Community and to other markets did not differ significantly, and could not result in such strongly different profit margins, as reported by the company.
Obviously, this had to be corrected where contradicted by the findings of the on-spot verifications and the information provided by these parties in their further submissions. (48) It should be noted that Article 18 of the basic Regulation provides that the result of the application of facts available may be less favourable to the party than if it had cooperated.
Need to calculate a global dumping margin (49) The information submitted by interested parties, and used to correct the reported costs for each of the six initially sampled companies, contained references to an average profit margin on exports of the product concerned of 2 % to 5 %.
This correction was done by using for all exporting producers a profit margin on export sales of 3,5 % (the issue is explained in full in recital 56).
This also meant that the allocations of cost of manufacturing of the product concerned as presented in the questionnaire replies were not correct and therefore had to be adjusted accordingly pursuant to Article 18 of the basic Regulation.
More importantly, the fact that an average profit margin had to be used as facts available for all exporting producers was a major reason for arriving at the conclusion that it would be inappropriate to specify individual duty rates for each individual exporting producer.
Normal value (53) As the companies selected in the sample had no domestic sales of the like product representing at least 5 % of export sales of the product concerned to the Community, as required by Article 2(2) of the basic Regulation, the domestic sales of the like product by the companies concerned could not be used as a valid basis to determine normal value. (54) In the absence of representative domestic sales made by other producers, normal value had to be constructed in accordance with Article 2(3) of the basic Regulation, by adding to the manufacturing cost of the exported types of the product concerned a reasonable amount for selling, general and administrative costs (%quot%SG%amp% A%quot%) and for profit, determined according to Article 2(6) of the basic Regulation. (55) As concluded in recital 41, it was found that the reported costs of production and, as a consequence, the reported profit margins for exports of the product concerned were false. (56) Of the reported costs of production, only the costs of manufacturing were corrected, as the reported SG%amp% A expenses were found to be in line with the companies' audited accounts.
The amount of profit reduction on exports of the product concerned was allocated on the basis of turnover to export sales of other products and to domestic sales, in order to keep the overall profit in line with the companies' audited accounts. (57) It was argued by the exporting producers and by two associations that it was unreasonable to consider such profit as a reasonable profit for Pakistani exports to the Community market, while at the same time considering a profit margin of 6,5 % as an appropriate minimum for the Community industry. (58) As stated in recital 105, the investigation revealed that exports from Pakistan were strong on the low price segment, while Community industry sales covered mainly branded products.
It was therefore considered that on the basis of these factors such difference in profitability was not unreasonable. (59) A number of corrections had to be introduced to the cost allocation methods which the companies had elaborated exclusively for the purpose of the present investigation, including the allocation of duty drawback and packing expenses, on the basis of the findings of the on spot verifications and the analysis of the replies. (60) For the company which was fully verified, a correction to the reported profit on domestic sales was also necessary in order to bring it into line with GAAP applied in Pakistan. (61) Since no actual data for SG%amp% A and profit pertaining to production and sales of the like product were available for any of the exporting producers under investigation or for any other known exporters or producers, and since no such information was available for the same general category of products, there was no other option but to use any other reasonable method according to Article 2(6)(c) of the basic Regulation to establish an amount for SG%amp% A and for profits. (62) In order to determine an amount for SG%amp% A expenses and for profit, the average of the amounts reported by all six companies originally selected in the sample for SG%amp% A expenses and for profit on domestic sales to unrelated customers, after the corrections as explained in recitals 56 and 60, were used.
Dumping margin (69) According to Article 2(11) of the basic Regulation, the amount of dumping was established on the basis of the comparison of the weighted average normal value of each product type with the weighted average export price of the same product type. (70) On this basis, the overall average dumping margin applicable to all Pakistani exporting producers is 13,1 %, expressed as a percentage of the cif net free-at-Community-frontier price, before duty.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY (71) Within the Community, the product concerned is manufactured by: - producers on behalf of which the complaint was lodged; all producers which were selected in the sample (%quot%the sampled Community producers%quot%) were also complainants, - other Community producers which were not complainants and did not cooperate. (72) The Commission has assessed whether all the above companies could be considered as Community producers within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation.
The output of all the above companies constitutes the Community production. (73) The Community industry is composed of 29 Community producers which cooperated with the Commission, among which are also the five sampled Community producers.
These producers account for 45 % of the Community production of cotton-type bed linen.
Community consumption (75) Community consumption was established on the basis of production volumes of the Community producers according to Eurocoton minus exports based on Eurostat data, plus imports from Pakistan and the other third countries, also based on Eurostat.
After a drop to 31800 tonnes in 2000 imports bounced back to 35500 tonnes in 2001.
The prices of the imports concerned were on a cif basis with an appropriate adjustment for the customs duties and post importation costs. (80) This comparison showed that during the IP the products concerned originating in Pakistan were sold in the Community at prices which undercut the Community industry's prices by more than 50 %, when expressed as a percentage of the latter. 4.
They will be phased out by 31 December 2004.
Indeed, on the basis of consumption figures in the IP the annual 2002 quota corresponds in the case of Pakistan to a market share of around 25 %.
It had increased to 38300 tonnes in 2001, but decreased in the IP.
The turnover generated by these sales increased from EUR 410 Mio in 1999 to EUR 441 Mio in 2001, but subsequently decreased by 5 percentage points to EUR 420 Mio during the IP. (87) Despite the fact that consumption in the Community market increased by 15 % during the same period, the Community industry's market share declined from 20,8 % to 18,9 % during the IP.
The market share fluctuated around 20 % between 1999 and 2001 and decreased by 1,5 percentage points between 2001 and the IP. - Growth (88) While Community consumption grew by 15 % between 1999 and the IP, the sales volume of the Community industry rose by only 4 %.
On the other hand, the volume of total imports rose by 35 % over the same period, with the most significant increase from 120000 tonnes in 2001 to 139000 tonnes during the IP.
In addition, part of the production process is sub-contracted in some of the sampled Community producers. (91) However, for those products that go through a printing process, the printing department was considered to be the factor determining the capacity relating to production of the printed bed linen in all sampled Community producers.
It was found that the capacity utilisation in the printing department decreased steadily from 90 % to 82 %. - Prices (92) Average prices per kg of the sampled Community producers increased gradually from EUR 13,3 to EUR 14,2 over the period considered.
On the other hand, average sales prices per kg of the Community industry overall went up marginally from EUR 11,3 in 1999 to EUR 11,5 in 2001, but dropped subsequently to EUR 11,1 during the IP. - Investments and ability to raise capital (93) Between 1999 and 2001, investments were reduced significantly from EUR 7 Mio to EUR 2,5 Mio.
Between 2001 and the IP, investments remained rather stable and accounted during the IP for only 41 % of the amount invested in 1999. (94) There was no claim from the Community industry nor indication that the Community industry encountered problems to raise capital for its activity. (95) It was submitted that the decrease in investments does not point to injury as the Community industry did not claim to encounter problems in raising capital.
Therefore, this argument had to be rejected. (98) The cash flow generated by the like product diminished considerably from EUR 16,8 Mio in 1999 to EUR 11,3 Mio during the IP.
Between 2000 and the IP, it fell by another 5 %.
Nevertheless, is should be noted that the negative development of cash flow over the period considered is in line with other economic indicators, confirming the negative evolution of the Community industry, and should not be qualified as insignificant. - Wages (99) Labour costs increased by 3,3 % over the period considered, from EUR 35,2 Mio in 1999 to EUR 36,3 Mio during the IP.
These increases are nominal increases and are considerably below the increase in consumer prices of more than 7,8 % over the period considered, which means that real wages have decreased by 3,6 %. - Magnitude of the amount of dumping (100) Given the volume and the price of the dumped imports, the impact of the actual margin of dumping, which is also significant, cannot be considered negligible. 5.
Conclusion on injury (101) The examination of the abovementioned factors shows that between 1999 and the IP, the situation of the Community industry deteriorated.
However, it should be noted that during the same period the Community consumption grew by 15 % whilst the Community industry's market share declined by 9,1 %.
Introduction (103) In accordance with Article 3(6) and (7) of the basic Regulation, it was examined whether the dumped imports originating in Pakistan have caused injury to the Community industry to a degree that enables it to be classified as material.
After a slight decrease between 1999 and 2000, imports recovered in 2001 and rose by 13900 tonnes between 2001 and the IP.
Moreover, it was also found that the Community industry had to withdraw largely from the low priced market segments, where imports from Pakistan are strong, this also underlining the causal link between the dumped imports and injury suffered by the Community industry. (106) Average prices of imports from Pakistan exerted a pressure on the Community industry and forced it on the one hand to decrease prices and on the other hand to shift to more sales of higher value niche products. (107) Given the impact of the imports from Pakistan in the Community market, both in terms of volume and in terms of prices, these imports exerted a significant downward pressure on the Community industry in terms of its sales volumes and prices.
Effects of other factors (a) Subsidised imports originating in India (108) In the parallel anti-subsidy investigation, it was established that subsidised imports originating in India caused material injury to the Community industry.
Their market share increased from 29,6 % in 1999 to 37,7 %.
This is confirmed by the average prices of imports of bed linen originating in Turkey during the IP, which were higher by almost 45 % to those of India and by 34 % to those of Pakistan.
Nevertheless, during the IP, these prices were around 25 % higher than the prices of imports from Pakistan.
Since productivity increased from 6,8 tonnes/employee in 1999 to 7,2 tonnes/employee in the IP, i.e.
Conclusion (116) The substantial increase in volume and market share of the imports originating in Pakistan, especially between 2001 and the IP, as well as the considerable decrease in their sales prices and the level of price undercutting found during the IP coincided in time with the material injury suffered by the Community industry. (117) In the parallel anti-subsidy investigation, it was established that subsidised imports originating in India contributed to the injury suffered by the Community industry.
imports from countries other than India and Pakistan, the demand situation, imports made by the Community industry as well as the export and productivity performance were analysed, but found not to break the causal link between the Pakistani imports and the injury suffered by the Community industry. (118) Based on the above analysis which has properly distinguished and separated the effects of all known factors on the situation of the Community industry from the injurious effects of the dumped imports, it is concluded that the imports from Pakistan have caused material injury to the Community within the meaning of Article 3(6) of the basic Regulation.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
General remarks (119) In accordance with Article 21 of the basic Regulation, it was examined whether, despite the conclusion on injurious dumping, compelling reasons existed that could lead to the conclusion that it is not in the Community interest to adopt measures in this particular case.
ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
Definitive measures (130) In order to prevent further injury being caused by the dumped imports, it is considered appropriate to adopt anti-dumping measures. (131) For the purpose of determining the level of these duties, account was taken of the dumping margins found and the amount of duty necessary to eliminate the injury sustained by the Community industry. (132) Taking into account the level of profitability obtained by the Community industry in the years 1999 and 2000, it was found that a profit margin of 6,5 % of turnover could be regarded as an appropriate minimum which the Community industry could have expected to obtain in the absence of injurious dumping.
Any difference resulting from this comparison was then expressed as a percentage of the total cif import value. (133) It was submitted by the Pakistani exporting producers that the profit margin of 6,5 % of turnover was higher than appropriate minimum profit established in other investigations concerning the same product.
In this case, it was found that a profit margin of 6,5 % could be regarded as an appropriate minimum, calculated as an average of the level of profitability obtained by the Community industry in the years 1999 and 2000. (134) As the injury elimination level was higher than the dumping margin established, the definitive measures should be based on the latter. 2.
Undertaking (135) The Pakistani exporting producers have presented a proposal for a price undertaking.
However, there were more than 170 exporters involved in this proceeding and bed linen is characterised by hundreds of different product types, with some characteristics not easily discernible upon importation.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of bed linen of cotton fibres, pure or mixed with man-made fibres or flax (flax not being the dominant fibre), bleached, dyed or printed originating in Pakistan currently classifiable within CN codes ex 6302 21 00 (TARIC codes 6302 21 00*81 and 6302 21 00*89 ), ex 6302 22 90 (TARIC code 6302 22 90*19 ), ex 6302 31 10 (TARIC code 6302 31 10*90 ), ex 6302 31 90 (TARIC code 6302 31 90*90 ) and ex 6302 32 90 (TARIC code 6302 32 90*19 ). 2.
The rate of duty applicable to the net free-at-Community-frontier price, before duty, for products produced by all companies shall be 13,1 %. 3.
