Article 2 This Decision shall apply from 23 October 2003.
Article 3 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 13 June 2003.
For the Commission David Byrne Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 46, 19.2.1991, p. 1. (2) OJ L 122, 16.5.2003, p. 1. (3) OJ L 175, 19.7.1993, p. 23. (4) OJ L 99, 10.4.2001, p. 11. (5) OJ L 67, 9.3.2001, p. 65.
Part IV outlines the procedure for the examination of samples by RT-PCR for the detection of ISA.
General principles for the diagnosis of ISA Reasonable grounds for fish to be suspected of being infected with ISAV are outlined in Part I.2 of this Annex.
Post-mortem findings and clinical signs of disease shall be in accordance with those laid down in the current edition of the OIE Diagnostic manual for aquatic animal diseases; (b) isolation and identification of ISAV in cell culture from a single sample from any fish on the farm as described in Part III; (c) reasonable evidence of the presence of ISAV from two independent laboratory tests such as RT-PCR (Part IV) and IFAT (Part V); (d) the transfer of live fish into a farm where there are reasonable grounds to suspect that ISA was present at the time of the fish transfer; (e) where an investigation reveals other substantial epidemiological links to ISA-suspected or confirmed farms.
For the purpose of establishing a risk-based official surveillance programme, Member States shall, in the vicinity of a farm officially suspected or confirmed infected with ISA, establish appropriate control and surveillance zones.
A %quot%control zone%quot% shall be established by the Member State in the close vicinity of a farm confirmed infected by ISAV as follows: - in coastal areas: the area included in a circle with a radius of at least one tidal excursion or at least 5 km, centred on the confirmed ISAV-infected farm, or an equivalent area determined according to appropriate hydrodynamic or epidemiological data, or - in inland areas: the entire water catchment area of the farm confirmed ISAV-infected; the Member State may, in extensive water catchment areas, limit the extension of the zone to parts of the water catchment area provided that the prevention of the spread of ISA is not compromised.
Fallowing and revocation of zones established I.5.1.
When all farms in the control zone are emptied, at least six weeks of synchronised fallowing shall apply.
Established control zones may not be revoked and restocked until all farms situated in the zones have been emptied of fish, disinfected as necessary and fallowed in accordance with I.5.1.
When restocking of the zones is carried out, the control zones shall be converted into surveillance zones as laid down in 1.4.4.3.
Established temporary control zones may not be revoked until the suspicion of ISA has been ruled out in accordance with Part I.2.2.
In case of confirmation of ISA in accordance with Part I.3, the temporary control zone shall be converted into a control zone.
Farms in surveillance zones shall report mortalities to the competent authority every 14 days.
Table 1 Official surveillance programme %gt%TABLE%gt% The surveillance programme shall be carried until the zones are revoked.
The inspections, as well as selection, collection, preparation and shipment of samples shall be carried out as defined in Parts II.1 to II.4.
The examination of the samples shall be in accordance with Parts III to VI.
Inspection and sampling II.1.
If recent mortalities or weak or abnormally behaving fish are observed, but the clinical signs and post-mortem findings are not consistent with ISA, sampling is not obligatory, although such samples as may be required to carry out a differential diagnosis may be taken at the inspector's or veterinarian's discretion.
The weight of tissue in one sample shall be 1,0 ± 0,5 g.
Fixation of imprints shall be carried out within 72 hours of the fish being sampled.
Alternatively, imprints may be frozen following air drying and stored for up to one month at - 20 °C prior to fixation.
Fish showing signs of anaemia may be stunned and heparinised blood samples taken immediately for haematological examination, such as measurement of haematocrit.
A piece of anterior or mid-kidney shall be removed from the fish using a sterile instrument and transferred to a microfuge tube containing 1 ml RNA preservative solution of proven efficacy.
The weight of tissue in one sample shall be approximately 0,5 g.
The sample for corroborative analysis shall be stored at - 20 °C or below on arrival at the laboratory.
Virological examination III.1.
Preparation of samples III.1.1.
Each sample (tissue pool in transport solution) shall be completely homogenised using a stomacher, blender or mortar and pestle, centrifuged at 2000 to 4000 x g for 15 minutes at 0 to 6 °C, and the supernatant shall be filtered (0,45 μm) and incubated with an equal volume of a suitably diluted pool of antisera to the indigenous serotypes of IPNV.
The titre of the antiserum must be at least 1:2000 in a 50 % plaque neutralisation test.
The mixture shall be incubated for one hour at 15 °C.
Treatment of all inocula with antiserum to IPN virus (a virus which in some parts of Europe occurs in 50 % of fish samples) aims at preventing CPE due to IPN virus from developing in inoculated cell cultures.
Samples shall be incubated at 14 ± 2 °C for up to 15 days.
If any pool shows CPE, virus identification procedures shall be initiated immediately (III.6).
Therefore, every well shall be subject to a haemadsorption test as described below, or alternatively, every well shall be subject to an IF test as described in III.6.1.
The presence of clusters of red blood cells attaching to the surface of SHK-1 or TO cells shall be indicative of presumptive infection with an orthomyxovirus.
If a haemadsorption test is positive a virus identification test shall be performed immediately (III.6).
Two hundred and twenty-five μl of culture supernatant shall be added to wells containing fresh actively growing SHK-1 cells in 12-well plates and incubated at 14 ± 2 °C for up to 18 days.
If any pool shows CPE, virus identification procedures shall be initiated immediately (III.6).
If cytotoxicity occurs within the first seven days of incubation, subcultivation shall be performed at that stage, and the cells must be incubated for 14 to 18 days and subcultivated again with a further 14 to 18 days incubation.
If bacterial contamination occurs in the primary culture, the test must be set up again using the tissue homogenate stored at - 80 °C.
Prior to inoculation the tissue homogenate is centrifuged at 4000 x g for 30 minutes at 0 to 6 °C and the supernatant is filtered at 0,22 μm.
If bacterial contamination occurs during the subcultivation step the supernatant shall be filtered at 0,22 μm, inoculated onto fresh cells and incubated for a further 14 to 18 days.
Plates shall be incubated at 14 ± 2 °C and examined microscopically for up to seven days.
Plates shall be air-dried and stained immediately or stored at 0 to 6 °C for no more than 24 hours prior to staining.
A test shall be considered positive if fluorescent cells are observed.
Examination of samples by RT-PCR IV.1.
This section describes the procedures required for PCR amplification of part of segment 8 of the ISAV genome that may be carried out on fish tissue or ISAV in culture IV.1.1.
Optical densities are measured at 260 and 280 nm. (g) RNA that is to be used immediately (the same day), can be temporarily stored at 0 to 6 °C.
RNA not used at once shall be stored at - 80 °C.
RT (a) Two μg RNA shall be diluted in DEPC-treated dH2O in 1,5 ml microfuge tubes.
PCR (a) Five μl cDNA shall be added to 45 μl PCR mix to give final concentrations of 1x buffer, 1,5 mM MgCl2, 0,2 mM each dNTP, 25 pmol each primer and 1U Taq polymerase.
Samples that yield multiple PCR products, including at least one of approximately 155 bp, may contain ISAV RNA.
PCR confirmation of isolation of ISAV in tissue culture If full CPE has occurred during virological examination of tissue samples in SHK-1 cells, 400 μl of supernatant shall be removed from the well and placed in a sterile 1,5 ml tube.
RNA shall be extracted from this sample as in III.1 and RT-PCR shall be carried out.
If cultures without full CPE are used, the supernatant shall be removed, cells shall be scraped from the surface of the well or flask and placed in a sterile 1,5 ml tube for RNA extraction and RT-PCR.
DNA probe confirmation of PCR products (a) The specificity of a 155 bp PCR product can be assessed by probing with an oligonucleotide that hybridises to a region of the PCR product, internal to the primers.
Examination of kidney imprints by IFAT V.1.
The following protocol has been established for examination of kidney imprints by IFAT V.2.
Each imprint shall be covered with a solution of monoclonal antibody 3H6F8 to ISAV (or other antibody of proven specificity and efficacy) and the slide box shall be closed and incubated with agitation for 60 minutes at room temperature.
The antibody shall normally be diluted 1:10 to 1:100 in 1 % skimmed milk but the actual dilution needs to be determined for each batch.
Slides shall be washed three times for two minutes in PBS containing 0,1 % Tween 20.
Each imprint shall be covered with a solution containing FITC goat anti mouse conjugate diluted 1:1000 in 1 % skimmed milk and incubated in a humid environment for 60 minutes at room temperature.
Slides shall be washed three times for two minutes in PBS containing 0,1 % Tween 20.
Each slide shall be covered with CITIFLUORTM solution (500 ul CITIFLUORTM mixed with 1,5 ml 0,1 % (v/v) Tween 20 in PBS) or other suitable mounting medium for 10 minutes.
Slides shall be washed three times in PBS containing 0,1 % Tween 20.
If a counter-stain is required, each imprint may be covered with propidium iodide (0,01 mg/ml) in PBS containing 0,1 % Tween 20 and incubated for three minutes at room temperature.
Slides shall be stored in the dark at 4 °C prior to microscopic examination.
Controls V.4.1.
Three types of control must be included with each batch of slides stained for IFAT: - kidney imprint from uninfected Atlantic salmon (negative control), - uninfected SHK-1 cell culture or other susceptible cell culture (negative control), - ISAV-infected SHK-1 cell culture or other susceptible cell culture (positive control).
