Article 3 Authorisation 1.
Article 4 Transfers Member States shall set up a system to enable them to be adequately informed of individual transfers of sources.
Article 5 Records 1.
The holder's records shall be available for inspection by the competent authority. 3.
The Commission shall make available in electronic format the standard record sheet for the records set out in Annex II. 6.
The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 17, update the required information set out in Annex II and the standard record sheet for the records set out in Annex II.
Article 7 Identification and marking 1.
The holder shall ensure that each source is accompanied by written information indicating that the source is identified and marked in compliance with paragraph 1 and that the markings and labels referred to in paragraph 1 remain legible.
Article 8 Training and information 1.
When arranging information and training in the field of radiation protection in compliance with Article 22 of Directive 96/29/Euratom, the holder shall ensure that such training includes specific requirements for the safe management of sources.
Article 9 Orphan sources 1.
Article 10 Financial security for orphan sources Member States shall ensure that, on the basis of arrangements to be decided by Member States, a system of financial security is established or any other equivalent means to cover intervention costs relating to the recovery of orphan sources and which may result from implementation of the requirements set out in Article 9.
Article 11 International cooperation and information exchange Each Member State shall promptly exchange information and cooperate with other relevant Member States or third countries and with relevant international organisations as regards loss, removal, theft or discovery of sources and as regards related follow-up or investigations, without prejudice to relevant confidentiality requirements and relevant national regulations.
Article 12 Inspections Member States shall establish or maintain a system of inspection to enforce the provisions introduced in compliance with this Directive.
Article 13 Competent authority 1.
Member States shall forward to the Commission any changes to the data referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3. 5.
The Commission shall communicate the information referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 to all competent authorities in the Community and shall publish it periodically in the Official Journal of the European Union, at intervals of no more than two years.
Article 15 Penalties Member States shall determine the penalties applicable to breaches of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive before 31 December 2005.
Member States may provide, as regards sources placed on the market before the date referred to in the first subparagraph, that: (a) Articles 3 to 6 shall not apply until 31 December 2007; (b) Article 7 shall not apply, with the exception of the following requirements which shall apply by 31 December 2007 at the latest: - the holder shall ensure that, if practicable, each such source and the source container are accompanied by written information to identify the source and its nature, - the holder shall ensure that, if practicable, each such source, if practicable, and the source container are labelled with an appropriate sign to warn people of the radiation hazard.
Article 18 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 19 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 22 December 2003.
Matteoli (1) Opinion of 18 November 2003 (not yet published in the Official Journal). (2) OJ L 159, 29.6.1996, p. 1. (3) IAEA Safety Standards Series No TS-R-1 (ST, Revised), Vienna, 2000. (4) OJ L 148, 19.6.1993, p. 1.
ANNEX II %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%L_2003346EN.006402.TIF%quot%%gt%
