This Regulation lays down the conditions for the application of economic outward processing arrangements (hereinafter referred to as 'the arrangements') to textile products and clothing listed in Chapters 50 to 63 of the Combined Nomenclature and resulting from outward processing operations. 2.
Such derogations may not be granted in respect of more than 14 % of the total value of the goods for which a prior authorization is requested or in respect of which the benefit of the arrangement was granted to the beneficiary during the previous year.
Past beneficiaries who benefited in 1994 from a percentage higher than 14 % may continue to do so for the same quantities for a period of three years on the basis of a list to be established by the Commission.
Thereafter, such exceptions may be renewed on the basis of a decision taken in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 12.
Member States may derogate from the provisions of paragraph 2 (a) in respect of persons not fulfilling the conditions laid down in that paragraph.
Such derogations shall apply only to the amount of the total quantities imported under specific arrangements of the type defined in Article 1 (3) during one of the two years preceding the entry into force of Regulation (EEC) No 636/82, and to products not different in kind or purpose.
The annual quantities of compensating products whose reimportation may be authorized under the specific import arrangements referred to in Article 1 (3) shall be established at Community level. 2.
Each past beneficiary shall be allocated for each category and third country an amount equal to the overall quantity for which he carried out OPT either in 1993 or 1994 for that category and that country.
Beneficiaries shall become eligible for additional allocations for the same category and for the same country in accordance with paragraph 5 only when they have used the quantities mentioned in the previous subparagraph as laid down in the fourth subparagraph of paragraph 5.
The quantities of compensating products which have not been set aside to fulfil the applications made under paragraph 4 shall be distributed by the Commission on the basis of the notifications received by the Member States and in the chronological order in which these notifications have been received (first come, first served basis).
Each of these manufacturers may apply for a total quantity of compensating products with a value of the processing carried out in third countries no higher than 50 % of the value of his Community production.
If a new application is submitted, additional amounts for the same category and for the same third country may only be allocated by the competent authorities to a particular applicant when the amount previously authorized for that applicant has been actually utilized by at least 50 % or at least quantities of goods corresponding to 80 % of the previously authorized amount have been exported.
From 15 January of each year, requests for prior authorization may be notified to the Commission by the competent authorities and prior authorizations may be issued.
Article 6 The prior authorization issued by the competent authorities shall be submitted to the customs office concerned at the time of temporary exportation for the purposes of accomplishing the customs formalities.
Article 7 If the Commission so requests, the Member States shall notify it of any refusal of prior authorizations together with the reasons, relative to the conditions in this Regulation, why such authorization was withheld.
Article 9 The competent authorities may, where it is justified by the circumstances: - grant an extension of the time limit originally fixed for reimportation, - alllow the compensating products to be reimported in several consignments; where this is done, a note shall be made on the prior authorization as and when each consignment arrives.
Article 10 Member States shall communicate to the Commission figures relating to all reimportations carried out on their territory within the framework of this Regulation.
The arrangements provided for in this Regulation shall replace all other economic outward processing arrangements currently applied by the Member States in respect of the products referred to in Article 1. 2.
This Regulation shall apply without prejudice to Articles 154 to 159 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 relating to the outward processing arrangements and standard exchanges. 3.
For the application of the provisions of Article 2 (3) of Protocol No 1 on Textiles and Clothing Products to the Europe Agreements and the Interim Agreements between the Community and the Czech Republic, the Slovak Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria respectively, the products which are listed in Annex II and which originate in those countries in accordance with Protocol No 4 on origin to the Europe Agreements with the Community, do not need to be subject to the arrangements or the specific measures referred to in Article 1 (3) or the annual limits referred to in Article 2 (2) (b).
The Committee shall draw up its own rules of procedure. 2.
Article 13 This Regulation shall not affect the reimportation into the Community of products after working or processing in third countries on the basis of prior authorizations issued before the entry into force of this Regulation.
Regulation (EEC) No 636/82 shall be repealed with effect from 31 December 1994.
Article 14 This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1995.
Article 11 (3) shall apply from 1 January 1994.
Done at Brussels, 8 December 1994.
REXRODT (1) OJ No L 76, 20. 3. 1982, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by the Act of Accession of Spain and Portugal. (2) OJ No L 134, 31. 5. 1980, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by the Act of Accession of Spain and Portugal. (3) OJ No L 302, 19. 10. 1992, p. 1.
ANNEX I Groups of categories referred to in Article 1 (4) (d) Similar products at the same stage of manufacture are defined as products falling within the same category or within the same group of categories as listed below: Group 1 (outerwear) Categories 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 14, 15, 16, 17, 21, 26, 27, 28, 29, 68, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 83, 156, 157, 159, 161.
