Article 4 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Point 5.3.2 shall read: Requirements If the items referred to in point 5.3.1 are so placed that occupants of the vehicle can contact them, they shall meet the requirements of points 5.3.2.1 to 5.3.4.
The width of the projecting parts shall not be less than the amount of their downward projection and the edges shall have a radius of curvature of not less than 5 mm.
In particular, the rigid roof sticks or ribs, with the exception of the header rail of the glazed surfaces and door frames, shall not project downwards more than 19 mm.
Point 5.4.2.2 shall read: If the roof sticks or ribs do not meet the requirements of point 5.4.2.1, they must pass the energy-dissipation test in accordance with the requirements of Annex III.
The metal wires which stretch the lining of the roof and the frames of the sun visors must have a maximum diameter of 5 mm or be able to absorb the energy, as prescribed in Annex III.
If the impact zones of the seats, head-restraints and their supports contain parts covered with material softer than 50 Shore A hardness, the above requirements, with the exception of those relating to energy dissipation described in Annex III, shall apply only to the rigid parts.
ANNEX II DETERMINATION OF THE HEAD-IMPACT ZONE Point 2.2 shall read: All points of contact situated forward of the H point shall be determined for each dimension from the pivotal point to the top of the head capable of being measured by the measuring apparatus within the interior dimensions of the vehicle.
Point 2.3 shall read: With the measuring apparatus vertical, possible points of contact shall be determined by pivoting it forwards and downwards through all arcs of vertical planes as far as 90º on either side of the longitudinal vertical plane of the vehicle which passes through the H point.
For the testing of the parts as referred to in points 5.3.4.1 and 5.4.2.2 of Annex I, proceed by lengthening the arm of the measuring apparatus until contact is made with the part to be considered, up to a limit of 1 000 mm between the pivot point and top of the head of the apparatus.
However, any roof sticks and ribs referred to in points 5.4.2.2 which cannot be contacted remain subject to the requirements of point 5.4.2.1 of Annex I with the exception of that relating to the height of projection.
ANNEX IV The text of this Annex shall be replaced by the following text: PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINING THE H POINT AND THE ACTUAL SEAT-BACK ANGLE AND FOR VERIFYING THE RELATIVE POSITIONS OF THE R AND H POINTS AND THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE DESIGN SEAT-BACK ANGLE AND THE ACTUAL SEAT-BACK ANGLE 1.
H point The %quot%H point%quot%, which indicates the position of a seated accupant in the passenger compartment, is the intersection, in a longitudinal vertical plane, of the theoretical axis of rotation between the thighs and torso of a human body represented by the manikin described in point 3. 1.2.
is formed at the R point by the vertical and the torso reference line ; and 1.5.3.
If the seating positions in the same row can be regarded as similar (bench seat, identical seats, etc.) only one H point and one actual seat-back angle shall be determined for each row of seats, the manikin described in point 3 being seated in a place regarded as representative for the row.
The intersection of this axis with the vertical medium longitudinal plane of the seating position determines the H point; 3.2.2.
Body-segment weights shall be attached at appropriate points corresponding to the relevant centres of gravity, so as to bring the total mass of the manikin up to 75 kg ± 1 %.
Details of the mass of the various weights are given in the table in Figure 2 of the Appendix to this Annex. 3.4.
the manikin shall be placed on the seat concerned, its pivotal axis being perpendicular to the median longitudinal plane of the vehicle; 4.4.
in the rear seats, as far as possible in such a way as to be in contact with the front seats.
a horizontal load of 10 ± 1 daN shall be applied to the manikin twice.
The direction and point of application of the load are shown by a black arrow in Figure 2 of the Appendix; 4.8.
The transverse level of the manikin shall be kept horizontal; 4.9.
The transverse level of the manikin shall be horizontal.
When the manikin has been set up as described in point 4, the H point and the actual seat-back angle of the vehicle seat considered are constituted by the H point and the angle of inclination of the manikin's torso reference line. 5.2.
VERIFYING THE RELATIVE POSITIONS OF THE R AND H POINTS AND THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE DESIGN SEAT-BACK ANGLE AND THE ACTUAL SEAT-BACK ANGLE 6.1.
The relative positions of the R point and the H point and the relationship between the design seat-back angle and the actual seat-back angle shall be considered to be satisfactory for the seating position in question if the H point, as defined by its coordinates, lies within a longitudinal rectangle whose horizontal and vertical sides are 30 and 20 mm long respectively and whose diagonals intersect at the R point, and if the actual seat back angle is within 3º of the design seat-back angle. 6.2.1.
If these conditions are met, the R point and the design seat-back angle shall be used for the test and, if necessary, the manikin shall be so adjusted that the H point coincides with the R point and the actual seat-back angle coincides with the design seat-back angle. 6.3.
If the panels and components, etc., are covered with materials softer than 50 Shore A hardness, the procedure for the measuring of projections described above shall apply only after the removal of such materials.
The pendulum shall not impact the mirror mounting.
The definition of point 2.5 is also valid for any opening for the roof, in the closed position, of a vehicle as defined in point 2.7 or 2.8.
In this case the minimum radius of curvature shall not apply provided the height of the projection is not more than half its width and its edges are blunted.
To point 5.2.2: The criterion to determine whether the parking brake control can be contacted is the use of: - the simulated head specified in Annex II, if the control is located above or on the level of the instrument panel (to be tested in accordance with point 5.1 and within the impact zone); - the knee specified in Annex VI if the control element is located below the level of the instrument panel (in this case the control lever is tested in accordance with point 5.3.2.3).
To point 5.2.3.1: The dimensions specified refer to the surface before the addition of material of less than 50 Shore A hardness (see point 5.2.4).
The length of the test cylinder shall be at least 50 mm.
To point 5.3.2.2: The reference surface is found by application of the device described in point 2 of Annex V with a force of 2 daN.
Where this is not possible the method described in point 1 of Annex V shall be used with a force of 2 daN.
The force of 37 78 daN is applied even if the original projection is less than 35 or 25 mm, as applicable.
To point 5.3.4: Where the horizontal plane(s) passing through the H point of the lowest front and rear seats do not coincide, then a vertical plane perpendicular to the vehicle's longitudinal axis shall be determined, passing through the front seat H point.
To point 5.4: When the roof is tested to measure those protrusions and parts which can be contacted by a ball having a diameter of 165 mm, the roof lining must be removed.
The roof testing area shall extend in front of and above the transverse plane limited by the torso reference line of the manikin placed on the rearmost seat.
To point 5.4.2.1 (see point 5.1.1 for definition of %quot%sharp edges%quot%): The downward projection shall be measured normal to the roof in accordance with point 1 of Annex V.
In particular the rigid roof sticks or ribs shall not project away from the inner surface of the roof more than 19 mm.
To point 5.5.1.2.3: The force of 37 78 daN is applied even if the original projection is 25 mm or less.
TO ANNEX II DETERMINATION OF THE HEAD-IMPACT ZONE To point 2.1.1.2: The choice between the two procedures for determining height is to be left to the manufacturer.
TO ANNEX IV PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINING THE H POINT AND THE ACTUAL SEAT-BACK ANGLE AND FOR VERIFYING THE RELATIVE POSITIONS OF THE R AND H POINTS AND THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE DESIGN SEAT-BACK ANGLE AND THE ACTUAL SEAT-BACK ANGLE To point 4: For determining the H point of any seat, other seats may be removed if necessary.
