Member States shall immediately inform the Commission thereof. 2.
Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with Annex IV, Chapter 8.1 of this Directive in so far as it applies to mobile gas cylinders containing butane, propane or liquid petroleum gas, by 31 October 1997.
Member States shall immediately inform the Commission thereof. 3.
Article 3 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 27 April 1993.
For the Commission Yannis PALEOKRASSAS Member of the Commission Annexes I, II, III and IV to Commission Directive 93/21/EEC of 27 April 1993 adapting to technical progress for the 18th time Council Directive 67/548/EEC on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances (1) ANEXO I - BILAG I - ANHANG I - ÐÁÑÁÑÔÇÌÁ É - ANNEX I - ANNEXE I - ALLEGATO I - BIJLAGE I - ANEXO I ANEXO II Símbolos e indicaciones de peligro de las sustancias y preparados peligrosos BILAG II Faresymboler og farebetegnelser for farlige stoffer og praeparater ANHANG II Gefahrensymbole und -bezeichnungen fuer gefaehrliche Stoffe und Zubereitungen ÐÁÑÁÑÔÇÌÁ ÉÉ Óýìâïëá êáé aaíaeaassîaaéò êéíaeýíïõ ãéá aaðéêssíaeõíaaò ïõóssaaò êáé ðáñáóêaaõUEóìáôá ANNEX II Symbols and indications of danger for dangerous substances and preparations ANNEXE II Symboles et indications de danger des substances et préparations dangereuses ALLEGATO II Simboli e indicazioni di rischio delle sostanze e preparati pericolosi BIJLAGE II Gevaarsymbolen en -aanduidingen van gevaarlijke stoffen en preparaten ANEXO II Símbolos e indicações de perigo das substâncias e preparações perigosas Nota: Las letras E, O, F, F+, T, T+, C, Xn, Xi y N no forman parte del símbolo.
E %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% ES: Explosivo DA: Eksplosiv DE: Explosionsgefaehrlich EL: AAêñçêôéêue EN: Explosive FR: Explosif IT: Esplosivo NL: Ontplofbaar PT: Explosivo O %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% ES: Comburente DA: Brandnaerende DE: Brandfoerdernd EL: Ïîaaéaeùôéêue EN: Oxidizing FR: Comburant IT: Comburente NL: Oxyderend PT: Comburente F %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% ES: Fácilmente inflamable DA: Meget brandfarlig DE: Leichtentzuendlich EL: Ðïëý aaýoeëaaêôï EN: Highly flammable FR: Facilement inflammable IT: Facilmente infiammabile NL: Licht ontvlambaar PT: Facilmente inflamável F + %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% ES: Extremadamente inflamable DA: Yderst brandfarlig DE: Hochentzuendlich EL: AAîáéñaaôéêUE aaýoeëaaêôï EN: Extremely flammable FR: Extrêmement inflammable IT: Estremamente infiammabile NL: Zeer licht ontvlambaar PT: Extremamente inflamável T %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% ES: Tóxico DA: Giftig DE: Giftig EL: Ôïîéêue EN: Toxic FR: Toxique IT: Tossico NL: Vergiftig PT: Tóxico T + %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% ES: Muy tóxico DA: Meget giftig DE: Sehr giftig EL: Ðïëý ôïîéêue EN: Very toxic FR: Très toxique IT: Molto tossico NL: Zeer vergiftig PT: Muito tóxico C %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% ES: Corrosivo DA: AEtsende DE: AEtzend EL: AEéáâñùôéêue EN: Corrosive FR: Corrosif IT: Corrosivo NL: Bijtend PT: Corrosivo X %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% ES: Nocivo DA: Sundhedsskadelig DE: Mindergiftig EL: AAðéâëáâÝò EN: Harmful FR: Nocif IT: Nocivo NL: Schadelijk PT: Nocivo Xi %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% ES: Irritante DA: Lokalirriterende DE: Reizend EL: AAñaaèéóôéêue EN: Irritant FR: Irritant IT: Irritante NL: Irriterend PT: Irritante N %gt%REFERENCE TO A GRAPHIC%gt% ES: Peligroso para el medio ambiente DA: Miljoefarlig DE: Umweltgefaehrlich EL: AAðéêssíaeõíï ãéá ôï ðaañéâUEëëïí EN: Dangerous for the environment FR: Dangereux pour l'environnement IT: Pericoloso per l'ambiente NL: Milieugevaarlijk PT: Perigoso para o ambiente ANEXO II - BILAG II - ANHANG II - ÐÁÑÁÑÔÇÌÁ ÉÉ - ANNEX II - ANNEXE II - ALLEGATO II - BIJLAGE II - ANEXO II ANEXO III Naturaleza de los riesgos específicos atribuidos a las sustancias y preparados peligrosos BILAG III Arten af de saerlige risici, der er forbundet med de farlige stoffer og praeparater ANHANG III Bezeichnungen der besonderen Gefahren bei gefaehrlichen Stoffen und Zubereitungen ÐÁÑÁÑÔÇÌÁ ÉÉÉ OEýóç ôùí aaéaeéêþí êéíaeýíùí ðïõ áoeïñïýí aaðéêssíaeõíaaò ïõóssaaò êáé ðáñáóêaaõUEóìáôá ANNEX III Nature of special risks attributed to dangerous substances and preparations ANNEXE III Nature des risques particuliers attribués aux substances et préparations dangereuses ALLEGATO III Natura dei rischi specifici attribuiti alle sostanze e preparati pericolosi BIJLAGE III Aard der bijzondere gevaren toegeschreven aan gevaarlijke stoffen en preparaten ANEXO III Natureza dos riscos específicos atribuídos às substâncias e preparações perigosas R 1 ES: Explosivo en estado seco.
Criteria follow directly from the test methods in Annex V as far as they are mentioned.
Corrosive A substance or a preparation is considered to be corrosive if, when it is applied to healthy intact animal skin, it produces full thickness destruction of skin tissue on at least one animal during the test for skin irritation cited in Annex V or during an equivalent method or if the results can be predicted, for example from strongly acid or alkaline reactions (demonstrated pH of 2 or less or 11,5 or greater.
Irritant Substances and preparations shall be classified as irritant and assigned the symbol 'Xi` and the indication of danger 'irritant` in accordance with the criteria given below. 3.2.6.1.
However, in the case of preparations, when calculating the sum of quotients by the formulae in 3,5 (f) (ii) and 3,5 (h) (ii) of Directive 88/379/EEC substances classified as corrosive shall be considered as if R41 had been assigned. 3.2.6.3.
For substances used by members of the general public, the use of S50 (do not mix with . . . (to be specified by the manufacturer)) would be more suitable.
Category 1 To place a substance in Category 1, positive evidence from human mutation epidemiology studies will be needed.
Category 2 To place a substance in Category 2, positive results are needed from assays showing (a) mutagenic effects, or (b) other cellular interactions relevant to mutagenicity, in germ cells of mammals in vivo, or (c) mutagenic effects in somatic cells of mammals in vivo in combination with clear evidence that the substance or a relevant metabolite reaches the germ cells.
Positive results in these assays would normally be supported by positive results from in vivo somatic cell mutagenicity assays, in mammals or in man (see under Category 3, preferably methods as under 3 (a)). 2 (c) in vitro assays showing mutagenic effects in somatic cells of mammals (see under 3 (a)), in combination with toxicokinetic methods, or other methodologies capable of demonstrating that the compound or a relevant metabolite reaches the germ cells.
For 2 (b) and 2 (c), positive results from host-mediated assays or the demonstration of unequivocal effects in in vitro assays can be considered as supporting evidence.
Category 3 To place a substance in Category 3, positive results are needed in assays showing (a) mutagenic effects or (b) other cellular interaction relevant to mutagenicity, in somatic cells in mammals in vivo.
For effects in somatic cells in vivo at present the following methods are appropriate: 3 (a) in vivo somatic cell mutagenicity assays: - bone marrow micronucleus test or metaphase analysis, - metaphase analysis of peripheral lymphocytes, - mouse coat colour spot test. 3 (b) in vivo somatic cell DNA interaction assays: - test for SCEs in somatic cells, - test for UDS in somatic cells, - assay for the (covalent) binding of mutagen to somatic cell DNA, - assay for DNA damage, e.g.
In exceptional cases, e.g.
Substances toxic to reproduction 4.2.3.1.
Substances known to cause developmental toxicity in humans There is sufficient evidence to establish a causal relationship between human exposure to the substance and subsequent developmental toxic effects in the progeny.
Category 3 Substances which cause concern for human fertility Generally on the basis of: - results in appropriate animal studies which provide sufficient evidence to cause a strong suspicion of impaired fertility in the absence of toxic effects, or evidence of impaired fertility occuring at around the same dose levels as other toxic effects, but which is not a secondary non-specific consequence of the other toxic effects, but where the evidence is insufficient to place the substance in Category 2, - other relevant information.
Substances which cause concern for humans owing to possible developmental toxic effects Generally on the basis of: - results in appropriate animal studies which provide sufficient evidence to cause a strong suspicion of developmental toxicity in the absence of signs of marked maternal toxicity, or at around the same dose levels as other toxic effects but which are not a secondary non-specific consequence of the other toxic effects, but where the evidence is insufficient to place the substance in Category 2, - other relevant information. 4.2.3.2.
Chemicals should not be classified as toxic to reproduction where such effects are solely produced as a non-specific secondary consequence of other toxic effects.
Chemicals of most concern are those which are toxic to reproduction at exposure levels which do not produce other signs of toxicity.
The placing of a compound in Category 1 for effects on fertility and/or developmental toxicity is done on the basis of epidemiological data.
Data from in vitro studies, or studies on avian eggs, are regarded as 'supportive evidence` and would only exceptionally lead to classification in the absence of in vivo data.
Even when clear effects have been demonstrated in animal studies the relevance for humans may be doubtful because of the doses administered, for example, where effects have been demonstrated only at high doses, or where marked toxicokinetic differences exist, or the route of administration is inappropriate.
In general, classification in Category 3 or no category would be assigned on an ad hoc basis where the only effects recorded are small changes in the incidences of spontaneous defects, small changes in the proportions of common variants such as are observed in skeletal examinations, or small differences in postnatal developmental assessments.
Effects during lactation Substances which are classified as toxic to reproduction and which also cause concern due to their effects on lactation should in addition be labelled with R64 (see criteria in Section 3.2.8.).
Substances which are not classified as toxic to reproduction but which cause concern due to toxicity when transferred to the baby during the period of lactation should be labelled with R64 (see criteria in Section 3.2.8.).
R64 would normally be assigned on the basis of : (a) toxicokinetic studies that would indicate the likelihood that the substance would be present in potentially toxic levels in breast milk; and/or (b) on the basis of results of one or two generation studies in animals which indicate the presence of adverse effects on the offspring due to transfer in the milk; and/or (c) on the basis of evidence in humans indicating a risk to babies during the lactational period.
Procedure for the classification of preparations concerning specific effects on health If a preparation contains one or more substances classified with respect to the criteria laid out above, it must be classified according to the criteria referred to in Article 3 (5) (j) to (q) of Directive 88/379/EEC (the limits of concentration are either in Annex I to Directive 67/548/EEC, or in Annex I to Directive 88/379/EEC where the substance or substances under consideration do not appear in Annex I or appear in it without concentration limits). 5.
The test methods required for the 'base set` referred to in Annex VII are limited and the information derived from them may be insufficient for an appropriate classification.
Criteria for classification, indication of danger, choice of risk phrases 5.2.1.
Aquatic environment 5.2.1.1.
Substances shall be classified as dangerous for the environment and assigned the symbol 'N` and the appropriate indication of danger, and assigned risk phrases in accordance with the following criteria: R50: Very toxic to aquatic organisms and R53: May cause long-term adverse effects in the aquatic environment Acute toxicity: 96 hr LC50 (for fish) %amp%le; 1 mg/l or 48 hr EC50 (for Daphnia) %amp%le; 1 mg/l or 72 hr IC50 (for algae) %amp%le; 1 mg/l and the substance is not readily degradable or the log Pow (log octanol/water partition coefficient) %amp%ge; 3,0 (unless the experimentally determined BCF %amp%le; 100) R50: Very toxic to aquatic organisms Acute toxicity: 96 hr LC50 (for fish) %amp%le; 1 mg/l or 48 hr EC50 (for Daphnia) %amp%le; 1 mg/l or 72 hr IC50 (for algae) %amp%le; 1 mg/l R51: Toxic to aquatic organisms and R53: May cause long-term adverse effects in the aquatic environment Acute toxicity: 96 hr LC50 (for fish) 1 mg/l %lt% LC50 %amp%le; 10 mg/l or 48 hr EC50 (for Daphnia) 1 mg/l %lt% EC50 %amp%le; 10 mg/l or 72 hr IC50 (for algae) 1 mg/l %lt% IC50 %amp%le; 10 mg/l and the substance is not readily degradable or the log Pow %amp%ge; 3,0 (unless the experimentally determined BCF %amp%le; 100) 5.2.1.2.
Risk phrases shall also be assigned in accordance with the following criteria R52: Harmful to aquatic organisms and R53: May cause long-term adverse effects in the aquatic environment Acute toxicity: 96 hr LC50 (for fish): 10 mg/l %lt% LC50 %amp%le; 100 mg/l or 48 hr EC50 (for Daphnia): 10 mg/l %lt% EC50 %amp%le; 100 mg/l or 72 hr IC50 (for algae): 10 mg/l %lt% IC50 %amp%le; 100 mg/l and the substance is not readily degradable.
R52: Harmful to aquatic organisms Substances not falling under the criteria listed above in this chapter, but which on the basis of the available evidence concerning their toxicity may nevertheless present a danger to the structure and/or functioning of aquatic ecosystems.
Comments on the determination of IC50 for algae and of degradability. - Where it can be demonstrated in the case of highly coloured substances that algal growth is inhibited solely as a result of a reduction in light intensity, then the 72h IC50 for algae should not be used as a basis for classification. - Substances are considered readily degradable if the following criteria hold true: (a) If in 28-day biodegradation studies the following levels of degradation are achieved: - in tests based upon dissolved organic carbon: 70 %, - in tests based upon oxygen depletion or carbon dioxide generation: 60 % of the theoretical maxima.
These levels of biodegradation must be achieved within 10 days of the start of degradation, which point is taken as the time when 10 % of the substance has been degraded; or (b) if in those cases where only COD and BOD5, data are available when the ratio of BOD5/COD is greater than or equal to 0,5; or (c) if other convincing scientific evidence is available to demonstrate that the substance can be degraded (biotically and/or abiotically) in the aquatic environment to a level of %gt% 70 % within a 28-day period. 5.2.2.
Substances shall be classified as dangerous for the environment and assigned the symbol 'N` and the appropriate indication of danger, and assigned risk phrases in accordance with the following criteria: R54: Toxic to flora R55: Toxic to fauna R56: Toxic to soil organisms R57: Toxic to bees R58: May cause long-term adverse effects in the environment Substances which on the basis of the available evidence concerning their toxicity, persistence, potential to accumulate and predicted or observed environmental fate and behaviour may present a danger, immediate or long-term and/or delayed, to the structure and/or functioning of natural ecosystems other than those covered under 5.2.1.
R59: Dangerous for the ozone layer Substances which on the basis of the available evidence concerning their properties and their predicted or observed environmental fate and behaviour may present a danger to the structure and/or the functioning of the stratospheric ozone layer.
This includes the substances which are listed in Annex I Group I, II, III, IV and V to Council Regulation (EEC) No 594/91 on substances that deplete the ozone layer (OJ No L 67, 14. 3. 1991, p. 1). 5.2.2.2.
This includes the substances which are listed in Annex I Group VI to Council Regulation (EEC) No 594/91 on substances that deplete the ozone layer (OJ No L 67, 14. 3. 1991, p. 1). 6.
CHOICE OF SAFETY ADVICE PHRASES 6.1.
Safety phrases for substances and preparations S1 Keep locked up - Applicability: - very toxic, toxic and corrosive substances and preparations. - Criteria for use: - obligatory for those substances and preparations mentioned above if sold to the general public.
S2 Keep out of the reach of children - Applicability: - all dangerous substances and preparations. - Criteria for use: - obligatory for all dangerous substances and preparations sold to the general public, except for those only classified as dangerous for the environment.
S3 Keep in a cool place - Applicability: - organic peroxides, - other dangerous substances and preparations having a boiling point %amp%le; 40 °C. - Criteria for use: - obligatory for organic peroxides unless S47 is used, - recommended for other dangerous substances and preparations having a boiling point %amp%le; 40 °C.
S7 Keep container tightly closed - Applicability: - organic peroxides, - substances and preparations which can give off very toxic, toxic, harmful or extremely flammable gases, - substances and preparations which in contact with moisture give off extremely flammable gases, - highly flammable solids. - Criteria for use: - obligatory for organic peroxides, - recommended for the other fields of application mentioned above.
S9 Keep container in a well-ventilated place - Applicability: - volatile substances and preparations which may give off very toxic, toxic or harmful vapours, - extremely flammable or highly flammable liquids and extremely flammable gases. - Criteria for use: - recommended for volatile substances and preparations which may give off very toxic, toxic or harmful vapours, - recommended for extremely flammable or highly flammable liquids or extremely flammable gases.
S14 Keep away from . . . (incompatible materials to be indicated by the manufacturer) - Applicability: - organic peroxides - Criteria for use: - obligatory for and normally limited to organic peroxides.
S16 Keep away from sources of ignition - No smoking - Applicability: - extremely flammable or highly flammable liquids and extremely flammable gases. - Criteria for use: - recommended for the substances and preparations mentioned above but not assigned if risk phrases R2, R3 and/or R5 have already been applied.
S22 Do not breathe dust - Applicability: - all solid substances and preparations dangerous for health. - Criteria for use: - obligatory for those substances and preparations mentioned above to which R42 is assigned, - recommended for those substances and preparations mentioned above which are supplied in the form of an inhalable dust and for which the health hazards following inhalation are not known.
Either S38 or S51 must be ascribed in addition, - recommended when it is necessary to draw the attention of the user to inhalation risks not mentioned in the risk phrases which have to be ascribed.
S28 After contact with skin, wash immediately with plenty of . . . (to be specified by the manufacturer) - Applicability: - very toxic, toxic or corrosive substances and preparations. - Criteria for use: - obligatory to very toxic substances and preparations, - recommended for the other substances and preparations mentioned above, in particular when water is not the most appropriate rinsing fluid.
S29 Do not empty into drains - Applicability: - extremely or highly flammable liquids immiscible with water. - Criteria for use: - recommended for above mentioned substances and preparations which are likely to be used by the general public.
S35 This material and its container must be disposed of in a safe way - Applicability: - explosive substances and preparations, - very toxic and toxic substances and preparations, - substances dangerous for the environment. - Criteria for use: - obligatory for explosive substances and preparations other than organic peroxides, - recommended for very toxic and toxic substances and preparations, particularly when likely to be used by the general public, - recommended for substances dangerous for the environment for which S56 does not apply when such substances are likely to be used by the general public.
S36 Wear suitable protective clothing - Applicability: - organic peroxides, - very toxic, toxic or harmful substances and preparations, - corrosive substances and preparations. - Criteria for use: - obligatory for very toxic and corrosive substances and preparations, - obligatory for those substances and preparations to which either R21 or R24 has been ascribed, - obligatory for category 3 carcinogens, mutagens and substances toxic to reproduction unless the effects are produced solely by inhalation of the substance or preparation, - obligatory for organic peroxides, - recommended for toxic substances and preparations if the LD50 dermal value is unknown but the substance or preparation is likely to be toxic through skin contact, - recommended for substances and preparations used in industry which are liable to damage health by prolonged exposure.
S37 Wear suitable gloves - Applicability: - very toxic, toxic, harmful or corrosive substances and preparations, - organic peroxides, - substances and preparations irritating to the skin. - Criteria for use: - obligatory for very toxic and corrosive substances and preparations, - obligatory for those substances and preparations to which either R21, R24 or R43 has been ascribed, - obligatory for Category 3 carcinogens, mutagens and substances toxic to reproduction unless the effects are produced solely by inhalation of the substance or preparation, - obligatory for organic peroxides, - recommended for toxic substances and preparations if the LD50 dermal value is unknown but the substance or preparation is likely to be toxic through skin contact, - recommended for substances and preparations which are irritating to the skin because of their defatting properties.
S39 Wear eye/face protection - Applicability: - organic peroxides, - corrosive substances and preparations, including irritants which give rise to risk of serious damage to the eyes, - very toxic and toxic substances and preparations. - Criteria for use: - obligatory for those substances and preparations to which R34, R35 or R41 have been ascribed, - obligatory for organic peroxides, - recommended when it is necessary to draw the attention of the user to eye contract risks not mentioned in the risk phrases which have be to ascribed, - normally limited to exceptional cases for very toxic and toxic substances and preparations, where there is a risk of splashing and they are likely to be easily absorbed by the skin.
S40 To clean the floor and all objects contaminated by this material use . . . (to be specified by the manufacturer) - Applicability: - all dangerous substances and preparations. - Criteria for use: - normally limited to those dangerous substances and preparations for which water is not considered to be a suitable cleansing agent (e.g.
S48 Keep wetted with . . . . (appropriate material to be specified by the manufacturer) - Applicability: - substances and preparations which may become very sensitive to sparks, friction or impact if allowed to dry out. - Criteria for use: - normally limited to special cases, e.g.
S50 Do not mix with . . . (to be specified by the manufacturer) - Applicability: - substances and preparations which may react with the specified product to evolve very toxic or toxic gases, - organic peroxides. - Criteria for use: - recommended for substances and preparations mentioned above which are likely to be used by the general public, when it is a better alternative to R31 or R32, - obligatory with certain peroxides which may give violent reaction with accelerators or promoters.
which give rise to inhalation risks or to a fire or explosion risk. - Criteria for use: - recommended when use of S38 would not be appropriate.
S53 Avoid exposure - Obtain special instructions before use - Applicability: - substances and preparations that are carcinogenic, mutagenic and/or toxic to reproduction. - Criteria for use: - obligatory for the abovementioned substances and preparations to which at least one of the following R-phrases has been assigned: R45, R46, R49, R60 or R61.
S56 Dispose of this material and its container to hazardous or special waste collection point. - Applicability: - substances dangerous for the environment. - Criteria for use: - recommended for substances which have been assigned the symbol 'N` and likely to be used by the general public.
S59 Refer to manufacturer/supplier for information on recovery/recycling - Applicability: - substances dangerous for the environment. - Criteria for use: - obligatory for substances dangerous for the ozone layer, - recommended for other substances assigned the symbol 'N` and for which recovery/recycling is recommended.
S60 This material and its container must be disposed of as hazardous waste - Applicability: - substances dangerous for the environment. - Criteria for use: - recommended for substances which have been assigned the symbol 'N` not likely to be used by the general public.
S62 If swallowed, do not induce vomiting: seek medical advice immediately and show this container or label - Applicability: - liquid substances and preparations having a kinematic viscosity measured by means of rotational viscometry in accordance with ISO standard 3219 or equivalent method that is less than 7 x 10-6m2/sec at 40 °C and containing aliphatic, alicyclic and/or aromatic hydrocarbons in a total concentration equal to or greater than 10 %, - not applicable to substances and preparations which are placed on the market in aerosol containers. - Criteria for use: - obligatory for substances and preparations mentioned above, if sold to, or likely to be used by the general public, - recommended for the substances and preparations mentioned above when used in industry. 7.
For substances appearing in Annex I to Directive 67/548/EEC, the label also includes the words 'EEC label`. 7.1.2.
With clarity in mind, the necessary information should be expressed in a minimum number of phrases.
In the case of irritant, highly flammable, flammable and oxidizing substances and preparations, an indication of R-phrases and S-phrases need not be given where the package does not contain more than 125 ml.
For certain preparations, Annex II of Directive 88/379/EEC has special provisions concerning the labelling. 7.2.
Chemical name(s) to be displayed on the label: 7.2.1.
For substances listed in Annex I of Directive 67/548/EEC the label shall show the name of the substances under one of the designations given in Annex I.
For substances not listed in Annex I, the name is established according to an internationally recognized chemical nomenclature as defined in section 1.4 above. 7.2.2.
For preparations, the choice of the names to be displayed on the label follows the rules of Article 7 (1) (c) of Directive 88/379/EEC.
Note: In the case of concentrate preparations which are intended for the perfume industry: - the person responsible for placing them on the market may identify merely the one sensitizing substance judged by him to be primarily responsible for the sensitization hazard, - in the case of a natural substance, the chemical name may be of the type: 'essential oil of . . .`, 'extract of . . .`, rather than the name of the constituents of that essential oil or extract. 7.3.
For substances appearing in Annex I the danger symbols and indications of danger shall be those shown in the Annex. 7.3.2.
For dangerous substances not yet appearing in Annex I and for preparations, the danger symbols and indications of danger shall be assigned according to the rules laid down in this Annex.
Choice of Risk-phrases The wording of the R-phrases shall comply with that laid down in Annex III of Directive 67/548/EEC.
The combined R-phrases in Annex III shall be used where applicable. 7.4.1.
For substances appearing in Annex I, the R-phrases shall be those shown in the Annex. 7.4.2.
For substances not appearing in Annex I, R-phrases will be selected according to the following criteria and priorities: (a) in the case of dangers which give rise to health effects: (i) R-phrases corresponding to the category of danger illustrated by a symbol must appear on the label; (ii) R-phrases corresponding to other categories of danger which are not illustrated by a symbol by virtue of Article 23 of Directive 67/548/EEC; (b) in the case of danger arising from physico-chemical properties: - the criteria described under 7.4.2 (a) above are applicable, except that the risk phrases 'extremely flammable` or 'highly flammable` need not be indicated where they repeat the wording of the indication of danger used with a symbol; (c) in the case of danger for the environment: - the R-phrases corresponding to the classification category 'dangerous for the environment` must appear on the label. 7.4.3.
For preparations, R-phrases will be selected according to the following criteria and priorities: (a) in the case of dangers which give rise to health effects: (i) R-phrases which correspond to the category of danger illustrated by a symbol.
More specifically, the R-phrases of the constituent(s) which are responsible for the assignment of the preparation to a danger category must appear on the label; (ii) R-phrases which correspond to the other categories of danger which have been attributed to the constituents but which are not illustrated by a symbol by virtue of Article 7 (d) of Directive 88/379/EEC; (b) in the case of dangers arising from physico-chemical properties: - the criteria described under 7.4.3 (a) are applicable, except that the risk phrases 'extremely flammable` or 'highly flammable` need not be indicated where they repeat the wording of the indication of danger used with a symbol.
Safety phrases The wording of the S-phrases shall comply with that laid down in Annex IV of Directive 67/548/EEC.
The combined S-phrases in Annex IV shall be used where applicable. 7.5.1.
For substances appearing in Annex I, the S-phrases shall be those shown in the Annex.
SPECIAL CASES: SUBSTANCES 8.1.
However, by way of derogation from Article 24 (1) and (2), one of the following alternatives can be used for gas cylinders with a water capacity of less than or equal to 150 litres: - the format and dimensions of the label can follow the prescriptions of the ISO Standard ISO/DP 7225, - the information specified in Article 23 (2) may be provided on a durable information disc or label held captive on the cylinder. 8.2.
Metals in massive form These substances are classified in Annex I to Directive 67/548/EEC or shall be classified in accordance with Article 6 of Directive 67/548/EEC.
However, some of these substances although classified in accordance with Article 2 of Directive 67/548/EEC do not present a danger to human health by inhalation, ingestion or contact with skin in the form in which they are placed on the market.
SPECIAL CASES: PREPARATIONS 9.1.
Flammability The flammable properties of these preparations are determined in accordance with Article 3 (2) of Directive 88/379/EEC according to the methods specified in Part A of Annex V to Directive 67/548/EEC.
However, by derogation, in the case where gaseous preparations are produced to order in small amounts, the flammability of these gaseous mixtures can be evaluated by the following calculation method: the expression of the gaseous mixture A1F1 + . . . + AiFi + . . .
Maximum content of flammable gas (Tci) The value of the maximum content of flammable gas (Tci) may be found in table 2 of the ISO Standard ISO 10156 edition 15. 12. 1990.
It is considered that the gas mixture is as oxidant as or more oxidant than air, if the following condition is verified: Ói xiCi %amp%ge; 21 where: xi is the concentration of gas i in % vol, Ci is the coefficient of oxygen equivalency.
However, by way of derogation from Articles 8 (1) and 8 (2), for gas cylinders with a water capacity of less than or equal to 150 litres, the format and dimensions of the label can follow the prescriptions of the ISO Standard ISO/DP 7225.
Alloys, preparations containing polymers, preparations containing elastomers These preparations shall be classified according to the requirements of Article 3 and labelled according to the requirements of Article 7 of Directive 88/379/EEC.
For the oxidizing properties the existing methods in Annex V cannot be applied to the organic peroxides.
The available oxygen content (%) of an organic peroxide preparation is given by the formula: 16 x (ni x ci/mi) where: ni = number of peroxygen groups per molecule of organic peroxide i, ci = concentration (mass %) of organic peroxide i, mi = molecular mass of organic peroxide i.
COMMISSION STATEMENT With regard to Section 4.1.5., and in particular to the last paragraph of Section 4.1.5., the Commission states that, should it envisage making use of the procedure of Article 28 of Directive 67/548/EEC, it is prepared to consult in advance appropriate experts designated by Members States and having special qualifications with respect to either carcinogenicity, mutagenicity or reproductive toxicity.
