Information from the Commission - Community Guidelines on State aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty (Notice to Member States including proposals for appropriate measures)(Text with EEA relevance) COMMUNITY GUIDELINES ON STATE AID FOR RESCUING AND RESTRUCTURING FIRMS IN DIFFICULTY (Notice to Member States including proposals for appropriate measures) (1999/C 288/02) (Text with EEA relevance) 1.
INTRODUCTION (1) The Commission adopted its original Guidelines on State aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty(1) in 1994.
Their validity was extended until 31 December 1999(2).
The sixth and seventh surveys on State aid in the European Union in the manufacturing and certain other sectors(4) reveal an increase in the volume of ad hoc aid, chiefly for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty, without taking into account aid granted in the new German Länder by the Treuhandanstalt or the Bundesanstalt für vereinigungsbedingte Sonderaufgaben.
Chapter 5 incorporates the specific rules for agriculture adopted in 1997. 2.4.
For rescues, however, unless it is expressly stipulated otherwise in some other Community text on State aid, assistance should be limited to loans or loan guarantees (see points 23 to 27). (15) The source of the aid can be any level of government(12), central, regional and local, and any %quot%public undertaking%quot%, as defined in Article 2 of the 1980 Commission Directive 80/723/EEC of 25 June 1980 on the transparency of financial relations between Member States and public undertakings(13).
The presumption of aid is stronger in cases where there is a Community-wide or EEA-wide structural excess of production capacity on a market in which the recipient firm is active or where the industry as a whole is in difficulties. (18) The assessment of rescue or restructuring aid should not be affected by changes in the ownership of the business aided. 2.5.
Where the firms to be rescued or restructured are located in assisted areas, the Commission will take the regional considerations referred to in Article 87(3)(a) and (c) into account as described in points 53 and 54. 2.6.
OTHER PROVISIONS OF COMMUNITY LAW (21) It should be stressed that the Commission cannot authorise aid for rescuing or restructuring firms in difficulty where the terms and conditions of the aid infringe Treaty provisions other than Articles 87 and 88 or secondary legislation. 3.
GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR THE AUTHORISATION OF RESCUE AND/OR RESTRUCTURING AID NOTIFIED INDIVIDUALLY TO THE COMMISSION (22) This chapter deals exclusively with aid measures that are notified individually to the Commission.
In both cases, the loan must be granted at an interest rate at least comparable to those observed for loans to healthy firms, and in particular the reference rates adopted by the Commission; (b) be linked to loans that are to be reimbursed over a period of not more than twelve months after disbursement of the last instalment to the firm(18); (c) be warranted on the grounds of serious social difficulties and have no unduly adverse spillover effects on other Member States; (d) be accompanied on notification by an undertaking on the part of the Member State concerned to communicate to the Commission, not later than six months after the rescue aid measure has been authorised, a restructuring plan or a liquidation plan or proof that the loan has been reimbursed in full and/or that the guarantee has been terminated; (e) be restricted to the amount needed to keep the firm in business for the period during which the aid is authorised (for example, covering wage and salary costs or routine supplies). (24) The rescue aid will initially be authorised for not more than six months or, where the Member State concerned has submitted a restructuring plan within that period, until the Commission reaches its decision on the plan.
On the other hand, repeated rescues that would merely maintain the status quo, postpone the inevitable and in the meantime shift the attendant economic and social problems on to other, more efficient producers or other Member States cannot be allowed. (26) If the Member State fails to communicate the information stipulated in (d) of point 23 before the six-month deadline expires and does not make a duly substantiated request for the deadline to be extended, the Commission will initiate proceedings under Article 88(2). (27) The approval of rescue aid does not necessarily mean that aid under a restructuring plan will subsequently be approved; such aid will have to be assessed on its own merits. 3.2.
RESTRUCTURING AID 3.2.1.
The plan must be submitted in all relevant detail to the Commission and include, in particular, a market survey(19).
In assessing whether or not there is excess capacity on a given market, the Commission can take into account all the relevant data in its possession: (i) where there is a Community-wide or EEA-wide structural excess of production capacity in a market served by the recipient, the restructuring plan must make a contribution, in proportion to the amount of aid received and its impact on that market, to the improvement of market conditions by irreversibly reducing production capacity.
They must in particular include all relevant information on any aid for any purpose which the company has received, either on an individual basis or under a general scheme, during the restructuring period (see points 90 to 93).
The Commission may allow such changes where they meet the following conditions: (a) the revised plan must still show a return to viability within a reasonable timescale; (b) if the amount of the aid is increased, any requisite compensatory measures must be more extensive than those initially imposed; (c) if the proposed compensatory measures are smaller than those initially planned, the amount of the aid must be correspondingly reduced; (d) the new timetable for implementation of the compensatory measures may be delayed with respect to the timetable initially adopted only for reasons outside the company's or the Member State's control.
Finally, distortions of competition must be minimised even in the case of aid to firms in assisted areas. (54) Thus, the criteria listed in points 29 to 52 are equally applicable to assisted areas, even when the needs of regional development are considered.
If regional development needs justify it, the required capacity reduction will be smaller in assisted areas than in non-assisted areas and a distinction will be drawn between areas eligible for regional aid under Article 87(3)(a) of the Treaty and those eligible under Article 87(3)(c) so as to take account of the greater severity of the regional problems in the former areas. 3.2.6.
On the other hand, the %quot%one time, last time%quot% principle (points 48 to 51) applies in full to SMEs. 3.2.7.
Such retrenchments are often necessary in the interests of rationalisation and efficiency, quite apart from any capacity reductions that may be required as a condition for granting aid (particularly in cases where there is a Community-wide or EEA-wide structural excess of production capacity - see points 35 to 39).
Any rescue aid granted for longer than six months must be individually notified to the Commission. 4.4.
The maximum amount of aid may not be more than EUR 10 million, including any aid from other sources or under other schemes. 4.6.
MONITORING AND ANNUAL REPORTS (69) Points 45, 46 and 47 do not apply to aid schemes.
CAPACITY REDUCTIONS (70) Points 35 to 39, and 55 and 67(b) provide that the requirement for compensatory measures is not normally applied in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, unless otherwise stipulated in sector-specific State aid rules.
In the agricultural sector, the Commission will normally require compensatory measures, in accordance with the principles set out in points 35 to 39, to be carried out by all recipients of restructuring aid, whatever their size.
However, Member States may alternatively apply the special rules for agriculture set out in points 73 to 82. 5.2.
In such cases, Member States must, as a general rule, demonstrate that: (i) for measures targeted on particular products or operators the system would in the relevant Member State, reduce production capacity of product(s) with structural excess by 10 %(36) of that which the restructuring aid is effectively granted; (ii) for other measures not so targeted, this capacity reduction must attain 5 %(37) of the value of output of products with structural excess for which the restructuring aid is actually granted.
However, in recognition of the practical problems associated with capacity reduction at the level of primary agricultural production (and indirectly in the processing and marketing of products under Annex I of the Treaty), yet recognising the common interest to be eligible for exemption under Article 87(3)(c), the Commission, subject to adherence to all other conditions, will waive the capacity reduction requirements in the following situations: (i) for measures aimed at any particular category of products or operators, where the totality of decisions taken in favour of all beneficiaries over any consecutive twelve-month period does not involve a quantity of products which exceeds 3 % of the total annual production of such products in that country; (ii) for other measures not so aimed, where the totality of decisions taken in favour of all beneficiaries over any consecutive twelve-month period does not involve a value of product which exceeds 1,5 % of the total annual value of agricultural production in that country. (80) At the request of the Member State concerned, the geographic references under (i) and (ii) of point 79 may, for any measure, be determined at a regional level.
However, by way of derogation from points 48 to 51 and 67, as regards individual awards of aid and rescue and restructuring schemes concerning primary agricultural production, the period during which further aid may not be granted except in exceptional and unforeseeable circumstances for which the company is not responsible is reduced to five years.
INDIVIDUAL NOTIFICATION OF ANY AID FOR TANGIBLE INVESTMENT DURING THE RESTRUCTURING PERIOD (88) Where a large enterprise receives restructuring aid examined under these Guidelines, the grant of any other investment aid during the restructuring period, even in accordance with a scheme that has already been authorised, is liable to influence the Commission's assessment of the extent of the compensatory measures required. (89) During the period for restructuring such an enterprise, any aid intended to encourage tangible investment (whether it be to promote regional development, environmental protection or any other objective) awarded after 30 June 2000 must be notified individually, unless it is covered by the de minimis rule(39). 6.2.
NEED TO INFORM THE COMMISSION OF ANY AID GRANTED TO THE RECIPIENT FIRM (90) Where a large enterprise receives restructuring aid examined under these Guidelines, monitoring of the satisfactory implementation of the Commission's decisions on such aid requires a large measure of transparency with regard to any further aid which the firm might receive, even in accordance with a scheme that has already been authorised and even where such aid is not subject to individual notification under points 88 and 89. (91) With effect from 30 June 2000, notifications of aid for restructuring a large enterprise must indicate, for information, all other aid of any kind which is planned to be granted to the recipient firm during the restructuring period, unless it is covered by the de minimis rule. (92) Likewise, the reports to be submitted in accordance with points 45, 46 and 47 of these Guidelines must indicate any other aid granted to the recipient firm during the period covered, and any other aid which is planned to be granted to the recipient firm during the restructuring period, unless it is covered by the de minimis rule. (93) The Commission reserves the right to initiate proceedings under Article 88(2) of the Treaty against all aid to a particular firm if the grant of aid under approved schemes is liable to circumvent the requirements of these Guidelines. 6.3.
ADAPTATION OF EXISTING RESCUE OR RESTRUCTURING AID SCHEMES IN THE LIGHT OF THESE GUIDELINES (94) Member States must adapt their existing rescue and restructuring aid schemes which are to remain in operation after 30 June 2000 in order to bring them into line with these Guidelines, and in particular with the requirements of Chapter 4, after that date. (95) To enable the Commission to monitor the adaptation process, Member States must let it have a list of all such schemes before 31 December 1999.
They must subsequently, and in any event before 30 June 2000, provide it with sufficient information to enable it to check that the schemes have indeed been modified in accordance with these Guidelines. 7.
However, where an establishment is purchased from a firm in difficulty, it must be demonstrated in particular that the condition laid down in point 4.5, namely that the transaction takes place at market conditions, has been fulfilled. 7.2.
AID TO SMES (98) Aid for rescuing and restructuring SMEs individually notified before 30 April 2000 will be assessed in the light of the guidelines in force before adoption of this text.
The extension of those guidelines, which was notified to Member States and published in the Official Journal of the European Communities on 10 March 1999 (see footnote 2) is therefore renewed for such aid. (99) Any scheme is nevertheless subject to the appropriate measure referred to in points 94 and 95 where the scheme is intended to remain in operation after 30 June 2000. 7.4.
NON-NOTIFIED AID (101) The Commission will examine the compatibility with the common market of any rescue or restructuring aid granted without its authorisation and therefore in breach of Article 88(3) of the Treaty: (a) on the basis of these Guidelines if some or all of the aid is granted after their publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities; (b) on the basis of the Guidelines in force at the time the aid is granted in all other cases. (1) OJ C 368, 23.12.1994, p. 12. (2) OJ C 67, 10.3.1999, p. 11. (3) OJ C 283, 19.9.1997, p. 2.
See also the footnote relating to the heading of Chapter 5. (4) COM(1998) 417 final; COM(1999) 148 final. (5) CSE(97) 1 final. (6) This refers in particular to the types of company mentioned in the first subparagraph of Article 1(1) of Council Directive 78/660/EEC (OJ L 222, 14.8.1978, p. 11), as amended in particular by Directive 90/605/EEC (OJ L 317, 16.11.1990, p. 60). (7) By analogy with the provisions of Council Directive 77/91/EEC (OJ L 26, 30.1.1977, p. 1). (8) This refers in particular to the types of company mentioned in Article 1 of Directive 90/605/EEC. (9) The creation by a company of a subsidiary merely as a vehicle for receiving its assets and possibly its liabilities is not regarded as the creation of a new firm. (10) The only exceptions of this rule are any cases dealt with by the Bundesanstalt für vereinigungsbedingte Sonderaufgaben in the context of its privatisation remit and other similar cases in the new Länder, involving companies emerging from a liquidation or a take-over of assets occurring up to 31 December 1999. (11) Specific rules of this nature exist for shipbuilding (Regulation (EC) No 1540/98, OJ L 202, 18.7.1998, p. 1), the motor vehicle industry (OJ C 279, 15.9.1997, p. 1) and the aviation sector (OJ C 350, 10.12.1994, p. 5). (12) Including in the case of aid co-financed from Community funds. (13) OJ L 195, 29.7.1980, p. 35, as amended by Directive 93/84/EEC (OJ L 254, 12.10.1993, p. 16). (14) See judgment of the Court of Justice of 22 March 1977 in Case 78/76 Steinike und Weinlig v Germany, [1977] ECR 595; Crédit Lyonnais/Usinor-Sacilor, Commission press release IP(91) 1045. (15) See the Communication on public undertakings in the manufacturing sector (OJ C 307, 13.11.1993, p. 3). (16) See in particular point 27 of the Communication on public undertakings in the manufacturing sector. (17) An exception may be made in the case of rescue aid in the banking sector, in order to enable the credit institution in question to continue temporarily carrying on its banking business in accordance with the prudential legislation in force (Council Directive 89/647/EEC of 18 December 1989 on a solvency ratio for credit institutions, OJ L 386, 30.12.1989, p. 14).
Any aid granted in a form other than that described in subparagraph (b), for example a capital injection or a subordinated loan, will be taken into account when any compensatory measures under a restructuring plan are examined in accordance with points 35 to 39. (18) Reimbursement of the loan linked to the rescue aid may possibly be covered by the restructuring aid subsequently approved by the Commission. (19) The items of information which the Commission needs in order to examine the aid satisfactorily are listed in Annex I. (20) As defined in point 7.6 of the multisectoral framework on regional aid for large investment projects (OJ C 107, 7.4.1998, p. 7): %quot%The relevant product market(s) for determining market share comprises the products envisaged by the investment project and, where appropriate, its substitutes considered by the consumer (by reason of the products' characteristics, their prices and their intended use) or by the producer (through flexibility of the production installations).
In addition, the paragraph does not apply to cases of aid to such enterprises notified before 31 December 2000.
ANNEX I NOTIFICATION FORM FOR INDIVIDUAL GRANTS OF RESTRUCTURING AID I.
Information on the company - Company name; - Legal status; - Sector in which it operates, with corresponding NACE code; - Names of the main shareholders and extent of their holdings; - List of shareholders' agreements (creation of a hard core, purchase option, etc.); - If the company belongs to a group, copy of the full, up-to-date organisation chart of the whole of the group, showing the links between its members (capital and voting rights); - If the company originates from a purchase of assets following liquidation or court-supervised administration proceedings, also give the above details for the firm(s) concerned; - Location of all main production sites throughout the world, with workforce; - If the company is treated as an SME, the Member State must supply evidence that it fulfils all the criteria of the Community definition.
The market survey must give in particular: - a precise definition of the market covered by the survey; - the names of the company's main competitors with their shares of the world, Community or domestic market, as appropriate; - the evolution of the company's market shares in recent years; - an assessment of total production capacity and demand at Community level, concluding whether or not there is excess capacity on the market; - Community-wide forecasts for trends in demand, aggregate capacity and prices on the market over the five years ahead.
Description of the aid - Demonstrate that the company's difficulties are its own and are not the result of an arbitrary allocation of costs within a group; - State whether the company has already received rescue aid and, if so, give the approval date and attach the Member State's commitment to submit a restructuring or liquidation plan; - State whether the company or any of its subsidiaries in which it holds not less than 25 % of the capital or the voting rights have in the past already received restructuring aid or aid regarded as such.
