Save as otherwise provided in this Regulation, and save derogations decided on by the Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, and subject to the obligations arising from international agreements relating to the products listed in the Annex, the following shall be prohibited in trade with third countries: - the levying of any charge having effect equivalent to a customs duty, and - the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect, subject to the provisions of the Protocol on the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
If by reason of imports or exports the Community market in one or more of the products listed in the Annex experiences or is threatened with serious disturbances which may endanger the objectives set out in Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased.
The Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this paragraph and define the cases in which and the limits within which Member States may take protective measures. 2.
It may amend or repeal the measures in question in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty.
The following shall be prohibited in the internal trade of the Community: - the levying of any customs duty or charge having equivalent effect; - any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect, subject to the provisions of the Protocol on the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg; - recourse to Article 44 of the Treaty. 2.
Article 5 Articles 92, 93 and 94 of the Treaty shall apply to the production of and trade in the products listed in the Annex.
The Council, acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43 (2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, shall appoint a Management Committee for each product.
Article 7 This Regulation shall be so applied that appropriate account is taken, at the same time, of the objectives set out in Articles 39 and 110 of the Treaty.
Article 8 This Regulation shall apply without prejudice to the Community provisions adopted or to be adopted with a view to harmonising the laws, regulations and administrative action of Member States the purpose of which is to maintain or improve the technical or genetic level of the production of certain products listed in the Annex and intended specifically for reproduction.
They shall be applicable until 30 June 1969 at the latest.
