Article 2 In compliance with the political guidelines laid down by the President, the Commission shall establish its priorities and each year adopt its work programme.
Article 3 The President may assign to Members of the Commission special fields of activity with regard to which they are specifically responsible for the preparation of Commission work and the implementation of its decisions.
Article 4 Commission decisions shall be taken: (a) at meetings; or (b) by written procedure in accordance with Article 12; or (c) by empowerment in accordance with Article 13; or (d) by delegation in accordance with Article 14.
Section I Commission meetings Article 5 Meetings of the Commission shall be convened by the President.
Article 6 The President shall adopt the agenda of each meeting, taking into account in particular the work programme provided for in Article 2.
Article 7 The number of Members present required to constitute a quorum shall be equal to a majority of the number of Members specified in the Treaty.
Article 9 Meetings of the Commission shall not be public.
Article 10 Save as otherwise decided by the Commission, the Secretary-General shall attend meetings.
Article 11 Minutes shall be taken of all meetings of the Commission.
Article 13 The Commission may, provided the principle of collective responsibility is fully respected, empower one or more of its Members to take management or administrative measures on its behalf and subject to such restrictions and conditions as it shall impose.
Article 14 The Commission may, provided the principle of collective responsibility is fully respected, delegate the adoption of management or administrative measures to the Directors-General and Heads of Service, acting on its behalf and subject to such restrictions and conditions as it shall impose.
Article 15 Decisions adopted by empowerment procedure or delegation procedure shall be recorded in a day note which shall be recorded in the minutes of the next Commission meeting.
Section III Preparation and implementation of Commission decisions Article 16 Members of the Commission may each appoint personal staff to assist them in their work and in preparing Commission decisions.
Article 17 The Secretary-General shall assist the President in preparing the proceedings and meetings of the Commission.
He shall ensure that decision-making procedures are properly implemented and that effect is given to the decisions referred to in Article 4.
Article 18 Instruments adopted by the Commission in the course of a meeting shall be attached, in the authentic language or languages, in such a way that they cannot be separated, to a summary note prepared at the end of the meeting at which they were adopted.
Instruments adopted by written procedure shall be attached in the authentic language or languages, in such a way that they cannot be separated, to the day note referred to in Article 12.
Instruments adopted by empowerment procedure shall be attached in the authentic language or languages, in such a way that they cannot be separated, to the day note referred to in Article 15.
Instruments adopted by delegation procedure, or by subdelegation in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 13, shall be attached in the authentic language or languages, in such a way that they cannot be separated, to the day note referred to in Article 15.
For the purposes of these Rules, %quot%instruments%quot% means any instrument as referred to in Article 14 of the ECSC Treaty, Article 249 of the EC Treaty and Article 161 of the Euratom Treaty.
CHAPTER II COMMISSION DEPARTMENTS Article 19 A number of Directorates-General and equivalent departments forming a single administrative service shall assist the Commission in the performance of its tasks.
Article 20 The Commission may, in special cases, set up specific structures to deal with particular matters and shall determine their responsibilities and method of operation.
Article 21 In order to ensure the effectiveness of Commission action, departments shall work in close cooperation and in coordinated fashion in the preparation or implementation of Commission decisions.
CHAPTER III DEPUTISING Article 22 If the President is prevented from exercising his functions, they shall be exercised by one of the Vice-Presidents or Members chosen in the order laid down by the Commission.
Article 23 Where the Secretary-General is prevented from exercising his functions, they shall be exercised by the Deputy Secretary-General or, where this is not possible, by an official designated by the Commission.
FINAL PROVISIONS Article 25 The Commission shall, as necessary, lay down rules to give effect to these Rules of Procedure.
Article 26 The Rules of Procedure of 18 September 1999, as amended by Decision 2000/633/EC, ECSC, Euratom, are repealed.
Article 27 These Rules of Procedure shall enter into force on 1 January 2001.
Article 28 These Rules of Procedure shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 29 November 2000.
Any exceptions to this principle must be duly justified. 2.
Where appropriate, decisions should refer to the possibility of starting judicial proceedings and/or of lodging a complaint with the European Ombudsman in accordance with Article 230 or 195 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. 4.
Correspondence In accordance with Article 21 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Commission shall reply to letters in the language of the initial letter, provided that it was written in one of the official languages of the Community.
If this is not the case, the member of staff may consider that it is not in the Community interest for the information to be disclosed.
In this case he or she should explain why they are unable to disclose it and refer in appropriate cases to the obligation to exercise discretion as laid down in Article 17 of the Staff Regulations.
PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA AND CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION The Commission and its staff shall respect, in particular: - the rules on the protection of personal privacy and personal data, - the obligations set out in Article 287 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and in particular those which relate to professional secrecy, - the rules on secrecy in criminal investigations, - the confidentiality of matters falling within the ambit of the various committees and bodies provided for in Article 9 of and Annexes II and III to the Staff Regulations. 6.
The European Ombudsman Complaints may also be lodged with the European Ombudsman in accordance with Article 195 of the Treaty establishing the European Community and the Statute of the European Ombudsman. (1) Postal address: Secretariat-General of the European Commission, Unit SG/B/2 %quot%Openness, access to documents, relations with civil society%quot%, rue de la Loi/Wetstraat 200, B-1049 Brussels (fax (32-2) 296 72 42).
