2005/691/EC: Commission Decision of 7 May 2004 on State aid C 44/03 (ex NN 158/01) which Austria is planning to implement for Bank Burgenland AG (notified under document number C(2004) 1625) (Text with EEA relevance) Commission Decision of 7 May 2004 on State aid C 44/03 (ex NN 158/01) which Austria is planning to implement for Bank Burgenland AG (notified under document number C(2004) 1625) (Only the German text is authentic) (Text with EEA relevance) (2005/691/EC) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular the first subparagraph of Article 88(2) thereof, Having regard to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, and in particular Article 62(1)(a) thereof, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 93 of the EC Treaty [1], and in particular Article 7(3) thereof, Having called on interested parties to submit their comments pursuant to the provisions cited above [2] and having regard to their comments, Whereas: I.
BACKGROUND Bank Burgenland AG (BB) (9) BB is a regional mortgage bank with its registered office in Eisenstadt; its business is confined largely to the territory of the Federal Province of Burgenland.
The latter is the main shareholder in BB and holds 97,897 % of the equity.
The remaining 2,103 % is portfolio investment.
BB had a balance sheet value of some EUR 2,7 billion in 2000 [5] and was ranked 33rd in the list of Austrian banks. (10) Before the two guarantee agreements of June and December 2000, the Province of Burgenland held 50,63 % of BB’s equity.
Following the purchase of Bank Austria’s shares (guarantee agreement of 23 October 2000), the Province of Burgenland concluded an option contract with Bausparkasse Wüstenrot to purchase all its shares.
The statutory arrangements for the authority’s guarantor liability came into force on 29 June 1991 and, since then, the Province of Burgenland has received a liability fee for providing the statutory deficiency guarantee.
BB’s financial difficulties (13) In the course of the audit of BB’s annual accounts for 1999 a fraud involving the loss of some EUR 189 million was discovered in connection with the credit management of HOWE Bau AG when it became insolvent: the auditor’s certificates for the annual accounts submitted by HOWE had been forged.
There was therefore a need for a valuation adjustment of EUR 171 million, which exceeded the Bank’s core capital of EUR 80 million and would, therefore, have led directly to BB’s insolvency.
Furthermore, under Section 83 of the Banking Law (BWG), BB would have had to apply for the imposition of a court supervised management procedure, which is a special arrangement under insolvency law for credit institutions, and this would, in Austria’s opinion, have been tantamount to bankruptcy for BB.
In order to avoid a further imminent loss in its capacity as shareholder and deficiency guarantor, the Province of Burgenland concluded with Bank Austria AG and BB a framework agreement whereby Bank Austria AG waived claims against BB.
DESCRIPTION OF THE AID (16) The liabilities assumed in 2000 by the Province of Burgenland vis-à-vis BB were as follows: Guarantee agreement of 20 June 2000 (17) The Province of Burgenland assumed vis-à-vis BB a liability of EUR 171 million, plus annual interest at 5 %, on a current-account basis in respect of the guaranteed amount for the more detailed loan commitments in connection with the circumstances of the HOWE case.
Framework agreement of 23 October 2000 (18) In order to cover the necessary value adjustment of EUR 189 million discovered during a comprehensive audit of accounts receivable, the framework agreement of 23 October 2000 was concluded with BB’s main creditor, Bank Austria Creditanstalt AG.
Waiver of claims between Bank Austria AG and BB (19) Bank Austria Creditanstalt AG waived claims on BB totalling EUR 189 million.
Guarantee agreement (21) In the event of BB being unable to meet its better-fortune obligation, the Province of Burgenland has, under an additional agreement of 1 December 2000, assumed an irrevocable deficiency guarantee towards Bank Austria AG which is effective for each year in the period 2004-10 and under which the Province of Burgenland must cover any shortfall (annual instalment less the amount paid by BB to Bank Austria AG) towards Bank Austria AG.
Sale of shares between Bank Austria AG and the Province of Burgenland (22) Bank Austria AG sold 34,13 % of its shares in BB at EUR 0,07 per share to the Province of Burgenland.
It was difficult to ascertain on which market assumptions the restructuring measures were based. (27) As regards the long-term profitability forecast of 15 % by 2010 given in the notification, the Commission first criticised the fact that no basis whatsoever had been provided for that forecast and also doubted whether the target return of 15 % was realistic and hence whether it could actually be achieved by 2010.
Points 35 to 39 of the guidelines state that measures must be taken to mitigate as far as possible any adverse effects of the aid on competition.
The limitation or reduction must be in proportion to the distortive effects of the aid and, in particular, to the relative importance of the firm on its market or markets. (32) The remedies or compensation measures proposed by Austria consisted in the sale of holdings, the closure of a branch and a decision to desist from granting Federal loans.
Aid limited to the minimum (35) In accordance with points 40 and 41 of the guidelines, the aid must be limited to the strict minimum needed to avoid providing the undertaking with surplus cash which could be used for aggressive, market-distorting activities or even for expansion.
For instance, following the necessary value adjustments made in 2000 with a view to tidying up the portfolio, BB’s current business activities were basically viable and would remain so even on a cautious assessment of future developments.
Developments in the last two years had shown that deposit business had stabilised once again and that the losses suffered in 2000 could be recovered in part.
Aid limited to the minimum (52) Austria stressed that the aid in question was limited to the minimum since the guarantee agreements alone were not sufficient to maintain a satisfactory level of solvency and that BB had made the further value adjustments totalling EUR 41 million out of its own resources and also coped with the loss of balances totalling EUR 218 million out of its own resources.
However, the Province will have the right to make the open guarantee payment to BB in full or only in part as from the moment that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are closed.
Until 30 June 2011 the current interest rate of 5 % and, as from 1 July 2011, the then five year interest rate will apply each year on a current-account basis in respect of the amount of the guarantee.
By decision of the Provincial Government of 12 November 2003 (Zl. 3-12I/48-2003), the corresponding measures for initiating the sale were put in place.
By March/April 2004 at the latest, after completion of the compulsory due diligence process, negotiations with the individual bidders would begin. (60) In order to obtain the best possible price for BB, it would be necessary, therefore, for the Province of Burgenland to release BB from all its obligations under the better-fortune agreement with Bank Austria Creditanstalt AG.
The same would apply accordingly to the guarantee agreement of 20 June 2000 between the Province of Burgenland and BB since, here too, neither BB nor the buyer of BB should be encumbered in any way. (61) In the view of Austria, if BB were still required to transfer its profits, it would be doubtful whether any buyer for the bank could be found since potential buyers would have little interest in a transaction from which they could not expect any profits for a number of years. (62) Abolition of the requirement for BB to transfer its profits would, therefore, be a necessary condition for its forthcoming privatisation if the notified restructuring plan, of which BB’s privatisation was an essential component, were to have any realistic chance of success.
The KPMG report of 17 June 2000, referred to in paragraph 13, puts at EUR 247 million the amount that would have to be covered by the Province of Burgenland in the event of BB’s insolvency.
This is lower than the aggregate value of the two guarantees, although it should be pointed out that this figure was calculated before the second comprehensive audit of accounts receivable conducted in the second half of 2000 and, viewed from today’s perspective, should therefore be higher.
It is, however, uncertain how Austria arrives at a figure of EUR 247 million.
Compatibility of the aid measures with the common market (68) Since the aid measures were not granted under an approved aid scheme, the Commission must assess their compatibility with the common market in the light of Article 87 of the EC Treaty and the guidelines [9]. (69) In accordance with Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty, save as otherwise provided for in that Treaty, any State aid granted or any aid granted through State resources in any form whatsoever which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of certain goods is, in so far as it affects trade between Member States, incompatible with the common market. (70) However, Article 87 does provide for exceptions to the principle that State aid is incompatible with the common market.
These derogations are not, therefore, applicable in the present case. (71) As regards the derogations in Article 87(3)(b) and (d), it should be pointed out that the aid does not serve to promote the execution of an important project of common European interest or to remedy a serious disturbance in the economy of a Member State and cannot be regarded either as aid to promote culture and heritage conservation. (72) Consequently, the Commission is assessing the aid measures on the basis of the derogation in Article 87(3)(c).
These circumstances clearly obtain in the case of BB. (76) Without the intervention of the Province of Burgenland, BB would have been placed under court-supervised management and would have been condemned to go out of business within the meaning of the guidelines.
Basic principle (77) Under point 28 of the guidelines, restructuring aid can be allowed only if strict criteria are met and if it is certain that any distortions of competition will be offset by the benefits flowing from the firm’s survival, in particular where it is clear that the net effect of redundancies resulting from the firm going out of business would exacerbate local, regional or national employment problems or exceptionally, where the firm’s disappearance would result in a monopoly or a tight oligopolistic situation. (78) The latter can be excluded, however, since BB’s position is not so strong that bankruptcy and the subsequent partial sale would create a monopoly or oligopolistic situation. (79) Although Austria argues that, apart from BB, virtually the only important bank doing business in Burgenland is the Raiffeisen group (rural credit cooperatives) and that BB’s disappearance would thus lead to a greater concentration of market structure and further strengthen that group, this argument is not, on the basis of the information currently available, convincing, given that other banks, savings banks and people’s banks are present in Burgenland. (80) It should be noted, however, that the effects of a hypothetical liquidation of BB are difficult to calculate.
to cover all its costs including depreciation and financial charges and to generate enough return on capital to enable it to compete in the marketplace. (82) The Commission has based its assessment on the information provided by Austria, including the planning for the individual restructuring measures, the predicted return on investment for the restructuring period 2000 to 2010 based on a cautious appraisal of future developments, on the one hand, and on the results of normal business activity as indicated in the annual accounts and the plan calculation, on the other, and the analysis of the inadequate credit risk management responsible for the problems and of the structural deficits.
The Commission has also based its assessment on the information provided by Austria concerning progress in implementing the restructuring plan, the amendments to the individual measures and the schedule for completing the planned privatisation of BB. (83) For want of detailed forecasting data and the underlying assumptions, the Commission, in its decision to initiate the procedure, expressed doubts regarding the forecast long-term profitability of 15 % by 2010.
By decision of the Provincial Government of 12 November 2003 (Zl. 3-12I/48-2003), the necessary measures for launching the sales process were introduced.
Points 35 to 39 of the guidelines state that measures must be taken to mitigate as far as possible any adverse effects of the aid on competitors.
This condition usually involves limiting or reducing the firm’s presence on the relevant product markets, selling production capacity or subsidiaries, or reducing activities. (89) The limitation or reduction should be in proportion to the distortive effects of the aid and, in particular, to the relative importance of the firm on its market or markets. (90) According to point 53 of the guidelines, the Commission must take the needs of regional development into account when assessing restructuring aid in assisted areas.
Although BB appears to have adapted well to the economic circumstances of this assisted area as a result of its presence there for many years, it stands to reason, in the Commission’s view, that financial difficulties encountered by the bank in such areas are more acute than would be the case in an economically and industrially advanced region. (92) BB is a small enterprise among banks in Austria.
Austria subsequently provided further information on the value of the measures and their reduction effect and announced that all possible ways of offering suitable compensatory measures on the part of BB had been examined. (96) Austria made the point in connection with the sale of holdings that BB had already disposed of holdings amounting to EUR 3,5 million that were not necessary for its operations in the period from 2001 to July 2003, with the result that the holdings in its portfolio as at 31 December 2000 were reduced by around one third. (97) According to the information provided by Austria, BB, apart from the assets already disposed of, did not possess any strategic holdings or hidden reserves, something that could be ascertained from the prudential reports prepared by BB’s auditors in recent years.
In addition, in past decisions on bank reorganisations, it has regarded a reduction in market presence of 10 % as sufficient in cases where the banks concerned had pursued an expansionary business policy in the years preceding their economic difficulties [10].
Whereas the guarantee agreements covered the necessary value adjustment in respect of the proceeds from non-performing loans, they did not take account of the shortfall in interest on bad loans, which the bank itself thus had to make good. (106) In addition, before the guarantee agreement of 20 June 2000 was concluded and at the time the annual accounts for 1999 were drawn up, BB itself made further value adjustments amounting to EUR 41 million. (107) In October 2000, following adverse publicity, a large number of customers withdrew substantial credit balances (savings and time deposits, and securities holdings) amounting to EUR 218 million and accounting for some 10 % of BB’s balance sheet value.
Further cost reductions amounting to EUR 285000 are planned for 2004. (109) In the Commission’s view, the aid has, therefore, been limited to the minimum needed.
CONCLUSIONS (110) The aid totalling EUR 359,8 million consists of two measures: the guarantee agreement dated 20 June 2000 between the Province of Burgenland and BB (EUR 171 million plus 5 % interest) and the framework agreement of 23 October 2000, which consists for its part of a claims waiver on the part of Bank Austria for BB, a better-fortune agreement between these two contracting parties and a guarantee agreement on the part of the Province of Burgenland for BB amounting to EUR 189 million. (111) All the conditions for the presence of State aid pursuant to Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty are met: State resources, treatment favouring a specific undertaking, competition-distorting effects and effect on trade between Member States.
Article 2 This Decision is addressed to the Republic of Austria.
Done at Brussels, 7 May 2004.
For the Commission Mario Monti Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 1.
