Before expiry of the period set in paragraph 1, the Council may, under Article 100 of the Treaty, act on a proposal for a directive authorising the use of these colouring matters.
Where the Council has not acted within the period set in paragraph 1, Article 12 shall apply.
Article 3 This Directive shall not affect national rules concerning natural substances which are used in the manufacture of certain foodstuffs because of their aromatic, rapid or nutritive properties but which also have a subsidiary colouring property, for example paprika, turmeric, saffron and sandal-wood in particular.
Article 4 This Directive shall not affect national rules concerning colouring matters authorised: (a) for colouring the shells of hard boiled eggs, tobacco and manufactured tobacco; (b) for stamping meat, citrus fruit, cheese-rinds, the shells of eggs and other external parts not usually consumed with the foodstuffs.
Article 5 This Directive shall not affect national rules specifying which foodstuffs may be coloured by means of the colouring matters listed in Annexes I and II or on what conditions they may be so treated.
Article 10 This Directive shall apply to chewing gum in so far as the latter contains any colouring matter.
Article 13 This Directive shall not affect the provisions of national rules concerning products intended for exportation from the Community.
Article 14 This Directive shall also apply in the French overseas departments.
Article 15 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
COLOMBO ANNEX I The colouring matters referred to in Article 1 of this Directive are listed in the three sections below.
SPECIFIC CRITERIA OF PURITY E 101 - Lactoflavin (Riboflavin) Lumiflavin : Prepare ethanol-free chloroform as follows : Shake 20 ml of chloroform with 20 ml of water gently but carefully for three minutes and allow time to separate.
Draw off the chloroform layer and repeat the operation twice using 20 ml each time.
Shake 25 mg of riboflavin with 10 ml of ethanol-free chloroform for five minutes, then filter : the colour of the filtrate should not be more intense than that of an aqueous solution obtained by diluting 3 ml of 0 71 N potassium dichromate to 1000 ml.
Shake in a separating funnel with four successive portions of 50 ml of chlorobenzene, for five minutes each time.
Filter the chlorobenzene solution through a thickly-folded filter paper and measure the extinction (E1) in a spectrophotometer against chlorobenzene contained in cells of suitable thickness (d1) at 414 m¶.
Concentrate 100 ml of chlorobenzene extract to about 20 ml by heating in a water bath in a current of warm air.
Measure the extinction of the ortho-compound at 414 m¶ (E2), and that of the para-compound at 376 m¶ (E3). %gt%PIC FILE= %quot%T0050801%quot%%gt% (b) Determination of aniline : Shake 75 ml of the remaining chlorobenzene extract with two successive portions of 50 ml of 0 75 N hydrochloric acid, then with two successive portions of 25 ml of water.
Neutralise the combined aqueous extracts with a 30 % solution of sodium hydroxide, then acidify with 10 ml of 0 75 N hydrochloric acid.
Dissolve 1-2 g of potassium bromide in this solution.
Pour the solution into about 5 ml of a 3 % solution of R salt (disodium salt of 2-naphthol-3, 6-disulphonic acid) added to 10 ml of 2 N sodium hydroxide.
Tarry products : boil 2 g of carbon black with 20 ml of N sodium hydroxide, then filter.
E 160 (a) - Alpha-, Beta-, Gamma-Carotene Chromatography : By absorption on alumina or silica gel, pure Beta-carotene shows only one zone.
E 160 (b) - Bixin and Norbixin (Roucou, Annatto) Chromatography: (a) Annatto : Dissolve a sufficient quantity of Annatto in benzene or dilute a benzene solution of Annatto to obtain a solution of the same colour as a 1 % solution of potassium dichromate.
Pour 3 ml of the solution on the top of an alumina column ; elute slowly.
After elution of the last chloroform wash, add 5 ml of the Carr-Price reagent to the top of the column.
Add 5 ml of this solution to the top of the prepared column.
Add 50 ml of benzene, then shake vigorously.
After separation discard the aqueous layer and wash the benzene solution with 100 ml of water until the solution is no longer acid.
Pour 3-5 ml of this solution on the top of the alumina column.
E 171 - Titanium dioxide Substances soluble in hydrochloric acid : Suspend 5 g of titanium dioxide in 100 ml of 0 75 N hydrochloric acid and heat for thirty minutes in a water bath, stirring from time to time.
