PROCEDURE (1) By letter dated 20 December 2002, Belgium notified a proposal to grant aid to the company SIOEN Fibres SA (hereinafter "Sioen") in connection with an investment in polyester industrial filament yarn production facilities.
The Commission requested additional information by letter dated 12 February 2002, to which Belgium replied by letter dated 11 March 2003. (2) By letter dated 2 May 2003, the Commission informed Belgium that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 88(2) of the EC Treaty in respect of the aid. (3) The Commission decision to initiate the procedure was published in the Official Journal of the European Union [2].
The Commission invited interested parties to submit their comments on the aid. (4) The Commission received comments from Belgium on 8 July 2003.
The International Rayon and Synthetic Fibres Committee (CIRFS) submitted comments on 10 July 2003 and the Spanish Association of Chemical Fibres Producers (Profibra) submitted comments on 15 July 2003.
A meeting with the Belgian authorities and Sioen took place on 7 November 2003.
On 27 November 2003 CIRFS agreed that certain information in its submission of 10 July 2003, which was initially classified strictly confidential, could be made available to the Belgian authorities.
The investment is expected to create 39 jobs. (7) The investment increases the production capacity from 8500 tonnes in 2002 to 14850 tonnes per year from 2003 onwards [4].
Other Community producers have invested an estimated EUR 59 million over the last five years in this activity without any access to State aid for investment, even investment in assisted regions.
Profibra points out that the capacity increase sought by Sioen is equivalent to 74,4 % of its current capacity, which accounts for 3,5 % of total European capacity.
On the basis of this information, which was provided in tempore non suspecto, Belgium explains that the capacity utilisation rate for high-tenacity polyester industrial filament yarn exceeds 90 %.
Consequently, Sioen's capacity increase is motivated by its vertical integration and the production will be used entirely within the group. (23) Thirdly, Belgium underlines the fact that the capacity increase of 3,5 % is not significant in relation to the European market and is below the rate of 5 %, which was not considered as a significant increase by the Commission in its decision with regard to Sioen in 1999 [7].
Sioen operates in a sector of activity where trade between Member States is substantial and where the conditions of competitions are difficult, as evidenced by the existence until 31 December 2002 of a specific Code [8].
The Commission notes that the project is located in the area of Blanc Ballot in Mouscron (Hainaut region), which qualifies for assistance under Article 87(3)(c).
firms that are not small or medium-sized enterprises, will be authorised only at up to 50 % of the applicable aid ceiling if the aid would result in a significant reduction in the relevant capacity or if the market for the relevant products was characterised by a structural shortage of supply and the aid would not result in a significant increase in the relevant capacity.
Consequently, in assessing the capacity changes associated with the aided project, the beneficiary’s capacity before the aid is granted has to be compared with its capacity after the aid is granted (adding the increase in capacity arising from the aid and deducting the capacity that will be scrapped). (33) In its comments, Belgium referred to the Commission decision of 28 July 1999 [13], in which no objections were raised to aid for Sioen.
According to Belgium, the investment raises the production capacity for polyester industrial filament yarn from 8500 tonnes per year in 2002 to 14850 tonnes per year from 2003 onwards (based on an average decitex of 1100 dtex), which represents a significant increase of around 75 % at company level. (36) In the Commission's view, the fact that Sioen increases its capacity significantly dispenses with the need to decide whether or not the market is characterised by a structural supply shortage in this particular case. (37) The Commission does not accept Sioen’s argument that the production resulting from its capacity increase is used entirely within the Sioen group and would not have any impact on the prices or profit margins of the other producers of polyester industrial filament yarn.
In any case, the Commission notes that it is not clear that the market for the relevant product is characterised by a structural supply shortage, given the information from the third parties (CIRFS and Profibra) on the capacity situation in the Community and given the figures provided by Belgium in the initial notification for the two years prior to the notification (capacity utilisation rate of less than 90 %). (39) None of the other derogations provided for in Article 87(3) of the Treaty is applicable in the present case.
Article 2 Belgium shall inform the Commission, within two months of notification of this Decision, of the measures taken to comply with it.
Article 3 This Decision is addressed to Belgium.
Done at Brussels, 19 May 2004.
