This results in the hindering of trade in medicinal products within the Community, thereby directly affecting the functioning of the internal market. (5) Such hindrances must, accordingly, be removed; whereas this entails approximation of the relevant provisions. (6) It is necessary from the point of view of public health and the free movement of veterinary medicinal products for the competent authorities to have at their disposal all useful information on authorized veterinary medicinal products in the form of approved summaries of the characteristics of products. (7) With the exception of those medicinal products which are subject to the centralised Community authorization procedure established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 laying down Community procedures for the authorization and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products(7), a marketing authorization in one Member State ought to be recognized by the competent authority of the other Member States unless there are serious grounds for supposing that the authorization of the veterinary medicinal product concerned may present a risk to human or animal health, or to the environment; in the event of a disagreement between Member States about the quality, the safety or the efficacy of a medicinal product, a scientific evaluation of the matter should be undertaken at a Community level, lead to a single decision on the area of disagreement, binding on the Member States concerned.
Member States may permit exemptions on their territory in respect of veterinary medicinal products intended solely for aquarium fish, cage birds, homing pigeons, terrarium animals and small rodents, from the provisions in Articles 5, 7 and 8, provided that such products do not contain substances the use of which requires veterinary control and that all possible measures have been taken to prevent unauthorized use of the products for other animals.
TITLE III MARKETING CHAPTER 1 Marketing authorization Article 5 No veterinary medicinal product may be placed on the market of a Member State unless a marketing authorization has been issued by the competent authorities of that Member State in accordance with this Directive or a marketing authorization has been granted in accordance with Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93.
Article 6 In order that a veterinary medicinal product may be the subject of a marketing authorization for the purpose of administering it to food-producing animals, the active substances which it contains must be shown in Annexes I, II or III of Regulation (EEC) No 2377/90.
Article 7 Where the health situation so requires, a Member State may authorise the marketing or administration to animals of veterinary medicinal products which have been authorized by another Member State in accordance with this Directive.
Article 8 In the event of serious disease epidemic, Member States may provisionally allow the use of immunological veterinary medicinal products without an authorization for placing on the market, in the absence of a suitable medicinal product and after informing the Commission of the detailed conditions of use.
Article 9 No veterinary medicinal product may be administered to animals unless the marketing authorization has been issued, except for the tests of veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 12(3)(j) which have been accepted by the competent national authorities, following notification or authorization, in accordance with the national rules in force.
Where there is no authorized medicinal product for a condition, Member States may exceptionally, in particular in order to avoid causing unacceptable suffering to the animals concerned, permit the administration by a veterinarian or under his/her direct personal responsibility to an animal or to a small number of animals on a particular holding: (a) of a veterinary medicinal product authorized in the Member State concerned under this Directive or under Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 for use in another animal species, or for another condition in the same species; or (b) if there is no product as referred to in point (a), of a medicinal product authorized for use in the Member State concerned in human beings in accordance with Directive 2001/83/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 November 2001 on the Community Code relating to medicinal products for human use(12) or under Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93; or (c) if there is no product as referred to in point (b) and within the limits of the law of the Member State concerned, of a veterinary medicinal product prepared extemporaneously by a person authorized to do so under national legislation in accordance with the terms of a veterinary prescription.
The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply provided that the medicinal product, where administered to food-producing animals, contains only substances to be found in a veterinary medicinal product authorized for such animals in the Member State concerned and that in the case of food-producing animals the veterinarian responsible specifies an appropriate withdrawal period.
This information shall be updated on a regular basis; (n) in the case of medicinal products containing new active substances which are not mentioned in Annex I, II or III to Regulation (EEC) No 2377/90, a copy of the documents submitted to the Commission in accordance with Annex V to that Regulation.
By way of derogation from point (j) of Article 12(3), and without prejudice to the law relating to the protection of industrial and commercial property: (a) the applicant shall not be required to provide the results of toxicological and pharmacological tests and clinical trials if he can demonstrate: (i) either that the veterinary medicinal product is essentially similar to a medicinal product authorized in the Member State concerned by the application and that the marketing authorization holder has agreed that the toxicological, pharmacological and/or clinical references contained in the file on the original veterinary medicinal product may be used for the purpose of examining the application in question; (ii) or that the constituent or constituents of the veterinary medicinal product have a well-established medicinal use, with recognized efficacy and an acceptable level of safety, by means of detailed references to scientific literature; (iii) or that the veterinary medicinal product is essentially similar to a medicinal product which has been authorized within the Community, in accordance with Community provisions in force, for not less than six years and is marketed in the Member State for which the application is made; this period shall be extended to 10 years in the case of high-technology medicinal products having been authorized in pursuance of the procedure established by Article 2(5) of Council Directive 87/22/EEC(13).
Furthermore, a Member State may also extend this period to 10 years by a single Decision covering all the medicinal products marketed in its territory where it considers this necessary in the interest of public health.
Article 14 The summary of the product characteristics shall contain the following information: 1.
According to their particular qualifications, the role of the experts shall be: (a) to carry out such work as falls within their particular discipline (analysis, pharmacology and similar experimental sciences, clinical trials) and to describe objectively the results obtained in both quantitative and qualitative terms; (b) to describe their findings in accordance with Annex I and in particular to state: (i) in the case of analysts, whether the medicinal product conforms with the stated composition, providing any reasons for the control testing methods which the manufacturer is to use; (ii) in the case of pharmacologists and appropriately qualified specialists: - the toxicity of the medicinal product and the pharmacological properties observed, - whether, after administration of the veterinary medicinal product under normal conditions of use and observance of the recommended withdrawal period, foodstuffs obtained from the treated animals contain residues which might constitute a health hazard to the consumer; (iii) in the case of clinicians, whether they have found in animals treated with the medicinal product effects corresponding to the information furnished by the manufacturer pursuant to Articles 12 and 13(1), whether the medicinal product is well tolerated, what dosage they recommend and what are the contra-indications and adverse reactions, if any; (c) to give reasons for the use of the references to published data referred to in point (a)(ii) of Article 13(1). 3.
CHAPTER 2 Particular provisions applicable to homeopathic veterinary medicinal products Article 16 1.
Member States shall ensure that homeopathic veterinary medicinal products manufactured and marketed within the Community are registered or authorized in accordance with the provisions of Articles 17(1) and (2), 18 and 19.
A Member State may refrain from establishing a special, simplified registration procedure for the homeopathic veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 17(1) and (2).
The Member State concerned shall, by 31 December 1995 at the latest, allow use in its territory of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products registered by other Member States in accordance with Article 17(1) and (2) and Article 18.
Only homeopathic veterinary medicinal products which satisfy all of the following conditions may be subject to authorization by means of a special, simplified registration procedure: - they are intended for administration to pet animals or exotic species which are non food-producing, - they are administered by a route described in the European Pharmacopoeia or, in absence thereof, by the pharmacopoeias currently used officially in the Member States, - no specific therapeutic indication appears on the labelling of the veterinary medicinal product or in any information relating thereto, - there is a sufficient degree of dilution to guarantee the safety of the medicinal product; in particular, the medicinal product may not contain either more than one part per 10000 of the mother tincture or more than 1/100th of the smallest dose used in allopathy with regard to active principles whose presence in an allopathic medicinal product results in the obligation to submit a veterinary prescription.
The criteria and rules of procedure provided for in Chapter 3, with the exception of Article 25, shall apply by analogy to the special, simplified registration procedure for homeopathic veterinary medicinal products referred to in paragraph 1, with the exception of the proof of therapeutic effect. 3.
The proof of therapeutic effect shall not be required for homeopathic veterinary medicinal products registered in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article or, where appropriate, admitted in accordance with Article 16(2).
Homeopathic veterinary medicinal products other than those referred to in Article 17(1) shall be authorized in accordance with the provisions of Articles 12 to 15 and Chapter 3. 2.
A Member State may introduce or retain in its territory specific rules for the pharmacological and toxicological tests and clinical trials of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products intended for pet animals and exotic species which are non food-producing other than those referred to in Article 17(1), in accordance with the principles and characteristics of homeopathy as practised in that Member State.
Article 20 This Chapter shall not apply to immunological homeopathic veterinary medicinal products.
The provisions of titles VI and VII shall apply to homeopathic veterinary medicinal products.
Where a Member State notes that an application for authorization submitted is already under active examination in another Member State in respect of that veterinary medicinal product, the Member State concerned may decide to suspend the detailed examination of the application in order to await the assessment report prepared by the other Member State in accordance with Article 25(4).
Article 22 Where a Member State is informed in accordance with Article 12(3)(m), that another Member State has authorized a veterinary medicinal product which is the subject of an application for authorization in the Member State concerned, that Member State shall forthwith request the authorities of the Member State which has granted the authorization to forward to it the assessment report referred to in Article 25(4).
Within 90 days of receipt of the assessment report, the Member State concerned shall either recognise the decision of the first Member State and the summary of the product characteristics as approved by it or, if it considers that there are grounds for supposing that the authorization of the veterinary medicinal product concerned may present a risk to human or animal health or the environment, it shall apply the procedures set out in Articles 33 to 38.
may submit the medicinal product, its raw materials and if necessary intermediate products or other constituent materials for testing by a State laboratory or by a laboratory designated for that purpose, in order to ensure that the testing methods employed by the manufacturer and described in the application documents, in accordance with Article 12(3)(i), are satisfactory; 3.
Where the competent authorities take this course of action, the time-limits specified in Article 21 shall be suspended until the further data required have been provided.
Article 24 Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that: (a) the competent authorities ascertain that the manufacturers and importers of veterinary medicinal products from third countries are able to manufacture them in compliance with the details supplied pursuant to Article 12(3)(d), and/or to carry out control tests in accordance with the methods described in the application documents under Article 12(3)(i); (b) the competent authorities may authorize manufacturers and importers of veterinary medicinal products from third countries, where circumstances so justify, to have certain stages of manufacture and/or certain of the control tests referred to in (a) carried out by third parties; in such cases, checks by the competent authorities shall also be carried out in the establishments concerned.
When the marketing authorization is issued, the holder shall be informed by the competent authorities of the Member State concerned, of the summary of the product characteristics as approved by it. 2.
These exceptional decisions may only be adopted for objective and verifiable reasons.
After a marketing authorization has been issued, the holder must, in respect of the manufacturing methods and control methods provided for in Article 12(3)(d) and (i), take account of scientific and technical progress and introduce any changes that may be required to enable that veterinary medicinal product to be manufactured and checked by means of generally accepted scientific methods.
The marketing authorization holder shall forthwith inform the competent authorities of any new information which might entail the amendment of the particulars and documents referred to in Articles 12 and 13(1) or of the approved summary of the product characteristics.
In particular, he shall forthwith inform the competent authorities of any prohibition or restriction imposed by the competent authorities of any country in which the veterinary medicinal product is marketed and of any serious unexpected adverse effect occurring in the animals concerned or human beings. 4.
The marketing authorization holder shall immediately inform the competent authorities, with a view to authorization, of any alteration he proposes to make to the particulars and documents referred to in Articles 12 and 13(1).
Article 28 Authorization shall be valid for five years and shall be renewable for five-year periods, on application by the holder at least three months before the expiry date and after consideration of a dossier updating the information previously submitted.
Article 29 The granting of authorization shall not diminish the general legal liability of the manufacturer and, where appropriate, of the authorization holder.
Article 30 The marketing authorization shall be withheld if examination of the documents and particulars listed in Articles 12 and 13(1) establishes that: (a) the veterinary medical product is harmful under the conditions of use stated at the time of application for authorization; or (b) has no therapeutic effect or the applicant has not provided sufficient proof of such effect as regards the species of animal which is to be treated; or (c) its qualitative or quantitative composition is not as stated; or (d) the withdrawal period recommended by the applicant is not long enough to ensure that foodstuffs obtained from the treated animal do not contain residues which might constitute a health hazard to the consumer, or is insufficiently substantiated; or (e) the veterinary medicinal product is offered for sale for a use prohibited under other Community provisions.
However, pending Community rules, the competent authorities may refuse to grant authorization for a veterinary medicinal product where such action is necessary for the protection of public health, consumer or animal health.
CHAPTER 4 Mutual recognition of authorizations Article 31 1.
The Committee shall be part of the Agency. 2.
The Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure.
In order to obtain the recognition according to the procedure laid down in this Chapter in one or more of the Member States of a marketing authorization issued by a Member State, the holder of the authorization shall submit an application to the competent authority of the Member State or Member States concerned, together with the information and particulars referred to in Articles 12, 13(1), 14 and 25.
In the latter case, he shall certify that the summary of the product characteristics proposed by him in accordance with Article 14 is identical to that accepted by the reference Member State in accordance with Article 25.
He shall also send the Agency copies of any such authorization which may have been granted by the other Member States in respect of the veterinary medicinal product concerned, and shall indicate whether any application for authorization is currently under consideration in any Member State. 4.
Save in the exceptional case provided for in Article 33(1), each Member State shall recognise the marketing authorization granted by the reference Member State within 90 days of receipt of the application and the assessment report.
Article 34 If several applications submitted in accordance with Articles 12, 13(1) and 14 have been made for marketing authorization for a particular veterinary medicinal product and Member States have adopted divergent decisions concerning the authorization of that veterinary medicinal product, or suspension or withdrawal of that authorization, a Member State, or the Commission, or the marketing authorization holder may refer the matter to the Committee for application of the procedure laid down in Article 36.
Article 35 The Member States or the Commission or the applicant or holder of the marketing authorization may, in specific cases where the interests of the Community are involved, refer the matter to the Committee for the application of the procedure laid down in Article 36 before reaching a decision on a request for a marketing authorization or on the suspension or withdrawal of an authorization, or on any other variations to the terms of a marketing authorization which appears necessary, in particular to take account of the information collected in accordance with Title VII.
However, in cases submitted to the Committee in accordance with Articles 34 and 35, this period may be extended by 90 days.
In case of urgency, on a proposal from its Chairman, the Committee may agree to a shorter deadline. 2.
In the cases referred to in Articles 33 and 34, before issuing its opinion, the Committee shall provide the marketing authorization holder with an opportunity to present written or oral explanations.
The Committee may suspend the time-limit referred to in paragraph 1 in order to allow the marketing authorization holder to prepare explanations. 4.
In the event of an opinion in favour of granting or maintaining an authorization to place the veterinary medicinal product concerned on the market, the following documents shall be annexed to the opinion: (a) a draft summary of the product characteristics, as referred to in Article 14; where necessary this will reflect differences in the veterinary conditions pertaining in the Member States; (b) any conditions affecting the authorization within the meaning of paragraph 4.
Article 37 Within 30 days of receipt of the opinion, the Commission shall prepare a draft of the decision to be taken in respect of the application, taking into account Community law.
A final decision on the application shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 2.
These adjustments shall involve the following: - except in cases referred to in the third paragraph of Article 37, the opinion of the Standing Committee shall be obtained in writing, - each Member State is allowed at least 28 days to forward written observations on the draft decision of the Commission, - each Member State is able to require in writing that the draft decision be discussed by the Standing Committee, giving its reasons in detail.
These arrangements shall be adopted by the Commission in the form of an implementing regulation in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2). 2.
In case of arbitration submitted to the Commission, the procedure laid down in Articles 36, 37 and 38 shall apply by analogy to variations made to marketing authorizations.
Where a Member State considers that the variation of the terms of a marketing authorization which has been granted in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter or its suspension or withdrawal is necessary for the protection of human or animal health or the environment, the Member State concerned shall forthwith refer the matter to the Agency for the application of the procedures laid down in Articles 36, 37 and 38. 2.
Article 41 Articles 39 and 40 shall apply by analogy to veterinary medicinal products authorized by Member States following an opinion of the Committee given in accordance with Article 4 of Directive 87/22/EEC before 1 January 1995.
Article 43 The provisions of Articles 31 to 38 shall not apply to homeopathic veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 19(2).
TITLE IV MANUFACTURE AND IMPORTS Article 44 1.
This manufacturing authorization shall likewise be required for veterinary medicinal products intended for export. 2.
The authorization referred to in paragraph 1 shall also be required for imports from third countries into a Member State; this Title and Article 83 shall apply to such imports in the same way as to manufacture.
Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that veterinary medicinal products brought into their territory from a third country and destined for another Member State are accompanied by a copy of the authorization referred to in paragraph 1.
Article 45 In order to obtain the manufacturing authorization, the applicant shall meet at least the following requirements: (a) he shall specify the veterinary medicinal products and pharmaceutical forms which are to be manufactured or imported and also the place where they are to be manufactured and/or controlled; (b) he shall have at his disposal, for the manufacture or import of the above, suitable and sufficient premises, technical equipment and control facilities complying with the legal requirements which the Member State concerned lays down as regards both manufacture and control and the storage of products, in accordance with Article 24; (c) he shall have at his disposal the services of at least one qualified person within the meaning of Article 52.
The competent authority of the Member State shall not issue the manufacturing authorization until it has established the accuracy of the particulars supplied pursuant to Article 45 by means of an inquiry carried out by its representatives. 2.
Article 47 The Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the time taken for the procedure for granting the manufacturing authorization does not exceed 90 days from the day on which the competent authority receives the application.
Article 48 If the holder of the manufacturing authorization requests a change in any of the particulars referred to in Article 45, first paragraph, (a) and (b), the time taken for the procedure relating to this request shall not exceed 30 days.
Article 49 The competent authority of the Member States may require from the applicant further information concerning both the particulars supplied pursuant to Article 45 and the qualified person referred to in Article 52; where the competent authority concerned exercises this right, application of the time-limits referred to in Articles 47 and 48 shall be suspended until the additional data required have been supplied.
Article 50 The holder of a manufacturing authorization shall at least be obliged to: (a) have at his disposal the services of staff complying with the legal requirements existing in the Member State concerned as regards both manufacture and controls; (b) dispose of the authorized veterinary medicinal products only in accordance with the legislation of the Member States concerned; (c) give prior notice to the competent authority of any changes which he may wish to make to any of the particulars supplied pursuant to Article 45; the competent authority shall, in any event, be immediately informed if the qualified person referred to in Article 52 is replaced unexpectedly; (d) allow the representatives of the competent authority of the Member State concerned access to his premises at any time; (e) enable the qualified person referred to in Article 52 to carry out his duties, particularly by placing at his disposal all the necessary facilities; (f) comply with the principles and the guidelines of good manufacturing practice for medicinal products laid down by Community law; (g) keep detailed records of all veterinary medicinal products supplied by him, including samples, in accordance with the laws of the countries of destination.
The following information at least shall be recorded in respect of each transaction, whether or not it is made for payment: - date, - name of the veterinary medicinal product, - quantity supplied, - name and address of the recipient, - batch number.
Article 51 The principles and guidelines of good manufacturing practice for veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 50(f) shall be adopted in the form of a Directive addressed to the Member States in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2).
Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the holder of the manufacturing authorization has permanently and continuously at his disposal the services of at least one qualified person who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 53 and is responsible, in particular, for carrying out the duties specified in Article 55. 2.
If he personally fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 53, the holder of the authorization may himself assume the responsibility referred to in paragraph 1.
The qualified person shall have acquired practical experience over at least two years, in one or more undertakings which are authorized manufacturers, in the activities of qualitative analysis of medicinal products, of quantitative analysis of active substances and of the testing and checking necessary to ensure the quality of veterinary medicinal products.
A person engaging, in a Member State, in the activities of the person referred to in Article 52 at the date on which Directive 81/851/EEC became applicable, without complying with the provisions of Article 53 shall be eligible to continue to engage in those activities in the State concerned. 2.
The holder of a diploma, certificate or other evidence of formal qualifications awarded on completion of a university course - or a course recognized as equivalent by the Member State concerned - in a scientific discipline allowing him to engage in the activities of the person referred to in Article 52 in accordance with the laws of that State may - if he began his course prior to 9 October 1981 - be considered as qualified to carry out in that State the duties of the person referred to in Article 52, provided that he has previously engaged in the following activities for at least two years before 9 October 1991 in one or more undertakings with a manufacturing authorization; production supervision and/or qualitative and quantitative analysis of active substances, and the necessary testing and checking under the direct authority of a person as referred to in Article 52 to ensure the quality of veterinary medicinal products.
If the person concerned has acquired the practical experience referred to in the first subparagraph before 9 October 1971, a further one year's practical experience in accordance with the conditions referred to in the first subparagraph shall be completed by him immediately before he engages in such activities.
Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the qualified person referred to in Article 52 is, without prejudice to his relationship with the holder of the manufacturing authorization, responsible, in the context of the procedures referred to in Article 56, for ensuring that: (a) in the case of veterinary medicinal products manufactured within the Member State concerned, each batch of veterinary medicinal products has been manufactured and checked in compliance with the laws in force in that Member State and in accordance with the requirements of the marketing authorization; (b) in the case of veterinary medicinal products coming from third countries, each production batch imported has undergone in the importing Member State a full qualitative analysis, a quantitative analysis of at least all the active substances and all the other tests or checks necessary to ensure the quality of veterinary medicinal products in accordance with the requirements of the marketing authorization.
Batches of veterinary medicinal products which have undergone such controls in a Member State shall be exempt from the above controls if they are placed on the market in another Member State, accompanied by the control reports signed by the qualified person. 2.
In all cases, and particularly where the veterinary medicinal products are released for sale, the qualified person shall certify, in a register or equivalent document provided for the purpose, that each production batch satisfies the provisions of this Article; the said register or equivalent document shall be kept up to date as operations are carried out and shall remain at the disposal of the representatives of the competent authority for the period specified in the provisions of the Member State concerned and, in any event, for at least five years.
Article 56 Member States shall ensure that the obligations of qualified persons referred to in Article 52 are fulfilled, either by means of appropriate administrative measures or by making such persons subject to a professional code of conduct.
Article 57 The provisions of this Title shall apply to homeopathic veterinary medicinal products.
TITLE V LABELLING AND PACKAGE INSERT Article 58 1.
On the containers, however, only the following particulars shall be necessary: - name of veterinary medicinal product, - quantity of the active substances, - route of administration, - manufacturer's batch number, - date of expiry, - the words %quot%For animal treatment only%quot%. 2.
The insert shall be in the official language or languages of the Member State in which the medicinal product is marketed. 2.
Article 62 Where the provisions of this Title are not observed and a formal notice addressed to the person concerned has been ineffectual, the competent authorities of the Member States may suspend or withdraw marketing authorization.
Article 63 The requirements of Member States concerning conditions of supply to the public, the marking of prices on medicinal products for veterinary use and industrial property rights shall not be affected by the provisions of this Title.
Without prejudice to paragraph 2, homeopathic veterinary medicinal products shall be labelled in accordance with the provisions of this title and identified by the inclusion on their labels, in clearly legible form, of the words %quot%homeopathic medicinal product for veterinary use%quot%. 2.
In addition to the clear mention of the words %quot%homeopathic veterinary medicinal product without approved therapeutic indications%quot%, the labelling and, where appropriate, package insert for the homeopathic veterinary medicinal products referred to in Article 17(1) shall bear the following information and no other information: - the scientific name of the stock or stocks followed by the degree of dilution, using the symbols of the pharmacopoeia used in accordance with point 8 of Article 1, - name and address of the marketing authorization holder and, where appropriate, of the manufacturer, - method of administration and, if necessary, route, - expiry date, in clear terms (month, year), - pharmaceutical form, - contents of the sales presentation, - special storage precautions, if any, - target species, - a special warning if necessary for the medicinal product, - manufacturer's batch number, - registration number.
TITLE VI POSSESSION, WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTION AND DISPENSING OF VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS Article 65 1.
Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that wholesale distribution of veterinary medicinal products is subject to the holding of an authorization and to ensure that the time taken for the procedure for granting this authorization does not exceed 90 days from the date on which the competent authority receives the application.
These records shall be available for inspection by the competent authorities for a period of at least three years. 4.
Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that wholesalers supply veterinary medicinal products only to persons permitted to carry out retail activities in accordance with Article 66, or to other persons who are lawfully permitted to receive veterinary medicinal products from wholesalers.
Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the retail supply of veterinary medicinal products is conducted only by persons who are permitted to carry out such operations by the legislation of the Member State concerned. 2.
These records shall be available for inspection by the competent authorities for a period of three years. 3.
Member States may limit the number of detailed documenting requirements referred to in paragraph 2.
However, these requirements shall always be applied in case of veterinary medicinal products which are intended for administration to food-producing animals and which are available only on veterinary prescription or in respect of which a withdrawal period must be observed. 4.
Article 67 Without prejudice to stricter Community or national rules relating to dispensing veterinary medicinal products and to protect human and animal health, a prescription shall be required for dispensing to the public the following veterinary medicinal products; (a) those products subject to official restrictions on supply or use, such as: - the restrictions resulting from the implementation of the relevant United Nations conventions on narcotic and psychotropic substances, - the restrictions on the use of veterinary medicinal products resulting from Community law; (b) those products in respect of which special precautions must be taken by the veterinarian in order to avoid any unnecessary risk to: - the target species, - the person administering the products to the animal, - the consumer of foodstuffs obtained from the treated animal, - the environment; (c) those products intended for treatments or pathological processes which require a precise prior diagnosis or the use of which may cause effects which impede or interfere with subsequent diagnostic or therapeutic measures; (d) magistral formulae intended for animals.
In addition, a prescription shall be required for new veterinary medicinal products containing an active substance which has been authorized for use in a veterinary medicinal product for less than five years unless, having regard to the information and particulars provided by the applicant, or experience acquired in the practical use of the veterinary medicinal product, the competent authorities are satisfied that none of the criteria referred to in (a) to (d) of the first paragraph apply.
Member States shall maintain a register of manufacturers and dealers permitted to be in possession of active substances which may be used in the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products having the properties referred to in paragraph 1.
Such persons must maintain detailed records of all dealings in substances which may be used in the manufacture of veterinary medicinal products and keep these records available for inspection by the competent authorities for a period of at least three years. 3.
Article 69 Member States shall ensure that the owners or keepers of food-producing animals can provide proof of purchase, possession and administration of veterinary medicinal products containing the substances set out in Article 68; Member States may extend the scope of this obligation to other veterinary medicinal products.
Article 70 Notwithstanding Articles 9 and 67, Member States shall ensure that veterinarians providing services in another Member State can take with them and administer to animals small quantities of ready-made veterinary medicinal products not exceeding daily requirements other than immunological veterinary medicinal products which are not authorized for use in the Member State in which the services are provided (hereinafter: host Member State), providing that the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the authorization to place the product on the market provided for in Articles 5, 7 and 8 has been issued by the competent authorities of the Member State in which the veterinarian is established; (b) the veterinary medicinal products are transported by the veterinarian in the original manufacturer's packaging; (c) the veterinary medicinal products intended for administration to food-producing animals have the same qualitative and quantitative composition in terms of active substances as the medicinal products authorized in accordance with Articles 5, 7 and 8 in the host Member State; (d) the veterinarian providing services in another Member State acquaints himself with the good veterinary practices applied in that Member State and ensures that the withdrawal period specified on the labelling of the veterinary medicinal product concerned is complied with, unless he could reasonably be expected to know that a longer withdrawal period should be specified to comply with these good veterinary practices; (e) the veterinarian shall not furnish any veterinary medicinal product to the owner or keeper of the animals treated in the host Member State unless this is permissible on the basis of the rules of the host Member State; in this case he shall, however, supply only in relation to animals under his care and only the minimum quantities of veterinary medicinal product necessary to complete the treatment of animals concerned on that occasion; (f) the veterinarian shall be required to keep detailed records of the animals treated, the diagnosis, the veterinary medicinal products administered, the dosage administered, the duration of treatment and the withdrawal period applied.
The competent authorities of the Member States shall inform the Commission of all instances in which the provisions of paragraph 1 are applied.
TITLE VII PHARMACOVIGILANCE Article 72 1.
Member States shall take all appropriate measures to encourage the reporting to the competent authorities of suspected adverse reactions to veterinary medicinal products. 2.
The Member States may impose specific requirements on veterinary practitioners and other health care professionals in respect of the reporting of suspected serious or unexpected adverse reactions and human adverse reactions, in particular where such reporting is a condition of the marketing authorization.
Article 73 In order to ensure the adoption of appropriate regulatory decisions concerning the veterinary medicinal products authorised within the Community, having regard to information obtained about suspected adverse reactions to veterinary medicinal products under normal conditions of use, the Member States shall establish a veterinary pharmacovigilance system.
Article 74 The marketing authorization holder shall have permanently and continuously at his disposal an appropriately qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance.
That qualified person shall be responsible for the following: (a) the establishment and maintenance of a system which ensures that information about all suspected adverse reactions which are reported to the personnel of the company, including its representatives, is collected and collated in order to be accessible at least at one point within the Community; (b) the preparation for the competent authorities of the reports referred to in Article 75, in such form as may be laid down by those authorities, in accordance with the guidance referred to in Article 77(1); (c) ensuring that any request from the competent authorities for the provision of additional information necessary for the evaluation of the benefits and risks afforded by a veterinary medicinal product is answered fully and promptly, including the provision of information about the volume of sales or prescriptions of the veterinary medicinal product concerned; (d) the provision to the competent authorities, of any other information relevant to the evaluation of the benefits and risks afforded by a veterinary medicinal product, including appropriate information on post-marketing surveillance studies.
The marketing authorization holder shall be required to maintain detailed records of all suspected adverse reactions occurring either in the Community or in a third country. 2.
The marketing authorization holder shall be required to record and to report all suspected serious adverse reactions and human adverse reactions related to the use of veterinary medicinal products, of which he can reasonably be expected to have knowledge, or which are brought to his attention, immediately to the competent authority of the Member State in whose territory the incident occurred, and in no case later than 15 calendar days following the receipt of the information. 3.
The marketing authorization holder shall ensure that the suspected serious and unexpected adverse reactions and human adverse reactions, occurring in the territory of a third country, are reported immediately in accordance with the guidance referred to in Article 77(1), so that they are available to the Agency and to the competent authorities in the Member State(s) where the veterinary medicinal product is authorized, and in no case later than 15 calendar days following the receipt of the information. 4.
The Member States shall ensure that reports of suspected serious adverse reactions and human adverse reactions, that have taken place on their territory are immediately made available to the marketing authorisation holder, and in any case within 15 calendar days of their notification at the latest.
This guidance shall be published in Volume 9 of the Rules governing medicinal products in the European Community and shall take account of international harmonisation work carried out in the field of pharmacovigilance. 2.
Article 79 Any amendments which may be necessary to update the provisions of Articles 72 to 78 to take account of scientific and technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2).
TITLE VIII SUPERVISION AND SANCTIONS Article 80 1.
Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the marketing authorization holder and, where appropriate, the holder of the manufacturing authorization furnish proof of the control tests carried out on the veterinary medical product and/or on the constituents and intermediate products of the manufacturing process, in accordance with the methods laid down for the purposes of marketing authorization. 2.
In the case of a batch manufactured in another Member State, examined by the competent authority of another Member State and declared to be in conformity with national specifications, such a control may be carried out only after the control reports of the batch in question have been examined, after the Commission has been informed, and where the difference in veterinary conditions between the two Member States concerned justifies it. 2.
The competent authorities of the Member States shall suspend or withdraw marketing authorization when it is clear that: (a) the veterinary medicinal product proves to be harmful under the conditions of use stated at the time of application for authorization or subsequently; (b) the veterinary medicinal product does not have any therapeutic effect on the species of animal for which the treatment is intended; (c) its qualitative and quantitative composition is not as stated; (d) the recommended withdrawal period is inadequate to ensure that foodstuffs obtained from the treated animal do not contain residues which might constitute a health hazard to the consumer; (e) the veterinary medicinal product is offered for sale for a use which is prohibited by other community provisions.
However, pending Community rules, the competent authorities may refuse to grant authorization for a veterinary medicinal product where such action is necessary for the protection of public, consumer or animal health; (f) the information given in the application documents pursuant to Article 12, 13(1) and 27 is incorrect; (g) the control tests referred to in Article 81(1) have not been carried out; (h) the obligation referred to in Article 26(2) has not been fulfilled. 2.
Authorization may be suspended, or withdrawn where it is established that: (a) the particulars supporting the application, as provided for in Articles 12 and 13(1), have not been amended in accordance with Article 27(1) and (5); (b) any new information as referred to in Article 27(3) has not been communicated to the competent authorities.
Without prejudice to Article 83, Member States shall take all necessary measures to ensure that supply of a veterinary medicinal product is prohibited and that the medicinal product concerned is withdrawn form the market where: (a) it is clear that the veterinary medicinal product is harmful under the conditions of use stated at the time of the application for authorization or subsequently, pursuant to Article 27(5); (b) the veterinary medicinal product has no therapeutic effect on the species of animal for which the treatment was intended; (c) the qualitative and quantitative composition of the veterinary medicinal product is not as stated; (d) the recommended withdrawal period is inadequate to ensure that foodstuffs obtained from the treated animal do not contain residues which might constitute a health hazard to the consumer; (e) the control tests referred to in Article 81(1) have not been carried out, or any other requirement or obligation relating to the grant of the manufacturing authorization referred to in Article 44(1) has not been complied with. 2.
The competent authority of a Member State shall suspend or withdraw the manufacturing authorization for a category of preparations or for all preparations if any of the requirements laid down in Article 45 are no longer met. 2.
The competent authority of a Member State may, in addition to the measures provided for in Article 84, either suspend manufacture or imports of veterinary medicinal products from third countries or suspend or withdraw the manufacturing authorization for a category of preparations or for all preparations in the event of non-compliance with the provisions regarding manufacture or imports from third countries.
Article 86 The provisions of this Title shall apply to homeopathic veterinary medicinal products.
Article 87 Member States shall take appropriate measures to encourage veterinarians and other professionals concerned to report to the competent authorities any adverse reaction of veterinary medicinal products.
TITLE IX STANDING COMMITTEE Article 88 Any changes which are necessary in order to adapt Annex I to take account of technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 89(2).
The Standing Committee shall adopt its rules of procedure.
TITLE X GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 90 Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the competent authorities concerned communicate the appropriate information to each other, in particular regarding compliance with the requirements adopted for manufacturing authorization, or for authorization to place products on the market.
Article 92 Member States shall communicate to each other all the information necessary to guarantee the quality and safety of homeopathic veterinary medicinal products manufactured and marketed within the Community, and in particular the information referred to in Articles 90 and 91.
When issuing such certificates, Member States shall comply with the following conditions: (a) they shall have regard to the prevailing administrative arrangements of the World Health Organization; (b) for veterinary medicinal products intended for export which are already authorized in their territory, they shall supply the summary of the product characteristics as approved in accordance with Article 25 or, in the absence thereof, an equivalent document. 2.
Article 94 Any decision referred to in this Directive, taken by the competent authorities of the Member States, may only be taken on the grounds set out in this Directive and shall state in detail the reasons on which it is based.
Article 95 The Member States shall not permit foodstuffs for human consumption to be taken from test animals unless maximum residue limits have been established by the Community in accordance with the provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 2377/90 and an appropriate withdrawal period has been established to ensure that this maximum limit will not be exceeded in the foodstuffs.
TITLE XI FINAL MEASURES Article 96 Directives 81/851/EEC, 81/852/EEC, 90/677/EEC and 92/74/EEC referred to in Annex II, Part A are repealed, without prejudice to the obligations of the Member States in respect of the deadline for transposition laid down in Annex II, Part B.
Article 97 This Directive enters into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 98 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 6 November 2001.
For the European Parliament The President N.
Fontaine For the Council The President D.
Reynders (1) OJ C 75, 15.3.2000, p. 11. (2) Opinion of the European Parliament of 3 July 2001 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and Council Decision of 27 September 2001. (3) OJ L 317, 6.11.1981, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2000/37/EC (OJ L 139, 10.6.2000, p. 25). (4) OJ L 317, 6.11.1981, p. 16.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 1999/104/EC (OJ L 3, 6.1.2000, p. 18). (5) OJ L 373, 31.12.1990, p. 26. (6) OJ L 297, 13.10.1992, p. 12. (7) OJ L 214, 24.8.1993, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 649/98 (OJ L 88, 24.3.1998, p. 7). (8) OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. (9) OJ L 224, 18.8.1990, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1274/2001 (OJ L 175, 28.6.2001, p. 14). (10) OJ L 92, 7.4.1990, p. 42. (11) OJ L 270, 14.12.1970, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 45/1999 (OJ L 6, 12.1.1999, p. 3). (12) See p. 67 of this edition of the Official Journal. (13) OJ L 15, 17.1.1987, p. 38.
Directive repealed by Directive 93/41/EEC (OJ L 214, 24.8.1993, p. 40). (14) OJ L 55, 11.3.1995, p. 7.
Regulation amended by Regulation (EC) No 1146/98 (OJ L 159, 3.6.1998, p. 31).
ANNEX I REQUIREMENTS AND ANALYTICAL PROTOCOL, SAFETY TESTS, PRE-CLINICAL AND CLINICAL FOR TESTS OF VETERINARY MEDICINAL PRODUCTS INTRODUCTION The particulars and documents accompanying an application for marketing authorization pursuant to Articles 12 and 13(1) shall be presented in accordance with the requirements set out in this Annex and taking account of the guidance contained in the %quot%Notice to applicants for marketing authorizations for veterinary medicinal products in the Member States of the European Community%quot%, published by the Commission in The rules governing medicinal products in the European Community, volume V: Veterinary Medicinal Products.
In assembling the dossier for application for marketing authorization, applicants shall take into account the Community guidelines relating to the quality, safety and efficacy of veterinary medicinal products published by the Commission in The rules governing medicinal products in the European Community.
Member States ensure that all experiments on animals are conducted in accordance with Council Directive 86/609/EEC of 24 November 1986 on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States regarding the protection of animals used for experimental and other scientific purposes(1).
Annexed to the administrative data shall be a document showing that the manufacturer is authorized to produce the veterinary medicinal products concerned, as defined in Article 44, together with a list of countries in which authorization has been granted, copies of all the summaries of product characteristics in accordance with Article 14 as approved by Member States and a list of countries in which an application has been submitted.
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS The applicant shall propose a summary of the product characteristics, in accordance with Article 14 of this Directive.
Each expert report shall consist of a critical evaluation of the various tests and/or trials which have been carried out in accordance with this Directive, and bring out all the data relevant for evaluation.
The expert report and the summaries shall contain precise cross references to the information contained in the main documentation.
All the test procedure(s) shall be described in sufficiently precise detail so as to be reproducible in control tests, carried out at the request of the competent authority; any special apparatus and equipment which may be used shall be described in adequate detail, possibly accompanied by a diagram.
In the case of test procedures included in the European Pharmacopoeia or the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, this description may be replaced by a detailed reference to the pharmacopoeia in question.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE PARTICULARS OF THE CONSTITUENTS The particulars and documents which must accompany applications for marketing authorization, pursuant to Article 12(3)(c), shall be submitted in accordance with the following requirements. 1.
The %quot%usual terminology%quot%, to be used in describing the constituents of medicinal products, shall mean, notwithstanding the application of the other provisions of Article 12(3)(c): - in respect of substances which appear in the European Pharmacopoeia or, failing this, in the national pharmacopoeia of one of the Member States, the main title at the head of the monograph in question, with reference to the pharmacopoeia concerned, - in respect of other substances, the international non-proprietary name recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO), which may be accompanied by another non-proprietary name, or, failing these, the exact scientific designation; substances not having an international non-proprietary name or an exact scientific designation shall be described by a statement of how and from what they were prepared, supplemented, where appropriate, by any other relevant details, - in respect of colouring matter, designation by the %quot%E%quot% code assigned to them in Council Directive 78/25/EEC of 12 December 1977 on the approximation of the rules of the Member States concerning the colouring matters authorized for use in medicinal products(2). 3.
Quantitative particulars 3.1.
In order to give %quot%quantitative particulars%quot% of all the active substances of the medicinal products, it is necessary, depending on the pharmaceutical form concerned, to specify the mass, or the number of units of biological activity, either per dosage-unit or per unit of mass or volume, of each active substance.
This information shall be supplemented: - in respect of injectable preparations, by the mass or units of biological activity of each active substance in the unit container, taking into account the usable volume of the product, after reconstitution, where appropriate, - in respect of medicinal products to be administered by drops, by the mass or units of biological activity of each active substance contained in the number of drops corresponding to 1 ml or 1 g of the preparation, - in respect of syrups, emulsions, granular preparations and other pharmaceutical forms to be administered in measured quantities, by the mass or units of biological activity of each active substance per measured quantity. 3.2.
All subsequently authorized medicinal products in the Member States shall have their quantitative composition stated in the same way for the same active substance. 4.
CONTROL OF STARTING MATERIALS 1.
In the case of: - an active substance not described in the European Pharmacopoeia or in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, - an active substance described in the European Pharmacopoeia or in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State when prepared by a method liable to leave impurities not mentioned in the pharmacopoeial monograph and for which the monograph is inappropriate to adequately control its quality, which is manufactured by a person different from the applicant, the latter may arrange for the detailed description of the manufacturing method, quality control during manufacture and process validation to be supplied directly to the competent authorities by the manufacturer of the active substance.
In this case, the manufacturer shall however provide the applicant with all the data which may be necessary for the latter to take responsibility for the medicinal product.
The particulars and documents accompanying the application for marketing authorization pursuant to Article 12(3)(i) and (j) and Article 13(1), shall include the results of the tests, including batch analyses particularly for active substances, relating to quality control of all the constituents used.
These shall be submitted in accordance with the following provisions. 1.1.
Starting materials listed in pharmacopoeias The monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be applicable to all substances appearing in it.
In this case the description of the analytical methods may be replaced by a detailed reference to the pharmacopoeia in question.
Colouring matter shall, in all cases, satisfy the requirements of Council Directive 78/25/EEC.
In cases where a specification contained in a monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia or in the national pharmacopoeia of a Member State might be insufficient to ensure the quality of the substance, the competent authorities may request more appropriate specifications from the marketing authorization holder.
The competent authorities shall inform the authorities responsible for the pharmacopoeia in question.
In cases where a starting material is described neither in the European Pharmacopoeia nor in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, compliance with the monograph of a third country pharmacopoeia can be accepted; in such cases, the applicant shall submit a copy of the monograph accompanied where necessary by the validation of the test procedures contained in the monograph and by a translation where appropriate. 1.2.
Starting materials not in a pharmacopoeia Constituents which are not given in any pharmacopoeia shall be described in the form of a monograph under the following headings: (a) the name of the substance, meeting the requirements of Section A point 2, shall be supplemented by any trade or scientific synonyms; (b) the definition of the substance, set down in a form similar to that used in the European Pharmacopoeia, shall be accompanied by any necessary explanatory evidence, especially concerning the molecular structure where appropriate; it must be accompanied by an appropriate description of the method of synthesis.
Where substances can only be described by their manufacturing method, the description shall be sufficiently detailed to characterise a substance which is constant both on its composition and in its effects; (c) methods of identification may be described in the form of complete techniques as used for production of the substance, and in the form of tests which ought to be carried out as a routine matter; (d) purity tests shall be described in relation to the sum total of predictable impurities, especially those which may have a harmful effect, and, if necessary, those which, having regard to the combination of substances to which the application refers, might adversely affect the stability of the medicinal product or distort analytical results; (e) with regard to complex substances of plant or animal origin, a distinction must be made between the case where multiple pharmacological effects render chemical, physical or biological control of the principal components necessary, and the case of substances containing one or more groups of principles having similar activity, in respect of which an overall method of assay may be accepted; (f) when materials of animal origin are used, measures to ensure freedom from potentially pathogenic agents shall be described; (g) any special precautions that may be necessary during storage of the starting material and, if necessary, the maximum period of storage before retesting shall be given. 1.3.
SPECIFIC MEASURES CONCERNING THE PREVENTION OF THE TRANSMISSION OF ANIMAL SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHIES The applicant must demonstrate that the veterinary medical product is manufactured in accordance with the Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via veterinary medicinal products and its updates, published by the European Commission in Volume 7 of its publication %quot%The rules governing medicinal products in the European Community%quot%.
CONTROL TESTS CARRIED OUT AT INTERMEDIATE STAGES OF THE MANUFACTURING PROCESS The particulars and documents accompanying an application for marketing authorization, pursuant to Article 12(3)(i) and (j) and also Article 13(1), shall include particulars relating to the product control tests that may be carried out at an intermediate stage of the manufacturing process, with a view to ensuring the consistency of the technical characteristics and the production process.
For the control of the finished product, a batch of a finished product comprises all the units of a pharmaceutical form which are made from the same initial quantity of material and have undergone the same series of manufacturing and/or sterilization operations or, in the case of a continuous production process, all the units manufactured in a given period of time.
The particulars and documents accompanying the application for marketing authorization pursuant to Article 12(3)(i) and (j) and also Article 13(1), shall include particulars relating to control tests on the finished product at release.
General characteristics of the finished product Certain tests of the general characteristics of a product shall always be included among the tests on the finished product.
Identification and assay of active substance(s) Identification and assay of the active substance(s) shall be carried out either in a representative sample from the production batch or in a number of dosage-units analysed individually.
Unless there is appropriate justification, the maximum acceptable deviation in the active substance content of the finished product shall not exceed  5 % at the time of manufacture.
An upper and lower limit test shall be obligatory in respect of preserving agents and an upper limit test for any other excipient component liable to affect adversely physiological functions; an upper and lower limit test shall be obligatory in respect of the excipient if it is liable to affect the bio-availability of an active substance, unless bio-availability is guaranteed by other appropriate tests. 1.4.
Where a finished product requires reconstitution prior to administration, details of the proposed shelf life for the reconstituted product are required, supported by relevant stability data.
The conclusions shall contain the results of analyses, justifying the proposed shelf life under the recommended storage conditions and the specifications of the finished product at the end of the shelf life of the finished product under these recommended storage conditions.
SAFETY TESTING Chapter I Performance of tests 1.
However, pharmacological studies may also assist in the understanding of toxicological phenomena.
Therefore the safety documentation shall always be preceded by details of pharmacological investigations undertaken in laboratory animals and all relevant information observed during clinical studies in the target animal. 3.
Single-dose toxicity Single-dose toxicity studies can be used to predict: - the possible effects of acute overdosage in the target species, - the possible effects of accidental administration to humans, - the doses which may usefully be employed in the repeat dose studies.
In the case of substances or medicinal products intended solely for use in non food-producing animals, a repeated dose toxicity study in one species of experimental animal will normally be sufficient.
In the case of substances or medicinal products intended for use in food producing animals, the study should be conducted in at least two species, one of which should be a non-rodent.
In the case of new combinations of known substances which have been investigated in accordance with the provisions of this Directive, the repeated-dose tests may, except where toxicity tests have demonstrated potentiation or novel toxic effects, be suitably modified by the investigator, who shall submit his reasons for such modifications. 3.3.
In the case of substances or medicinal products intended for use in food-producing animals, the study of the effects on reproduction shall be carried out in the form of a two-generation study on at least one species, usually a rodent.
In the case of substances or medicinal products which are not intended for use in food producing animals, a study of embryotoxic/fetotoxic effects, including teratogenicity, shall be required in at least one species, which may be the target species, if the product is intended for use in animals which might be used for breeding. 3.5.
Potential effects on the human gut flora The microbiological risk presented by residues of anti-microbial compounds for the human intestinal flora shall be investigated in accordance with the state of scientific knowledge at the time the application is submitted. 4.2.2.
Potential effects on the microorganisms used for industrial food processing In certain cases, it may be necessary to carry out tests to determine whether residues cause difficulties affecting technological processes in industrial foodstuff processing. 4.3.
These further investigations shall be carried out in accordance with the test protocols laid down in Annex V of Council Directive 67/548/EEC of 27 June 1967 on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances(6), or where an end point is not adequately covered by these protocols, in accordance with other internationally recognized protocols on the veterinary medicinal product and/or the active substance(s) and/or the excreted metabolites as appropriate.
Chapter II Presentation of particulars and documents As in any scientific work, the dossier of safety tests shall include the following: (a) an introduction defining the subject, accompanied by any useful bibliographical references; (b) the detailed identification of the substance under review, including: - international non-proprietary name (INN), - International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry Name (IUPAC), - Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) number, - therapeutical and pharmacological classification, - synonyms and abbreviations, - structural formula, - molecular formula, - molecular weight, - degree of impurity, - qualitative and quantitative composition of impurities, - description of physical properties, - melting point, - boiling point, - vapour pressure, - solubility in water and organic solvents expressed in g/l, with indication of temperature, - density, - spectra of refraction, rotation, etc; (c) a detailed experimental protocol giving the reasons for any omission of certain tests listed above, a description of the methods, apparatus and materials used, details of the species, breed or strain of animals, where they were obtained, their number and the conditions under which they were housed and fed, stating inter alia whether they were free from specific pathogens (SPF); (d) all the results obtained, whether favourable or unfavourable.
RESIDUE TESTING Chapter I Performance of tests 1.
Introduction For the purposes of this Directive, %quot%residues%quot% means all active substances or metabolites thereof which remain in meat or other foodstuffs produced from the animal to which the medicinal product in question has been administered.
The following characteristics shall be described: - specificity, - accuracy, including sensitivity, - precision, - limit of detection, - limit of quantitation, - practicability and applicability under normal laboratory conditions, - susceptibility to interference.
Chapter II Presentation of particulars and documents As in any scientific work, the dossier of residue tests shall include the following: (a) an introduction defining the subject, accompanied by any useful bibliographical references; (b) a detailed identification of the medicinal, including: - composition, - purity, - batch identification, - relationship to the final product, - specific activity and radio-purity of labelled substances, - position of labelled atoms in the molecule; (c) a detailed experimental protocol giving the reasons for any omission of certain tests listed above, a description of the methods, apparatus and materials used, details of the species, breed or strain of animals, where they were obtained, their number and the conditions under which they were housed and fed; (d) all the results obtained, whether favourable or unfavourable.
PART 4 Pre-clinical and clinical testing The particulars and documents which shall accompany applications for marketing authorizations pursuant to Articles 12(3)(j) and 13(1) shall be submitted in accordance with the provisions of this Part.
Chapter I Pre-clinical requirements Pre-clinical studies are required to establish the pharmacological activity and the tolerance of the product.
PHARMACOLOGY A.1.
Bioavailability/bioequivalence Appropriate bioavailability studies shall be undertaken to establish bioequivalence: - when comparing a reformulated medicinal product with the existing one, - when comparing a new method or route of administration with an established one, - in all cases referred to in Article 13(1).
Chapter II Clinical requirements 1.
Where, in respect of particular therapeutic indications, the applicant can show that he is unable to provide comprehensive data on therapeutic effect because: (a) the indications for which the medicinal product in question is intended are encountered so rarely that the applicant cannot reasonably be expected to provide comprehensive evidence; (b) in the present state of scientific knowledge, comprehensive information cannot be provided; the marketing authorization may only be granted subject to the following conditions: (a) the medicinal product in question is to be supplied on veterinary prescription only and may, in certain cases, be administered only under strict veterinary supervision; (b) the package insert and any other information must draw the attention of the veterinary practitioner to the fact that, in certain specified respects, the particulars available concerning the medicinal product in question are as yet incomplete. 2.
Performance of trials All veterinary clinical trials shall be conducted in accordance with a fully considered detailed trial protocol which shall be recorded in writing prior to commencement of the trial.
Concluding expert report The concluding expert report shall provide a detailed critical analysis of all the pre-clinical and clinical documentation in the light of the state of scientific knowledge at the time the application is submitted together with a detailed summary of the results of the tests and trials submitted and precise bibliographic references.
Annexed to the administrative data shall be copies of a document showing that the manufacturer is authorized to produce immunological veterinary medicinal products, as defined in Article 44 (with a brief description of the production site).
The applicant shall submit a list of countries in which authorization has been granted, copies of all the summaries of product characteristics in accordance with Article 14 as approved by Member States and a list of countries in which an application has been submitted.
SUMMARY OF PRODUCT CHARACTERISTICS The applicant shall propose a summary of the product characteristics, in accordance with Article 14.
EXPERT REPORTS In accordance with Article 15(2) and (3) expert reports must be provided on all aspects of the documentation.
The expert shall give his opinion as to whether sufficient guarantees have been provided as to the quality, safety and efficacy of the product concerned.
The expert report and the summaries shall contain precise cross references to the information contained in the main documentation.
All the test procedure(s) shall be described in sufficiently precise detail so as to be reproducible in control tests, carried out at the request of the competent authority; any special apparatus and equipment which may be used shall be described in adequate detail, possibly accompanied by a diagram.
In the case of test procedures included in the European Pharmacopoeia or the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, this description may be replaced by a detailed reference to the pharmacopoeia in question.
QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE PARTICULARS OF THE CONSTITUENTS The particulars and documents which must accompany applications for marketing authorization, pursuant to Article 12(3)(c), shall be submitted in accordance with the following requirements. 1.
The %quot%usual terminology%quot%, to be used in describing the constituents of immunological veterinary medicinal products, shall mean, notwithstanding the application of the other provisions of Article 12(3)(c): - in respect of substances which appear in the European Pharmacopoeia or, failing this, in the national pharmacopoeia of one of the Member States, the main title of the monograph in question, which will be obligatory for all such substances, with reference to the pharmacopoeia concerned, - in respect of other substances, the international non-proprietary name recommended by the World Health Organization, which may be accompanied by another non-proprietary name or, failing these, the exact scientific designation; substances not having an international non-proprietary name or an exact scientific designation shall be described by a statement of how and from what they were prepared, supplemented, where appropriate, by any other relevant details, - in respect of colouring matter, designation by the %quot%E%quot% code assigned to them in Directive 78/25/EEC. 3.
In the case of: - an active substance not described in the European Pharmacopoeia or in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, or - an active substance described in the European Pharmacopoeia or in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State when prepared by a method liable to leave impurities not mentioned in the pharmacopoeial monograph and for which the monograph is inappropriate to adequately control its quality, which is manufactured by a person different from the applicant, the latter may arrange for the detailed description of the manufacturing method, quality control during manufacture and process validation to be supplied directly to the competent authorities by the manufacturer of the active substance.
In this case, the manufacturer shall however provide the applicant with all the data which may be necessary for the latter to take responsibility for the medicinal product.
The particulars and documents accompanying the application for marketing authorization pursuant to Article 12(3)(i) and (j) and Article 13(1) shall include the results of the tests relating to quality control of all the components used and shall be submitted in accordance with the following provisions. 1.
Starting materials listed in pharmacopoeias The monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia shall be applicable to all substances appearing in it.
In this case the description of the analytical methods may be replaced by a detailed reference to the pharmacopoeia in question.
Colouring matter shall, in all cases, satisfy the requirements of Council Directive 78/25/EEC.
In cases where a specification or other provisions contained in a monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia or in the national pharmacopoeia of a Member State might be insufficient to ensure the quality of the substance, the competent authorities may request more appropriate specifications from the applicant for marketing authorization.
The competent authorities shall inform the authorities responsible for the pharmacopoeia in question.
In cases where a starting material is described neither in the European Pharmacopoeia nor in the pharmacopoeia of a Member State, compliance with the monograph of a third country pharmacopoeia can be accepted; in such cases, the applicant shall submit a copy of the monograph accompanied where necessary by the validation of the test procedures contained in the monograph and by a translation where appropriate.
SPECIFIC MEASURES CONCERNING THE PREVENTION OF THE TRANSMISSION OF ANIMAL SPONGIFORM ENCEPHALOPATHIES The applicant must demonstrate that the veterinary medical product is manufactured in accordance with the Note for Guidance on minimising the risk of transmitting animal spongiform encephalopathy agents via veterinary medicinal products and its updates, published by the European Commission in Volume 7 of its publication %quot%The rules governing medicinal products in the European Community%quot%.
CONTROL TESTS DURING PRODUCTION 1.
The particulars and documents accompanying an application for marketing authorization, pursuant to Article 12(3)(i) and (j) and Article 13(1), shall include particulars relating to the control tests which are carried out on intermediate products with a view to verifying the consistency of the production process and the final product. 2.
CONTROL TESTS ON THE FINISHED PRODUCT The particulars and documents accompanying the application for marketing authorization pursuant to Article 12(3)(i) and (j) and Article 13(1), shall include particulars relating to control tests on the finished product.
Where appropriate monographs exist, if test procedures and limits other than those mentioned in the monographs of the European Pharmacopoeia, or failing this, in the national pharmacopoeia of a Member State, are used, proof must be supplied that the finished product would, if tested in accordance with those monographs, meet the quality requirements of that pharmacopoeia for the pharmaceutical form concerned.
General characteristics of the finished product Certain tests of the general characteristics of a product shall be included among the tests on the finished product, even if they have been carried out in the course of the manufacturing process.
Identification and assay of active substance(s) For all tests, the description of the techniques for analyzing the finished product shall be set out in sufficiently precise detail, so that they can be reproduced readily.
In certain exceptional cases where assay of active substances which are very numerous or present in very low amounts would necessitate an intricate investigation difficult to carry out in respect of each production batch, the assay of one or more active substances in the finished product may be omitted, on the express condition that such assays are made at intermediate stages as late as possible in the production process.
Batch-to-batch consistency In order to ensure that efficacy of the product is reproducible from batch to batch and to demonstrate conformity with specifications, potency tests based upon in vitro or in vivo methods, including appropriate reference materials whenever available, shall be carried out on each final bulk or each batch of finished product, with appropriate confidence limits; in exceptional circumstances, potency testing may be carried out at an intermediate stage, as late as possible in the production process.
Where a finished product requires reconstitution prior to administration, details of the proposed shelf-life are required for the product reconstituted as recommended.
Data in support of the proposed shelf-life for the reconstituted product shall be submitted.
PART 7 Safety testing A.
The particulars and documents which shall accompany the application for marketing authorization pursuant to Article 12(3)(j) and 13(1) shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements of section B. 3.
The sample used for safety testing shall be taken from a batch or batches produced according to the manufacturing process described in the application for marketing authorization.
LABORATORY TESTS 1.
Safety of the administration of one dose The immunological veterinary medicinal product shall be administered at the recommended dose and by each recommended route of administration to animals of each species and category in which it is intended for use, including animals of the minimum age of administration.
The animals shall be observed and examined for at least 14 days after administration. 3.
The animals shall be observed and examined for at least 14 days after the last administration for signs of systemic and local reactions.
Special requirements for live vaccines: 6.1.
If necessary, in vitro propagation of the organism may be carried out between passages in vivo.
Moreover, in the case of live vaccines for zoonotic diseases, the determination of residues at the injection site may be required in addition to the studies described in paragraph 6.2.
This assessment shall normally be conducted in two phases.
These further investigations shall be carried out in accordance with the test protocols laid down in Annex V to Council Directive 67/548/EEC or where an end point is not adequately covered by these protocols, in accordance with other internationally recognized protocols on the immunological veterinary medicinal product and/or the active substances and/or the excreted metabolites as appropriate.
The particulars and documents which shall accompany applications for marketing authorizations pursuant to Article 12(3)(j) and 13(1) shall be submitted in accordance with the provisions below. 3.
All veterinary clinical trials shall be conducted in accordance with a fully considered detailed trial protocol which shall be recorded in writing prior to commencement of the trial.
All trials shall be described in sufficiently precise details so as to be reproducible in control trials, carried out at the request of the competent authorities.
The investigator shall demonstrate the validity of all the techniques involved.
The samples used for efficacy trials shall be taken from a batch or batches produced according to the manufacturing process described in the application for marketing authorization. 8.
LABORATORY TRIALS 1.
BIBLIOGRAPHICAL REFERENCES The bibliographical references cited in the summary mentioned under Section A shall be listed in detail. (1) OJ L 358, 18.12.1986, p. 1. (2) OJ L 11, 14.1.1978, p. 18.
Directive as last amended by the 1985 Act of Accession. (3) The competent authorities may also request the pK/pH values if they think that this information is essential. (4) OJ L 15, 17.1.1987, p. 29.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 1999/11/EC (OJ L 77, 23.3.1999, p. 8). (5) OJ L 145, 11.6.1988, p. 35.
Directive as last amended by Commission Decision 1999/12/EC (OJ L 77, 23.3.1999, p. 22). (6) OJ 196, 16.8.1967, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2000/33/EC (OJ L 136, 8.6.2000, p. 90).
ANNEX II PART A Repealed Directives and their successive amendments (referred to by Article 96) Council Directive 81/851/EEC (OJ L 317, 6.11.1981, p. 1) Council Directive 90/676/EEC (OJ L 373, 31.12.1990, p. 15) Council Directive 90/677/EEC (OJ L 373, 31.12.1990, p. 26) Council Directive 92/74/EEC (OJ L 297, 13.10.1992, p. 12) Council Directive 93/40/EEC (OJ L 214, 24.8.1993, p. 31) Commission Directive 2000/37/EC (OJ L 139, 10.6.2000, p. 25) Council Directive 81/852/EEC (OJ L 317, 6.11.1981, p. 16) Council Directive 87/20/EEC (OJ L 15, 17.1.1987, p. 34) Council Directive 92/18/EEC (OJ L 97, 10.4.1992, p. 1) Council Directive 93/40/EEC Commission Directive 1999/104/EC (OJ L 3, 6.1.2000, p. 18) PART B Time-limits for transposition into national law (referred to by Article 96) %gt%TABLE%gt% ANNEX III CORRELATION TABLE %gt%TABLE%gt%
