Commission Decision of 14 July 2004 on the State aid implemented by Germany for MobilCom AG (notified under document number C(2004) 2641) (Only the German text is authentic) (Text with EEA relevance) (2005/346/EG) THE COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular the first subparagraph of Article 88(2) thereof, Having regard to the Agreement establishing the European Economic Area, and in particular Article 62(1)(a) thereof, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 93 of the Treaty establishing the European Community [1], and in particular Article 7(3) and (4) thereof, Having called on the Member State and other interested parties to submit their comments pursuant to the provisions cited above [2], and having regard to their comments, Whereas: I.
Procedure (1) By letter dated 18 October 2002, Germany informed the Commission of "rescue aid" in the form of a State guarantee for a loan of EUR 50 million granted to MobilCom AG (hereinafter referred to as MobilCom) by the State‐owned Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (KfW).
The loan had been paid out on 19 September 2002. (2) By letters dated 21 and 30 October 2002, the Commission asked for additional information, which Germany duly supplied by letters dated 23 October, registered as received on 23 and 24 October, and by letter dated 5 November, registered as received on the same day. (3) By letter dated 27 November 2002, registered as received on 28 November, Germany informed the Commission of a further 80 % deficiency guarantee for a new loan of EUR 112 million.
Germany's reply was received by letter dated 5 November, registered as received on 6 November. (16) Talks were held on 9 and 21 January 2004 between representatives of the Commission, the Federal Government, the Land of Schleswig‐Holstein and the company on the matter of whether additional measures were required to prevent undue distortions of competition.
By letter of 13 February 2004, registered as received on 13 February, Germany informed the Commission that MobilCom AG was, in principle, prepared to discontinue direct online distribution of MobilCom mobile telephony contracts for a period of seven months.
By letter dated 23 June 2004, registered as received on 24 June, Germany provided the Commission with additional information on current trends in MobilCom's customer numbers.
It is registered in Büdelsdorf, Rendsburg‐Eckernförde, Schleswig‐Holstein, an area eligible for aid under Article 87(3)(c) of the EC Treaty.
Expansion during the boom years of mobile telephony allowed MobilCom to grow quickly. (20) Between 1997 and 2000, MobilCom bought up other companies, including the network service provider Topnet, the mobile telephony service provider Cellway and the largest German Internet search engine at the time, DINO‐Online.
In 1999 MobilCom listed its Internet subsidiary freenet.de AG, Germany's second‐largest online service, on the Neuer Markt in Frankfurt. (21) In 2000, MobilCom, together with France Télécom, founded the joint venture MobilCom Multimedia GmbH, with the aim of bidding for a UMTS licence and breaking into the UMTS market.
France Télécom exchanged its share of the joint venture for a 28,3 % stake in MobilCom AG, so that MobilCom AG came to hold all shares in MobilCom Multimedia GmbH.
For the shares in MobilCom AG France Télécom paid a purchase price of EUR 7,3 billion.
The basis for the strategic partnership in the UMTS field was a cooperation Framework Agreement signed by the parties in March 2000. (22) In August 2000, MobilCom Multimedia GmbH made a successful bid of EUR 8,4 billion and obtained a UMTS licence from the Federal Government.
In 2001 D Plus was merged with Cellway in order to gear up the distribution structure for the UMTS business.
In the same year work began on building up the UMTS network. (23) In the mobile telephony/service provider sector, MobilCom's aim in entering the UMTS business was to develop from a simple service provider into a network-based mobile telephony provider [6]. (24) The landline/Internet business consisted, on the one hand, of voice telephony and, on the other, of the Internet access business operated by the Internet subsidiary freenet.de AG, in which MobilCom held a 76,1 % stake.
Turnover in the UMTS field was zero as it was still under construction. (26) By the end of the year 5,01 million customers were making calls on a MobilCom mobile phone, an increase of 25 % on the 4 million customers the year before.
Talkline states that it employs 1000 people. 3.
Since France Télécom had for months been MobilCom's sole remaining source of financing and since there were no alternative financing options, MobilCom was directly threatened with insolvency. (44) Against this background the Federal Government granted rescue aid in the form of a deficiency guarantee for a loan of EUR 50 million.
In return, MobilCom waived, in France Télécom's favour, any possible earnings from the sale or use of all UMTS assets, except for a 10 % share. (48) More specifically, France Télécom took over bank liabilities (EUR 4,692 billion) and supplier credit (around EUR 1,25 billion).
The claims waived and liabilities assumed came to a total of EUR 6,9 billion, plus the interest that had accrued up to the time of the transfer. (49) France Télécom also undertook to provide funds for the withdrawal from the UMTS business, albeit only up to 31 December 2003 and for a total amount of EUR 370 million.
The parties also waived all reciprocal claims arising from their business relationship [10]. (50) However, France Télécom's withdrawal from cooperation in the UMTS business not only had an impact on MobilCom's UMTS operations but also made restructuring necessary in other business areas, in particular the loss‐making core business of mobile telephony/service provision. (51) France Télécom had expressly refused, during the negotiations on the settlement, to provide funds for reorganising the mobile telephony/service provider business as well.
On 20 September 2002, in order to ensure the additional funding needed to finance the requisite reorganisation measures in this sector, Germany and the Land of Schleswig‐Holstein granted a further 80 % deficiency guarantee for a loan amounting to EUR 112 million. 4.
Description of the restructuring plan (52) Germany submitted a comprehensive restructuring plan for the MobilCom group which examined the causes of the crisis and set out how long‐term profitability might be restored. (53) According to the plan, the fundamental causes of the continuing economic difficulties of the MobilCom group were to be found in the core business segment of mobile telephony/service provision and the former UMTS business segment. (54) According to the restructuring plan, the external situation in the UMTS sector was worse than planned.
selling or cutting back all UMTS assets and shedding 1000 UMTS full‐time jobs, was estimated in the restructuring plan at a maximum of EUR 370 million.
Overall, the emphasis would be on consolidation at lower but more profitable customer and turnover levels. - customer/loyalty measures to optimise price structure: EUR […]* [11] million, - closure of unprofitable MobilCom shops: EUR […]* million, - job cuts in service provider sector: EUR […]* million, - external consultancy, to March 2003: EUR […]* million, - closure of Karlstein and Hallbergmoos and relocation of infrastructure: EUR […]* million, - impending financial obligations, in particular from leasing commitments for business assets no longer used on account of change in strategy: EUR […]* million, - cash deposits […]*: EUR […]* million. (63) According to a business plan attached to the restructuring plan and to a profit and loss account for the period up to 2007, MobilCom would return to profit in the service provider sector in 2005.
Implementation of the restructuring plan (64) MobilCom began implementing the measures set out in the restructuring plan back in November 2002.
The UMTS sector was frozen in accordance with the plan and prepared for sale.
The planned shedding of a total of 1850 full‐time jobs in the UMTS and service provider sectors was already concluded in March 2003.
The additional measures relating to the reorganisation of the service provider core business, such as the shutdown of the Karlstein and Hallbergmoos sites, the closure of unprofitable shops and the introduction of a new organisational structure, were also fully implemented in the fourth quarter of 2002 and the first quarter of 2003. (65) In addition, all MobilCom's landline activities were grouped together in mobilcom CityLine GmbH (MCL) and transferred on 10 April 2003 by way of a purchase contract from MobilCom to freenet.de AG.
The first two instalments, EUR 10 million and EUR 8,5 million, of the total purchase price of EUR 35 million to be paid to MobilCom, which were due in May and August 2003, were used in accordance with the plan to repay the second loan guaranteed by the State. (66) The UMTS network was sold to E‐Plus in May 2003 and the UMTS licence returned to RegTP in December 2003.
This left MobilCom free as a service provider to offer UMTS services as well and to take part in the emerging market [12]. (67) On 17 September 2003 the management board and the supervisory board decided to sell up to 20 % of the shares in freenet.de AG.
Under an accelerated bookbuilding procedure, 20 % of the shares (3,75 million) were sold to various domestic and foreign investors.
The guarantee bonds were returned to the Federal Government and the Land of Schleswig‐Holstein. (69) After repaying the loans, MobilCom was left with proceeds of nearly EUR 60 million from the sale of the freenet shares. (70) According to Germany, the sale of further shares in freenet.de AG is not planned.
EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes) rose to EUR 22,3 million (compared with EUR - 372,9 million in 2002). (73) The trend of the service provider segment during the restructuring phase was as follows [14]: Results | Q1 2004 | Q4 2003 | Q3 2003 | Q2 2003 | Q1 2003 | Turnover (EUR million) | 349 | 371 | 336 | 329 | 321 | EBITDA (EUR million) | 15,2 | - 11,2 | 17,4 | 13,5 | - 5,2 | EBITDA to turnover | 4,4 % | - 3,0 % | 5,2 % | 4,1 % | - 1,6 % | EBIT (EUR million) | 8,7 | - 20,2 | 10,3 | 4,8 | - 14,2 | EBIT to turnover | 2,5 % | - 5,4 % | 3,1 % | 1,5 % | - 4,4 % | Mobile telephony customers (million) | 4,2 | 4,2 | 4,1 | 4,2 | 4,5 | of which subscribers (million) | 2,4 | 2,6 | 2,6 | 2,7 | 3,0 | of which pre‐paid customers (million) | 1,8 | 1,6 | 1,5 | 1,5 | 1,5 | Gross new customers (million) | 0,42 | 0,43 | 0,19 | 0,13 | 0,16 | (74) If the capital gain from the placing of 3,75 million freenet shares is taken into account, group earnings in 2003 rose to EUR 160,4 million.
Details of State guarantees granted (75) The loan of EUR 50 million granted by KfW on 19 September 2002, which was fully secured by a Federal Government guarantee, was due to expire on 15 March 2003 but could be extended until 15 September 2003.
The loan, which was granted on 20 November 2002, had a term of 18 months until 20 May 2004.
The interest rate consisted of the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (Euribor) for the relevant interest period for each instalment plus 2,50 % per annum.
Under the guarantee agreement of 20 November 2002, the guarantee was due to expire on 15 March 2003.
With the submission of the restructuring plan in March 2003, the second guarantee was extended to cover the entire duration of the loan up to the time of the Commission's decision on the basis of the plan. (77) Germany informed the Commission that the premium which MobilCom had to pay the Federal Government for the guarantees on the loans of EUR 50 million and EUR 112 million was 0,8 % per annum in each case.
Reasons for initiating/extending the proceedings (79) The Commission approved the guarantee for the loan of EUR 50 million as rescue aid pursuant to Article 87(3)(c) of the EC Treaty and the Community guidelines. (80) In its decision to initiate the formal investigation procedure, the Commission also classified the guarantee from the Federal Government and the Land of Schleswig‐Holstein on the second loan as State aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty.
On the basis of its provisional assessment, it concluded that the notified aid should be assessed on the basis of the Community guidelines and doubted whether it was compatible with the common market. (81) In particular, it was not clear for the Commission whether the loan granted at a later stage (EUR 112 million) was being used exclusively to keep the business running in the declared rescue period or was already being used for restructuring the firm.
Because it is particularly distortive of competition, restructuring aid may be authorised only on the basis of a restructuring plan; however, this was not available to the Commission when the proceedings under Article 88(2) of the EC Treaty were initiated. (82) By decision of 9 July 2003, the Commission included the originally planned extension of the loan guarantees until 2007 within the scope of its ongoing investigation. (83) The Commission doubted in particular whether MobilCom needed an extension of the State‐guaranteed loans.
COMMENTS FROM GERMANY (84) As the loans were repaid on 22 September 2003, with the guarantee bonds subsequently being returned to the guarantors, Germany considers that the question of the application to extend the loan guarantees until 2007, which had in any event been submitted only as a precautionary measure, is now closed. (85) The second aid measure is the guarantee on the loan of EUR 112 million: Germany maintains its view that this too constituted rescue aid within the meaning of the Community guidelines. (86) Germany states that the loans were used exclusively to finance measures taken in the service provider sector and aimed at such things as optimising the customer tariff structure, adjusting sales expenditure and cutting current staff costs, the dual purpose being simply to keep the firm's ordinary business running and to reduce the need for liquidity during the rescue phase.
Without these measures, the liquidity requirement would have been EUR 110 million higher by March 2003. (87) Furthermore, a comprehensive restructuring plan had not yet been submitted at the time the aid was granted and indeed could not have been drawn up in the short time available. (88) In the event of the Commission's not accepting this assessment, Germany asks that the second loan guarantee be approved as restructuring aid on the basis of the restructuring plan that was submitted to the Commission subsequently.
COMMENTS FROM THIRD PARTIES 1.
The mobile telephony market, it claimed, is dominated by the network operators, which have a total market share of almost 70 %, with some 52 % being accounted for by the two dominant suppliers, T‐Mobile and Vodafone.
The guarantee covered altogether only 80 % of the loan amount.
Each of the measures described in the restructuring plan had been essential to restoring long‐term viability, and MobilCom again explained in detail, and gave a further breakdown of, the individual costs provided for in the restructuring plan. (92) MobilCom also pointed out that the remaining competitors benefited from the restructuring plan because, under it, MobilCom was divesting all activities that did not belong directly to the core business sector but would be of use to it, such as the UMTS network operation in particular. (93) No negative effects on competitors were to be expected, moreover, since under the restructuring considerable capacity reductions would be made in the service provider sector as well.
In particular, the substantial reduction of staff and the closure of sites had considerably reduced MobilCom's ability to acquire customers. (94) At the talks held between Germany and the Commission on 9 and 21 January 2004, in which representatives of MobilCom also took part, the company clarified its written comments, stating that it maintained the legal view also adopted by Germany, namely that the second aid measure was rescue and not restructuring aid.
Comments from Talkline GmbH %amp% Co KG (95) As a mobile telephony service provider, Talkline GmbH %amp% Co KG (Talkline) is a direct competitor of MobilCom.
True, MobilCom did lose market shares during the restructuring, but its market presence was still appreciable for competitors. (99) Second, the State‐guaranteed loans enabled MobilCom to make its customer base profitable.
After streamlining its customer base, MobilCom had grown about as strongly as the market but had a disproportionately high‐yield customer base. (100) In addition, because of the loans, MobilCom was able to delay the proposed sale of the fixed network to freenet.de AG and the ensuing partial sale of its stake in the latter, so that it could use the expected related rise in the market price not only to repay the loan but also to invest in the mobile telephony business since the sale of 20 % of the block of shares in September 2003 left it with liquid resources of almost EUR 60 million after paying off the loans in full. (101) Talkline also doubts whether it was necessary to grant the second guarantee.
The sale of 20 % of the freenet shares (3,75 million shares), which took place only in September 2003, would have already brought the firm an income of at least EUR 18,75 million in November 2002 at the then price of some EUR 5 per share.
The sale of the whole stake (13,65 million shares) would have provided the firm with liquid resources of EUR 68 million and hence made borrowing largely, and a State guarantee definitely, unnecessary.
As a quid pro quo for possible distortions of competition, it was thus not only worthless but considerably aggravated the distortion since MobilCom was now investing the proceeds from the sale of the freenet stake directly in the service provider business. (105) The freezing of the UMTS business was an economic necessity and was therefore not suitable either as a compensatory measure to offset distortions of competition in the mobile telephony sector.
In the event of an application for insolvency, MobilCom's management board estimated that a substantial proportion of customers would very rapidly be lost; a restructuring of MobilCom on the basis of an insolvency would thus have been impossible. (111) Germany further states that, in the settlement negotiations in the second half of September 2002, France Télécom always made it clear that it could undertake to release MobilCom from its UMTS commitments only if it could be certain that MobilCom would not need to seek insolvency within the periods in which challenges might be possible under insolvency law.
The loan of EUR 112 million granted for this purpose by the KfW consortium was accordingly made a condition of the MC Settlement Agreement.
The fact that the loan and guarantee ran until 20 May 2004 meant, in Germany's view, that this demand had been met. (112) Germany also submits that the State guarantee was necessary for the granting of the loan.
Despite intensive efforts on the part of the Federal Government to induce the banks in the consortium to assume a higher proportion of the risk, the banks insisted that there had to be a deficiency guarantee from the Federal Government and the Land of Schleswig-Holstein covering 80 % of the loan.
Without this official cover for the loan (risk shield), none of the banks would have been prepared to provide funding for MobilCom, and MobilCom would have become insolvent. (113) On the question of whether the aid was limited to the minimum necessary, Germany argued that in the loan contract with the KfW consortium MobilCom undertook to use all net revenue from the sale of major physical or financial assets to redeem the loans, and thus also the State guarantee.
The market price of a freenet share was low, at about EUR 5, which gave a market value of EUR 68 million for the entire holding; if 76,1 % of freenet shares were to be disposed of rapidly, the price would probably have collapsed.
However, in April 2004 Germany informed the Commission that it could not make a definite commitment to close the online shops.
ASSESSMENT OF THE MEASURES (119) Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty states that, save as otherwise provided in the Treaty, any aid granted by a Member State or through State resources which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of certain goods is incompatible with the common market, insofar as trade between Member States is affected. (120) The Commission notes that the question of Germany's application to the Commission for authorisation to extend the loan guarantees until 2007 is now closed because the loans were repaid on 22 September 2003, with the guarantee bonds subsequently being returned to the guarantors.
Thus the Commission no longer has to consider this application. (121) The Commission approved the State guarantee on the EUR 50 million loan as rescue aid within the meaning of the Community guidelines on 21 January 2003.
This aid need not, therefore, be considered afresh. 1.
The State guarantee on the EUR 112 million loan as aid (122) The Commission considers that it has been shown that the 80 % State guarantee on the EUR 112 million loan granted on 20 November constitutes aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty. (123) The guarantee was granted by the Federal Ministry of Finance and by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Technology and Communications of the Land of Schleswig‐Holstein, both of which are State authorities.
The aid must therefore be considered as having been granted by the State. (124) State guarantees generally fall within the scope of Article 87(1) if no market premium is paid and trade between Member States is affected [15]. (125) The Commission takes the view that the premium paid for the State guarantee was not a market premium.
The Land of Schleswig‐Holstein was entitled to a guarantee premium of 1 % per annum and a processing fee of EUR 25564.
O2, E‐Plus, Vodafone D2, Talkline and Debitel). (128) The State guarantee accordingly constitutes State aid caught by Article 87(1) of the EC Treaty. (129) The Commission takes the view that the loan on which the guarantee was granted does not itself contain any aid element.
The interest rate charged to MobilCom on the EUR 112 million loan (2,5 % per annum above Euribor) was comparable to interest rates charged in the case of healthy firms and was not below the Commission's reference rates [16]. 2.
Compatibility with the common market (130) Article 87 of the EC Treaty lays down exceptions to the principle that State aid is incompatible with the common market.
Turning to Article 87(3) of the EC Treaty, the exemptions provided for in subparagraphs (a) and (c) (regional aspect) are not applicable since the aid to MobilCom is not intended to facilitate the development of a specific economic area.
The loan it covered was not intended exclusively to finance current costs, including ordinary improvements, with a view to keeping the firm afloat for a limited period until a restructuring plan had been drawn up. (136) Germany states rather that the purpose of the State‐guaranteed loan of EUR 112 million (or EUR 88,3 million) was to enable MobilCom to take a series of reorganisation measures in the loss‐making service provider division.
The package was thus clearly aimed at the long‐term resolution of the causes of the continuing losses in this area of the business. (137) In particular, the State‐guaranteed loan financed the rapid shedding of 850 full‐time jobs in the service provider sector, which was intended to reduce the high staff intensity in the segment, a factor identified in the restructuring plan as a major source of loss. (138) Another category of costs arose out of the termination or cancellation of unprofitable contracts and the migration to tariffs appropriate to a service provider for customers who had been acquired for the firm's own UMTS network.
This reorganisation of the customer base and tariffs was intended to establish profitable long‐term relations with customers and put a stop to the fall in gross trading profit margins. (139) By furthermore closing the Karlstein site, which had been brought into the MobilCom group with the takeover of D‐Plus Telecommunications GmbH, and the Hallbergmoos site, which had been brought in with the takeover of Cellway Kommunikationsdienste, and by concentrating all its distribution and customer care structure at the Büdelsdorf headquarters and the Erfurt site, MobilCom says that it made up a backlog of adjustments that had been neglected while it had been focusing on building up its UMTS business. (140) The Commission is accordingly satisfied that the package of measures financed by the State‐guaranteed loan had effects that were primarily structural, being aimed at ensuring the long‐term profitability of the service provider division and of the company, and not merely at keeping the firm in operation until a restructuring plan was drawn up.
The Commission expressly rejects Germany's objection that, at the time the State‐guaranteed loan was granted in November 2002, no restructuring plan had yet been presented. (142) The management board, in close consultation with the supervisory board, decided the main points of the reorganisation strategy back in September 2002 [17].
MobilCom was in no doubt that, without the participation of France Télécom, the UMTS project could not be realised and would have to be abandoned. (143) The management board also submitted a comprehensive reorganisation programme for the mobile service provider division the main features of which even at that time were a shedding of 850 full‐time jobs in the core business, a concentration of the distribution and customer care activities, hitherto spread over five sites, at the permanent headquarters at Büdelsdorf and the Erfurt site, and a reduction in the cost of acquiring customers, in particular by closing unprofitable MobilCom shops. (144) This reorganisation plan, which was fundamentally identical to the subsequent restructuring plan submitted to the Commission in March 2003, was examined by the auditors Deloitte %amp% Touche.
This conclusion is in no way invalidated by the fact that, at that time, France Télécom had not yet given its final assent to the MC Settlement Agreement.
MobilCom itself, logically enough, began implementing the measures without delay and did not wait for final approval from France Télécom's general meeting. (146) The Commission also considers that a decisive indication that the second aid measure constituted restructuring aid is the fact that, when the State‐guaranteed loan was granted, it had a lifetime of 18 months, up to 20 May 2004.
The usual signs of a firm being in difficulty include increasing losses, declining cash flow and falling or nil net asset value as well as situations where the firm cannot recover through its own resources or with the funds it obtains from its owners/shareholders or creditors (point 6 of the guidelines). (149) The withdrawal of France Télécom from the financing of the UMTS business meant the liquidation of all of MobilCom's corporate funds. (150) In the third quarter of 2002 MobilCom suffered a loss before interest and taxes (EBIT) of EUR 2,9 billion, while its capital resources amounted to EUR 606,7 million (2001: EUR 3769 million); the insolvency looming in September 2002 could be averted only through the State‐guaranteed liquidity aid loan of EUR 50 million provided by KfW. (151) Despite the successful conclusion of the MC Settlement Agreement, under which France Télécom took over UMTS liabilities totalling EUR 6,9 billion plus interest, the group's loss in the fourth quarter of 2002 amounted to EUR 289 million, still well in excess of the losses before the crisis (second quarter of 2002: a loss of EUR 172,8 million; first quarter of 2002: a loss of EUR 116,4 million; fourth quarter of 2001: a loss of EUR 91,9 million). (152) The Commission further deduces from the liquidity figures available to it that the negative cash flow developments in the MobilCom group could not be halted in November 2002 either.
The available liquidity reserves were already exhausted in September 2002.
The rescue aid merely allowed the short‐term current liquidity requirement to be covered and the immediate threat of insolvency to be averted. (153) Germany moreover showed that, without the reorganisation measures provided for in the restructuring plan, the current loss would probably have been EUR 110 million higher in March 2003.
In Germany's view, it would not have been possible to finance such a loss through bank loans. (154) The Commission likewise concludes that MobilCom would also not have been able to cover the financing requirement in November 2002 from its own available capital resources. (155) As already explained, liquidity reserves were no longer available at that time.
The Commission is also obliged to conclude on the basis of the available information that the (partial) sale of the Freenet stake, as envisaged in the restructuring plan, in order to redeem the State‐guaranteed loan, which eventually happened in September 2003, would not have been possible in the short term. (156) Germany has convincingly shown that, prior to the conclusion of the MC Settlement Agreement in November 2002, it was not possible to sell the freenet holding because of the existing credit liabilities to the creditor banks in the context of the UMTS project.
Furthermore, the proceeds would have had to be used exclusively for the repayment of the credit liabilities resulting from the UMTS project for the banks. (157) Nor does the Commission have any evidence to suggest that, during the acute crisis in the third and fourth quarters of 2002, investors would have shown any interest in acquiring shares in MobilCom AG.
This means of procuring funds was therefore also not available to MobilCom. (158) Germany has also demonstrated sufficiently that the consortium banks would not have granted the EUR 112 million loan without the State guarantee, since the default risk was considered to be too high and in particular since the usual banking collateral was not provided in sufficient measure. (159) Germany submitted among other things an opinion drawn up by the consortium lead bank, KfW, on 1 June 2003 in which the latter assessed the value of the collateral additionally provided for the EUR 112 million loan.
In the EUR 112 million loan contract, MobilCom undertook among other things to pledge all the shares in all the subsidiaries and associated companies of MobilCom AG and MobilCom Holding GmbH, including the freenet.de AG holding, and to transfer all claims against Millenium GmbH and against the former manager Gerhard Schmid amounting to EUR 71 million.
Since that price is dependent on MobilCom's creditworthiness, KfW, according to Germany, was not able to attribute any collateral value, based on customary banking principles, to the collateral. (162) Other collateral, such as the subsequently transferred purchase money claim against freenet.de AG arising from the sale of the landline division amounting to EUR 35 million, was not yet available at the time the loan was granted. (163) The Commission must therefore conclude that the granting of the 80 % Federal and Land guarantee was necessary in order for the banks to be able to justify the granting of the EUR 112 million loan. (164) The Commission thus finds that, at the time when the second loan was granted, the firm was unable to restructure itself through its own resources or with the funds it was able to obtain from its owner/shareholders or creditors, without the State contribution.
MobilCom was back in profit in the service provider sector in the second quarter of 2003 (for the first time after eleven quarters) and was able to pay off its debts in full through the sale of freenet shares in September 2003.
Aid limited to the minimum (169) Under point 40 of the Community guidelines, the amount and intensity of the aid must be limited to the strict minimum needed to enable restructuring to be undertaken.
Aid beneficiaries must make a significant contribution to the restructuring plan from their own resources, including through the sale of assets that are not essential to the firm's survival, or from external financing at market conditions. (170) The Commission considers that Germany has demonstrated sufficiently that the restructuring aid in the form of a State guarantee for the loan of EUR 112 million is limited to the minimum needed for the restructuring in the light of the existing financial resources of the company, its shareholders or the business group to which it belongs.
During the restructuring phase, MobilCom did not carry out any additional acquisitions or new investment not strictly necessary for the restoration of long‐term viability.
Nevertheless, the Commission thinks it necessary to attach conditions to its approval of the aid in order to avoid undue distortions of competition (see paragraphs 176 to 189). (171) As far as the period covered by the State‐guaranteed loan is concerned, the Commission notes that, according to the information provided by Germany, France Télécom pressed for a term of at least 18 months for the State‐guaranteed restructuring loan as a precondition for its taking over the liabilities stemming from the UMTS business, as MobilCom needed it to do, and that, consequently, a shorter term would not have been practicable without endangering the conclusion of the MC Settlement Agreement.
The Commission therefore regards the requirement that aid be limited to the minimum as also having been met in this respect. (172) As regards the beneficiary's own contribution to the restructuring, the Commission notes that the State guarantee covered only 80 % of the guaranteed loan.
The risk in relation to the remaining 20 % was thus borne by the firm and the lending banks.
The remainder of the loan was repaid in full in less than one year out of the proceeds from the sale of 20 % of the shares in freenet. (173) Against this background and bearing in mind that the aid took the form of a loan guarantee and not a non‐repayable grant, the Commission concludes that MobilCom made a sufficient contribution to the restructuring from its own resources within the meaning of point 40 of the guidelines and that the aid was reduced to the minimum.
The guaranteed loan was repaid in full on 20 September 2003, only 10 months after the loan had been granted in November 2002. (178) On the other hand, in the years prior to the crisis in 2002, MobilCom pursued an aggressive expansion strategy geared exclusively to growth in the mobile telephony/service provider sector at the expense of profitability.
MobilCom's focus purely on expanding its market share also had to be viewed in the context of the planned expansion of its UMTS network since network operators earn higher margins on their customers than pure service providers. (179) By focusing its activities on the UMTS field and attempting to establish itself as a UMTS operator, MobilCom was taking a major risk.
In point of fact, MobilCom managed to achieve proceeds of EUR 176 million on the sale of only 20 % of the shares.
Despite the fact that MobilCom's share in the German mobile telephony market is less than 10 % and although the State‐guaranteed loans were repaid rapidly, the Commission has therefore concluded that the aid led to undue distortions of competition in that market. (185) In the Commission's view, the measures cited by Germany for reducing the firm's market presence, in particular its withdrawal from the UMTS business, have not sufficiently mitigated these distortions. (186) MobilCom's withdrawal from the UMTS business cannot fully offset the adverse effects of the aid on competitors as the remaining UMTS licence holders were the main beneficiaries of the withdrawal and are only some of the competitors on the mobile telephony market.
Nor can the withdrawal from the landline/Internet business by way of the transfer of landline activities to freenet and the changing of the freenet stake from a strategic into a financial holding, as claimed by Germany, be regarded as adequate compensatory measures for the undue distortions of competition caused by the aid since they primarily benefited landline operators and Internet service providers, not mobile telephony operators. (187) Germany cited as further compensatory measures the shedding of 1850 full‐time jobs, including 850 in the service provider sector, and the closure of sites.
Turnover in the service provider sector already stood at EUR 349 million in the first quarter of 2004, compared with EUR 321 million in the first quarter of 2003.
In the fourth quarter of 2003 the number of new customers (426000) exceeded customer departures in the same period (338000) [19].
According to its own data, MobilCom had a market share of 10 % in the new customer business in the first quarter of 2004 [20]. (189) In view of the undue distortions of competition described in paragraphs 175 to 184, the Commission thus concludes that the adverse effects of the aid on MobilCom's competitors have not yet been sufficiently mitigated by the measures referred to by Germany, although, when determining further compensatory measures, account should be taken of the customer losses which have already occurred, the turnover losses during the restructuring phase and the withdrawal from the UMTS business. (190) The Commission has made it clear to Germany that the second aid measure cannot be approved as restructuring aid and deemed compatible with the common market without further compensatory measures.
However, in view of MobilCom's above‐mentioned customer and turnover losses during the restructuring phase and its withdrawal from the UMTS business as a network operator, these compensatory measures should not be too detrimental to its activities. (191) Following negotiations on 9 and 21 January 2004 between Commission representatives and representatives of the Federal Government, the Land of Schleswig‐Holstein and the company, further compensatory measures were discussed, including, at the Commission's instigation, a possible temporary cessation of direct online sales of MobilCom mobile telephony contracts.
In a communication of 13 February 2004, Germany then informed the Commission that, generally speaking, MobilCom was also prepared to close its online shops for direct sales of its mobile telephony contracts for a maximum of seven months.
Likewise as stated above, it considers that further compensatory measures are necessary to offset the undue distortions of competition caused by the granting of the aid. (194) Since agreement could not be reached with Germany and the company on potential compensatory measures, the Commission is making approval of the second aid measure, pursuant to Article 7(4) of Regulation (EC) No 659/1999, conditional on the cessation of online direct sales of MobilCom mobile telephony contracts (pre‐paid and/or post‐paid) for a period of seven months. (195) Specifically, this condition requires Germany to ensure that MobilCom AG and all the companies in the group close their online shops for direct sales of MobilCom mobile telephony contracts for seven months so that no new mobile telephony contracts (pre‐paid or post‐paid) may be concluded directly with MobilCom AG or the companies in the group.
The distribution of mobile telephony contracts of other suppliers via freenet.de AG is not affected. (196) Germany must also ensure that, as long as the online shops are closed, MobilCom also suspends direct sales of its mobile telephony contracts via the websites of the MobilCom shops and that MobilCom AG and the other companies in the group do not take any other measures to circumvent this condition. (197) During the period of closure, customers may not conclude online any new mobile telephony contracts (pre‐paid and/or post‐paid) directly with MobilCom AG or the companies in the group.
Overall, the gross number of new customers in 2003 was […]*, of which […]* were subscribers.
This means that in 2003 MobilCom gained some 1 to 1,5 % of its total customers and some 2 % of its subscribers via its online shops.
For 2004 it can be assumed that MobilCom will gain as many as 2 to 5 % of its customers through its direct sales online.
The fact that, during the closure period, customers cannot conclude online any new mobile telephony contracts (pre‐paid and/or post‐paid) directly with MobilCom AG or the other companies in the group means that MobilCom is barred access to an increasingly important direct distribution channel.
The State‐guaranteed loan was granted to MobilCom in November 2002 and repaid by the company in September 2003.
It therefore seems appropriate when it comes to compensating for the distortions of competition caused to fix the duration for the closure of the online shops for the direct distribution of MobilCom mobile telephony contracts at seven months too. (203) Furthermore, the Commission sees no reason to suppose that the cessation of online direct sales of mobile telephony contracts for a period of seven months would impose a disproportionate burden on the company.
Even if, during the closure period, all customers who would have liked to conclude a direct online contract with MobilCom turn to a competitor, the resulting loss of customers appears reasonable considering the distortions of competition which have occurred. (205) Moreover, existing customers will still be able to renew their contracts online on expiry.
Furthermore, even during the closure period, MobilCom can advertise its mobile telephony products intensively in its online shops, highlighting particularly favourable post-paid and pre‐paid products which customers can acquire from MobilCom shops and other remaining distribution channels. (206) The Commission notes that discontinuing direct online sales of MobilCom mobile telephony contracts is not likely to cause a manifest deterioration in the structure of the market within the meaning of point 38 of the Community guidelines.
Conclusion (208) The Commission finds that the State guarantee granted on the EUR 112 million loan for MobilCom AG is restructuring aid which, on the basis of the Community guidelines on State aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty, is compatible with the common market pursuant to Article 87(3)(c) of the EC Treaty provided that Germany meets the condition described in detail in recitals 195 to 199, namely to discontinue direct online sales of MobilCom mobile telephony contracts.
Germany shall ensure that MobilCom AG and all the companies in the MobilCom group close their online shops for direct online sales of MobilCom mobile telephony contracts for a period of seven months so that no new mobile telephony contracts (pre‐paid and/or post‐paid) can be concluded directly with MobilCom AG or the companies in the group via this distribution channel.
The distribution of other suppliers' mobile telephony contracts via freenet.de AG shall not be affected. 2.
Germany shall ensure that, as long as the online shops are closed, MobilCom also suspends direct sales of its mobile telephony contracts via the websites of the MobilCom shops and that MobilCom AG and the other companies in the group do not take any other measures to circumvent this condition. 3.
Article 3 Germany shall inform the Commission when the closure of the online shops commences.
Done at Brussels, 14 July 2004.
For the Commission Mario Monti Member of the Commission [1] OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 1.
