Persons or undertakings engaged in the industrial activities listed in Annex II to the Treaty shall communicate to the Commission, within the time limits laid down in Article 42 of the Treaty, their investment projects aimed at: (a) creating a production capacity; (b) maintaining quantitative and qualitative production capacity; (c) directly increasing production capacity; (d) directly increasing productivity; (e) improving the quality of production; (f) creating facilities for the management of spent fuel or radioactive waste, including treatment, interim or final storage and/or disposal; when, in the industrial activities listed in column I of the table in the Annex, the cost exceeds the corresponding amount in column II of the table in the Annex for new installations and that in column III of the table in the Annex for replacements and conversions. 2.
Investment projects aiming at decommissioning installations shall be notified, when the cost exceeds the corresponding amount in column III of the table in the Annex through a declaration which may be limited to essential characteristics; the procedure laid down in Article 43 of the Treaty need not be applied. 3.
Investment projects aiming at decommissioning installations, where the costs are lower than the threshold values in column III of the table in the Annex, may be notified on a voluntary basis; the procedure laid down in Article 43 of the Treaty need not be applied. 4.
Projects for new installations for nuclear reactors of any type and for any purpose and projects concerning the replacement, transformation, modernisation or power increase of such installations, where the costs are lower than the threshold values of the table in the Annex, may be notified on a voluntary basis through a simple declaration giving only their essential characteristics; the procedure laid down in Article 43 of the Treaty need not be applied.
Article 5 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 2 December 1999.
TUOMIOJA (1) Regulation No 4 defining the investment projects to be communicated to the Commission in accordance with Article 41 of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ 17, 6.10.1958, p. 417/58).
