Council Regulation (EC) No 1339/2002 of 22 July 2002 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of sulphanilic acid originating in the People's Republic of China and India Council Regulation (EC) No 1339/2002 of 22 July 2002 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of sulphanilic acid originating in the People's Republic of China and India THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not Members of the European Community(1), and in particular Article 9 thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
Like product (10) No new elements were brought to the attention of the Commission that would lead it to alter the conclusions reached at the provisional stage, namely that sulphanilic acid produced and sold by Community producers and that produced in the countries concerned and exported to the Community are like products. (11) The provisional findings concerning the like product as set out in recital 12 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed.
Moreover, the cost of manufacturing used in calculating normal value in the provisional Regulation was that incurred during the investigation period (%quot%IP%quot%) and was considered more appropriate since it is not affected by any ad hoc valuation of stocks. 1.2.
This claim could not be accepted since the profit margin realised by the related importer is based on transfer prices between associated parties (the company in question and its related importer) and as such these prices cannot be considered to be reliable in accordance with Article 2(9) of Regulation (EC) No 384/96 (%quot%basic Regulation%quot%). (15) On the basis of the above, the findings set in recitals 19 to 21 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 1.3.
Dumping margin (17) As no comments were submitted justifying changes to the dumping findings as set out in the provisional Regulation, the dumping margin (24,6 %) established in recital 29 of the provisional Regulation is confirmed. 2.
Normal value (18) As no new information was submitted under this heading, the findings as set out in recitals 30 to 35 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 2.2.
Export price (19) As no new information was submitted under this heading, the findings as set out in recitals 36 to 39 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 2.3.
Comparison (20) As no new information was submitted under this heading, the findings as set out in recital 40 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 2.4.
Dumping margin (21) The dumping margin (21,0 %) established in recitals 41 and 42 of the provisional Regulation is confirmed.
Therefore, as no new elements were brought to the attention of the Commission that would lead it to alter its earlier findings, the provisional findings concerning the definition of the Community industry and its standing as detailed in recital 44 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed.
Similarly, whilst it was acknowledged in recital 127 of the provisional Regulation that imports were expected to continue to play a significant role in meeting demand in the Community, it was also noted that had the Community industry not been subject to the injurious effects of the dumped imports, it would have been able to put into effect certain expansion plans, thereby satisfying a larger part of Community demand.
In the light of the above, the provisional findings concerning imports into the Community from the countries concerned and their level of price undercutting as noted in recitals 47 to 54 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. 3.
In particular, it was suggested that the increase in the Community industry's production, sales and capacity utilisation during the analysis period (1 January 1997 to 30 June 2001) proved that it had not suffered injury.
This should be seen in the light of the fact that Community consumption of sulphanilic acid increased by some 13 % during the analysis period and that there has been a reduction of the number of suppliers on the market due to the closure of certain Community producers. (31) More importantly, it should be recalled that the Community industry suffered injury in the form of price depression and price suppression.
In particular, its average selling price declined sharply between 1997 and 1998, as the pressure exerted by the increasing volume of the imports concerned on the market became evident.
With regard to Quimigal, it is to be noted that in the base year for the index (1998) the company was not producing sulphanilic acid.
When it began production in 1999, the workers were engaged full time in this activity with an extra day being worked from 2000 onwards.
Finally, it was also claimed that the Community industry had to meet stringent environmental regulations and had higher labour and transport costs than exporting producers in India with the implication that imports originating in that country had a competitive advantage and were not made at injurious prices. (35) The investigation showed that Sorochimie, despite its financial difficulties linked to the excessively low prices prevailing on the market, was able to gain new customers during the analysis period and to adapt its products to meet their needs.
The company was obliged to purchase certain quantities of the product concerned during the analysis period in order to meet existing customer requirements while its production equipment was undergoing essential repairs.
It was also noted that the company was obliged to offer prices similar to those of the dumped imports in order to establish itself on the market and gain market share in 1999 and 2000 in that its relatively small size meant that it was a price taker rather than a price setter.
Consequently, the provisional findings concerning causation as set out in recitals 88 and 89 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed.
COMMUNITY INTEREST (38) Following the publication of the provisional Regulation, one interested party questioned how the Commission could determine, in the light of Sorochimie being in administration, that the Community industry was viable and competitive.
It is recalled that Sorochimie was obliged to seek protection from its creditors following certain difficulties in its glue business and other pressures in its sulphanilic acid activities.
This period of time has recently been extended until 31 January 2003.
Consequently, the provisional findings that the imposition of measures is in the interest of the Community industry as noted in recital 100 of the provisional Regulation are confirmed. (39) A number of interested parties claimed that the Commission had failed to make an objective assessment of the situation of users in not taking into account any increase in the Community industry's prices that would likely follow the imposition of measures.
At the same time, due allowance was made in this calculation for a maximum possible increase in the price of sulphanilic acid sold by the Community industry of 10 % on the basis that its prices would increase to a level similar to that of the imports concerned following the imposition of measures taking into account that it was already operating at a fairly high rate of capacity utilisation in the IP.
As such, no new elements were submitted by interested parties which would alter the provisional findings concerning the possible increase in the manufacturing costs of the different user industries. (41) Regarding the supply and competition situation on the Community market, it is to be noted that the current production capacity of the Community industry could satisfy in the region of 50 % of Community demand.
For this to occur, the injurious effects of the dumped imports need to be removed. (42) In the light of the above, the provisional findings that the imposition of measures is not contrary to the interest of the Community as noted in recital 130 of the provisional Regulation is confirmed.
ANTI-DUMPING MEASURES 1.
Injury elimination level (43) The methodology to establish the injury margin as set out at recitals 131 to 133 of the provisional Regulation is hereby confirmed. 2.
Consequently, the definitive anti-dumping duty rate for India has been set at the level of the dumping margin (24,6 %) minus the rate of definitive countervailing duty of the export subsidies (6,3 %). (47) The Government of India and the Indian exporting producer opposed this approach and claimed that the definitive anti-dumping duty should be reduced by the total level of subsidisation found (7,1 %) and not only by the amount export subsidies.
Alternatively, they argued, if the subsidy is used to lower domestic prices then only part of that subsidy which enables unfair export pricing should be countervailed. (48) In this respect, it is noted that subsidies which are not contingent upon export performance (%quot%domestic subsidies%quot%) are considered to affect equally the export price and the normal value of the Indian exporting producer, which means that they have a neutral effect on the margin of dumping.
The Chinese parties concerned were informed accordingly. (52) Subsequent to the imposition of provisional measures, the sole cooperating exporting producer in India of the product concerned offered a price undertaking in accordance with Article 8(1) of the basic Regulation.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of sulphanilic acid falling within CN codes ex 2921 42 10 (TARIC code 2921 42 10*60 ) originating in the People's Republic of China and India. 2.
The rate of definitive anti-dumping duty applicable, before duty, to the net, free-at-Community frontier price of the products described in paragraph 1, shall be as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% 3.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, the definitive duty shall not apply to imports released for free circulation in accordance with Article 2. 4.
Article 3 The amounts secured by way of the provisional anti-dumping duty imposed pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 575/2002 shall be definitively collected at the rate of the duties definitively imposed on imports of sulphanilic acid originating in the People's Republic of China and India, as defined in that Regulation.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 22 July 2002.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 2238/2000 (OJ L 257, 11.10.2000, p. 2). (2) OJ L 87, 4.4.2002, p. 28. (3) OJ L 87, 4.4.2002, p. 5. (4) OJ L 288, 21.10.1997, p. 1. (5) See page 36 of this Official Journal.
ANNEX Elements to be indicated in the commercial invoice referred to in Article 2(2): 1.
The name of the company mentioned in Article 2(1) issuing the commercial invoice 3.
The commercial invoice number 4.
The date of issue of the commercial invoice 5.
The description of the terms of the sale, including: - price per tonne, - the applicable payment terms, - the applicable delivery terms, - total discounts and rebates. 8.
The name of the official of the company that has issued the commercial invoice and the following signed declaration: %quot%I, the undersigned, certify that the sale for direct export to the European Community of the goods covered by this invoice is being made within the scope and under the terms of the Undertaking offered by Kokan Synthetics %amp% Chemicals Pvt Ltd, 14 Guruprasad, Gokhale Road (N), Dadar (W), Mumbai 400 028, India, and accepted by the European Commission through Decision 2002/611/EC.
