Council Regulation (EC) No 2080/2001 of 23 October 2001 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of internal gear hubs for bicycles originating in Japan Council Regulation (EC) No 2080/2001 of 23 October 2001 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of internal gear hubs for bicycles originating in Japan THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EC) No 384/96 of 22 December 1995 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the European Community(1), and in particular Article 9 thereof, Having regard to the proposal submitted by the Commission after consulting the Advisory Committee, Whereas: A.
Reactions were also received from 137 parties, mainly bicycle producers, retailers, consumer and user associations. (8) The Commission sought and verified all the information deemed necessary for the purposes of a determination of dumping, injury and Community interest including the carrying out of verification visits at the premises of the following companies: A.
Exporting producer in Japan - Shimano Inc., Sakai, Japan; C.
With respect to the trends relevant for the injury assessment, data covering the period from 1 January 1996 to 30 June 2000 (%quot%the period considered%quot%) was analysed, whereas the period used for the findings on undercutting and underselling is the aforementioned IP. 3.
Provisional measures (11) Given the need to further examine certain aspects of injury, causation and Community interest, no provisional anti-dumping measures were imposed on IGH originating in Japan. 4.
Like product (22) The investigation has shown that the basic physical and technical characteristics of IGH produced and sold by the Community industry in the Community and IGH produced and sold on the domestic Japanese market, and of IGH imported into the Community from Japan are the same.
It was found that only four models passed this test. (27) For these four models, it was examined whether sufficient sales had been made in the ordinary course of trade in accordance with Article 2(4) of the basic Regulation. (28) It was established, for three of the four models, that the volume of domestic sales above unit cost represented more than 80 % of sales and that the weighted average unit price in Japan was higher than the weighted average unit cost.
Consequently, normal value for those three models was established on the basis of the weighted average price actually paid for all domestic sales of those models. (29) For the fourth model, the volume of domestic sales above unit cost represented less than 10 % of sales.
Export price (30) Approximately 40 % of export sales to the Community were made directly to independent customers and export prices for these were established on the basis of the prices actually paid or payable by these customers in accordance with Article 2(8) of the basic Regulation. (31) The remaining sales were made to related companies based in the Community.
Comparison (32) For the purposes of a fair comparison, due allowance, in the form of adjustments, was made for differences under Article 2(10) of the basic Regulation which affected price comparability.
COMMUNITY INDUSTRY 1.
Definition of the Community production (36) At the time of the lodging of the complaint and during the IP there were two operators producing the product concerned on the Community market: - the complainant, - another Community producer (%quot%the other Community producer%quot%) which accounted for less than 10 % of the total estimated Community production of IGH during the IP.
It was also found that this operator went into liquidation and ceased production shortly after the IP. (38) Based on the above, the production of the complainant and the other Community producer constitute the total Community production within the meaning of Article 4(1) of the basic Regulation. 2.
Definition of the Community industry (39) It was found that the complaining cooperating Community producer represented a major proportion of the total Community production of the product concerned, in this case more than 90 %.
Preliminary remark (40) Given that there is only one cooperating exporting producer and that the Community industry comprises only one company, specific data relating to these companies have been indexed in order to preserve the confidentiality of the data submitted in accordance with Article 19 of the basic Regulation. 2.
There were no imports originating in other third countries. (42) On this basis, it was found that consumption of IGH decreased by 5 % during the period considered.
While only decreasing by 4 % from 1996 to 1998, it went down by a further 8 % between 1998 and 1999.
Imports concerned (a) Volume of the imports concerned (43) Between 1996 and the IP the volume of imports concerned originating in the country concerned increased by a significant 23 %.
While these imports decreased by 14 % from 1996 to 1998, they increased by as much as 43 % in the period 1998-IP.
On a year-to-year basis, it emerged that despite the fall in consumption in 1999 (- 8 % compared to 1998), the imports concerned increased by 17 % in 1999 compared to 1998.
The Japanese exporting producer, while acknowledging that an adjustment was appropriate, claimed that this should be in the order of not more than 5 %, by reference to differences in cost of production. (50) In this respect, the investigation showed that more than 55 % of the 7-speed coaster brake hubs and 100 % of the 7-speed freewheel hubs sold by the exporting producer during the IP on the Community market were equipped with aluminum hub shells, whereas the Community industry exclusively sold comparable IGH with steel shells. (51) Based on evidence available, in particular a price list of the exporting producer, it was found that IGH equipped with aluminum hub shells were, during the IP, priced about 22 % higher than the same IGH with steel hub shells.
According to the transaction listing for the IP provided by the exporting producer, the prices effectively invoiced for the aluminum hubs were, however, only 11 % higher than the prices for the corresponding steel hubs. (52) On this basis, it was considered that there was an objective market value difference between an IGH equipped with an aluminum shell and a hub equipped with a steel one.
This difference was established at 11 % of the price of the aluminum hub. (53) In addition, both the Community industry and the exporting producer, respectively, claimed that further adjustments should be made, on the basis of alleged differences in the product types under consideration.
The following IGH sold on the Community market by the Community industry and the exporting producer were compared with each other on a type-by-type basis: - 3-speed coaster brake hubs, - 7-speed coaster brake hubs, - 3-speed freewheel hubs, - 7-speed freewheel hubs. (55) The sales prices considered for the exporting producer concerned were those at cif Community border level, including customs duties.
During the period 1996-1998, in parallel with its increased production, the Community industry managed to increase its Community sales by 8 %.
The slight increase in sales volume between 1999 and the IP (+ 4 %) did not allow the Community industry to recover the volume previously lost. (62) Although the Community industry's market share increased by 13 % between 1996 and 1998, it went back down to its 1996 level in the period 1998-IP.
This should be seen in the light of the decrease in consumption.
This situation coincided with a significant increase of 43 % in the volume of the imports concerned on the Community market in the same period. (63) It should be noted that the exporting producer claimed that the Community industry had been able to increase its market share at the expense of the other Community producer during the period considered.
Therefore, the decrease in average price is not due to any change in its product mix towards cheaper types of IGH. (65) Whilst price lists indicate that Japanese prices seem to have increased over the period considered, it should be noted that they were still undercutting the Community industry's prices on the Community market by around 7 % on average during the IP.
Between 1997 and the IP, after the take-over of the Community industry (formerly Mannesmann Sachs) by SRAM Deutschland GmbH, the Community industry restructured its activities, thus reducing its costs of production by almost 20 %.
Conclusion on injury (77) During the period considered the presence of imports originating in Japan significantly increased on the Community market and the main relevant injury indicators pertaining to the Community industry showed a negative development. (78) This development was particularly evident between 1998 and the IP when the volume of the imports concerned increased by 43 % while Community consumption decreased by 1 %.
This allowed the Japanese exporting producer to gain a significant additional share of the Community market (12 percentage points), mainly at the expense of the Community industry.
Despite restructuring efforts and cost reductions, profitability worsened and remained negative, and this in parallel with the sales price pressure faced by the Community industry on its domestic market. (80) In the light of the foregoing, in particular the decrease in sales price, profitability and market share experienced by the Community industry, in the period from 1998 to the IP in particular, it is concluded that the Community industry has suffered material injury within the meaning of Article 3(1) of the basic Regulation during the IP.
Introduction (81) In accordance with Article 3(6) and (7) of the basic Regulation, it was examined whether the dumped imports of IGH originating in Japan caused injury to the Community industry to a degree that enables it to be classified as material.
Effect of the dumped imports (82) During the period considered, the volume of dumped imports originating in Japan into the Community increased by 23 % and their market share rose by 39 %, a significant gain at the expense of producers in the Community. (83) The link between the injury suffered by the Community industry and the dumped imports is demonstrated in particular by the developments observed from 1998 until the end of the IP.
During this period, dumped imports originating in Japan increased by 43 % in terms of volume and the increase in the share of the Community market was as high as 44 %. (84) It has been found that the Community industry was subject to price pressure, as evidenced by the price undercutting practised by the Japanese exporting producer and the evolution of the prices of the Community industry, which were depressed to a considerable extent.
The above developments coincided with the significant declining trend of the main economic indicators pertaining to the Community industry from 1998 to the IP: its sales volume decreased by 13 %, and significant market share was lost.
The Community industry also lost around 9 % of market share.
During the same period, the exporting producer was able to increase its sales volume by 17 % and its market share by 30 %. (94) During the IP, by comparison to 1999, the Community industry increased its sales volume by 4 % but its market share dropped by 4 %.
Furthermore, the investigation did not show that the Community industry increased its export sales in 1998 or even in 1999 compared to previous years. (98) There are indications that relocation was also undertaken by customers of the Japanese exporting producer.
However, on the basis of the facts available, the other Community producer lost around 60 % of sales and around 60 % of its market share during the period considered, remaining with a market share of around 6 % during the IP.
It is therefore concluded that the other Community producer did not contribute to the injury suffered by the Community industry. 4.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
The adoption of anti-dumping measures would therefore be in the interest of the Community industry. 3.
They represent about 21 % of Community imports and 8 % of Community consumption.
All of them were exclusive distributors of the Japanese exporting producer. (107) As far as these eight cooperating importers are concerned, the IGH segment represented on average 2,4 % (varying between 0 % and 8 %) of their total turnover during the IP. (108) The likely average impact of the proposed anti-dumping duty on the importers' overall profitability was examined.
Interest of users (110) Users of the product under consideration are bicycle manufacturers and assemblers, as well as certain retailers in the Community.
Of the users contacted, 35 submitted a meaningful reply to the questionnaire.
These 35 users represented around 32 % of total IGH consumption in the Community.
Submissions were also received from associations of users in the Community. (111) It was found that these users actually achieve an average profit margin of around 3 % on their overall activities, and of around 11 % with respect to bicycles equipped with IGH. (112) During the IP, the sale of bicycles equipped with IGH (the latter being of either Japanese or Community origin) represented about 25 % of the users' total turnover. (113) In view of the limited proportion of bicycles equipped with IGH in their total activities, and bearing in mind the level of the measures proposed and the profitability situation of the cooperating users, it is concluded that the possible negative effects of the measures proposed on users cannot be considered such as to outweigh the expected benefits for the Community industry. 5.
PROPOSED MEASURES 1.
The result of this calculation was an injury margin of 11,3 %. 2.
Definitive anti-dumping duty (123) In the light of the foregoing, and in accordance with the lesser duty rule as set out in Article 9(4) of the basic Regulation, it is considered that a definitive anti-dumping duty should be set at the level of the injury margin. (124) As the sole known Japanese exporting producer accounts for substantially all exports to the Community originating in Japan, the residual duty is set at the same level. (125) On the basis of the above, the proposed definitive duty rate, expressed as a percentage of the net, free-at-Community-frontier price, before duty, is as follows: %gt%TABLE%gt% HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: Article 1 1.
A definitive anti-dumping duty is hereby imposed on imports of internal gear hubs of a bicycle wheel with an integrated gear system with three or more gears, regardless of whether or not a braking system is integrated in the hub, attached to the hub or mounted on another part of the bicycle, currently classifiable within CN code ex 8714 99 90, (TARIC code: 8714 99 90*91 ) and originating in Japan.
The duty also applies to coaster braking hubs and hub brakes falling under CN code ex 8714 94 10 and hubs without free-wheel of braking device, other than coaster braking hubs and hub brakes falling under CN code ex 8714 93 10, both combined with an integrated gear system with three or more gears (TARIC codes: 8714 94 10*10, 8714 93 10*10 ) originating in the same country. 2.
Done at Luxembourg, 23 October 2001.
