PROCEDURE (1) By letter dated 12 February 1999 (D/50716), the Commission asked the United Kingdom to provide information on a number of tax measures, including the Gibraltar qualifying companies regime.
The United Kingdom replied by letter dated 22 July 1999.
The Commission requested further information on 23 May 2000 and a reminder was sent on 28 June 2000.
By letter dated 12 September 2000, the United Kingdom submitted information on the Exempt Companies regime (A/37430).
A meeting was held with the United Kingdom and Gibraltar authorities on 19 October 2000 to discuss Gibraltar's offshore tax schemes, the Qualifying Companies regime and the Exempt Companies regime.
Further information in response to questions raised at that meeting were submitted by the United Kingdom on 8 January 2001 (A/30254). (2) By letter dated 11 July 2001 (D/289757), the Commission informed the United Kingdom that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 88(2) of the EC Treaty in respect of the Gibraltar Qualifying Companies regime.
Following an extension of the one month deadline, the United Kingdom replied by letter dated 21 September 2001 (A/37407). (3) By application lodged at the Registry of the Court of First Instance of the European Communities on 7 September 2001, the Government of Gibraltar brought an action for annulment of Decision SG(2001) D/289755 initiating the formal investigation procedure into the Gibraltar Qualifying Companies regime; the action was registered as Case T-207/01.
By Order dated 19 December 2001, the President of the Court of First Instance dismissed the application for interim measures [2].
In its judgment of 30 April 2002, the Court of First Instance dismissed the application for annulment of the Decision [3]. (4) On 21 November 2001, the Commission requested information on the tax rate applicable to Qualifying Companies.
In the absence of a reply, the Commission issued a formal reminder on 21 March 2002 (D/51275).
The United Kingdom replied on 10 April 2002 (A/32681).
The United Kingdom replied on 11 November 2002 (A/38454) and added additional remarks by letter dated 13 December 2002 (A/39209). (5) The Commission Decision to initiate the formal investigation procedure was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, inviting interested parties to submit their observations [4].
By letters dated 27 February 2002 (A/31518) and 28 February 2002 (A/31557), comments were received respectively from Charles A.
DESCRIPTION OF THE MEASURE (6) The definition of a Qualifying Company is set out in Gibraltar's Income Tax (Amendment) Ordinance of 14 July 1983.
Once issued the Certificate is valid for 25 years. (9) A Qualifying Company is liable to taxation on its profits at a rate which is always lower than the normal corporate tax rate, which currently stands at 35 %.
The rate of tax applied is negotiated between the company concerned and the Finance Centre Division, part of the Gibraltar Government's Department of Trade, Industry and Telecommunications.
The Commission also considered that none of the derogations on the general prohibition on State aid provided for in Articles 87(2) and 87(3) of the Treaty applied.
COMMENTS FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF GIBRALTAR (13) The Government of Gibraltar makes comments under four headings: - the Qualify Companies legislation does not constitute aid within the meaning of Article 87 of the Treaty, - if the Qualifying Companies legislation constitutes aid, it is existing aid and not new, illegal aid, - if the Qualifying Companies legislation constitutes aid, it is compatible with the common market by virtue of the exemption provided for in Article 87(3)(b) of the Treaty, - if the Qualifying Companies legislation constitutes illegal and incompatible aid, an order for the recovery of the aid would be contrary to general principles of Community law. (14) These comments can be summarised as follows.
The Qualifying Companies legislation does not constitute aid (15) Article 87(1) of the Treaty is not applicable to tax schemes, such as the Qualifying Company legislation, which are designed to operate in an international context.
The Gibraltar Government accepts that Qualifying Company status is not available to companies which trade in Gibraltar or in which Gibraltarians or Gibraltar residents have a beneficial interest.
Trade between Member States cannot be affected in such circumstances. (20) The reasoning used in Commission Decision 2000/394/EC of 25 November 1999 on aid to firms in Venice and Chioggia by way of relief from social security contributions under Laws No 30/1997 and No 206/1995 [8], to find that the advantage granted to certain firms did not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty applies to Qualifying Companies established for tax planning purposes and to those trading in goods. (21) A large number of companies enjoying Qualifying status would benefit from the currently applicable de minimis rules.
The legislation predates by 10 years the liberalisation of capital movements and by 15 years the clarification of the concept of State aid made by the Commission in its Notice on the application of the State aid rules to measures relating to direct business taxation [9] (hereinafter the Notice).
The Commission would have taken a more equitable approach if it had considered the qualifying company legislation either under the Code of Conduct for Business Taxation, under Articles 96 and 97 of the Treaty or under the procedure applicable to existing aid. (27) Last, the Commission has infringed the principles of legal certainty and legitimate expectations by waiting 18 years before challenging the Qualifying Companies legislation and by not carrying out its investigation into the legislation within a reasonable time.
By analogy with the Defrenne case [12], this prolonged failure by the Commission to act gave rise to legitimate expectations on the part of Gibraltar. (28) The Commission's investigations should be subject to a limitation period.
Thus, pursuant to Article 15 of Regulation (EC) No 659/1999, any individual aid granted under an aid scheme 10 years before the Commission takes action must be deemed to be existing aid.
The preliminary investigation began on 12 February 1999, but the formal investigation procedure was not initiated until two and a half years later.
Compatibility by virtue of Article 87(3)(b) of the Treaty (29) Article 87(3)(b) of the Treaty provides that aid to remedy a serious disturbance in the economy of a Member State may be considered to be compatible with the common market.
The Dockyard was Gibraltar's main source of employment and income, accounting for 25 % of employment and 35 % of gross domestic product (GDP).
Consequently, disturbances which affect one economy do not generally affect the other, as is the case with the bovine spongiform encephalopathy crisis, a disturbance which affected the United Kingdom economy but not Gibraltar, treated as an exceptional occurrence within the meaning of Article 87(2)(b) of the Treaty.
An order for the recovery of the aid would be contrary to general principles of Community law (31) Essentially similar reasoning to that summarised in recitals 22 to 28 on the question of existing aid can be used to argue in favour of the principle of legitimate expectations in the context of recovery.
In particular, at all times, both the Government of Gibraltar and the beneficiaries have acted in good faith. (32) Paragraph 26 of the Decision opening the formal investigation procedure [14] included a specific request for comments on possible legitimate expectations that would pose an obstacle to the recovery of aid.
In his Order of 19 December 2001, the President of the Court of First Instance observed that this unusual request might convince companies not to leave Gibraltar and must, at first sight, allay to a considerable extent any concerns that beneficiaries might have [15].
Gibraltar is a small territory with limited administrative resources, only around 2000 companies are assessed for taxation in any given year.
Financial services account for approximately 30 % of Gibraltar's GDP and the employment directly related to Qualifying Companies is estimated at 1400 (out of a total workforce of around 14000).
A recovery order would lead to the winding-up, bankruptcy or exodus of the Qualifying Companies, a destabilisation of the financial services sector and a major unemployment crisis, in turn causing political, social and economic instability. (38) A large number of Qualifying Companies would not be assessable to Gibraltar taxation as their income is not derived from, accrued or received in Gibraltar.
COMMENTS FROM CHARLES A.
GOMEZ %amp% CO. (40) The comments from Charles A.
Some 130 legal practitioners employ several hundred more staff and make a substantial contribution indirectly to employment in Gibraltar and Spain. (42) The recourse to Article 87(3)(a) of the Treaty cannot be restricted to areas where the standard of living is already low or where there is already serious unemployment.
Recovery of aid (45) If the Qualifying Companies legislation is found to be illegal aid incompatible with the common market, there is a general principle of Community law, legitimate expectations, which precludes any order for recovery of aid already paid.
Although legitimate expectations arise in only exceptional circumstances where a recipient could legitimately have assumed that the aid was lawful [16], such circumstances exist in this case and it would be inappropriate and unlawful for the Commission to make an order for recovery. (46) This procedure under Article 88(2) of the Treaty flows from the adoption of the Code of Conduct for Business Taxation in 1997 in which the Commission committed itself to the strict application of the State aid rules to measures relating to direct business taxation.
It is implicit in that statement that in the past, the State aid rules had not been so strictly applied to fiscal regimes of the type addressed in the Code of Conduct for Business Taxation. (47) It is highly unlikely that in 1984, any consideration was given by either the Government of Gibraltar or the United Kingdom Government to the possibility that the rules in question were in breach of the United Kingdom's State aid obligations.
While it was clear at that time that a highly specific or sectoral tax advantage was capable of being State aid, the application of the State aid rules to more general company tax schemes, such as the Qualifying Companies regime, had been the subject of neither serious academic comment nor pronouncement by the Commission.
They would have made business plans and altered their economic positions on the basis of the Qualifying Companies legislation and were entitled to assume that the tax benefits were lawful. (48) Point 26 of the Notice specifically mentions circumstances where non-resident companies are treated more favourably than resident ones.
If a tax measure is general within the relevant tax jurisdiction, it cannot be caught by Article 87(1) of the Treaty.
Government of Gibraltar's comments (50) The United Kingdom supports the Government of Gibraltar's contention that the Qualifying Companies legislation should be treated as existing aid in accordance with Article 1(b)(v) of Regulation (EC) No 659/1999.
It is far from clear that the Gibraltar measures were capable of distorting competition and affecting trade between Member States at that time. (52) At that time, the Commission itself addressed cases of differential tax treatment where possible, using Article 95 of the Treaty (now Article 90), rather than relying on the State aid rules.
It is not possible to sustain an argument that measures such as the Gibraltar Qualifying Companies legislation were capable of being State aid until after the publication of the Notice on 10 December 1998. (53) On the question of recovery, the United Kingdom in particular endorses the Government of Gibraltar's arguments that the Commission's commitment systematically to apply the State aid rules to direct taxation measures is novel and that any aid would be impossible to recover.
Recovery would place a disproportionate burden on the Gibraltar authorities, many Qualifying Companies would not have a corporation tax liability in Gibraltar, it would be impossible to assess and/or recover the aid in a large number of cases and many beneficiaries would be in receipt of de minimis aid.
ASSESSMENT OF THE AID MEASURE (54) After having considered the observations of the United Kingdom authorities as well as those of the Government of Gibraltar and Charles A.
Gomez %amp% Co., the Commission maintains its position, expressed in its decision of 11 July 2001 [17] to the United Kingdom authorities initiating the procedure under Article 88(2) of the Treaty, that the scheme under examination constitutes unlawful, operating State aid, within the scope of Article 87(1) of the Treaty.
Existence of aid (55) In order to be considered State aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty, a measure must fulfil the four following criteria. (56) First, the measure must afford the beneficiaries an advantage that reduces the costs they normally bear in the course of their business.
According to point 9 of the Notice, the tax advantage may be granted through different types of reduction in the company's burden and, in particular, through a reduction in the amount of tax.
Rather than be subject to income tax at the standard Gibraltar corporate rate of 35 %, Qualifying Companies negotiate their rate of tax with the Gibraltar authorities as described in recital (9) above. (57) The observation that Qualifying Companies legislation is a tax scheme designed to operate in an international context is not relevant to its qualification as a State aid measure.
Consequently, Qualifying Companies benefit from a special and more beneficial tax treatment in Gibraltar, when compared with other companies registered in Gibraltar. (58) Second, the advantage must be granted by the State or through State resources.
The grant of a tax reduction, such as that negotiated between a Qualifying Company and the Gibraltar authorities, involves a loss of tax revenue which, according to point 10 of the Notice, is equivalent to the use of State resources in the form of fiscal expenditure. (59) The Government of Gibraltar's argument that, through ring-fencing, the measure places no apparent burden on its budget, must be rejected.
This difference in tax rate represents the tax revenue foregone. (60) Third, the measure must affect competition and trade between Member States.
However, this does not affect the application of the State aid rules to those undertakings in Gibraltar engaged in trade in goods.
Therefore, to the extent that the tax advantage granted to Qualifying Companies engaged in trade in goods strengthens their position, trade and competition is affected. (63) The parallels drawn with the Commission's reasoning in Decision 2000/394/EC in respect of aid to firms in Venice and Chiogga must also be rejected.
The circumstances of the two cases are quite different.
In addition, Qualifying Companies may not in normal circumstances trade or carry on business in Gibraltar with Gibraltarians or residents of Gibraltar.
It is therefore not necessary to examine in this case the question of regional selectivity which is assessed in detail in the Commission decision of 30 March 2004 on the Gibraltar Government Corporation Tax Reform [19].
Existing aid or illegal aid (68) This question has been considered by the Court of First Instance, which rejected the Government of Gibraltar's arguments against the Commission's provisional assessment of illegal aid in respect of the Qualifying Companies regime [20].
In any event, the application of a Treaty provision for the first time to a particular situation does not constitute the retroactive application of a new rule. (70) The Qualifying Companies legislation was not notified to the Commission in accordance with Article 88(3) of the Treaty.
The Court rejected these arguments against the Commission's provisional classification of the Qualifying Companies legislation and concluded that such "general arguments are not capable of establishing that the 1983 tax scheme must, owing to its intrinsic characteristics, be classified as an existing aid scheme" [23].
In the Piaggio case [26], the Court ruled that the Commission's classification of the scheme at issue as an existing aid, for reasons of practical expediency, when that scheme had not been notified in accordance with Article 88(3) of the Treaty, could not be accepted.
Accordingly, as confirmed by the Court of First Instance [27], the classification of a measure as new or existing aid must be determined without reference to the time which has elapsed since the measure was enacted and independently of any previous administrative practice, regardless of any alleged economic consequences.
Similarly, the limitation period in Article 15 of Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 does not set out a general principle under which illegal aid is transformed into existing aid but merely precludes recovery of aid established more than 10 years before the Commission's first intervention. (75) The Commission notes that the procedure under Articles 96 and 97 of the Treaty concerns differences between general provisions of Member States [28].
Compatibility (76) Insofar as the Qualifying Companies regime constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty, its compatibility with the common market must be evaluated in the light of the derogations provided for in Articles 87(2) and 87(3). (77) The derogations provided for in Article 87(2) of the Treaty, which concern aid of a social character granted to individual consumers, aid to make good the damage caused by natural disasters or exceptional occurrences and aid granted to certain areas of the Federal Republic of Germany, do not apply in this case. (78) In particular, the closure of the Naval Dockyard cannot be considered to be an exceptional occurrence within the meaning of Article 87(2)(b) of the Treaty.
The United Kingdom authorities announced the closure of the Dockyard in 1981, three years before it closed in 1984. (79) The derogation provided for in Article 87(3)(a) provides for the authorisation of aid to promote the economic development of areas where the standard of living is abnormally low or where there is serious underemployment.
Point 3.5 of the Commission's Guidelines on national regional aid [29] establishes the methodology to be used in demarcating areas to be considered eligible to benefit from the derogation in Article 87(3)(a) of the Treaty.
Contrary to the assertion of Charles A.
Gomez %amp% Co., this provision cannot be used prospectively and applies only to areas where conditions of a low standard of living or serious underemployment already exist.
Article 87(3)(a) cannot be used to palliate uncertain and unquantifiable future effects which can themselves be prevented or attenuated by the national authorities through the use of other policy instruments. (80) The Qualifying Companies regime cannot be considered either to be a project of common European interest or to remedy a serious disturbance in the economy of a Member State, as referred to in Article 87(3)(b) of the Treaty.
As the Government of Gibraltar has observed, the Commission and the Court of Justice interpret Article 87(3)(b) strictly as meaning that a serious disturbance must affect the whole economy of a Member State [31].
None of these areas is treated as a Member State in its own right for the purposes of Article 87(3)(b).
There is no requirement that, for Article 87(2)(b) to apply, the exceptional occurrence must affect the whole of a Member State concerned. (81) The Qualifying Companies regime does not have as its object the promotion of culture and heritage conservation as provided for by Article 87(3)(d) of the Treaty. (82) Finally, the Qualifying Companies regime must be examined in the light of Article 87(3)(c) of the Treaty, which provides for the authorisation of aid to facilitate the development of certain economic activities or of certain economic areas, where such aid does not adversely affect trading conditions to an extent that is contrary to the common interest.
However, Article 14(1) of Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 provides that "the Commission shall not require the recovery of the aid if this would be contrary to a general principle of Community law". (84) The Government of Gibraltar's arguments to the effect that legitimate expectations have been created by the uncertainty of the scope of the State aid rules and the rarity or novelty of Commission action against tax measures, whether offshore in nature or not, must be rejected.
In any event, contrary to what the United Kingdom suggests, the differential tax treatment between resident and non-resident companies has played an important part in previous Commission State aid decisions [36]. (85) The notification of the Qualifying Companies legislation to the Primarolo group, far from creating legitimate expectations, placed the measure clearly within the scope of the Commission's commitment, mentioned in paragraph J of the Code of Conduct for Business Taxation, to examine or re-examine Member States’ existing tax arrangements, with all the consequences that State aid investigations bring. (86) As for the evolution of the common market and liberalisation of capital movements and financial services, the Government of Gibraltar has provided only general arguments insufficient to establish the existence of legitimate expectations.
In particular, through its prolonged failure to take infringement action against certain Member States, despite its own investigations into the infringements concerned and repeated warnings that it would initiate action, the Commission led Member States to consolidate their belief as to the effect of Article 119 of the Treaty (now Article 141).
In contrast, the Commission's attention had not been repeatedly drawn to the Qualifying Companies regime and it was only on the adoption of the Code of Conduct for Business Taxation that the Commission started a systematic examination of Member States’ tax arrangements. (88) Similarly, the alleged delays in the preliminary investigation cannot create legitimate expectations.
The Commission also took the view that in the interests of equality of treatment, it would be better to initiate proceedings on a number of measures concerning a wide range of Member States at the same time, rather than to adopt a piecemeal approach. (91) As for the claim that there should be a limitation period, such a period does in fact exist and is provided for in Article 15 of Regulation (EC) No 659/1999.
It precludes recovery of aid established more than 10 years before the Commission's first intervention, in this case, 10 years before the Commission's letter of 12 February 1999. (92) The Commission notes the Government of Gibraltar's comments on the significance of the Commission's specific request for observations on the recovery of aid.
As for the suggestion that the powers of investigation of Gibraltar Tax Department are limited, the Court of Justice has ruled that national provisions cannot be invoked in such a way as to render recovery impossible [39]. (96) Arguments similar to those in recital 37 on the consequences of recovery for the Gibraltar economy were used by the Government of Gibraltar in an attempt to prevent publication of the decision to open the formal investigation procedure [40].
However, since the Government of Gibraltar made its observations, the threat of recovery has diminished to the extent that following the annulment of the Commission's decision initiating the formal State aid investigation procedure [41], the original 1967 Exempt Companies legislation is now under investigation as an existing aid scheme.
In this context, the Commission notes that the benefits of Qualifying Company status are not limited to de minimis aid, nor are they limited to enterprises that are assessable to taxation in Gibraltar or that have no assets within the jurisdiction of the Gibraltar authorities. (98) The Commission makes no observation on the good faith, or otherwise, of the Gibraltar authorities.
However, it follows from the rulings of the Court of Justice [42] that, when an existing aid measure is altered, in order for the measure to become new aid by virtue of the modification or for the modification itself to be new aid, the alteration must widen the scope of the measure and/or increase the advantage available. (99) In the present case, the Commission notes the ruling by the Court of First Instance that Gibraltar's 1967 Exempt Companies legislation must be considered to be an existing aid measure [43].
The legislation provides for a minimum tax rate of 0 % for a Qualifying Company, whilst Exempt Companies pay a fixed annual tax of between GBP 225 and 300. (100) The Court of Justice has consistently ruled that where a diligent businessman could have foreseen the adoption of a Community measure likely to affect his interests, he cannot rely on the principle of protection of legitimate expectations if the measure is adopted [44].
The differences between the two schemes, rather than being inherent in their design, reflect the practice of the Gibraltar authorities to require those offshore companies with a physical presence in Gibraltar to pay tax, albeit at a low level.
CONCLUSIONS (101) It is concluded that the Gibraltar Qualifying Companies regime constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 87(1) of the Treaty and that none of the derogations provided for in Article 87(2) or Article 87(3) apply.
It is also concluded that the United Kingdom has unlawfully implemented the scheme in question, in breach of Article 88(3) of the Treaty.
However, beneficiaries of the scheme were entitled to entertain a legitimate expectation that the legality of the scheme was not in doubt.
Article 4 This Decision is addressed to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Done at Brussels, 30 March 2004.
