The prepackages which may bear the EEC sign specified in section 3.3 of Annex I are those which comply with this Directive and with Annex I thereto. 2.
All prepackages referred to in Article 3 must, in accordance with Annex I, bear an indication of the weight or volume of the product, known as %quot%nominal weight%quot% or %quot%nominal volume%quot%, which they are required to contain. 2.
Article 8 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
no prepackage having a negative error greater than twice the tolerable negative error given in the table in 2.4 may bear the EEC sign provided for in 3.3. 2.
In all operations for checking quantities of products expressed in units of volume, the value employed for the actual contents shall be measured at or corrected to a temperature of 20 ยบC, whatever the temperature at which packaging or checking is carried out.
the nominal quantity (nominal weight or nominal volume), expressed in kilogrammes, grammes, litres, centilitres or millilitres, and marked in figures at least 6 mm high if the nominal quantity exceeds 1 000 g or 100 cl ; 4 mm high if it is from 1 000 g or 100 cl inclusive down to but not including 200 g or 20 cl, and 3 mm high if it is not more than 200 g or 20 cl, followed by the symbol for the unit of measurement used or where appropriate by the name of the unit in accordance with Directive 71/354/EEC; markings in imperial units (UK) shall be in letters and figures of dimensions not larger than those of the corresponding markings in SI units; 3.2.
a small %quot%e%quot%, at least 3 mm high, placed in the same field of vision as the indication of the nominal weight or nominal volume, constituting a guarantee by the packer or the importer that the prepackage meets the requirements of this Directive.
This letter shall have the form shown in the drawing contained in section 3 of Annex II to Directive 71/316/EEC.
ANNEX II This Annex lays down the procedures of the reference method for statistical checking of batches of prepackages in order to meet the requirements of Article 3 of the Directive and of section 5, Annex I thereto.
The sampling level corresponds to level II of that standard in respect of non-destructive tests and to level S 3 in respect of destructive tests. 1.
Irrespective of the method used, the error made in measuring the actual contents of a prepackage shall not exceed one fifth of the tolerable negative error for the nominal quantity in the prepackage.
For batches of fewer than 100 prepackages, the non-destructive test, where carried out, shall be 100 %. 2.1.4.
