Provisions laid down on the use of emission reduction units and certified emission reductions held in the Community's registry should take into account Member States' responsibilities to fulfil their own commitments in accordance with Decision 2002/358/EC. (13) The Community and its Member States have made use of Article 4 of the Kyoto Protocol, which allows Parties to the Protocol to meet their emission limitation and reduction commitments jointly.
Article 2 National and Community programmes 1.
Article 3 Reporting by Member States 1.
Member States shall communicate to the Commission, by 15 March each year (year X), their complete national inventory report. 2.
Article 4 Community inventory system 1.
The Commission shall, in cooperation with the Member States, annually compile a Community greenhouse gas inventory and a Community greenhouse gas inventory report, circulate these in draft to the Member States by 28 February, and publish and submit them to the UNFCCC Secretariat by 15 April each year.
Member States shall, as early as possible and in any case by 31 December 2005 at the latest, establish national inventory systems under the Kyoto Protocol for the estimation of anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases by sources and removals of carbon dioxide by sinks.
Article 5 Evaluation of progress and reporting 1.
This report shall contain sections on actual and projected emissions by sources and removals by sinks, policies and measures and on the use of mechanisms pursuant to Articles 6, 12 and 17 of the Kyoto Protocol. 3.
Each Member State shall prepare a report on the demonstration of progress achieved by 2005 by that Member State, taking into account information submitted in accordance with the implementing provisions adopted pursuant to Article 3(3), and submit this to the UNFCCC Secretariat by 1 January 2006 at the latest. 5.
The Community and each Member State shall submit a report to the UNFCCC Secretariat on the additional period set in the Marrakech Accords for fulfilling commitments upon the expiry of that period. 6.
Article 6 National registries 1.
Article 7 Assigned amount 1.
Article 8 Procedures under the Kyoto Protocol 1.
Member States shall submit national inventories to the UNFCCC Secretariat by 15 April each year containing information identical to that submitted in accordance with Article 3(1), unless information removing any inconsistencies or gaps has been provided to the Commission by 15 March of that year at the latest. 3.
Article 9 Committee 1.
Article 11 Repeal Decision 93/389/EEC is hereby repealed.
Article 12 Addressees This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Strasbourg, 11 February 2004.
Cox For the Council The President M.
