After bottling, the total colony count at source may not exceed 100 per millilitre at 20 to 22 ºC in 72 hours on agar-agar or an agar-gelatine mixture and 20 per millilitre at 37 ºC in 24 hours on agar-agar.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 1 and 2 and the conditions of exploitation laid down in Annex II, at the marketing stage: - the revivable total colony count of a natural mineral water may only be that resulting from the normal increase in the bacteria content which it had at source, - the natural mineral water may not contain any organoleptic defects.
Article 6 Any containers used for packaging natural mineral waters shall be fitted with closures designed to avoid any possibility of adulteration or contamination.
They may also authorize the inclusion of other indications, provided that the latter do not conflict with the principles stated in (a) and are compatible with those stated in (b). 3.
Article 11 The sampling procedures and the methods of analysis necessary for checking the microbiological characteristics referred to in Article 5 and the compositional characteristics referred to in 1.2 of Annex I, Section II, shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 12.
Article 13 Article 12 shall apply for a period of 18 months from the date on which the matter was first referred to the Committee under Article 12 (1).
Article 14 This Directive shall not apply to natural mineral waters intended for export to third countries.
Article 15 Member States shall make such amendments to their laws as may be necessary to comply with this Directive and shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof ; the laws thus amended shall be applied in such a way as to: - permit trade in products complying with this Directive not later than two years after its notification, - prohibit trade in products not complying with this Directive four years after its notification.
Article 16 This Directive shall also apply to the overseas departments of the French Republic.
Article 17 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
This is the case in particular when the water in question contains, per kg, both at source and after bottling, a minimum of 1 000 mg of total solids in solution or a minimum of 250 mg of free carbon dioxide. 3.
Within the meaning of Article 5 (1), the normal viable colony count of natural mineral water means the reasonably constant total colony count at source before any treatment, whose qualitative and quantitative composition taken into account in the recognition of that water is checked by periodic analysis.
the dry residues at 180 ºC and 260 ºC; 1.2.5.
quantitative determination of the revivable colony count indicative of faecal contamination: (a) absence of Escherichia coli and other coliforms in 250 ml at 37 ºC and 44 75 ºC; (b) absence of faecal streptococci in 250 ml; (c) absence of sporulated sulphite-reducing anaerobes in 50 ml; (d) absence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in 250 ml. 1.3.3.
determination of the revivable total colony count per ml of water: (i) at 20 to 22 ºC in 72 hours on agar-agar or an agar-gelatine mixture, (ii) at 37 ºC in 24 hours on agar-agar. 1.4.
