Council Recommendation of 12 July 2005 on the broad guidelines for the economic policies of the Member States and the Community (2005 to 2008) Council Recommendation of 12 July 2005 on the broad guidelines for the economic policies of the Member States and the Community (2005 to 2008) (2005/601/EC) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular to Article 99(2) thereof, Having regard to the recommendation from the Commission, Having regard to the discussion by the European Council on 16 and 17 June 2005, HEREBY RECOMMENDS: INTRODUCTION The European Council of March 2005 relaunched the Lisbon strategy by refocusing on growth and employment in Europe [1].
Europe must focus its policies further on growth and employment to achieve the Lisbon goals, against a sound macroeconomic policy background and within a framework aimed at social cohesion and environmental sustainability, which are vital pillars of the Lisbon strategy.
Section B focuses on the measures and policies that the Member States should carry out in order to boost knowledge and innovation for growth and to make Europe a more attractive place to invest and work.
The return to potential growth rates in the EU therefore depends, to a large extent, on increasing confidence among businesses and consumers, as well as on favourable global economic developments, including oil prices and exchange rates.
Against this background, it is important that economic policies inspire confidence and thereby help to create conditions for stronger domestic demand and job creation on the short term, and that structural reforms contribute to an expansion of growth potential in the medium term.
Unemployment rates are projected to decrease, albeit slowly, to 8,7 % in 2006.
The estimated overall employment rate is 63,0 % for EU-25 in 2003, which is significantly below the agreed target level of 70 %.
Progress towards the female employment rate target of 60 % has been slow, with the rate now standing at 55,1 % for EU-25, but is expected to pick up again.
Efforts made by the Member States allowed the employment rate to increase from 61,9 % in 1999 to 63,0 % in 2003.
This should help to maintain favourable long-term interest rates and to contribute to reasonable exchange rate developments.
Monetary policies can contribute by pursuing price stability and, without prejudice to this objective, by supporting other general economic policies with regard to growth and employment.
Exchange rate regimes constitute an important part of the overall economic and monetary policy framework and should be orientated towards achieving real and sustainable nominal convergence.
For the remaining Member States, it is vital to take all the necessary corrective measures to achieve their medium-term budgetary objectives in particular if economic conditions improve, thus avoiding pro-cyclical policies and putting themselves in a position in which sufficient room for the full play of automatic stabilisers over the cycle is ensured prior to the next economic downturn.
In line with the Ecofin report "Improving the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact" endorsed by the European Council ( 22 and 23 March 2005), for individual Member States the medium-term budgetary objective should be differentiated according to the diversity of economic and budgetary positions and developments as well as of fiscal risk to the sustainability of public finances, also in the face of prospective demographic changes.
According to the latest projections, by 2050 the EU’s population of working age (15 to 64) will be 18 % lower than in 2000 and the number of people aged over 65 years will have increased by 60 %.
In line with this strategy, it is also essential to modernise social protection systems so as to ensure that they are financially viable, providing incentives to the working age population to actively participate in the labour market, while at the same time ensuring that they fulfil their goals in terms of access and adequacy.
This can be achieved by redirecting expenditure towards growth-enhancing categories such as Research and Development (R %amp% D), physical infrastructure, environmentally friendly technologies, human capital and knowledge.
To promote a growth- and employment-orientated and efficient allocation of resources, Member States should, without prejudice to guidelines on economic stability and sustainability, redirect the composition of public expenditure towards growth-enhancing categories in line with the Lisbon strategy, adapt tax structures to strengthen growth potential, ensure that mechanisms are in place to assess the relationship between public spending and the achievement of policy objectives and ensure the overall coherence of reform packages.
See also integrated guideline "To encourage the sustainable use of resources and strengthen the synergies between environmental protection and growth" (No 11).
Ensure that wage developments contribute to growth and stability and complement structural reforms Wage developments can contribute to stable macroeconomic conditions and an employment-friendly policy mix provided that real wage increases are in line with the underlying rate of productivity growth over the medium term and are consistent with a rate of profitability that allows for productivity, capacity and employment-enhancing investment.
To ensure that wage developments contribute to macroeconomic stability and growth and to increase adaptability Member States should encourage the right framework conditions for wage-bargaining systems, while fully respecting the role of the social partners, with a view to promote nominal wage and labour cost developments consistent with price stability and the trend in productivity over the medium term, taking into account differences across skills and local labour market conditions.
See also integrated guideline "Ensure employment-friendly labour cost developments and wage-setting mechanisms" (No 22).
Structural reforms, consistent with sound fiscal positions in the short and medium term, are essential to increase productivity and employment in the medium term, thus leading to the full realisation and strengthening of growth potential.
To promote greater coherence between macroeconomic, structural and employment policies, Member States should pursue labour and product markets reforms that at the same time increases the growth potential and support the macroeconomic framework by increasing flexibility, factor mobility and adjustment capacity in labour and product markets in response to globalisation, technological advances, demand shift, and cyclical changes.
In its last spring forecast, the Commission revised downwards its prevision for 2005 at a 1,6 % growth in the euro zone.
Muted private consumption seems to be rooted in continuing concerns regarding in particular employment prospects (with unemployment continuing to be around 9 %) as well as income prospects in the medium term.
To contribute to international economic stability and better represent its economic interests, it is critical for the euro area to play its full role in international monetary and economic policy cooperation.
Whilst a stable Eurogroup Presidency will help to coordinate euro area members’ positions, the external representation of the euro area has to be improved, on the basis of the framework of the Vienna agreement of 11 and 12 December 1998, so that the euro area can take a leading strategic role in the development of the global economic system.
ensure that the euro area’s influence in the global economic system is commensurate with its economic weight.
Increase and improve investment in R %amp% D, with a view to establishing the European Knowledge Area R %amp% D affects economic growth through various channels: first, it can contribute to the creation of new markets or production processes; second, it can lead to incremental improvements in already existing products and production processes; and third, it increases the capacity of a country to absorb new technologies.
The EU is currently spending around 2 % of GDP on R %amp% D (although ranging from below 0,5 % to above 4 % of GDP across Member States), barely up from the level at the time of the launch of the Lisbon strategy.
Moreover, only around 55 % of research spending in the EU is financed by the business sector.
Public research expenditure must be made more effective and the links between public research and the private sector have to be improved.
Technology diffusion, and policies to better integrate national innovation and education systems, can be fostered by the development of innovation poles and networks as well as by innovation support services targeted at SMEs.
A market of electronic communication open and competitive is also important in this regard.
In order to enhance and sustain economic and technological leadership, Europe must increase its capacity to develop and market new technologies, including ICT.
Extend and deepen the internal market Whilst the internal market for goods is relatively well integrated, services markets remain, legally or de facto, rather fragmented and labour mobility remains low in Europe.
promote a fully operational internal market of services, while preserving the European social model, and 6.
A further opening up of European markets to competition can be achieved by a reduction in the general level of remaining State aid.
full implementation of the agreed measures to open up the network industries to competition in order to ensure effective competition in European wide integrated markets.
The quality of the European and national regulatory environments is a matter of joint commitment and shared responsibility at both the EU and Member State level.
Member States should establish systems for simplification of existing regulation.
Member States should also ensure that appropriate alternatives to regulation are given full consideration.
Done at Brussels, 12 July 2005.
Brown [1] Conclusions of the European Council of March 2005 (http://ue.eu.int/cms3_fo/showPage.asp?lang=en%amp%id=432%amp%mode=g%amp%name). [2] In implementing the policy guidelines set out below, Member States should note that the country-specific recommendations issued in the context of the Council Recommendation of 26 June 2003 on the broad guidelines of the economic policies of the Member States and the Community (for the 2003 to 2005) period as completed and updated in the context of the Council Recommendation of 5 July 2004 on the 2004 update of these guidelines, remain valid as background references. --------------------------------------------------
