Without prejudice to paragraphs 3 and 4, the sucrose content plus, where applicable, the content of other sugars expressed as sucrose shall be the total sugar content resulting from application of the Lane and Eynon method (copper reduction method) to the inverted solution in accordance with Clerger-Herzfeld.
The total sugar content determined in accordance with that method shall be converted into sucrose by multiplying it by a coefficient of 0,95. 3.
In the case of syrups of a purity of not less than 85 % but less than 94,5 %, the sucrose content plus, where applicable, the content of other sugars expressed as sucrose shall be fixed at a flat rate of 73 % by weight in the dry state.
The total sugar content shall be determined in accordance with the method referred to in paragraph 2 and the dry matter content in accordance with the areometric method. 4.
The basic amount referred to in paragraph 1 shall not apply to syrups with a purity of less than 85 %.
Article 5 Export refunds may only be granted on the products listed in Article 1 (1) (f) and (g) of Regulation (EEC) No 1785/81 where the products: - are obtained by isomerization of glucose, - have a fructose content by weight in the dry state of not less than 41 %, and - have a total content by weight in the dry state of polysaccharides and oligosaccharides, including di- and trisaccharides, of not more than 8,5 %.
Article 6 Export refunds may only be granted on the products listed in Article 1 (1) (h) of Regulation (EEC) No 1785/81 where the products: - are obtained immediately after hydrolysis of inulin or oligofructose, - have a fructose content by weight in the dry state of at least 80 %, and - have a total content by weight in the dry state of polysaccharides and oligosaccharides, including di- and trisaccharides, of not more than 8,5 %.
Article 7 If, during the period between: - the day of lodging of the application for an export licence where the refund is fixed periodically, or - the closing date for the submission of tenders where the refund is fixed by invitation to tender and the day of export, there is a change in the prices of sugar or molasses fixed pursuant to Regulation (EEC) No 1785/81, provision may be made for the refund to be adjusted.
Article 8 Regulations (EEC) No 394/70 and (EEC) No 1469/77 are hereby repealed.
Done at Brussels, 7 September 1995.
For the Commission Franz FISCHLER Member of the Commission
