PROVISIONAL MEASURES (1) On 29 January 2005, the Commission, by Regulation (EC) No 145/2005 of 28 January 2005 imposing a provisional anti-dumping duty on imports of barium carbonate originating in the People’s Republic of China [2] (hereinafter "the provisional Regulation"), imposed provisional anti-dumping duties on imports into the Community of barium carbonate originating in the People’s Republic of China ("the PRC").
Verification visits were carried out at the premises of the following companies: (a) unrelated importer: - Castle Colours Ltd, UK; (b) Community users: - Terreal SA, France, - Torrecid SA, Spain. (4) All parties were informed of the essential facts and considerations, on the basis of which it was intended to recommend the imposition of a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of barium carbonate originating in the PRC and the definitive collection of the amounts secured by way of the provisional duty.
PRODUCT CONCERNED AND LIKE PRODUCT (6) Since no new comments were received regarding the "product concerned" and the "like product", as defined in recitals 11 and 12 of the provisional Regulation, their contents are hereby confirmed.
Individual Treatment ("IT") (8) In the absence of any comments, the contents of recitals 24 to 29 of the provisional Regulation concerning individual treatment is hereby confirmed. 3.
In this regard, it is reiterated that the quantity of the product in question that was sold could not be established during the investigation.
Export price (16) In the absence of any comments, the contents of recital 60 of the provisional Regulation, concerning the determination of the export price, is hereby confirmed. 5.
The export prices were therefore adjusted accordingly. (19) Apart from the adjustments made, as set out in recitals 9, 10 and 18 of this Regulation, and in the absence of any further comments, the contents of recitals 61 to 66 of the provisional Regulation in relation to the comparison of normal value and export prices, is hereby confirmed. 6.
Dumping margins (20) In the light of the above corrections, the dumping margins finally determined, expressed as a percentage of the cost, insurance and freight (cif) Community frontier price, duty unpaid, are: Hubei Jingshan Chutian Barium Salt Corp.
Ltd | 3,4 % | Zaozhuang Yongli Chemical Co. | 4,6 % | All other companies | 31,7 % | E.
Community industry and Community consumption (21) In the absence of any comments in this particular respect, the contents of recitals 72 to 74 of the provisional Regulation are hereby confirmed. 2.
This request for an adjustment to the prices of the Community industry in respect of differences in reactivity had been rejected at the provisional stage, as indicated in recital 80 of the provisional Regulation. (23) Although the claim was not sufficiently substantiated by the submission of new information, the issue was further examined, since the exporting producer claimed that differences in reactivity, alleged to be a characteristic present in all grades of the barium carbonate, should not have been assessed only in respect of the most reactive grades sold by the Community industry, as was done at the provisional stage. (24) Since reactivity is a property of barium carbonate which is not shown as such on the producers’ production specification sheets, but can be inferred on the basis of the particle size and density of the "product concerned", it is normal practice in the different end-use sectors to carry out control tests upon the delivery of the product to verify its properties.
Moreover, a further analysis of the products sold in the Community market has shown that, in addition to the most reactive grades which represent less than 5 % of its sales in the EC, as referred to in recital 80 of the provisional Regulation, the Community industry in fact sold additional grades with considerably high reactivity, which accounted for about a further 20 % of its total sales in the Community.
It was therefore concluded that, under these circumstances and contrary to the contents of recital 80 of the provisional Regulation, an adjustment for differences in reactivity was warranted. (25) For the purpose of analysing price undercutting, the selling price of the Community industry’s grades of barium carbonate with high reactivity was reduced by 14 %.
The comparison showed that, during the IP, the product concerned originating in the PRC was sold in the Community at prices which undercut those of the Community industry by 20 to 26 %, when expressed as a percentage of the latter. (26) Apart from the adjustments made as set out in recital 25 of this Regulation, and in the absence of any other comments, the contents of recitals 75 to 81 of the provisional Regulation concerning imports from the country concerned is confirmed. 3.
Situation of the Community industry and conclusion on injury (27) It was submitted by one cooperating exporter that the economic indicators analysed in recitals 84 to 94 of the provisional Regulation did not show material injury.
As already explained in recitals 84 to 88 of the provisional Regulation, these indicators clearly showed a negative evolution, which contributed to deteriorate the situation of the Community industry.
Thus, the claim was rejected. (29) Therefore, the contents of recitals 82 to 97 of the provisional Regulation concerning the situation of the Community industry and the conclusion on injury is hereby confirmed.
Effect of other factors (31) One cooperating exporter reiterated that injury could have also been caused by imports from other third countries which increased significantly before the IP, including imports from India and Brazil, in particular.
As a matter of fact, the market share of Indian imports was below 1 % in the IP and practically non-existent before.
Therefore, it is concluded that these imports did not break the causal link as set out in recital 103 of the provisional Regulation. (32) One exporter and a number of importers and users claimed that the Community industry has enjoyed a dominant position in the Community market for barium carbonate and that this factor has allowed the industry to increase its prices in the Community.
The exporter stressed the fact that the group, to which the sole Community producer belongs, had been investigated for abuse of dominant position in the past. (33) First of all, it should be noted that during the period 2000 to 2003, the market share of the Community industry was, on average, around 10 percentage points higher than that of the Chinese exporting producers, whilst during the IP it was comparable to that of imports from the PRC.
Moreover, should the Community industry have indeed enjoyed a dominant position, let alone abused it, it would be difficult to understand how the Community industry’s prices could have dropped by 7 % as indicated in recital 86 of the provisional Regulation, while the Chinese exporters have increased their market share so substantially.
Therefore, the claim is rejected. (34) As regards the information contained in recitals 110 and 111 of the provisional Regulation, several users and importers claimed that the imposition of definitive measures would penalise the bricks and tiles manufacturers, which prefer to use the water suspended barium carbonate (slurry) made out of the barium carbonate imported from the PRC, rather than using the barium carbonate in powder form, supplied by the Community industry.
Furthermore, as stated in recital 43 of this Regulation, the purpose of the imposition of anti-dumping measures is by no means to stop access to the Community market for products from the PRC, but rather to restore fair competition and to maintain alternative sources of supply in the Community. (35) In view of the above and in the absence of any supporting evidence provided by the users and importers to substantiate their preference for the slurry or for the barium carbonate imported from the PRC to the competitive product offered by the Community industry, the claim is rejected. 3.
Conclusion on causation (36) Based on the above considerations and other elements contained in recitals 98 to 111 of the provisional Regulation, it is concluded that imports from the PRC have caused material injury to the Community industry within the meaning of Article 3(6) of the basic Regulation.
Nevertheless, their arguments were further examined through verification of the data already submitted before the imposition of provisional measures by one cooperating importer and two cooperating users. (39) Indeed, following the additional verification, visits to a company operating in the ceramics (frits) industry and another one operating in the bricks and tiles industry (the two companies representing together over 20 % of the imports of barium carbonate from the PRC as reported by cooperating users), it is confirmed, as mentioned in recital 127 of the provisional Regulation, that the share of barium carbonate in the total cost of production of users is, on average, below 8 %. (40) In line with the findings in recital 128 of the provisional Regulation, it was therefore concluded that, given the level of the measures, and the existence of alternative sources of supply from exporters not subject to duties, the impact of any increase in the price of the "like product" for users appears to be minimal. (41) Further to definitive disclosure, two associations of users and one exporting producer claimed that the possible impact of the definitive measures on users would be higher than mentioned in recitals 39 and 40 of this Regulation.
In this respect, it should be noted that the users verified at both provisional and definitive stage represent over 90 % of the imports of barium carbonate from the PRC made by cooperating users during the IP.
Thus, measures would enable the continuation of activity of the sole Community producer, and would promote overall competition in the Community market. (44) In the absence of any substantially new information or argument in this particular respect, the contents of recitals 114 to 132 of the provisional Regulation is hereby confirmed.
INJURY ELIMINATION LEVEL (45) Further to the disclosure of provisional findings, an exporter claimed that the profit level of 7,2 % deemed to represent the profit that could be achieved by the Community industry in the absence of injurious dumping from the PRC, is not realistic, since, due to the alleged dominant position of the sole Community producer, its profitability in the past was artificially high. (46) As already mentioned in recital 33 of this Regulation, the fact that, during a certain period of time, there is only one Community producer, does not imply that this producer has a dominant position in the market and abuses this situation, for example, by making use of its position in order to obtain abnormally high profit margins from its activity.
As explained in recital 135 of the provisional Regulation, the profit margin of 7,2 % was calculated as the weighted average profit margin of the "like product" during the years 1996 to 1998.
On the basis of the above, the definitive duties are as follows: Hubei Jingshan Chutian Barium Salt Corp.
Ltd | 3,4 % | Zaozhuang Yongli Chemical Co. | 4,6 % | All others | 31,7 % | (48) Regarding the form of the measures, no comments were received and therefore the imposition of the duty in the form of a specific amount per tonne, as contained in recital 138 of the provisional Regulation, is confirmed.
As definitive duties are lower than the provisional duties, amounts provisionally secured in excess of the definitive rate of anti-dumping duties shall be released. (51) The individual company anti-dumping duty rates specified in this Regulation were established on the basis of the findings of the present investigation.
All these elements may facilitate attempts to re-channel the export flows through the traditional exporters benefiting from the lowest duty rates. (54) Consequently, should the exports by one of the companies benefiting from lower individual duty rates increase by more than 30 % in volume, the individual measures concerned might be considered as being likely to be insufficient to counteract the injurious dumping found.
Definitive anti-dumping duties are hereby imposed on imports of barium carbonate with a strontium content of more than 0,07 % by weight and a sulphur content of more than 0,0015 % by weight, whether in powder, pressed granular or calcined granular form, falling within CN code ex28366000 (TARIC code 2836600010), originating in the People’s Republic of China. 2.
The amount of the definitive anti-dumping duty shall be equal to a fixed amount as specified below for products produced by the following manufacturers: Country | Manufacturer | Rate of duty(EUR/t) | TARIC additional code | People’s Republic of China | Hubei Jingshan Chutian Barium Salt Corp.
Ltd, 62,Qinglong Road, Songhe Town,Jingshan County,Hubei Province, PRC | 6,3 | A606 | Zaozhuang Yongli Chemical Co.,South Zhuzibukuang Qichun,Zaozhuang City Center District,Shangdong Province, PRC | 8,1 | A607 | All other companies | 56,4 | A999 | 3.
Article 3 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Straw [1] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 461/2004 (OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 12). [2] OJ L 27, 29.1.2005, p. 4. [3] OJ L 253, 11.10.1993, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 883/2005 (OJ L 148, 11.6.2005, p. 5). --------------------------------------------------
