For the purposes of this Directive: (a) 'collective redundancies` means dismissals effected by an employer for one or more reasons not related to the individual workers concerned where, according to the choice of the Member States, the number of redundancies is: (i) either, over a period of 30 days: - at least 10 in establishments normally employing more than 20 and less than 100 workers, - at least 10 % of the number of workers in establishments normally employing at least 100 but less than 300 workers, - at least 30 in establishments normally employing 300 workers or more, (ii) or, over a period of 90 days, at least 20, whatever the number of workers normally employed in the establishments in question; (b) 'workers' representatives` means the workers' representatives provided for by the laws or practices of the Member States.
SECTION II Information and consultation Article 2 1.
The obligations laid down in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall apply irrespective of whether the decision regarding collective redundancies is being taken by the employer or by an undertaking controlling the employer.
SECTION III Procedure for collective redundances Article 3 1.
Member States may grant the competent public authority the power to reduce the period provided for in the preceding subparagraph. 2.
The period provided for in paragraph 1 shall be used by the competent public authority to seek solutions to the problems raised by the projected collective redundancies. 3.
The employer must be informed of the extension and the grounds for it before expiry of the initial period provided for in paragraph 1. 4.
SECTION IV Final provisions Article 5 This Directive shall not affect the right of Member States to apply or to introduce laws, regulations or administrative provisions which are more favourable to workers or to promote or to allow the application of collective agreements more favourable to workers.
Article 6 Member States shall ensure that judicial and/or administrative procedures for the enforcement of obligations under this Directive are available to the workers' representatives and/or workers.
Article 7 Member States shall forward to the Commission the text of any fundamental provisions of national law already adopted or being adopted in the area governed by this Directive.
Article 9 This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 10 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 20 July 1998.
MOLTERER (1) OJ C 210, 6. 7. 1998. (2) OJ C 158, 26. 5. 1997, p. 11. (3) OJ L 48, 22. 2. 1975, p. 29.
