Article 2 The Member States shall ensure that sample preparation and methods of analyses used for the official control of the levels of dioxins and furans and the determination of the levels of dioxin-like PCBs in foodstuffs comply with the criteria described in Annex II.
Article 4 This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 5 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 26 July 2002.
For the Commission David Byrne Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 372, 31.12.1985, p. 50. (2) OJ L 77, 16.3.2001, p. 1. (3) OJ L 86, 3.4.2002, p. 5. (4) OJ L 321, 6.12.2001, p. 1. (5) OJ L 186, 30.6.1989, p. 23. (6) OJ L 290, 24.11.1993, p. 14. (7) OJ L 125, 23.5.1996, p. 10. (8) OJ L 65, 5.3.1998, p. 31.
ANNEX I METHODS OF SAMPLING FOR OFFICIAL CONTROL OF THE LEVELS OF DIOXINS (PCDD/PCDF) AND THE DETERMINATION OF DIOXIN-LIKE PCBs IN CERTAIN FOODSTUFFS 1.
General provisions 3.1.
Departure from this procedure must be recorded in the record provided for under 3.8. 3.5.
It shall be at least 1 kg unless not practical, e.g.
For other products, the minimum number of incremental samples to be taken from the lot shall be as given in Table 1.
The aggregate sample uniting all incremental samples shall be at least 1 kg (see point 3.5).
The weight of an incremental sample should be at least 100 grams.
TABLE 1 Minimum number of incremental samples to be taken from the lot %gt%TABLE%gt% If the lot consists of individual packages, then the number of packages, which shall be taken to form the aggregate sample, is given in Table 2.
TABLE 2 Number of packages (incremental samples) which shall be taken to form the aggregate sample if the lot consists of individual packages %gt%TABLE%gt% 5.
Compliance of the lot or sublot with the specification The control laboratory shall analyse the laboratory sample for enforcement in duplicate analysis in case the obtained result of the first analysis is less than 20 % below or above the maximum level, and calculate the mean of the results.
Environmental Health Perspectives, 106(12), 775). %gt%TABLE%gt% Abbreviations used: T = tetra; Pe = penta; Hx = hexa; Hp = hepta; O = octa; CDD = chlorodibenzodioxin; CDF = chlorodibenzofuran; CB = chlorobiphenyl. (2) OJ L 303, 6.11.1997, p. 12.
Laboratories should be accredited following the ISO/IEC/17025:1999 standard. 5.
At least one congener for each of the tetra to octa-chlorinated homologous groups for PCDD/F (and at least one congener for each of the homologous groups for dioxin-like PCBs, if dioxin-like PCBs have to be determined) must be added (alternatively, at least one congener for each mass spectrometric selected ion recording function used for monitoring PCDD/F and dioxin-like PCBs).
Relative response factors should also be determined for those congeners for which no 13C-labelled analogue is added by using appropriate calibration solutions. - For foodstuffs of plant origin and foodstuffs of animal origin containing less than 10 % fat, the addition of the internal standards is mandatory prior to extraction.
For foodstuffs of animal origin containing more than 10 % fat, the internal standards can be added either before extraction or after fat extraction.
For confirmatory methods, the recoveries of the individual internal standards should be in the range of 60 % to 120 %.
Lower or higher recoveries for individual congeners, in particular for some hepta- and octa- chlorinated dibenzodioxins and dibenzofurans, are acceptable on the condition that their contribution to the TEQ value does not exceed 10 % of the total TEQ value (based on PCDD/F only).
For screening methods, the recoveries should be in the range of 30 % to 140 %. - Separation of dioxins from interfering chlorinated compounds such as PCBs and chlorinated diphenyl ethers should be carried out by suitable chromatographic techniques (preferably with a florisil, alumina and/or carbon column). - Gaschromatographic separation of isomers should be sufficient (%amp%lt; 25 % peak to peak between 1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDF and 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDF). - Determination should be performed according to EPA Method 1613 revision B: Tetra- through octa-chlorinated dioxins and furans by isotope dilution HRGC/HRMS or another with equivalent performance criteria. - The difference between upperbound level and lower bound level should not exceed 20 % for foodstuffs with a dioxin contamination of about 1 pg WHO-TEQ/g fat (based on PCDD/PCDF only).
For foodstuffs with a low fat content, the same requirements for contamination levels of about 1 pg WHO-TEQ/g product have to be applied.
The reference sample must show a clearly elevated response in comparison to a blank. - Extra reference samples 0,5 × and 2 × the level of interest should be included to demonstrate the proper performance of the test in the range of interest for the control of the level of interest. - When testing other matrices, the suitability of the reference sample(s) has to be demonstrated, preferentially by including samples shown by HRGC/HRMS to contain a TEQ level around that of the reference sample or else a blank spiked at this level. - Since no internal standards can be used in bioassays, tests on repeatability are very important to obtain information on the standard deviation within one test series.
The coefficient of variation should be below 30 %. - For bioassays, the target compounds, possible interferences and maximum tolerable blank levels should be defined.
Actual false negative rates should be under 1 %.
In addition, samples from a wide TEQ-range should be confirmed by HRGC/HRMS (approximately 2 % to 10 % of the negative samples).
Information on correspondence between bioassay and HRGC/HRMS results should be made available. 7.3.
Specific requirements for cell-based bioassays - When performing a bioassay, every test run requires a series of reference concentrations of TCDD or a dioxin/furan mixture (full dose-response curve with a R2 %amp%gt; 0,95).
However, for screening purposes an expanded low level curve for analysing low level samples could be used. - A TCDD reference concentration (about 3 × limit of quantification) on a quality control sheet should be used for the outcome of the bioassay over a constant time period.
An alternative could be the relative response of a reference sample in comparison to the TCDD calibration line since the response of the cells may depend on many factors. - Quality control (QC) charts for each type of reference material should be recorded and checked to make sure the outcome is in accordance with the stated guidelines. - In particular for quantitative calculations, the induction of the sample dilution used must be within the linear portion of the response curve.
Therefore, at least three or more dilutions at one time are recommended to be tested. - The percent standard deviation should not be above 15 % in a triplicate determination for each sample dilution and not above 30 % between three independent experiments. - The limit of detection may be set as 3 × the standard deviation of the solvent blank or of the background response.
Another approach is to apply a response that is above the background (induction factor 5 × the solvent blank) calculated from the calibration curve of the day.
The limit of quantification may be set as 5 × to 6 × the standard deviation of the solvent blank or of the background response or to apply a response that is above the background (induction factor 10 × the solvent blank) calculated from the calibration curve of the day. 7.4.
Specific requirements for kit-based bioassays(1) - Manufacturer's instructions for sample preparation and analyses have to be followed. - Test kits should not be used after the expiration date. - Materials or components designed for use with other kits should not be used. - Test kits should be kept within the specified range of storage temperature and used at the specified operating temperature. - The limit of detection for immunoassays is determined as 3 × the standard deviation, based on 10 replicate analysis of the blank, to be divided by the slope value of the linear regression equation. - Reference standards should be used for tests at the laboratory to make sure that the responsiveness to the standard is within an acceptable range. 8.
