Article 2 This Decision shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply from 1 December 2001.
Done at Brussels, 29 November 2001.
The Member of the Commission responsible for security matters shall take appropriate measures to ensure that, when handling EU classified information, the rules referred to in Article 1 are respected within the Commission by Commission officials and other servants, by personnel seconded to the Commission, as well as within all Commission premises, including its Representations and Offices in the Union and its Delegations in third countries and by contractors external to the Commission. 2.
Member States, other institutions, bodies, offices and agencies established by virtue or on the basis of the Treaties shall be allowed to receive EU classified information on the condition that they ensure that, when EU classified information is handled, rules strictly equivalent to those referred to in Article 1 are respected within their services and premises, in particular by: (a) members of Member States' permanent representations to the European Union as well as by members of national delegations attending meetings of the Commission or of its bodies, or participating in other Commission activities, (b) other members of the Member States' national administrations handling EU classified information, whether they serve in the territory of the Member States or abroad, (c) external contractors and seconded personnel, handling EU classified information.
Article 3 Third states, international organisations and other bodies shall be allowed to receive EU classified information on the condition that they ensure that, when such information is handled, rules strictly equivalent to those referred to in Article 1 are respected.
Article 4 In keeping with the basic principles and minimum standards of security contained in Part I of the Annex, the Member of the Commission responsible for security matters may take measures in accordance with Part II of the Annex.
Article 5 As from the date of their application, these provisions shall replace: (a) Commission Decision C (94) 3282 of 30 November 1994 on the security measures applicable to classified information produced or transmitted in connection with activities of the European Union; (b) Commission Decision C (99) 423 of 25 February 1999 relating to the procedures whereby officials and other employees of the European Commission may be allowed access to classified information held by the Commission.
ANNEX RULES ON SECURITY Contents %gt%TABLE%gt% PART I: BASIC PRINCIPLES AND MINIMUM STANDARDS OF SECURITY 1.
The provisions in the Staff Regulations fully apply, notably its Article 17 on the obligation of staff to exercise discretion with regard to Commission information and its Title VI on disciplinary measures.
Transparency indicates the need for clarity regarding all security rules and provisions, for balance between the different services and the different domains (physical security versus information protection etc.) and the need for a consistent and structured security awareness policy.
PRINCIPLES OF INFORMATION SECURITY 4.1.
ORGANISATION OF SECURITY 5.1.
Such minimum standards shall include criteria for the clearance of personnel, and procedures for the protection of EU classified information.
Clearance of personnel All persons who require access to information classified EU CONFIDENTIAL or above shall be appropriately cleared before such access is authorised.
Particularly close scrutiny in the clearance procedures shall be given to persons: (d) To be granted access to EU TOP SECRET information; (e) Occupying positions involving regular access to a considerable volume of EU SECRET information; (f) Whose duties give them special access to secure communication or information systems and thus the opportunity to gain unauthorised access to large amounts of EU classified information or to inflict serious damage upon the mission through acts of technical sabotage.
Records of personnel clearances All Commission departments handling EU classified information or housing secure communication or information systems shall maintain a record of the clearances granted to the personnel assigned thereto.
The Local Security Officer of the Commission department shall hold record of the clearances within his or her domain. 6.3.
Management responsibilities Managers shall have the duty of knowing those of their staff who are engaged in classified work or who have access to secure communication or information systems and of recording and reporting any incidents or apparent vulnerabilities, likely to have a bearing on security. 6.5.
PHYSICAL SECURITY 7.1.
Security of buildings Buildings housing EU classified information or secure communication and information systems shall be protected against unauthorised access.
Adequate countermeasures shall be taken in order to prevent access to EU classified information by unauthorised users, to prevent the denial of access to EU classified information to authorised users, and to prevent corruption or unauthorised modification or deletion of EU classified information. 9.
RELEASE OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION TO THIRD STATES OR INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATIONS The decision to release EU classified information originating in the Commission to a third State or international organisation shall be taken by the Commission as a college.
PART II: THE ORGANISATION OF SECURITY IN THE COMMISSION 11.
THE MEMBER OF THE COMMISSION RESPONSIBLE FOR SECURITY MATTERS The Member of the Commission responsible for security matters shall: (a) Implement the Commission's security policy; (b) Consider security problems referred to him by the Commission or its competent bodies; (c) Examine questions involving changes in the Commission security policy, in close liaison with the National Security (or other appropriate) Authorities of the Member States (hereinafter %quot%NSA%quot%).
Its remit is to assess security measures within the Commission and to make recommendations in this domain to the Member of the Commission responsible for security matters. 14.
The Head of the Commission Security Office shall be the principal adviser to the Member of the Commission responsible for security matters on security matters and shall act as secretary to the Security Policy Advisory Group.
The Head of the Commission Security Office shall be responsible for the accreditation of IT systems and networks within the Commission.
SECURITY INSPECTIONS Periodic inspections of the security arrangements for the protection of EU classified information shall be carried out by the Commission Security Office.
CLASSIFICATIONS, SECURITY DESIGNATORS AND MARKINGS 16.1.
EU SECRET: This classification shall be applied only to information and material the unauthorised disclosure of which could seriously harm the essential interests of the European Union or of one or more of its Member States.
EU CONFIDENTIAL: This classification shall be applied to information and material the unauthorised disclosure of which could harm the essential interests of the European Union or of one or more of its Member States.
EU RESTRICTED: This classification shall be applied to information and material the unauthorised disclosure of which could be disadvantageous to the interests of the European Union or of one or more of its Member States.
No other classifications are permitted. 16.2.
Security designators shall only be used in combination with a classification. 16.3.
Affixing of classification Classification shall be affixed as follows: (a) On EU RESTRICTED documents, by mechanical or electronic means; (b) On EU CONFIDENTIAL documents, by mechanical means or by hand or by printing on pre-stamped, registered paper; (c) On EU SECRET and EU TOP SECRET documents, by mechanical means or by hand. 16.5.
General Information shall be classified only when necessary.
Application of classifications The classification of a document shall be determined by the level of sensitivity of its contents in accordance with the definition at Section 16.
Public access shall remain governed by Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001. 17.3.
PHYSICAL SECURITY 18.1.
The physical security measures applied shall be designed to: (a) Deny surreptitious or forced entry by an intruder; (b) Deter, impede and detect actions by disloyal personnel; (c) Prevent those who do not have a need to know from having access to EU classified information. 18.3.
Security areas Areas where information classified EU CONFIDENTIAL or higher is handled and stored shall be so organised and structured as to correspond to one of the following: (a) Class I Security Area: an area where EU CONFIDENTIAL or above is handled and stored in such a way that entry into the area constitutes, for all practical purposes, access to classified information.
Only EU RESTRICTED and non-classified information shall be handled and stored in such areas. 18.3.3.
The frequency of patrols will be determined by local circumstances but, as a guide, are to be conducted once every 2 hours. 18.3.5.
Security containers and strong rooms Three classes of containers shall be used for the storage of EU classified information: - Class A: containers nationally approved for storage of EU TOP SECRET information within a Class I or a Class II security area; - Class B: containers nationally approved for storage of EU SECRET and EU CONFIDENTIAL information within a Class I or a Class II security area; - Class C: Service furniture suitable for storage of EU RESTRICTED information only.
For strong rooms constructed within a Class I or a Class II security area, and for all Class I security areas where information classified EU CONFIDENTIAL and higher is stored on open shelves or displayed on charts, maps, etc., the walls, floors and ceilings, door(s) with lock(s) need to be certified by the SAA as offering equivalent protection to the class of security container approved for the storage of information of the same classification. 18.3.6.
Locks Locks used with security containers and strong rooms in which EU classified information is stored shall meet the following standards: - Group A: nationally approved for Class A containers; - Group B: nationally approved for Class B containers; - Group C: suitable for Class C Service furniture only. 18.3.7.
Physical protection of copying and telefax machines Copying and telefax machines shall be physically protected to the extent necessary to ensure that only authorised persons can use them for processing classified information and that all classified products are subject to proper controls. 18.4.
Eavesdropping Services or areas in which information classified EU SECRET and above is regularly discussed shall be protected against passive and active eavesdropping attacks where the risk demands it.
Likewise, when circumstances require, the telecommunications equipment and the electrical or electronic office equipment of any kind used during meetings at EU SECRET level and above may be checked by technical security specialists of NSAs at the request of the Head of the Commission Security Office. 18.5.
GENERAL RULES ON THE NEED TO KNOW PRINCIPLE AND EU PERSONAL SECURITY CLEARANCES 19.1.
General Access to EU classified information shall be authorised only for persons having a %quot%need-to-know%quot% for carrying out their duties or missions.
Access to EU TOP SECRET, EU SECRET and EU CONFIDENTIAL information shall be authorised only for persons in possession of the appropriate security clearance.
Public access shall remain governed by Regulation (EC) No 1049/2001. 19.2.
Specific rules on access to EU TOP SECRET information All persons who are to have access to EU TOP SECRET information shall first be screened for access to such information.
All persons who are required to have access to EU TOP SECRET information shall be designated by the Member of the Commission responsible for security matters and their names kept in the appropriate EU TOP SECRET registry.
In the case of persons having access to EU TOP SECRET information at meetings, etc., the competent Control Officer of the service or body in which that person is employed shall notify the body organising the meeting that the persons concerned have such authorisation.
The names of all persons ceasing to be employed on duties requiring access to EU TOP SECRET information shall be removed from the EU TOP SECRET list.
Specific rules on access to EU SECRET and EU CONFIDENTIAL information All persons who are to have access to EU SECRET or EU CONFIDENTIAL information shall first be screened to the appropriate grading.
All persons who are to have access to EU SECRET or EU CONFIDENTIAL information shall be acquainted with the appropriate security provisions and shall be aware of the consequences of negligence.
In the case of persons having access to EU SECRET or EU CONFIDENTIAL information at meetings, etc., the Security Officer of the body in which that person is employed shall notify the body organising the meeting that the persons concerned have such authorisation. 19.4.
Specific rules on access to EU RESTRICTED information Persons with access to EU RESTRICTED information will be made aware of these security rules and of the consequences of negligence. 19.5.
Pending the outcome of the screening, the officials requested to be cleared at EU TOP SECRET level may be authorised, temporarily and provisionally, to access information classified up to, and including, EU SECRET. 21.
PREPARATION, DISTRIBUTION, TRANSMISSION, COURRIER PERSONAL SECURITY AND EXTRA COPIES OF TRANSLATIONS AND EXTRACTS OF EU CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS 21.1.
Documents classified EU CONFIDENTIAL and above shall be typed, translated, stored, photocopied, reproduced magnetically or microfilmed only by persons who have been cleared for access to EU classified information up to at least the appropriate security classification of the document in question. 3.
The provisions regulating the computerised production of classified documents are set out in Section 25. 21.2.
EU TOP SECRET documents shall be circulated through EU TOP SECRET registries (see Section 22.2).
In the case of EU TOP SECRET messages, the competent registry may authorise the head of the communications centre to produce the number of copies specified in the list of addressees. 3.
Whenever such caveats are imposed, the addressees may redistribute the documents only with the originating authorities' authorisation. 4.
Packaging, receipts 1.
In such a case, the appropriate Registry (see Section 22.1) shall log the arrival of the envelope, and only the individual to whom it is addressed may open the inner envelope and acknowledge receipt of the documents it contains. 3.
Transmission within a building or group of buildings Within a given building or group of buildings, classified documents may be carried in a sealed envelope bearing only the addressee's name, on condition that it is carried by a person cleared to the level of classification of the documents. 21.3.3.
Within a country, EU TOP SECRET documents should be sent only by means of official messenger service or by persons authorised to have access to EU TOP SECRET information. 2.
Exceptionally, EU TOP SECRET documents may be taken by officials, other than messengers, outside the confines of a building or group of buildings for local use at meetings and discussions, provided that: (a) The bearer is authorised to have access to those EU TOP SECRET documents; (b) The mode of transportation complies with rules governing the transmission of EU TOP SECRET documents; (c) Under no circumstances does the official leave the EU TOP SECRET documents unattended; (d) Arrangements are made for the list of documents so carried to be held in the EU TOP SECRET Registry holding the documents and recorded in a log, and checked against this record on their return. 4.
Transmission from one State to another 1.
Transmission of EU restricted documents No special provisions are laid down for the conveyance of EU RESTRICTED documents, except that they should be such as to ensure that they can not fall into any unauthorised person's hands. 21.4.
Courier personnel security All couriers and messengers employed to carry EU SECRET and EU CONFIDENTIAL documents shall be appropriately security cleared. 21.5.
Communications security measures are designed to ensure the secure transmission of EU classified information.
Only the originator may authorise the copy or translation of EU TOP SECRET documents. 2.
If persons without EU TOP SECRET clearance require information which, although contained in a EU TOP SECRET document, does not have that classification, the Head of the EU TOP SECRET Registry (see Section 22.2) may be authorised to produce the necessary number of extracts from that document.
The security measures applicable to the original document shall also be applicable to reproductions and/or translations thereof. 22.
The general rules provided for in Section 21 shall apply to the Local EUCI Registries of the Commission, unless modified by the specific rules laid down in this Section. 22.2.
A Central EU TOP SECRET Registry ensures the recording, handling and distribution of EU TOP SECRET documents in accordance with these security provisions.
The Central EU TOP SECRET Registry will act as the main receiving and despatching authority in the Commission, with other EU institutions, Member States, international organisations and third States with which the Commission has agreements on security procedures for the exchange of classified information. 3.
When necessary, sub-registries shall be established, to be responsible for the internal management of EU TOP SECRET documents; they shall keep up-to-date records of the circulation of each document held on the Sub-Registry's charge. 4.
EU TOP SECRET sub-registries shall be set up as specified in Section 22.2.3 in response to long term needs and shall be attached to a central EU TOP SECRET Registry.
Sub-registries may not transmit EU TOP SECRET documents directly to other sub-registries of the same Central EU TOP SECRET Registry without express approval by the latter. 6.
All exchanges of EU TOP SECRET documents between sub-registries not attached to the same central registry shall be routed through the Central EU TOP SECRET Registries. 22.2.2.
The Central EU TOP SECRET Registry As the Control Officer, the head of the Central EU TOP SECRET Registry shall be responsible for: (a) The transmission of EU TOP SECRET documents in accordance with the provisions defined in Section 21.3; (b) Maintaining a list of all its dependent EU TOP SECRET sub-registries together with names and signatures of the appointed Control Officers and their authorised deputies; (c) Holding receipts from registries for all EU TOP SECRET documents distributed by the Central Registry; (d) Maintaining a record of EU TOP SECRET documents held and distributed; (e) Maintaining an up-to-date list of all Central EU TOP SECRET Registries with which he/she normally corresponds, together with the names and signatures of their appointed Control Officers and their authorised deputies; (f) The physical safeguarding of all EU TOP SECRET documents held within the registry in accordance with regulations contained in Section 18. 22.2.3.
EU TOP SECRET sub-registries As the Control Officer, the head of an EU TOP SECRET sub-registry shall be responsible for: (a) The transmission of EU TOP SECRET documents in accordance with provisions contained in Section 21.3; (b) Maintaining an up-to-date list of all persons authorised to have access to the EU TOP SECRET information under his control; (c) The distribution of EU TOP SECRET documents in accordance with the instructions of the originator or on a need-to-know basis, having first checked that the addressee has the requisite security clearance; (d) Maintaining an up-to-date record of all EU TOP SECRET documents held or circulating under his control or which have been passed to other EU TOP SECRET registries and holding all corresponding receipts; (e) Maintaining an up-to-date list of EU TOP SECRET registries with whom he is authorised to exchange EU TOP SECRET documents, together with the names and signatures of their Control Officers and authorised deputies; (f) The physical safeguarding of all EU TOP SECRET documents held within the sub-registry in accordance with the rules laid down in Section 18. 22.3.
Every year, each EU TOP SECRET Registry as referred to in this Section shall carry out an itemised inventory of EU TOP SECRET documents.
EU TOP SECRET Sub-registries shall forward the findings of their annual inventory to the Central Registry to which they are answerable, on a date specified by the latter. 3.
EU classified documents below the level of EU TOP SECRET shall be subject to internal checks according to instructions from the Member of the Commission responsible for security matters. 4.
EUCI shall be stored under conditions that comply with all relevant requirements listed in Section 18. 2.
To minimise storage problems, the Control Officers of all registries shall be authorised to have EU TOP SECRET, EU SECRET and EU CONFIDENTIAL documents microfilmed or otherwise stored in magnetic or optical media for archive purposes, providing that: (a) The microfilming/storage process is undertaken by personnel with current clearance for the corresponding appropriate classification level; (b) The microfilm/storage medium is afforded the same security as the original documents; (c) The microfilming/storing of any EU TOP SECRET document is reported to the originator; (d) Rolls of film, or other type of support, contain only documents of the same EU TOP SECRET, EU SECRET or EU CONFIDENTIAL classification; (e) The microfilming/storing of an EU TOP SECRET or EU SECRET document is clearly indicated in the record used for the annual inventory; (f) Original documents that have been microfilmed or otherwise stored are destroyed, in accordance with the rules set out in Section 22.5. 3.
These rules also apply to any other form of authorised storage, such as electromagnetic media and optical disk. 22.5.
Destruction of EU classified documents 1.
To prevent the unnecessary accumulation of EU classified documents, those regarded by the head of the establishment holding them as out of date and surplus in number shall be destroyed as soon as practicable, in the following manner: (a) EU TOP SECRET documents shall be destroyed only by the Central Registry responsible for them.
Each document destroyed shall be listed in a destruction certificate, signed by the EU TOP SECRET Control Officer and by the Officer witnessing the destruction, who shall be EU TOP SECRET cleared.
EU RESTRICTED documents shall be destroyed by the registry responsible for those documents or by the user, in accordance with instructions from the Member of the Commission responsible for security matters. 22.6.
The arrangements for the safeguarding and/or destruction of EU SECRET and EU CONFIDENTIAL material in a crisis shall under no circumstances adversely affect the safeguarding or destruction of EU TOP SECRET material, including the enciphering equipment, whose treatment shall take priority over all other tasks. 3.
SECURITY MEASURES FOR SPECIFIC MEETINGS HELD OUTSIDE THE COMMISSION PREMISES AND INVOLVING EU CLASSIFIED INFORMATION 23.1.
These measures concern only the protection of EU classified information; other security measures may have to be planned. 23.2.
The Commission Security Office The Commission Security Office shall cooperate with the competent authorities of the Member State on whose territory the meeting is being held (the host Member State), in order to ensure the security of the Commission's or other important meetings and for the security of the delegates and their staff.
The measures taken by the MSO shall in general relate to: (a) Protective measures at the meeting place to ensure that the meeting is conducted without any incident that might compromise the security of any EU classified information that may be used there; (b) Checking the personnel whose access to the place of the meeting, delegations' areas and conference rooms is permitted, and checking any equipment; (c) Constant coordination with the competent authorities of the host Member State and with the Commission Security Office; (d) The inclusion of security instructions in the meeting dossier with due regard for the requirements set out in these security rules and any other security instructions considered necessary 23.3.
Security measures 23.3.1.
Technical security The meeting room may be made technically secure by a technical security team, which may also conduct electronic surveillance during the meeting. 23.3.6.
BREACHES OF SECURITY AND COMPROMISE OF EU CLASSIFIED INFORMATION 24.1.
Reporting breaches of security All persons who are required to handle EU classified information shall be thoroughly briefed on their responsibilities in this domain.
In appropriate cases, on the basis of the report mentioned in Section 24.2, the Member of the Commission responsible for security matters shall take all necessary steps in order to allow the competent national authorities to start criminal law procedures. 25.
PROTECTION OF EU CLASSIFIED INFORMATION HANDLED IN INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS 25.1.
They shall be applied as a supplement to Commission Decision C (95) 1510 final of 23 November 1995 on the protection of informatics systems.
All systems require security measures to protect the integrity and availability of those systems and of the information they contain.
Main purpose of security measures The main purpose of the security measures stated in this section is to provide protection against unauthorised disclosure of EU classified information (the loss of confidentiality) and against the loss of integrity and availability of information.
Security modes of operation All systems handling information classified EU CONFIDENTIAL and above shall be accredited to operate in one, or where warranted by requirements during different time periods, more than one, of the following security modes of operation, or their national equivalent: (a) Dedicated. (b) System high, and (c) Multi-level. 25.2.
The Commission Security Office shall be responsible for issuing detailed INFOSEC provisions, based on the provisions in this chapter.
In case of problems regarding security (incidents, breaches, etc.), immediate action shall be taken by the Commission Security Office.
The Commission Security Office shall have an INFOSEC Unit. 25.3.2.
The Security accreditation authority (SAA) The Head of the Commission Security Office shall be the Security Accreditation Authority (SAA) for the Commission.
When different components of a system come under the jurisdiction of the Commission SAA and other SAAs, all parties concerned may appoint a joint accreditation board under the coordination of the Commission SAA. 25.3.3.
The INFOSEC Authority (IA) The Head of the Commission Security Office INFOSEC Unit is the INFOSEC Authority for the Commission.
The INFOSEC Authority is responsible for: - Providing technical advice and assistance to the SAA; - Assisting in the development of the SSRS; - Reviewing the SSRS to ensure consistency with these security rules and the INFOSEC policies and architecture documents; - Participating in the accreditation panels/boards as required and providing INFOSEC recommendation on accreditation to the SAA; - Providing support to the INFOSEC training and education activities; - Providing technical advice in investigation of INFOSEC related incidents; - Establishing technical policy guidance to ensure that only authorised software is used. 25.3.4.
A single person may perform the various INFOSEC functions. 25.3.5.
Non technical security measures 25.4.1.
Physical security IT and remote terminal/workstation areas (as defined in Section 25.2) in which information classified EU CONFIDENTIAL and above is handled by IT means, or where potential access to such information is possible, shall be established as EU Class I or Class II security areas, as appropriate. 25.4.3.
Output, whether it is the form of hard-copy or computer storage media shall have the same classification as the highest classification of the information used for its production.
All computer storage media shall be handled in a manner commensurate with the highest classification of the stored information or the media label, and at all times shall be appropriately protected.
Re-usable computer storage media used for recording EU classified information shall retain the highest classification for which they have ever been used until that information has been properly downgraded or declassified and the media reclassified accordingly, or the media declassified or destroyed in accordance with a procedure approved by the SAA (see 25.5.4). 25.5.2.
These records shall be retained in accordance with these security rules.
For EU SECRET and above, such procedures shall include specific instructions for accountability of the information. 25.5.3.
Procedures shall be established to ensure that, for all levels of EU information, the storage of information on computer storage media is being carried out in accordance with these security rules. 25.5.4.
Computer storage media that have held EU TOP SECRET or special category information shall not be declassified and reused.
Communications security The Head of the Commission Security Office is the Crypto Authority.
During transmission, the confidentiality of information classified EU SECRET and above shall be protected by cryptographic methods or products approved by the Member of the Commission responsible for security matters after having consulted the Commission Security Policy Advisory Group.
During transmission, the confidentiality of information classified EU CONFIDENTIAL or EU RESTRICTED shall be protected by cryptographic methods or products approved by the Commission Crypto Authority after having consulted the Commission Security Policy Advisory Group.
Detailed rules applicable to the transmission of EU classified information shall be set out in specific security instructions approved by the Commission Security Office after having consulted the Commission Security Policy Advisory Group.
Systems handling information classified EU CONFIDENTIAL and above shall be protected in such a way that their security cannot be threatened by compromising emanations and or conductivity, the study and control of which is referred to as %quot%Tempest%quot%.
Tempest countermeasures shall be reviewed and approved by the Tempest authority (see 25.3.2). 25.6.
Security during handling 25.6.1.
Procurement 25.7.1.
This authorisation can only be provided for technical reasons in exceptional cases. 25.8.3.
RELEASE OF EU CLASSIFIED INFORMATION TO THIRD STATES OR INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATIONS 26.1.1.
Each level of cooperation shall determine the procedures and security provisions, detailed in Appendices 3, 4, and 5. 26.1.3.
Draft agreements on security procedures or memoranda of understanding, shall be discussed by the Commission Security Policy Advisory Group before they are presented to the Commission for a decision.
Appendix 1 COMPARISON OF NATIONAL SECURITY CLASSIFICATIONS %gt%TABLE%gt% Appendix 2 PRACTICAL CLASSIFICATION GUIDE This guide is indicative and may not be construed as modifying the substantial provisions laid down in Sections 16, 17, 20 and 21. %gt%TABLE%gt% Appendix 3 Guidelines for the release of EU classified information to third States or international organisations: Level 1 cooperation PROCEDURES 1.
The authority to release EU classified information to countries that are not members of the European Union or to other international organisations, whose security policy and regulations are comparable to EU's, lies with the Commission as a college. 2.
The Member of the Commission responsible for security matters shall forward the request and the Commission Security Policy Advisory Group's opinion to the Commission for a decision.
SECURITY PROVISIONS TO BE APPLIED BY BENEFICIARIES 5.
The decision to release shall come into force only when the beneficiaries have given a written assurance that they will: - Use the information for no other than the agreed purposes; - Protect the information in accordance with these security provisions and in particular the special rules set out below. 7.
Transmission of documents (a) The practical procedures for the transmission of documents shall be decided by agreement.
These registries shall apply strictly equivalent provisions as those of Section 22 of these security provisions. 9.
Destruction (a) EU classified documents shall be destroyed in accordance with the instructions set out in Section 22 of these security provisions.
Protection of documents Every step shall be taken to prevent unauthorised persons from having access to EU classified information. 12.
Breaches of security When a breach of security involving a EU classified document has taken place or is suspected, the following action shall be taken immediately, subject to the conclusion of a security agreement: (a) Carry out an investigation to establish the circumstances of the breach of security; (b) Notify the Commission Security Office, the relevant National Security Authority and the originating authority, or clearly state that the latter has not been notified if this has not been done; (c) Take action to minimise the effects of the breach of security; (d) Reconsider and implement measures to prevent any recurrence; (e) Implement any measures recommended by the Commission Security Office to prevent a recurrence. 14.
Appendix 4 Guidelines for the release of EU classified information to third States or international organisations: Level 2 cooperation PROCEDURES 1.
The authority to release EUCI created within the Commission lies with the Commission as a college. 2.
In principle, it is restricted to information classified up to and including EU SECRET; it excludes classified information protected by special security designators or markings. 3.
The Commission Security Policy Advisory Group's opinion shall be on the following: - The confidence that can be placed in the beneficiary States or international organisations with a view to assessing the security risks incurred by the EU or its Member States; - An assessment of the beneficiaries' ability to protect classified information released by EU; - Proposals as to practical procedures for the handling of the EU classified information (providing expurgated versions of a text, for example) and documents transmitted (retaining or deleting EU classification headings, specific markings, etc.); - Downgrading or declassification before the information is released to the beneficiary countries or international organisations. 6.
The Member of the Commission responsible for security matters shall forward the request and the Commission Security Policy Advisory Group's opinion to the Commission for a decision.
SECURITY RULES TO BE APPLIED BY BENEFICIARIES 7.
The Member of the Commission responsible for security matters shall notify the beneficiary States or international organisations of the Commission's decision to authorise the release of EU classified information and of its restrictions. 8.
Transmission of documents The practical procedures for the transmission of documents shall be decided by agreement.
The container shall bear no indication of its contents, which shall be accessible only to persons authorised to handle EU classified information.
Breaches of security When a breach of security involving a EU classified document has taken place or is suspected, the following action shall be taken immediately: (a) Forward a report immediately to the Commission Security Office or the NSA of the Member State that has taken the initiative in forwarding documents (with a copy to the Commission Security Office); (b) Conduct an enquiry, on completion of which a full report shall be submitted to the security body (see (a) above).
Appendix 5 Guidelines for the release of EU classified information to third States or international organisations: Level 3 cooperation PROCEDURES 1.
From time to time, the Commission may wish to cooperate in certain special circumstances with States or organisations that cannot give the assurances required by these security rules, but that cooperation may call for the release of EU classified information. 2.
In principle, it is restricted to information classified up to and including EU SECRET; it excludes classified information protected by special security designators or markings. 3.
If the Commission is in favour, the Member of the Commission responsible for security matters - Shall seek the opinions of the originators of the EUCI to be released; - Shall arrange for a meeting of the Commission Security Policy Advisory Group or, under a silent procedure if necessary, enquire from the Member States' National Security Authorities with a view to obtaining the Commission Security Policy Advisory Group's opinion. 5.
The Commission Security Policy Advisory Group's opinion shall be on the following: (a) An evaluation of the security risks incurred by EU or its Member States; (b) The level of classification of the information that may be released; (c) Downgrading or declassification before the information is released; (d) Procedures for handling the documents to be released (see paragraph below); (e) The possible methods of transmission (use of public postal services, public or secure telecommunications systems, diplomatic bag, cleared couriers, etc.). 6.
The President shall forward the Commission Security Policy Advisory Group's opinion to the Commission for a decision. 8.
SECURITY PROVISIONS TO BE APPLIED BY BENEFICIARIES 11.
The Member of the Commission responsible for security matters shall notify the beneficiary States or international organisations of the Commission's decision to authorise the release of EU classified information, together with the detailed rules of protection proposed by the Commission Security Policy Advisory Group and approved by the Commission. 12.
The decision shall come into force only when the beneficiaries have given a written assurance that they will: - Use the information for no other purpose than the cooperation decided by the Commission; - Offer the information the protection required by the Commission. 13.
Transmission of documents (a) The practical procedures for the transmission of documents shall be agreed between the Commission Security Office and the security bodies of the recipient States or international organisations.
Use and protection of the classified information exchanged (a) Information at the level of EU SECRET shall be handled by specifically designated officials, authorised to have access to information with this classification.
It shall be stored in good quality security cabinets that can be opened only by the persons authorised to have access to the information they contain.
In the case of EU RESTRICTED and EU CONFIDENTIAL documents, an appropriate note shall be entered in the special registers.
The necessary steps shall be taken to remedy inadequate procedures or storage methods if they have given rise to the compromise.
Appendix 6 LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS %gt%TABLE%gt%
