This Regulation provides a framework for all structural measures in the fisheries sector carried out in the territory of a Member State, without prejudice to regional particularities with a view to achieving the objectives set out in Article 1 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1263/1999 and the objectives of the common fisheries policy, in particular conservation and long-term sustainability of resources. 2.
Article 2 Means The Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance, hereafter referred to as %quot%FIFG%quot% may, under the conditions laid down in this Regulation, provide assistance for the measures defined in Titles II, III and IV within the fields covered by the common fisheries policy as defined in Article 1 of Regulation (EEC) No 3760/92.
TITLE I PROGRAMMING Article 3 Common provisions 1.
Programming shall cover all the fields referred to in Titles II, III and IV. 2.
Programming of measures part-financed by the FIFG in Objective 1 regions shall be in accordance with Article 2(2), first subparagraph of Regulation (EC) No 1263/1999.
The contents of the plans shall be as set out in Annex I. 4.
Article 4 Multiannual guidance programmes for fishing fleets 1.
The Council, under Article 11 of Regulation (EEC) No 3760/92, lays down the objectives and measures for restructuring the fisheries sector.
Article 5 Monitoring multiannual guidance programmes 1.
The Commission shall decide on the revisions provided for in paragraph 3 in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23(2). 5.
For the implementation of this Article, Member States shall apply the provisions of Article 24 of Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93.
TITLE II IMPLEMENTATION OF MULTIANNUAL GUIDANCE PROGRAMMES FOR FISHING FLEETS Article 6 Fleet renewal and modernisation of fishing vessels 1.
These arrangements shall, in particular, take into account that capacity, other than that of vessels of less than 12 metres overall length excluding trawlers, which has been withdrawn with public aid, cannot be replaced. 2.
Such a request shall be examined by the Commission and approved in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23(2).
Article 7 Adjustment of fishing effort 1.
Notwithstanding paragraph 5(c) and (d), where the vessel is definitively assigned for the preservation of historical heritage in the territory of a Member State, or for the fisheries research or training activities of public or semi-public bodies of a Member State, or for the control of fishing activities, in particular by a third country, public aid shall be granted under the conditions given in paragraph 5(a). 7.
Article 8 Joint enterprises 1.
The Community partner must hold a significant proportion, generally between 25 % and 75 %, of the share capital; (b) ownership of the permanently transferred vessel must be handed over to the joint enterprise in the third country.
For five years the vessel may not be used for fishing activities other than those authorised by the competent authorities of the third country, nor may it be used by other shipowners. 3.
The management authority shall pay 80 % of the premium to the applicant when the vessel is transferred to the joint enterprise, after the applicant has provided proof that a bank guarantee for an amount equal to 20 % of the premium has been lodged. 5.
Article 9 Public aid for fleet renewal and modernisation of fishing vessels 1.
The Council shall, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 37 of the Treaty, decide by 31 December 2001 on any necessary adjustments to be applied as from 1 January 2002 to the provisions of this paragraph. 2.
The effect of granting public aid shall be accounted for in the annual implementation report referred to in Article 21. 3.
Article 10 Common provisions on fishing fleets 1.
If the obligations referred to in paragraph 1 (a) to (d) are not respected, the Commission may adjust the capacity objectives in the multiannual guidance programme in the light of the information available to it, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23(2). 3.
These premiums are to be reduced: (i) by a part of the amount previously received in the case of modernisation aid and/or the allowance for a temporary joint venture; this part is calculated pro rata temporis for the five-year period preceding the permanent withdrawal or the setting up of the joint enterprise; (ii) by the total amount previously received in the case of aid for the temporary cessation of activities within the meaning of Article 16 (1) of this Regulation and under Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2468/98 paid during the year preceding permanent withdrawal or the setting up of the joint enterprise. 4.
An aid for construction or for modernisation, under this Regulation shall be reimbursed pro rata temporis when the vessel concerned is deleted from the fishing vessel register of the Community, within 10 years from the construction, or within five years from the modernisation works.
Article 11 Small-scale coastal fishing 1.
The lump-sum premium shall not exceed EUR 150000 per integrated collective project.
Article 12 Socioeconomic measures 1.
The Member States may take, for fishermen, measures of a socioeconomic nature associated with restructuring of the Community fisheries sector within the meaning of Article 11 of Regulation (EEC) No 3760/92. 3.
In each Member State, for the entire programming period the number of beneficiaries may not exceed the number of jobs eliminated on board fishing vessels as a result of those vessels permanently stopping fishing activities within the meaning of Article 7; (b) granting individual compensatory payments to fishermen who can show that they have worked for at least twelve months as fishermen, on the basis of an eligible cost limited to EUR 10000 per individual beneficiary, provided the vessel on which the beneficiaries were employed has been the object of measures permanently stopping its activities, within the meaning of Article 7; (c) granting non-renewable individual compensatory payments to fishermen who can show that they have worked for at least five years as fishermen, to help them retrain or diversify their activities outside maritime fisheries under an individual or collective social plan, on the basis of an eligible cost limited to EUR 50000 per individual beneficiary; the management authority shall determine the individual amount according to the scale of the retraining and diversification project and the financial commitment entered into by the beneficiary; (d) granting individual premiums to fishermen younger than 35 years who can demonstrate that they have worked at least five years as fishermen or can demonstrate equivalent vocational training and who acquire for the first time part or total ownership in a fishing vessel, provided that the following conditions are fulfilled: (i) the fishing vessel must have an overall length between 7 and 24 metres; at the time of acquisition of ownership it must be aged between 10 and 20 years, it must be operational and it must be registered in the fishing vessel register of the Community; (ii) the transfer of ownership does not occur within the same family up to the second degree.
TITLE III PROTECTION AND DEVELOPMENT OF AQUATIC RESOURCES, AQUACULTURE, FISHING PORT FACILITIES, PROCESSING AND MARKETING AND INLAND FISHING Article 13 Scope 1.
TITLE IV OTHER MEASURES Article 14 Measures to find and promote new market outlets 1.
Article 15 Operations by members of the trade 1.
The Commission shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this Article in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23(2).
Article 16 Temporary cessation of activities and other financial compensation 1.
Before the recovery plan is put into place the management authority shall forward to the Commission suitable scientific and economic justification.
Article 17 Innovative measures and technical assistance 1.
TITLE V GENERAL AND FINANCIAL PROVISIONS Article 18 Compliance with the conditions governing assistance The management authority shall ensure that the special conditions governing assistance listed in Annex III are complied with.
Article 19 Notification of aid schemes 1.
The Member States shall notify the Commission of the aid schemes provided for in the plans referred to in Article 3(3) and defined in Article 9(b) of Regulation (EC) No 1260/1999, in accordance with Articles 87 to 89 of the Treaty. 2.
Article 20 Monetary conversion For Member States which are not in the euro zone, the amounts in euro set by this Regulation shall be converted into national currency at the rate published in the C series of the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Article 21 Implementing rules The form of the expenditure statements and annual implementation reports shall be adopted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 23(2).
Article 22 Committee procedure The measures necessary for the implementation of this Regulation relating to matters referred to in Articles 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 15 and 21 shall be adopted in accordance with the management procedure referred to in Article 23(2).
Article 23 Committees 1.
The Commission shall be assisted: (a) for the purpose of the implementation of Articles 8, 15 and 21 by the Committee on structures for fisheries and aquaculture established by Article 51 of Regulation (EEC) No 1260/1999; and (b) for the purpose of the implementation of Articles 4, 5, 6 and 10 by the Committee for fisheries and aquaculture established by Article 17 of Regulation (EEC) No 3760/92. 2.
Article 24 Transitional provisions The following shall be repealed with effect from 1 January 2000: - Regulation (EC) No 2468/98, - Article 7(1), (2), (3) and Article 7b of Regulation (EEC) No 3759/92; - Regulation (EEC) No 3140/82(18).
However, the repealed provisions shall remain applicable for aid, measures and projects approved before 31 December 1999.
Article 25 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 17 December 1999.
ANNEX I CONTENTS OF THE PLANS 1.
Quantified description of the current situation for each of the fields referred to in Titles II, III and IV (a) Strengths and weaknesses; (b) summary of operations undertaken and impact of funds used in previous years; (c) requirements of the sector, particularly with regard to the constraints of the multiannual guidance programme for the fishing fleet. 2.
Results from the previous programme (a) Member States shall by 1 May 2001 identify and comment on the progress achieved and means used in attaining the objectives set for the 1997-2001 programme; (b) analyse the general administrative and socioeconomic context in which it was implemented and in particular, where appropriate, in which measures to reduce fishing activity were implemented; (c) specify and comment on the Community, national and regional financial resources committed in attaining the results achieved, for each fleet segment. 3.
Measures taken by the Member State per fleet segment to ensure that public aid granted for fleet renewal and adjustment of fishing effort does not have contradictory effects where the pursuit of the objectives of the programmes is concerned; (b) adjustment of fishing effort: desirable evolution of fishing effort per segment until the end of the subsequent MAGP, expressed in relation to the objectives set for each segment for 31 December 2001.
ANNEX III SPECIAL CONDITIONS AND CRITERIA FOR ASSISTANCE 1.
Vessel modernisation (Articles 6 and 9) (a) Vessels must be registered in the fishing vessels register of the Community.
Investment in the areas referred to in Title III 2.0.
ANNEX IV SCALES AND RATES OF ASSISTANCE 1.
The contribution of the private beneficiary shall be reduced accordingly. (1) Commission Recommendation 96/280/EC of 3 April 1996 concerning the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises (OJ L 107, 30.4.1996, p. 4).
