In its Conclusions of 8 March 2001, the Council recognised the particular importance of the European Climate Change Programme and of work based on the Green Paper, and underlined the urgent need for concrete action at Community level. (2) The Sixth Community Environment Action Programme established by Decision No 1600/2002/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council(5) identifies climate change as a priority for action and provides for the establishment of a Community-wide emissions trading scheme by 2005.
Without prejudice to the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the Treaty, where activities are covered by the Community scheme, Member States may consider the implications of regulatory, fiscal or other policies that pursue the same objectives.
This Directive shall apply to emissions from the activities listed in Annex I and greenhouse gases listed in Annex II. 2.
Article 4 Greenhouse gas emissions permits Member States shall ensure that, from 1 January 2005, no installation undertakes any activity listed in Annex I resulting in emissions specified in relation to that activity unless its operator holds a permit issued by a competent authority in accordance with Articles 5 and 6, or the installation is temporarily excluded from the Community scheme pursuant to Article 27.
Article 5 Applications for greenhouse gas emissions permits An application to the competent authority for a greenhouse gas emissions permit shall include a description of: (a) the installation and its activities including the technology used; (b) the raw and auxiliary materials, the use of which is likely to lead to emissions of gases listed in Annex I; (c) the sources of emissions of gases listed in Annex I from the installation; and (d) the measures planned to monitor and report emissions in accordance with the guidelines adopted pursuant to Article 14.
Article 6 Conditions for and contents of the greenhouse gas emissions permit 1.
Article 7 Changes relating to installations The operator shall inform the competent authority of any changes planned in the nature or functioning, or an extension, of the installation which may require updating of the greenhouse gas emissions permit.
Article 8 Coordination with Directive 96/61/EC Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that, where installations carry out activities that are included in Annex I to Directive 96/61/EC, the conditions of, and procedure for, the issue of a greenhouse gas emissions permit are coordinated with those for the permit provided for in that Directive.
The requirements of Articles 5, 6 and 7 of this Directive may be integrated into the procedures provided for in Directive 96/61/EC.
Article 9 National allocation plan 1.
For each period referred to in Article 11(1) and (2), each Member State shall develop a national plan stating the total quantity of allowances that it intends to allocate for that period and how it proposes to allocate them.
For the period referred to in Article 11(1), the plan shall be published and notified to the Commission and to the other Member States by 31 March 2004 at the latest.
Within three months of notification of a national allocation plan by a Member State under paragraph 1, the Commission may reject that plan, or any aspect thereof, on the basis that it is incompatible with the criteria listed in Annex III or with Article 10.
Article 10 Method of allocation For the three-year period beginning 1 January 2005 Member States shall allocate at least 95 % of the allowances free of charge.
For the five-year period beginning 1 January 2008, Member States shall allocate at least 90 % of the allowances free of charge.
Article 11 Allocation and issue of allowances 1.
For the three-year period beginning 1 January 2005, each Member State shall decide upon the total quantity of allowances it will allocate for that period and the allocation of those allowances to the operator of each installation.
This decision shall be taken at least three months before the beginning of the period and be based on its national allocation plan developed pursuant to Article 9 and in accordance with Article 10, taking due account of comments from the public. 2.
For the five-year period beginning 1 January 2008, and for each subsequent five-year period, each Member State shall decide upon the total quantity of allowances it will allocate for that period and initiate the process for the allocation of those allowances to the operator of each installation.
This decision shall be taken at least 12 months before the beginning of the relevant period and be based on the Member State's national allocation plan developed pursuant to Article 9 and in accordance with Article 10, taking due account of comments from the public. 3.
Decisions taken pursuant to paragraph 1 or 2 shall be in accordance with the requirements of the Treaty, in particular Articles 87 and 88 thereof.
The competent authority shall issue a proportion of the total quantity of allowances each year of the period referred to in paragraph 1 or 2, by 28 February of that year.
Article 12 Transfer, surrender and cancellation of allowances 1.
Member States shall ensure that allowances issued by a competent authority of another Member State are recognised for the purpose of meeting an operator's obligations under paragraph 3. 3.
Member States shall ensure that, by 30 April each year at the latest, the operator of each installation surrenders a number of allowances equal to the total emissions from that installation during the preceding calendar year as verified in accordance with Article 15, and that these are subsequently cancelled. 4.
Article 13 Validity of allowances 1.
Allowances shall be valid for emissions during the period referred to in Article 11(1) or (2) for which they are issued. 2.
Article 14 Guidelines for monitoring and reporting of emissions 1.
The Commission shall adopt guidelines for monitoring and reporting of emissions resulting from the activities listed in Annex I of greenhouse gases specified in relation to those activities, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2), by 30 September 2003.
Member States shall ensure that emissions are monitored in accordance with the guidelines. 3.
Member States shall ensure that an operator whose report has not been verified as satisfactory in accordance with the criteria set out in Annex V by 31 March each year for emissions during the preceding year cannot make further transfers of allowances until a report from that operator has been verified as satisfactory.
Article 16 Penalties 1.
Member States shall notify these provisions to the Commission by 31 December 2003 at the latest, and shall notify it without delay of any subsequent amendment affecting them. 2.
Member States shall ensure that any operator who does not surrender sufficient allowances by 30 April of each year to cover its emissions during the preceding year shall be held liable for the payment of an excess emissions penalty.
The excess emissions penalty shall be EUR 100 for each tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent emitted by that installation for which the operator has not surrendered allowances.
Payment of the excess emissions penalty shall not release the operator from the obligation to surrender an amount of allowances equal to those excess emissions when surrendering allowances in relation to the following calendar year. 4.
During the three-year period beginning 1 January 2005, Member States shall apply a lower excess emissions penalty of EUR 40 for each tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent emitted by that installation for which the operator has not surrendered allowances.
Article 17 Access to information Decisions relating to the allocation of allowances and the reports of emissions required under the greenhouse gas emissions permit and held by the competent authority shall be made available to the public by that authority subject to the restrictions laid down in Article 3(3) and Article 4 of Directive 2003/4/EC.
Article 18 Competent authority Member States shall make the appropriate administrative arrangements, including the designation of the appropriate competent authority or authorities, for the implementation of the rules of this Directive.
Article 19 Registries 1.
Article 20 Central Administrator 1.
Article 21 Reporting by Member States 1.
The first report shall be sent to the Commission by 30 June 2005.
The report shall be drawn up on the basis of a questionnaire or outline drafted by the Commission in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 6 of Directive 91/692/EEC.
Article 22 Amendments to Annex III The Commission may amend Annex III, with the exception of criteria (1), (5) and (7), for the period from 2008 to 2012 in the light of the reports provided for in Article 21 and of the experience of the application of this Directive, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2).
Article 23 Committee 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the committee instituted by Article 8 of Decision 93/389/EEC. 2.
The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. 3.
Allocations made to installations carrying out such activities shall be specified in the national allocation plan referred to in Article 9. 3.
The Commission may, on its own initiative, or shall, on request by a Member State, adopt monitoring and reporting guidelines for emissions from activities, installations and greenhouse gases which are not listed in Annex I in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 23(2), if monitoring and reporting of these emissions can be carried out with sufficient accuracy. 4.
In the event that such measures are introduced, reviews carried out pursuant to Article 30 shall also consider whether Annex I should be amended to include emissions from these activities in a harmonised way throughout the Community.
Article 25 Links with other greenhouse gas emissions trading schemes 1.
Agreements should be concluded with third countries listed in Annex B to the Kyoto Protocol which have ratified the Protocol to provide for the mutual recognition of allowances between the Community scheme and other greenhouse gas emissions trading schemes in accordance with the rules set out in Article 300 of the Treaty. 2.
Article 26 Amendment of Directive 96/61/EC In Article 9(3) of Directive 96/61/EC the following subparagraphs shall be added:%quot%Where emissions of a greenhouse gas from an installation are specified in Annex I to Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 2003 establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community and amending Council Directive 96/61/EC(13) in relation to an activity carried out in that installation, the permit shall not include an emission limit value for direct emissions of that gas unless it is necessary to ensure that no significant local pollution is caused.
Article 28 Pooling 1.
Member States may allow operators of installations carrying out one of the activities listed in Annex I to form a pool of installations from the same activity for the period referred to in Article 11(1) and/or the first five-year period referred to in Article 11(2) in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 6 of this Article. 2.
Operators wishing to form a pool shall nominate a trustee: (a) to be issued with the total quantity of allowances calculated by installation of the operators, by way of derogation from Article 11; (b) to be responsible for surrendering allowances equal to the total emissions from installations in the pool, by way of derogation from Articles 6(2)(e) and 12(3); and (c) to be restricted from making further transfers in the event that an operator's report has not been verified as satisfactory in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 15. 4.
The trustee shall be subject to the penalties applicable for breaches of requirements to surrender sufficient allowances to cover the total emissions from installations in the pool, by way of derogation from Article 16(2), (3) and (4). 5.
Article 30 Review and further development 1.
On the basis of progress achieved in the monitoring of emissions of greenhouse gases, the Commission may make a proposal to the European Parliament and the Council by 31 December 2004 to amend Annex I to include other activities and emissions of other greenhouse gases listed in Annex II. 2.
The Commission shall submit this report to the European Parliament and the Council by 30 June 2006, accompanied by proposals as appropriate. 3.
Article 31 Implementation 1.
Article 32 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 33 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Luxembourg, 13 October 2003.
Cox For the Council The President G.
ANNEX I CATEGORIES OF ACTIVITIES REFERRED TO IN ARTICLES 2(1), 3, 4, 14(1), 28 AND 30 1.
Activity-specific emission factors are acceptable for all fuels.
For each Annex I activity carried out on the site for which emissions are measured: - Total emissions; - Information on the reliability of measurement methods; and - Uncertainty.
