Article 2 Body responsible for implementation The %quot%body responsible for implementation%quot% referred to in Article 10(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1164/94 shall be the public or private body responsible for organising the tenders for a project.
Article 4 Transparency and documentary evidence All expenditure incurred by the body responsible for implementation must be based on legally binding contracts or agreements and/or documents.
Article 6 Completed projects An application for assistance in respect of a project materially completed at the time when the application is submitted cannot be considered eligible.
Article 7 Initial time limit on eligibility 1.
An application shall be considered complete where it contains the information required in Article 10(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1164/94. 2.
Expenditure paid before that date shall not be eligible. 3.
Article 8 End of the eligibility period The final date for eligibility shall relate to payments made by the body responsible for implementation.
The final date of eligibility shall be fixed in the Commission decision.
CHAPTER 2 ELIGIBLE EXPENDITURE Article 9 Categories of eligible expenditure Subject to the qualifications set out in Chapters 3 to 10, the following categories of eligible expenditure shall be expenditure relating to: (a) planning and design; (b) land purchase; (c) site preparation; (d) construction; (e) equipment; (f) project management; (g) expenditure on publicity and information measures undertaken pursuant to Commission Decision 96/455/EC(4).
CHAPTER 3 VALUE ADDED TAX AND OTHER TAXES AND CHARGES Article 11 Value added tax 1.
Where the final beneficiary is subject to a flat-rate scheme under Title XIV of Council Directive 77/388/EEC(5), the VAT paid shall be considered recoverable for the purposes of paragraph 1. 3.
Article 12 Other taxes and charges Other levies, taxes or charges, in particular direct taxes and social security contributions on salaries and wages, arising from Community part-finance shall constitute eligible expenditure only if they are genuinely and definitively borne by the body responsible for implementation.
CHAPTER 4 EXPENDITURE RELATING TO PLANNING AND DESIGN OF MEASURES Article 13 Eligibility of expenditure Expenditure relating to planning, expertise and design shall be eligible, provided that such expenditure is directly linked to one or more projects and is specifically approved by the Commission decision, except in the cases set out in Articles 14, 15 and 34.
Article 14 Compatibility of costs Where several projects are covered by a single works contract or where the body responsible for implementation is carrying out the functions on its own account, costs must be assigned through a transparent and separate project-accounting system based on accounting documents or documents of equivalent probative value.
CHAPTER 5 PURCHASE OF LAND AND RIGHTS OF ACCESS Article 16 Purchase of land not built on The cost of the purchase of land not built on shall be eligible only if the all following requirements are met: (a) purchase of the land must be indispensable to the implementation of the project; (b) the purchase of land shall not exceed 10 % of the eligible expenditure for a project, except in cases duly justified by the body responsible for implementation; (c) a certificate shall be obtained from an independent qualified valuer or duly authorised official body, confirming that the purchase price does not exceed the market value; (d) the purchase of land shall be approved by the Commission decision; (e) national rules laid down to avoid speculation shall be complied with.
Article 18 Purchase of land in public ownership or in the ownership of the body responsible for implementation Neither the cost of land already owned by the body responsible for implementation nor the purchase of land owned by a public administration shall be eligible.
Article 19 Compulsory purchase Articles 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to cases of compulsory purchase.
Article 20 Rights of access Expenditure on rights of access to the project site during implementation shall be eligible, if it is indispensable to the implementation of the project and specifically approved by the Commission decision to grant assistance.
CHAPTER 6 PURCHASE OF BUILDINGS, SITE PREPARATION AND CONSTRUCTION Article 21 Purchase of real estate 1.
Article 22 Site preparation and construction 1.
Expenditure on site preparation and construction which are essential for implementation of the project shall be eligible. 2.
CHAPTER 7 PURCHASE, LEASE OF EQUIPMENT AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Article 23 Durable equipment that is part of capital expenditure of the measures 1.
Expenditure on the purchase or construction of plant and equipment that is to be permanently installed and fixed in the project shall be eligible, provided that it is included in the inventory of durable equipment of the body responsible for implementation and that it is treated as capital expenditure in accordance with standard accounting conventions. 2.
Without prejudice to Article 33, the lease of equipment as referred to in paragraph 1 shall be regarded as part of the operating costs and shall not be eligible.
Article 24 The purchase of intangible assets The purchase and use of intangible assets, such as patents, shall be eligible if they are necessary for the implementation of the project.
Article 25 Durable equipment used for the implementation of measures 1.
Article 26 Durable equipment used for administrative purposes relating to the implementation of measures 1.
Expenditure on the purchase and leasing of durable equipment used for administrative purposes shall not be eligible. 2.
Without prejudice to Articles 30 and 33, expenditure on the purchase and leasing of equipment used by a public authority in the pursuit of its monitoring and supervision work shall not be eligible.
CHAPTER 8 COSTS INCURRED IN THE MANAGEMENT, IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND INSPECTION OF MEASURES Article 27 General and administrative expenses The general and administrative expenditure of the body responsible for the implementation of measures shall not be eligible.
Article 28 Expenditure incurred by public authorities Expenditure incurred by public authorities in the management, implementation, monitoring and inspection of a measure or all measures, in particular the salaries of established national or local officials, shall not be eligible.
Article 29 Expenditure on subcontracted measures Where measures are subcontracted, only duly justified expenditure relating to financial and material monitoring, audits and on-the-spot inspections of the project shall be eligible.
CHAPTER 9 FINANCIAL AND OTHER CHARGES AND LEGAL EXPENSES Article 30 Financial charges Debt interest, charges for financial operations, exchange costs and other purely financial costs shall not be eligible.
Article 31 Fines, financial penalties and expenditure on disputes Without prejudice to Article 7 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 1831/94(6), legal costs, fines, financial penalties and expenditure on disputes shall not be eligible.
Article 32 Accountancy and audit fees Accountancy and audit fees shall be eligible if they are directly linked to the operation, are necessary for its preparation or implementation and relate to administrative or statutory requirements.
Article 33 Special financing techniques Without prejudice to Article 29, the cost of financing techniques which do not imply an immediate purchase of equipment, such as leasing, may be considered eligible if it is justified and approved by the Commission decision, and provided that transfer of ownership to the body responsible for implementation takes place before payment of the balance.
Article 34 Lawyers' fees, notarial fees, and costs of expert technical or financial advice Lawyers' fees, notarial fees, and costs of expert technical or financial advice shall be eligible if they are directly related to the operation and if they are necessary for its preparation or implementation.
CHAPTER 10 OTHER TYPES OF EXPENDITURE Article 35 Operating expenditure and running costs of assisted projects 1.
Article 36 Publicity and information measures Expenditure on publicity and information measures undertaken pursuant to Decision 96/455/EC shall be eligible.
Article 37 Car parks The Cohesion Fund shall not contribute to the construction of indoor or outdoor car parking lots can unless they are indispensable and are specifically approved by a Commission decision.
Article 38 Purchase of second-hand equipment The cost of purchasing second-hand equipment shall be eligible under the following three conditions, without prejudice to the application of stricter national rules: (a) the seller of the equipment must provide a declaration stating its origin, and confirming that at no point during the previous seven years has it been purchased with the aid of national or Community grants; (b) the price of the equipment must not exceed its market value and must be lower than the cost of similar, but new, equipment; (c) the equipment has the characteristics required for the operation and complies with the applicable rules.
Article 39 Subcontracting Without prejudice to the application of stricter national rules, expenditure relating to the following subcontracts shall not be eligible: (a) subcontracting which results in an increase in the cost of implementing the project with no commensurate added value; (b) subcontracting contracts concluded with intermediates or consultants under which the payment is defined as a percentage of the total cost, unless such a payment is justified by the body responsible for implementation by reference to the real value of the works or services provided.
CHAPTER 11 EXPENDITURE INCURRED IN RELATION TO MONITORING COMMITTEES, AD HOC MEETINGS AND COMPUTERISED MANAGEMENT AND MONITORING SYSTEMS Article 40 Organisation of meetings of the Monitoring Committee 1.
Without prejudice to Articles 27 and 28, expenditure incurred in the organisation of the mandatory meetings of the Monitoring Committee provided for in Article F of Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1164/94 shall be eligible on presentation of supporting documents. 2.
The expenditure referred to in paragraph 1 shall be admissible where it relates to one or more of the following categories of costs: (a) interpreting services; (b) hire of meeting rooms; (c) rental of audio-visual and other necessary electronic equipment; (d) provision of documentation and related facilities; (e) fees for participation of experts; (f) travel costs. 3.
Article 41 Meetings at the request of the Commission or the Monitoring Committee Article 40 shall apply to the organisation of ad hoc meetings at the request of the Commission or the Monitoring Committee.
Article 42 Computer systems for management and monitoring The costs entailed in purchasing and installing computerised management and monitoring systems shall be eligible up to the limits laid down in the Commission decision.
Article 43 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 6 January 2003.
For the Commission Michel Barnier Member of the Commission (1) OJ L 130, 25.5.1994, p. 1. (2) OJ L 161, 26.6.1999, p. 62. (3) OJ L 201, 31.7.2002, p. 5. (4) OJ L 188, 27.7.1996, p. 47. (5) OJ L 145, 13.6.1977, p. 1. (6) OJ L 191, 27.7.1994, p. 9.
