This instrument is without prejudice to the application of the Convention of 18 December 1997 on mutual assistance and cooperation between administrations [6]. (11) This Regulation should not hamper other Community measures to combat fraud in the field of excise duties. (12) This Regulation incorporates and defines the arrangements contained in Directive 92/12/EEC to facilitate administrative cooperation between Member States.
This Regulation shall not affect the application in the Member States of the rules on mutual assistance in criminal matters.
The central liaison office shall have principal responsibility for exchanges of information on movements of excisable products and in particular, it shall have principal responsibility for; (a) the exchange of data stored in the electronic register provided for in Article 22; (b) the early warning system provided for in Article 23; (c) verification requests to or from other Member States provided for in Article 24. 4.
The officials exchanging information under Articles 11 and 13 shall be deemed to be competent officials for this purpose, in accordance with the conditions laid down by the competent authorities. 7.
In such a case, the time limits laid down in Article 8 shall begin on the day following that on which the request for assistance was forwarded to the central liaison office.
CHAPTER II COOPERATION ON REQUEST SECTION 1 Request for information and for administrative enquiries Article 5 1.
At the request of the requesting authority, the requested authority shall communicate the information referred to in Article 1, including any information relating to a specific case or cases. 2.
Article 6 Requests for information and for administrative enquiries pursuant to Article 5 shall, as far as possible, be sent using a standard form adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 34(2).
Article 10 Where the requested authority is unable to respond to the request by the time limit, it shall inform the requesting authority forthwith of the reasons for its failure to do so and indicate when it will be able to respond.
SECTION 3 Presence in administrative offices and participation in administrative enquiries Article 11 1.
By agreement between the requesting authority and the requested authority and in accordance with the arrangements laid down by the latter, officials authorised by the requesting authority may be present in the offices where the administrative authorities of the Member State in which the requested authority is established carry out their duties, with a view to exchanging the information referred to in Article 1.
By agreement between the requesting authority and the requested authority and in accordance with the arrangements laid down by the latter, officials designated by the requesting authority may be present during the administrative enquiries with a view to exchanging the information provided for in Article 1.
SECTION 4 Simultaneous controls Article 12 With a view to exchanging the information referred to in Article 1, two or more Member States may agree to conduct simultaneous controls, in their own territory, of the excise duty situation of one or more persons who are of common or complementary interest, whenever such controls would appear to be more effective than controls carried out by only one Member State.
Article 15 Requests for notification, mentioning the subject of the decision or measure to be notified, shall indicate the name, address and any other relevant information for identifying the addressee.
Article 20 Member States shall take the necessary administrative and organisational measures to facilitate the exchanges provided for in this Chapter.
Article 21 A Member State cannot be obliged, for the purposes of implementing this Chapter, to impose new obligations on persons for the purposes of collecting information, nor to bear disproportionate administrative burdens.
CHAPTER IV STORAGE AND EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION SPECIFIC TO INTRA-COMMUNITY TRANSACTIONS Article 22 1.
Where a trader can be identified only by means of a VAT identification number, Article 27 of Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 shall apply for that purpose.
The relevant authorities of the Member State in which a consignor of excisable products is established may grant assistance, using the document provided for in paragraph 2, where such consignor fails to receive Copy 3 of the AAD or SAAD and where such consignor has exhausted all the means available to him to obtain proof that the movement of products has been cleared.
CHAPTER V RELATIONS WITH THE COMMISSION Article 26 1.
With a view to evaluating the effectiveness of this system of administrative cooperation in combating tax evasion and tax fraud, Member States may communicate to the Commission any other available information referred to in Article 1. 5.
The Commission shall forward the information referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 to the other Member States concerned.
CHAPTER VI RELATIONS WITH THIRD COUNTRIES Article 27 1.
CHAPTER VII CONDITIONS GOVERNING THE EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION Article 28 Information communicated pursuant to this Regulation shall, as far as possible, be provided by electronic means under the arrangements to be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 34(2).
Article 29 Requests for assistance, including requests for notifications, and attached documents may be made in any language agreed between the requested and requesting authority.
The requested authority shall inform the requesting authority of the grounds for refusing a request for assistance.
Where the requesting authority considers that information it has received from the requested authority may be useful to the competent authority of a third Member State, it may forward it to the latter authority.
Article 32 Reports, statements, and any other documents or certified true copies or extracts thereof obtained by the officials of the requested authority and communicated to the requesting authority under the assistance provided for by this Regulation may be invoked as evidence by the competent bodies of the Member State of the requesting authority on the same basis as similar documents provided by another authority of that country.
CHAPTER VIII GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 34 1.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Article 36 Where the competent authorities conclude arrangements on bilateral matters covered by this Regulation other than to deal with individual cases, they shall inform the Commission without delay.
The Commission shall in turn inform the competent authorities of the other Member States.
Article 37 This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 July 2005.
Done at Brussels, 16 November 2004.
