Where an essential element is lacking, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, may take appropriate steps with regard to any pre-accession assistance. (4) The Luxembourg European Council decided that the implementation of the Accession Partnership and progress in adopting the acquis will be examined in the Europe Agreement bodies. (5) The 2001 Commission's regular report presents an objective analysis on Bulgaria's preparations for membership and identifies a number of priority areas for further work. (6) In order to prepare for membership, Bulgaria should continue to update its national programme for the adoption of the acquis.
Article 2 The implementation of the Accession Partnership shall be examined in the Europe Agreement bodies and by the appropriate Council bodies to which the Commission shall report regularly.
Article 3 This Decision shall take effect on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 28 January 2002.
PiquĂŠ i Camps (1) OJ L 85, 20.3.1998, p. 1.
As provided for in Regulation (EC) No 622/98 (Article 2), the Accession Partnership was updated a first time in December 1999, taking into account further developments in Bulgaria.
The present revision is based on a proposal by the Commission following consultation with Bulgaria, and draws on the analysis of the Commission's 2001 regular report on progress made by Bulgaria towards accession. 2.
Objectives The purpose of the Accession Partnership is to set out in a single framework the priority areas for further work identified in the Commission's 2001 regular reports on the progress made by Bulgaria towards membership of the Union, the financial means available to help Bulgaria implement these priorities and the conditions which will apply to that assistance.
The Feira and Gothenburg European Councils in 2000 and 2001 respectively confirmed the vital importance of the applicant countries' capacity to implement and enforce the acquis, and added that this required important efforts by the applicants in strengthening and reforming their administrative and judicial structures. 4.
The progress made in meeting the priorities of the 1999 Accession Partnership is assessed in the 2001 regular report.
This assessment has been used in formulating the priorities for the current Partnership.
Bulgaria submitted an updated version of its national programme for the adoption of the acquis (NPAA) on 2 July 2001.
Ensure transparent public procurement procedures at central and regional levels, - proceed with screening of legislation in the non-harmonised area to ensure that it is in compliance with Articles 28, 29 and 30 of the Treaty and complete administrative arrangements for the future monitoring in this area.
Agriculture - prepare the administrative structures needed for the design, implementation, management, monitoring, control and evaluation of Community funded rural development programmes, - upgrade the capacity of the agricultural administration for the practical implementation and enforcement of the management mechanisms of the common agricultural policy, in particular the integrated administration and control system and the paying agency for the management of common agricultural policy funds, as well as for the implementation and enforcement of veterinary and phytosanitary and food safety legislation, - put in place the necessary conditions for the emergence and strengthening of efficient land, labour and capital markets in the rural and agricultural sectors, - continue the upgrading of food processing establishments so that they are in a position to respect Community food safety standards, - continue the reinforcement of the food control administration, - continue preparation of the vineyard register, - continue alignment of veterinary and phytosanitary legislation and upgrade inspection arrangements, in particular at future external borders, - complete transposition of legislation on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, plant passports, maximum residue levels, animal nutrition and ensure implementation and enforcement, including testing of animal diseases, in particular transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, in accordance with the acquis.
This should take into account the commitments of the Understanding of 1999 on Kozloduy nuclear power plant, - implement the commitment made in the Understanding of 1999 to close down definitively Units 1 and 2 of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant before the year 2003, and decide in 2002 a firm date, not later than 2006, for the closure of Units 3 and 4, - implement the recommendations contained in the Council report on nuclear safety in the context of enlargement with due regard to the priorities assigned in the report, - focus on strengthening the independence, resources and capacities of the national regulatory authority for nuclear energy, - continue to ensure a high level of nuclear safety at Units 5 and 6 of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant and maintain a high level of nuclear safety throughout the decommissioning phases of Units 1 to 4, - in need of particularly urgent action: adopt the framework law and timetable to meet oil stocks requirement acquis, - improve management of radioactive waste, - start to implement energy efficiency measures and step up the use of renewable energy.
Telecommunications and information technologies - complete the transposition of the acquis, - ensure independence of the bodies concerned with regulation (State Telecommunications Commission, Postal Regulator and ministry) from operational activities and strengthen their capacity in preparation for planned full liberalisation of these sectors by 1 January 2003.
Regional policy and coordination of structural instruments - strengthen administrative capacity in key ministries, particularly at the central level, to design strategies and to implement and evaluate projects for regional development and economic and social cohesion, financed by Community and national funds, - prepare a coherent development plan as required by the Structural Funds Regulations.
Failure to respect these general conditions could lead to a Decision by the Council on the suspension of financial assistance on the basis of Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 622/98. 7.
The Accession Partnership will continue to be amended as necessary in accordance with Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 622/98. (1) The order of presentation is that used in the 2000 regular report.
