Article 3 Definitions 1.
Article 4 Data collection 1.
They shall cover the following types of data: (a) annual statistics on goods transport - detailed reporting (Annex A); (b) annual statistics on goods transport - simplified reporting (Annex B); (c) annual statistics on passenger transport - detailed reporting (Annex C); (d) annual statistics on passenger transport - simplified reporting (Annex D); (e) quarterly statistics on goods and passenger transport (Annex E); (f) regional statistics on goods and passenger transport (Annex F); (g) statistics on traffic flows on the rail network (Annex G); (h) statistics on accidents (Annex H). 2.
Annexes B and D set out simplified reporting requirements, which may be used by Member States as alternatives to the normal detailed reporting set out in Annexes A and C, for undertakings for which the total volume of goods or passenger transport is less than 500 million tonne-km or 200 million passenger-km respectively.
Article 5 Data sources 1.
Article 6 Transmission of statistics to Eurostat 1.
Member States shall transmit to Eurostat the statistics referred to in Article 4. 2.
The arrangements for transmission of the statistics referred to in Article 4 shall be laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 11(2).
Article 7 Dissemination 1.
Article 8 Quality of statistics 1.
Article 9 Report After data have been collected over three years, the Commission shall send a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on experience acquired in the work carried out under this Regulation accompanied, if necessary, by appropriate proposals.
Article 10 Implementing procedures The following implementing measures shall be taken in accordance with the procedure specified in Article 11(2): (a) adaptation of the thresholds for simplified reporting (Article 4); (b) adaptation of the definitions and adoption of additional definitions (Article 3); (c) adaptation of the contents of the annexes (Article 4); (d) arrangements for transmitting data to Eurostat (Article 6); (e) definition of the guidelines for the reports on the quality and comparability of the results (Articles 8 and 9).
Article 11 Procedure 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Statistical Programme Committee instituted by Article 1 of Decision 89/382/EEC, Euratom. 2.
Article 12 Directive 80/1177/EEC 1.
Member States shall provide results for the year 2002 in accordance with Directive 80/1177/EEC. 2.
Directive 80/1177/EEC is hereby repealed with effect from 1 January 2003.
Article 13 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Done at Brussels, 16 December 2002.
Cox For the Council The President M.
Substances which, in contact with water, emit flammable gases 5.1.
Oxidising substances 5.2.
Organic peroxides 6.1.
Toxic substances 6.2.
Radioactive material 8.
