The responsibilities of Member States and the Commission in this regard, and arrangements to ensure the reliability of evaluation, should be clearly defined. (19) Actions should be evaluated with a view to a mid-term review and assessment of their impact, and the evaluation process should be incorporated into project-monitoring arrangements. (20) Since the objective of this Decision, namely to promote a balance of effort between Member States in receiving refugees and displaced persons, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
The financial reference amount for the implementation of the Fund from 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2006 shall be EUR 114 million. 2.
Article 7 Eligible national actions relating to voluntary return Actions relating to voluntary return, and in particular the following, shall be eligible for support from the Fund: (a) information and advisory services concerning voluntary return initiatives or programmes; (b) information on the situation in the country or region of origin or former habitual residence; (c) general or vocational training and help with reintegration; (d) action by communities of origin resident in the European Union to facilitate the voluntary return of the persons referred to in this Decision; (e) actions which facilitate the organisation and implementation of national voluntary return programmes.
Article 8 Community actions 1.
In addition to the projects provided for by Articles 5, 6 and 7, at the Commission’s initiative, up to 7 % of the Fund’s available resources may be used to finance transnational actions or actions of interest to the Community as a whole concerning asylum policy and measures applicable to refugees and displaced persons as referred to in paragraph 2. 2.
The annual work programme laying down the priorities for Community actions shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 11(2).
Article 9 Emergency measures 1.
CHAPTER II IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT PROVISIONS Article 10 Implementation The Commission shall be responsible for implementing this Decision and shall adopt such implementing rules as may be necessary.
The period laid down in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. 3.
Article 12 Respective responsibilities of the Commission and the Member States 1.
The Commission shall: (a) adopt guidelines, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 11(2), for the priorities of the multiannual programmes provided for by Article 15 and shall notify the Member States of the indicative financial allocations for the Fund; (b) ensure, as part of its responsibility for executing the general budget of the European Union, that appropriate management and control systems are in place in the Member States and that they operate smoothly, so as to guarantee that Community funds are used properly and effectively.
Article 13 Responsible authorities 1.
Article 14 Selection criteria The responsible authority shall select projects on the basis of the following criteria: (a) the situation and requirements in the Member State; (b) the cost-effectiveness of the expenditure, in view of the number of persons concerned by the project; (c) the experience, expertise, reliability and financial contribution of the organisation applying for funding and any partner organisation; (d) the extent to which the projects complement other action funded by the general budget of the European Union or as part of national programmes.
CHAPTER III PROGRAMMES Article 15 Multiannual programmes 1.
Article 16 Annual programmes 1.
The decision shall indicate the amount allocated to the Member State and the period for which the expenditure is eligible. 5.
In the event of significant changes affecting the implementation of the annual programme which imply a transfer of funds between actions exceeding 10 % of the total amount allocated to a Member State for the year in question, the Member State shall submit for the Commission’s approval a revised annual programme at the latest at the time of submission of the progress report referred to in Article 23(3).
Article 17 Annual breakdown of resources for actions in the Member States provided for by Articles 5, 6 and 7 1.
Each Member State shall receive a fixed amount of EUR 300000 from the Fund's annual allocation.
This amount shall be fixed at EUR 500000 per annum for 2005, 2006 and 2007 in conformity with new financial perspectives for the states which acceded to the European Union on 1 May 2004. 2.
The remainder of the available annual resources shall be broken down between the Member States as follows: (a) 30 % in proportion to the number of persons admitted in one of the categories referred to in Article 3(1) and (2) over the previous three years; (b) 70 % in proportion to the number of persons referred to in Article 3(3) and (4) registered over the previous three years. 3.
Article 18 Technical and administrative assistance Part of the annual co-financing allocated to a Member State may be set aside to cover expenditure on technical and administrative assistance for preparation, monitoring and evaluation of actions.
The annual amount set aside for technical and administrative assistance may not exceed 7 % of the total annual co-financing allocated to a Member State, plus EUR 30000.
Article 19 Special provisions concerning emergency measures 1.
Member States shall provide the Commission with a statement of requirements and an implementation plan for the emergency measures provided for by Article 9, including a description of the planned measures and the bodies responsible for implementing them. 2.
Financial assistance from the Fund for the emergency measures provided for by Article 9 shall be limited to a period of six months and shall not exceed 80 % of the cost of each measure. 3.
CHAPTER IV FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION Article 20 Financing structure 1.
The Community contribution to supported projects shall not exceed: (a) as regards actions implemented in the Member States under Articles 5, 6 and 7, 50 % of the total cost of a specific action.
This may be increased to 60 % for particularly innovative actions, such as actions carried out by transnational partnerships or actions that involve the active participation of persons referred to in Article 3 or organisations established by these target groups, and shall be increased to 75 % in the Member States covered by the Cohesion Fund; (b) as regards calls for proposals within the framework of Community actions under Article 8, 80 % of the total cost of a specific action. 5.
Article 21 Eligibility 1.
The Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 11(3), shall adopt the rules governing eligibility of expenditure within the framework of actions implemented in the Member States under Articles 5, 6 and 7 and co-financed by the Fund.
Article 22 Commitments Community budgetary commitments shall be made annually on the basis of the Commission decision on co-financing referred to in Article 16(4).
Article 23 Payments 1.
The contribution from the Fund shall be paid by the Commission to the responsible authority in accordance with budgetary commitments. 2.
A first pre-financing payment representing 50 % of the amount allocated in the Commission's annual decision on co-financing by the Fund shall be made to the Member State within 60 days following the adoption of the co-financing decision. 3.
A second pre-financing payment shall be made no more than three months after the Commission has approved a progress report on implementation of the annual work programme and a declaration of expenditure accounting for at least 70 % of the amount of the initial payment.
The amount of the second pre-financing payment made by the Commission shall not exceed 50 % of the total amount allocated by the co-financing decision or, in any event, the balance of the amount of Community funds actually committed by the Member State for selected projects under the annual programme minus the first pre-financing payment. 4.
Payment of the balance shall be made no more than three months after the Commission has approved the annual programme's final implementation report and the final declaration of expenditure provided for by Articles 24(3) and 28(2); failing that, a request for reimbursement of amounts released under the first or second payments in excess of the final expenditure approved for the Fund shall be issued within that deadline.
Article 24 Declarations of expenditure 1.
Within nine months of the deadline laid down in the co-financing decision whereby expenditure must be effected, the responsible authority shall forward a final declaration of expenditure to the Commission.
Article 25 Audit of accounts and financial corrections by the Member States 1.
Article 26 Audit of accounts and financial corrections by the Commission 1.
Commission officials or servants may take part in such checks. 2.
The Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 11(3), shall adopt rules and procedures for financial corrections made by the Commission in connection with actions implemented in the Member States under Articles 5, 6 and 7 and co-financed by the Fund.
CHAPTER V MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTS Article 27 Monitoring and evaluation 1.
Article 28 Report 1.
No more than nine months after the eligibility deadline for expenditure laid down in the co-financing decision for each annual programme, the responsible authority shall submit a final implementation report and a final declaration of expenditure to the Commission as provided for by Article 24(3). 3.
Member States shall submit to the Commission: (a) no later than 31 December 2006, an evaluation report on the implementation of actions co-financed by the Fund; (b) no later than 30 June 2009 and 30 June 2012, an evaluation report on the results and impact of actions co-financed by the Fund. 4.
The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions: (a) no later than 30 April 2007, an intermediate report on the results achieved and on qualitative and quantitative aspects of implementation of the Fund, together with any proposed amendments; (b) no later than 31 December 2009, an intermediate evaluation report and a proposal on the Fund's future development; (c) no later than 31 December 2012, an ex post evaluation report.
CHAPTER VI TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS Article 29 2005 to 2007 multiannual programme By way of derogation from Article 15, the following timetable shall apply for implementation of the multiannual programme for the period 2005 to 2007: (a) no later than 31 January 2005, the Commission shall notify Member States of planning guidelines and shall provide an indication of the financial amounts allocated to them; (b) no later than 1 May 2005, Member States shall designate the national responsible authority referred to in Article 13 and shall submit the proposal for a multiannual programme for the period 2005 to 2007 referred to in Article 15; (c) acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 11(3), the Commission shall approve the multiannual programmes no more than two months after the proposal for a multiannual programme has been received.
Article 30 2005 annual programme By way of derogation from Article 16, the following timetable shall apply for implementation in the financial year 2005: (a) by 31 January 2005, the Commission shall provide Member States with an estimate of the amounts allocated to them; (b) Member States shall present the proposal for an annual programme referred to in Article 16 to the Commission by 1 June 2005; the proposal shall be accompanied by details of the management systems and checks which will be implemented with a view to ensuring that Community funds are used properly and effectively; (c) the Commission shall adopt co-financing decisions no more than two months after the draft annual programme has been presented, following verification of the aspects indicated in Article 12(1)(b).
CHAPTER VII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 31 Review The Council shall review this Decision on the basis of a proposal from the Commission by 31 December 2010.
Article 32 Addressees This Decision is addressed to the Member States in accordance with the Treaty establishing the European Community.
Donner -------------------------------------------------- [1] Opinion delivered on 20 April 2004 (not yet published in the Official Journal). [2] OJ C 241, 28.9.2004, p. 27. [3] OJ L 252, 6.10.2000, p. 12. [4] OJ L 212, 7.8.2001, p. 12. [5] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [6] OJ L 304, 30.9.2004, p. 12.
