Article 2 Member States shall use the questionnaires set out in the Annex as a basis for drawing up the sectoral reports they are required to submit to the Commission pursuant to Article 4 of Directive 91/692/EEC.
Article 3 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, 29 July 1996.
For the Commission Ritt BJERREGAARD Member of the Commission (1) OJ No L 229, 30. 8. 1980, p. 30. (2) OJ No L 378, 31. 12. 1982, p. 15. (3) OJ No L 188, 16. 7. 1984, p. 20. (4) OJ No L 87, 27. 3. 1985, p. 1. (5) OJ No L 377, 31. 12. 1991, p. 48.
Site and values observed - zone/conurbation: - zone notified under Article 3: yes/no - application (values/methods): Annex I/Annex IV - city/town: - station(s) (name+code) (1): - estimated surface area (km2): - estimated population affected (thousands of inhabitants): Please supply the following statistics in micrograms/m3 for each station where the limit values are known to have been exceeded: Station Year Pollutant Annual mean Annual median Winter median 95 percentile annual 98 percentile annual 3 days rule (1) Percentage of valid data YY SO2 Suspended particulates (black smoke) Suspended particulates (gravimetric method) YY+1 SO2 Suspended particulates (black smoke) Suspended particulates (gravimetric method) YY+2 SO2 Suspended particulates (black smoke) Suspended particulates (gravimetric method) (1) Number of periods of more than three consecutive days on which the 98th percentile limit values were exceeded. 2.
Improvement measures - Programme status: compulsory/optional - Target objective: - Financing: - estimated cost (specify, if possible): - type of funding (public, private, other): - Those responsible for implementation of the programme: - Timetable: - year of adoption of programme: - period over which measures are to be spread: - deadline for completion (year): - Description of the measures envisaged: II.
Concentrations recorded in the zones notified under Article 3 and not covered by Section I (1) For each zone notified under Article 3 of the Directive, please complete the following questionnaire: - zone/conurbation: - application (values/methods): Annex I/Annex IV - town/city: - station(s) (name+code) (2): Please supply the following statistics in micrograms/m3 for each of the stations: Station Year Pollutant Annual mean Annual median Winter median 95 percentile annual 98 percentile annual 3 days rule (1) Percentage of valid data YY SO2 Suspended particulates (black smoke) Suspended particulates (gravimetric method) YY+1 SO2 Suspended particulates (black smoke) Suspended particulates (gravimetric method) YY+2 SO2 Suspended particulates (black smoke) Suspended particulates (gravimetric method) (1) Number of periods of more than three consecutive days on which the 98th percentile limit values were exceeded. (1) Only where the provisions of Article 3 still apply. (2) As indicated in the national nomenclature.
Site and values observed - zone/conurbation: - zone notified under Article 3: yes/no - city/town: - station(s) (name + code) (1): - estimation surface area (km2): - estimated population affected (thousands of inhabitants): Please supply the following statistics in micrograms/m3 for each station where the limit values are known to have been exceeded: Station Year Annual mean Percentage of valid data YY YY + 1 YY + 2 2.
Improvement measures - Programme status: compulsory/optional - Target objective: - Financing: - estimated cost (specify, if possible): - type of funding (public, private, other): - Those responsible for implementation of the programme: - Timetable: - year of adoption of programme: - period over which measures are to be spread: - deadline for completion (year): - Description of the measures envisaged: II.
Concentrations recorded in the zones notified under Article 3 and not covered by Section I (1) For each zone notified under Article 3, please complete the following questionnaire: - zone/conurbation: - town/city: - station(s) (name + code) (2): Please supply the following statistics in micrograms/m3 for each of the stations: Station Year Annual mean Percentage of valid data YY YY + 1 YY + 2 III.
Specify the provisions of these acts which incorporate Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11, 12 and 13 of the Directive.
Ditto for cases of prior notification (1). 2.
Article 4 - Indicate the measures taken by the Member States to ensure that all appropriate measures for preventing air pollution are taken into account at the time of authorization. 3.
Article 9 How has the Member State interpreted the concept of the 'public concerned` by the 'decisions of the competent authorities`?
Article 11 - Indicate the measures taken by the Member State to determine and monitor emissions.
QUESTIONNAIRE CONCERNING DIRECTIVE 85/203/EEC %gt%START OF GRAPHIC%gt% Member State: Period covered: 1. 1. . .
Site and values observed - zone/conurbation: - zone notified under Article 3: yes/no - city/town: - station(s) (name+code) (1): - estimated surface area (km2): - estimated population affected (thousands of inhabitants): Please supply the following statistics in micrograms/m3 for each station where the limit values are known to have been exceeded: Station Year 98 percentile annual Percentage of valid data YY YY + 1 YY + 2 2.
Improvement measures - Programme status: compulsory/optional - Target objective: - Financing: - estimated cost (specify, if possible): - type of funding (public, private, other): - Those responsible for implementation of the programme: - Timetable: - year of adoption of programme: - period over which measures are to be spread: - deadline for completion (year): - Description of the measures envisaged: II.
Concentrations recorded in the zones notified under Article 3 and not covered by Section I (1) For each zone notified under Article 3 of the Directive, please complete the following questionnaire: - zone/conurbation: - town/city: - station(s) (name+code) (2): Please supply the following statistics for each of the stations: Station Year 98 percentile annual Percentage of valid data YY YY + 1 YY + 2 III.
Additional information Where the measurement method employed differs from the reference method specified in the Directive, please supply details of the following: - the method used: - the results showing the equivalence between the method used and the reference method: (1) Only where the provisions of Article 3 still apply. (2) As indicated in the national nomenclature. %gt%END OF GRAPHIC%gt% (1) The reply to this question may be included in the reply given to the Commission in the second indent.
