Decision No 1639/2006/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 2006 establishing a Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (2007 to 2013) Decision No 1639/2006/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 2006 establishing a Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (2007 to 2013) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 156, Article 157(3) and Article 175(1) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee [1], Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions [2], Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty [3], Whereas: (1) The Lisbon European Council of 23 and 24 March 2000 set the objective of making the European Union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
The Gothenburg European Council of 15 and 16 June 2001 agreed the Union's Strategy for Sustainable Development to ensure that economic growth, social inclusion and environmental protection go hand in hand.
Whilst competitiveness is to a large measure driven by vibrant businesses operating in open and competitive markets and supported by the right framework conditions, in particular by a regulatory framework conducive to innovation, Community financing has a role to play in leveraging support and providing complementary funding in order to tackle situations of market failure. (4) The European Charter for Small Enterprises (hereinafter referred to as the Charter), endorsed by the European Council in Santa Maria de Feira of 19 and 20 June 2000, describes small enterprises as the backbone of the European economy.
It should pay particular attention to the specific characteristics and requirements of %quot%gazelles%quot% as well as of micro and craft enterprises, and specific target groups, including female entrepreneurs. (6) The Framework Programme should bring together those specific Community measures in the field of entrepreneurship, SMEs, industrial competitiveness, innovation, ICT, environmental technologies and intelligent energy that, until now, have been regulated by Council Decision 96/413/EC of 25 June 1996 on the implementation of a Community action programme to strengthen the competitiveness of European industry [5], Decision No 1336/97/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 June 1997 on a series of guidelines for trans-European telecommunications networks [6], Regulation (EC) No 1655/2000 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 July 2000 concerning the Financial Instrument for the Environment (LIFE) [7], Council Decision 2000/819/EC of 20 December 2000 on a multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, and in particular for small- and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) (2001-2005) [8], Council Decision 2001/48/EC of 22 December 2000 adopting a multiannual Community programme to stimulate the development and use of European digital content on the global networks and to promote linguistic diversity in the information society [9], Decision No 1230/2003/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2003 adopting a multiannual programme for action in the field of energy: %quot%Intelligent Energy — Europe%quot% (2003-2006) [10] to support sustainable development in the energy context and Decision No 2256/2003/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 adopting a multiannual programme (2003-2005) for the monitoring of the eEurope 2005 action plan, dissemination of good practices and the improvement of network and information security (Modinis) [11]. (7) The Framework Programme should establish a set of common objectives, the total financial envelope for pursuing those objectives, different types of implementing measures, and the arrangements for monitoring and evaluation and for the protection of the Communities' financial interests. (8) In line with the Commission Communication of 11 March 2003 entitled %quot%Innovation policy: updating the Union's approach in the context of the Lisbon strategy%quot% and in the light of the OECD Oslo Manual, innovation is understood as comprising the renewal and enlargement of a range of products and services and their associated markets; the establishment of new methods of design, production, supply and distribution; the introduction of changes in management, work organisation, and working conditions and skills of the workforce; and covers technological, non-technological and organisational innovation. (9) The Framework Programme should exclude research and technological development activities carried out in accordance with Article 166 of the Treaty.
It should be complementary to the Community's Seventh Framework Programme for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007-2013) [12] (hereinafter referred to as the Seventh Framework RTD Programme), by dealing with innovation, which includes non-technological as well as technological innovation, that has moved beyond the final demonstration phase and is ready for market replication (testing of innovations for application in markets).
Thus, the same eligible costs should not receive double funding. (12) The common objectives of the Framework Programme should be pursued by specific programmes entitled %quot%the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme%quot%, %quot%the ICT Policy Support Programme%quot% and %quot%the Intelligent Energy — Europe Programme%quot%. (13) The principles of transparency and equal gender opportunity should be taken into account in all the programmes and activities covered by the Framework Programme. (14) This Decision lays down, for the entire duration of the Framework Programme, a financial envelope constituting the prime reference, within the meaning of point 37 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management [13], for the budgetary authority during the annual budgetary procedure. (15) A specific and indicative budget should be reserved for each specific programme. (16) In order to ensure that financing be limited to tackling market failures, and with a view to avoiding market distortions, funding from the Framework Programme should comply with the Community State aid rules and the accompanying instruments and the Community definition of SMEs in force. (17) The Agreement on the European Economic Area (hereinafter referred to as the EEA Agreement) and Protocols to Association Agreements provide for the participation of the countries concerned in Community programmes.
Where possible, evaluation reports should examine gender mainstreaming in programme activities. (19) Appropriate measures should also be taken to prevent irregularities and fraud and the necessary steps should be taken to recover funds lost, wrongly paid or incorrectly used, in accordance with Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 of 18 December 1995 on the protection of the European Communities financial interests [14] and (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 of 11 November 1996 concerning on-the-spot checks and inspections carried out by the Commission in order to protect the European Communities' financial interests against fraud and other irregularities [15] and Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) [16]. (20) The growth and competitiveness of enterprises in industrial and service sectors depends on their ability to adjust quickly to change, to exploit their innovative potential and to develop high-quality products.
It can contribute to, and complement their achievements, in particular by promoting the exchange of national and regional experiences and practices, by defining and disseminating best practices and innovative ideas, and by contributing to the availability of Europe-wide supply of services in support of business and innovation, in particular for SMEs. (22) The Commission Communication of 28 January 2004 entitled %quot%Stimulating Technologies for Sustainable Development: An Environmental Technologies Action Plan for the European Union%quot% calls for Community programmes to support the development and uptake of environmental technologies and calls for the mobilisation of financial instruments to share the risks of investing in environmental technologies. (23) To support the creation of a European market for innovative products and services, it is necessary for Member States and the Commission to create attractive conditions for innovative products and services, including through a proactive approach to public procurement in order to help create lead markets, while improving access for SMEs and the quality of public services, and through better regulation and standards based on early anticipation of needs.
The Community should provide for the common development of competitiveness strategies for industrial and service sectors, and for the promotion of best practices in relation to an entrepreneurial environment and culture, including skills, corporate social responsibility and equal gender opportunity, and promote through, inter alia, education and continuous training, and from school to higher education, the emergence of young entrepreneurs. (32) The Brussels European Council of 20 and 21 March 2003 gave priority to innovation and entrepreneurship and stressed the need for Europe to do more to turn ideas into real added value.
The Brussels European Council of 25 and 26 March 2004 added that clean technologies are vital to fully exploit synergies between enterprise and the environment.
The development of a business environment conducive to entrepreneurship, competitiveness and innovation should include the improvement of enterprise- and innovation-related economic and administrative reform, in particular for increased competitiveness, reduction of administrative burdens for SMEs and a better regulatory environment for entrepreneurship, business creation and business transfer, growth and innovation. (34) Those barriers to the market penetration of innovation technologies are particularly relevant for environmental technologies.
Networking among stakeholders is the key to facilitating the flow of knowledge and ideas that are necessary for innovation. (36) The Council Resolution endorsed at the Brussels Telecommunications Council of 9 December 2004 provides the basis for the proposal for a new information society initiative to reinforce the contribution of the information society to Europe's performance.
Interoperability is of great importance to the development of the information society. (42) A legislative framework has been defined by Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal protection of databases [17], Directive 2001/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society [18] and Directive 2003/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 November 2003 on the re-use of public sector information [19] to deal with the challenges of digital content in the information society. (43) Different practices among Member States continue to create technical barriers which impede wide access and re-use of public sector information in the Union. (44) Community actions concerning digital content should take account of the Community's multilingual and multicultural specificity. (45) Natural resources, the prudent and rational utilisation of which is provided for in Article 174 of the Treaty, include, apart from renewable energy sources, oil, natural gas and solid fuels, which are essential energy sources but are also the main sources of carbon dioxide emissions. (46) The Commission's Green Paper entitled %quot%Towards a European strategy for the security of energy supply%quot% noted that the Union is becoming increasingly dependent on external energy sources and that its dependence could rise to 70 % in 20 to 30 years' time.
It also called for priority to be given the development of new and renewable sources on the energy supply side in order to respond to the challenge of global warming and to achieve the target already established by earlier action plans and resolutions of 12 % energy from renewable energy sources in gross internal consumption by 2010. (47) Directive 2001/77/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 September 2001 on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in the internal electricity market [20] requires Member States to set national indicative targets consistent with the Community global indicative target of 12 % of gross national energy consumption by 2010 and in particular with the 22,1 % indicative share of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in total Community electricity consumption by 2010.
The Commission Communication of 26 May 2004 entitled %quot%The share of renewable energy in the EU%quot% warned that the target of a 12 % share of renewable energy in overall energy consumption in the Community in 2010 will not be reached unless considerable additional action is taken. (48) Directive 2002/91/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2002 on the energy performance of buildings [21] requires Member States to apply minimum energy performance requirements for new and existing buildings, to ensure the energy certification of buildings and to require the regular inspection of boilers and of air-conditioning systems in buildings. (49) Directive 2003/30/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 May 2003 on the promotion of the use of biofuels or other renewable fuels for transport [22] requires Member States to ensure that a minimum proportion of biofuels and other renewable fuels is placed on their market. (50) Directive 2004/8/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 on the promotion of cogeneration based on a useful heat demand in the internal energy market and amending Directive 92/42/EEC [23] requires Member States to carry out analyses of their potential for high-efficiency cogeneration and to set up support schemes that reflect the national potential identified. (51) In order to facilitate the implementation of those Community measures, to achieve greater market penetration for renewable energy sources and to improve energy efficiency, there is a need for specific promotion programmes at Community level to create the conditions for moving towards sustainable energy systems, in particular to support the standardisation of equipment which produces or consumes renewable energy sources, to increase technology deployment and to spread best practices in demand side management.
The Intelligent Energy — Europe Programme should therefore be established. (52) The Intelligent Energy — Europe Programme should contribute to achieving the general objectives of improving energy diversification and security of supply, and enhancing the competitiveness of companies in the Union, in particular SMEs, while protecting the environment and meeting international commitments in this area.
However, there should be a close relationship between the relevant part of the thematic programme and the Intelligent Energy — Europe Programme in order to help SMEs take advantage of the potential markets for intelligent energy which exist outside Europe. (58) In accordance with the principles of good governance and better regulation, the Commission has commissioned independent experts to carry out an ex ante evaluation of a renewed multiannual Community programme in the field of energy to succeed the ongoing Intelligent Energy — Europe Programme after 31 December 2006.
The user manual should describe the rights and obligations of beneficiaries; financial provisions such as eligible costs and support rates; principles governing administrative rules and procedures, in particular user-friendly applications procedures applying a two-stage application process, where appropriate and on the condition that such a procedure does not extend the time period between evaluation and signing of the contract; the rules for use and dissemination of project results; and principles for the evaluation, selection and award of proposals. (60) The Commission may use, on the basis of a cost-benefit analysis, a new or an existing executive agency for the implementation of the Framework Programme, as provided for in Council Regulation (EC) No 58/2003 of 19 December 2002 laying down the statute for executive agencies to be entrusted with certain tasks in the management of Community programmes [24]. (61) The Framework Programme should also support reflection on the future structures and needs for European innovation policies. (62) Since the objectives of this Decision concerning the enhancement of the Community's competitiveness and innovation cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States because of the need for multilateral partnerships, trans-national mobility and Community-wide exchanges of information, and can therefore, by reason of the nature of the actions and measures necessary, be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
In accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that Article, this Decision does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives. (63) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission [25]. (64) Taking into account the nature of the issues to be dealt with under the specific programmes, the Commission should be assisted by different committees for the implementation of each specific programme.
That Decision will expire on 31 December 2008.
Measures foreseen to make digital content in Europe more accessible, usable and exploitable should be continued after that date under the ICT Policy Support Programme established by this Decision. (67) The measures provided for in Decision 96/413/EC should be integrated into the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme.
The Framework Programme shall not cover research, technological development and demonstration activities carried out in accordance with Article 166 of the Treaty.
Article 2 Objectives 1.
Article 4 Participation of third countries The Framework Programme shall be open to the participation of: (a) European Free Trade Association (EFTA) countries which are members of the European Economic Area (EEA), in accordance with the conditions laid down in the EEA Agreement; (b) accession countries and candidate countries benefiting from a pre-accession strategy, in accordance with the general principles and general terms and conditions for the participation of those countries in Community programmes established in the respective Framework Agreements and Association Council Decisions; (c) countries of the Western Balkans, in accordance with the provisions to be determined with those countries following the establishment of Framework Agreements concerning their participation in Community programmes; (d) other third countries, when Agreements and procedures so allow.
CHAPTER II Implementation of the Framework Programme Article 5 Annual work programmes 1.
The Commission shall adopt annual work programmes for the specific programmes in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 46(2), taking into account the need to adjust to future developments, in particular after the interim evaluation.
Article 6 Common implementing measures for the Framework Programme 1.
Article 7 Technical assistance The financial envelope established under this Decision may also cover necessary expenditure related to preparatory action, monitoring, control, audit and evaluation directly necessary for the effective and efficient implementation of this Decision and for the achievement of its objectives.
Article 8 Monitoring and evaluation 1.
The interim and final evaluation of the Framework Programme and the necessary budgetary allocations shall be included in the annual work programme for the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme. 4.
The interim evaluation of the Framework Programme shall be completed by 31 December 2009 and the final evaluation by 31 December 2011.
Article 9 Protection of the Communities' financial interests 1.
For the Community actions financed under this Decision, Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/95 and Regulation (Euratom, EC) No 2185/96 shall apply to any infringement of a provision of Community law, including infringements of a contractual obligation stipulated on the basis of the Framework Programme, resulting from an act or omission by an economic operator, which has, or would have, the effect of prejudicing the general budget of the European Union or budgets managed by it, by an unjustified item of expenditure. 3.
TITLE II THE SPECIFIC PROGRAMMES CHAPTER I The Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme Section 1 Objectives and fields of action Article 10 Establishment and objectives 1.
The Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme shall provide for action to support, improve, encourage and promote: (a) access to finance for the start-up and growth of SMEs and investment in innovation activities; (b) the creation of an environment favourable to SME cooperation, particularly in the field of cross-border cooperation; (c) all forms of innovation in enterprises; (d) eco-innovation; (e) entrepreneurship and innovation culture; (f) enterprise and innovation-related economic and administrative reform.
Article 11 Access to finance for the start-up and growth of SMEs Action in relation to access to finance for the start-up and growth of SMEs and for investment in innovation activities, including eco-innovation, may include: (a) increasing the investment volumes of risk capital funds and investment vehicles promoted by business angels; (b) providing leverage to SME debt financing instruments; (c) improving the financial environment for, and the investment readiness of, SMEs.
Article 12 SME cooperation Action in relation to SME cooperation may include: (a) fostering services in support of SMEs; (b) contributing to measures helping and encouraging SMEs to cooperate with other enterprises and other innovation actors across borders, including SME involvement in the field of European and international standardisation; (c) promoting and facilitating international business cooperation, including at regional level and through SME networks favouring the coordination and development of their economic and industrial activities.
Article 13 Innovation activities Action in relation to innovation may include: (a) fostering sector-specific innovation, clusters, innovation networks, public-private innovation partnerships and cooperation with relevant international organisations, and the use of innovation management; (b) supporting national and regional programmes for business innovation; (c) supporting the take-up of innovative technologies and concepts and the innovative application of existing technologies and concepts; (d) supporting services for trans-national knowledge and technology transfer and for the protection and management of intellectual and industrial property; (e) developing and exploring new types of innovation services; (f) fostering technology and knowledge through data archiving and transfer.
Article 14 Eco-innovation activities Action in relation to eco-innovation may include: (a) supporting the take-up of environmental technologies and eco-innovative activities; (b) co-investment in risk capital funds that provide equity, inter alia, for companies investing in eco-innovation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Annex II; (c) fostering eco-innovation networks and clusters and public-private partnerships in eco-innovation, developing innovative business services, and facilitating or promoting eco-innovation; (d) promoting new and integrated approaches to eco-innovation in fields such as environmental management and the environmentally friendly design of products, processes and services, taking into account their whole life cycle.
Article 15 Entrepreneurship and innovation culture Action in relation to entrepreneurship and innovation culture may include: (a) encouraging entrepreneurial mindsets, skills and culture, and the balancing of entrepreneurial risk and reward, in particular for women and young people; (b) encouraging a business environment favourable to innovation, enterprise development and growth; (c) supporting policy development and cooperation between actors, including trans-national cooperation of national and regional programme managers, in particular with a view to fostering the SME-friendliness of programmes and measures; (d) encouraging the creation and transfer of enterprises.
Article 16 Enterprise and innovation-related economic and administrative reform Action in relation to enterprise and innovation-related economic and administrative reform may include: (a) collecting data, analysing and monitoring performance, and developing and coordinating policy; (b) contributing to the definition and promotion of competitiveness strategies related to industry and service sectors; (c) supporting mutual learning for excellence in national, regional and local administrations.
Section 2 Implementation Article 17 Community financial instruments for SMEs 1.
Article 18 The GIF 1.
The GIF shall carry out the following tasks: (a) contributing to the establishment and financing of SMEs and the reduction of the equity and risk capital market gap, which prevents SMEs from exploiting their growth potential, with a view to improving the European venture capital market; (b) supporting innovative SMEs with high growth potential, in particular those undertaking research, development and other innovation activities. 2.
It may also co-invest in funds and investment vehicles promoted by business angels, - the second window, %quot%GIF2%quot%, shall cover expansion stage investments and shall invest in specialised risk capital funds, which in turn shall provide quasi-equity or equity for innovative SMEs with high growth potential in their expansion phase.
Article 19 The SMEG Facility 1.
In addition to guarantees or counter-guarantees, financial intermediaries may receive grants to partially offset the high administrative costs inherent in microcredit financing, - the third window, (c) guarantees for equity or quasi-equity investments in SMEs, shall include investments which provide seed capital and/or capital in the start-up phase, as well as mezzanine financing, in order to reduce the particular difficulties which SMEs face because of their weak financial structure and those arising from business transfers, - the fourth window, (d) securitisation of SME debt finance portfolios, shall mobilise additional debt financing for SMEs under appropriate risk-sharing arrangements with the targeted institutions.
Article 20 The CBS 1.
Article 21 Services in support of business and innovation 1.
Services in support of business and innovation, in particular for SMEs, shall be encouraged. 2.
Taking into account the established experience and skills of existing European business support networks, financial support may be granted to network partners to provide, in particular: (a) information, feedback, business cooperation and internationalisation services; (b) services for innovation and for the transfer of both technology and knowledge; (c) services encouraging the participation of SMEs in the Seventh Framework RTD Programme.
Details concerning such services are laid down in Annex III. 3.
Article 22 Innovation and eco-innovation pilot and market replication projects The Community shall provide support to projects concerned with the first applications or market replication of innovative or eco-innovative techniques, products or practices of Community relevance, which have already been technically demonstrated with success but which, owing to residual risk, have not yet significantly penetrated the market.
Article 23 Policy analyses, development, coordination and twinning The following may be undertaken in support of policy analyses, development and coordination with participating countries: (a) studies, data collection, surveys and publications, based where possible on official statistics; (b) twinnings and meetings of experts, including experts from public institutions, experts sent by SMEs and other interested parties, conferences and other events; (c) awareness raising, networking and other relevant activities; (d) benchmarking of national and regional performances, and work on good practices, including their dissemination and implementation.
Article 24 Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme support measures The Commission shall regularly undertake the following: (a) analysis and monitoring of competitiveness and sectoral issues, including for the Commission's annual report on the competitiveness of European industry; (b) preparation of impact assessments of Community measures of particular relevance for the competitiveness of enterprises and their publication with a view to identifying areas of existing legislation requiring simplification or the need for new legislative measures to make innovation more attractive in the Community; (c) evaluation of specific aspects or specific implementation measures in relation to the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme; (d) dissemination of appropriate information in relation to the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme.
Section 3 Annual work programme Article 25 Annual work programme The annual work programme shall set out in detail, and in line with the objectives set out in Article 10: (a) measures needed for its implementation; (b) priorities; (c) qualitative and quantitative objectives; (d) appropriate evaluation criteria and qualitative and quantitative indicators for analysing effectiveness in delivering outcomes that will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the specific programmes and the Framework Programme as a whole; (e) operational timetables; (f) the rules for participation; (g) the criteria for the selection and evaluation of the measures.
Activities under Article 24 shall not be covered by the annual work programme.
CHAPTER II The ICT Policy Support Programme Section 1 Objectives and fields of action Article 26 Establishment and objectives 1.
Article 27 The single European information space Action in relation to the single European information space shall aim to: (a) ensure seamless access to ICT-based services and establish appropriate framework conditions for the rapid, appropriate and effective convergence of digital communications and services, incorporating, inter alia, interoperability, the use of open standards, and security and trust aspects; (b) improve the conditions for the development of digital content, taking into account multilingualism and cultural diversity; (c) monitor the European information society, through data collection and analysis of the development, availability and use of digital communication services, including the growth of internet, access to and take-up of broadband as well as developments of content and services.
Article 28 Innovation through the wider adoption of and investment in ICT Action in relation to innovation through the wider adoption of and investment in ICT shall aim to: (a) promote innovation in processes, services and products enabled by ICT, in particular in SMEs and public services, taking into account the necessary skills requirements; (b) facilitate public and private interaction as well as partnerships for accelerating innovation and investments in ICT; (c) promote and raise awareness of the opportunities and benefits of ICT and its new applications for citizens and businesses, including enhancing confidence in and openness to new ICT, and stimulating debate at the European level on emerging ICT trends and developments.
Article 29 An inclusive information society, more efficient and effective services in areas of public interest and improved quality of life Actions in relation to the development of an inclusive information society and more efficient and effective services in areas of public interest, and the improvement of quality of life shall aim to: (a) widen ICT, including digital content, accessibility and digital literacy; (b) reinforce trust and confidence as well as support of ICT use, addressing, in particular, privacy concerns; (c) improve the quality, efficiency, availability and accessibility of electronic services in areas of public interest and for ICT-enabled participation, including, where appropriate, interoperable pan-European or cross-border public services as well as the development of common interest building blocks and the sharing of good practices.
Section 2 Implementation Subsection 1 Implementation of projects, best practice actions and thematic networks Article 30 General The ICT Policy Support Programme may be implemented by projects, best practice actions and thematic networks, including actions for wide-scale testing and demonstration of innovative public services with a pan-European dimension.
Projects, best practice actions and thematic networks shall aim to stimulate the deployment and best use of innovative ICT-based solutions, in particular for services in areas of public interest and for SMEs.
Article 31 Projects, best practice actions and thematic networks 1.
The Community may award a grant to contribute to the budget of the projects referred to in paragraph 1(a). 3.
Subsection 2 Other provisions Article 32 Applications Applications for Community support for projects, best practice actions and thematic networks referred to in Article 31 shall include a financial plan listing all the components of the funding of the projects, including the financial support requested from the Community, and any other requests for support from other sources.
Article 33 Policy analyses, development and coordination with participating countries The following shall be undertaken in support of policy analyses, development and coordination with participating countries: (a) studies, data collection, surveys, and publications, based, where possible, on official statistics; (b) meetings of experts, including experts from public institutions, experts sent by SMEs and other interested parties, conferences and other events; (c) awareness-raising, networking and other relevant activities; (d) benchmarking of national performances and work on good practices, including their dissemination and implementation.
Article 34 Promotion, communication, information sharing and dissemination 1.
Article 35 Projects of common interest: procurement based on technical specifications determined in coordination with Member States Where it is necessary in order to achieve the objectives of the ICT Policy Support Programme, and where there is a clear common interest of Member States as concerns European-level deployment of products, services, core service components or building blocks, the Commission may establish projects of common interest comprising necessary technical and organisational tasks.
Section 3 Annual work programme Article 36 Annual work programme The annual work programme shall set out in detail, and in line with the objectives set out in Article 26: (a) measures needed for its implementation; (b) priorities; (c) qualitative and quantitative objectives; (d) appropriate evaluation criteria and qualitative and quantitative indicators for analysing effectiveness in delivering outcomes that will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the specific programmes and the Framework Programme as a whole; (e) operational timetables; (f) the rules for participation; (g) the criteria for the selection and evaluation of the measures.
CHAPTER III The Intelligent Energy-Europe Programme Section 1 Objectives and fields of action Article 37 Establishment and objectives 1.
The Intelligent Energy — Europe Programme in support of energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and energy diversification is hereby established.
Article 38 Operational objectives In operational terms the Intelligent Energy — Europe Programme shall aim to: (a) provide the elements necessary for the improvement of sustainability, the development of the potential of cities and regions, as well as for the preparation of the legislative measures needed to attain the related strategic objectives; develop the means and instruments to follow up, monitor and evaluate the impact of the measures adopted by the Community and its Member States in the fields addressed by that programme; (b) boost investment across Member States in new and best performing technologies in the fields of energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and energy diversification, including in transport, by bridging the gap between the successful demonstration of innovative technologies and their effective, broad market uptake in order to attain leverage of public and private sector investment, promote key strategic technologies, bring down costs, increase market experience and contribute to reducing the financial risks and other perceived risks and barriers that hinder this type of investment; (c) remove the non-technological barriers to efficient and intelligent patterns of energy production and consumption by promoting institutional capacity building at, inter alia, local and regional level, by raising awareness, notably through the educational system, by encouraging exchanges of experience and know-how among the main players concerned, business and citizens in general and by stimulating the spread of best practices and best available technologies, notably by means of their promotion at Community level.
Article 39 Energy efficiency and rational use of resources (SAVE) Action to foster energy efficiency and the rational use of energy resources may include: (a) improvement of energy efficiency and the rational use of energy, in particular in the building and industry sectors, with the exception of actions covered by Article 41; (b) supporting the preparation of legislative measures and their application.
Article 40 New and renewable resources (Altener) Action to promote new and renewable energy resources may include: (a) promoting new and renewable energy sources for centralised and decentralised production of electricity, heat and cooling, and thus supporting the diversification of energy sources, with the exception of actions covered by Article 41; (b) integrating new and renewable energy sources into the local environment and the energy systems; (c) supporting the preparation of legislative measures and their application.
Article 41 Energy in transport (STEER) Action to promote energy efficiency and the use of new and renewable energy sources in transport may include: (a) supporting initiatives relating to all energy aspects of transport, and the diversification of fuels; (b) promoting renewable fuels and energy efficiency in transport; (c) supporting the preparation of legislative measures and their application.
Article 44 Market replication projects The Community shall provide support to projects concerned with the market replication of innovative techniques, processes, products or practices of Community relevance, which have already been technically demonstrated with success.
Section 3 Annual work programme Article 45 Annual work programme The annual work programme shall set out in detail, and in line with the objectives set out in Article 37: (a) measures needed for its implementation; (b) priorities; (c) qualitative and quantitative objectives; (d) appropriate evaluation criteria and qualitative and quantitative indicators to analyse effectiveness in delivering outcomes that will contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the specific programmes and the Framework Programme as a whole; (e) operational timetables; (f) the rules for participation; (g) the criteria for the selection and evaluation of the measures.
TITLE III GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 46 Committees 1.
For the committees referred to in paragraph 1, Articles 4 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof.
The period laid down in Article 4(3) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. 3.
Article 48 Strategic Advisory Board on Competitiveness and Innovation The Commission shall be advised by a Strategic Advisory Board on Competitiveness and Innovation composed of representatives of industry and business associations, including those representing SMEs, and other experts.
Article 49 Repeal Decision 96/413/EC is hereby repealed.
Article 50 Transitional measures The implementation measures in pursuance of the objective set out in Article 27(b) shall be carried out under Decision No 456/2005/EC until 31 December 2008.
For services referred to in Article 21(2)(a), the Commission may, until 31 December 2007, continue operating the Euro Info Centre Network and concluding annual specific grant agreements with its members, funded under this Framework Programme, and maintain the operational arrangements of the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship established by Decision 2000/819/EC.
Article 51 Entry into force This Decision shall enter into force on the 20th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Strasbourg, 24 October 2006.
Borrell Fontelles For the Council The President P.
Lehtomäki [1] OJ C 65, 17.3.2006, p. 22. [2] OJ C 115, 16.5.2006, p. 17. [3] Opinion of the European Parliament of 1 June 2006 (not yet published in the Official Journal) and Council Decision of 12 October 2006. [4] OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 36. [5] OJ L 167, 6.7.1996, p. 55. [6] OJ L 183, 11.7.1997, p. 12.
Decision as amended by Decision No 1376/2002/EC (OJ L 200, 30.7.2002, p. 1). [7] OJ L 192, 28.7.2000, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1682/2004 (OJ L 308, 5.10.2004, p. 1). [8] OJ L 333, 29.12.2000, p. 84.
Decision as last amended by Decision No 1776/2005/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 289, 3.11.2005, p. 14). [9] OJ L 14, 18.1.2001, p. 32. [10] OJ L 176, 15.7.2003, p. 29.
Decision as amended by Decision No 787/2004/EC (OJ L 138, 30.4.2004, p. 12). [11] OJ L 336, 23.12.2003, p. 1.
Decision as last amended by Decision No 2113/2005/EC (OJ L 344, 27.12.2005, p. 34). [12] Not yet published in the Official Journal. [13] OJ C 139, 14.6.2006, p. 1. [14] OJ L 312, 23.12.1995, p. 1. [15] OJ L 292, 15.11.1996, p. 2. [16] OJ L 136, 31.5.1999, p. 1. [17] OJ L 77, 27.3.1996, p. 20. [18] OJ L 167, 22.6.2001, p. 10. [19] OJ L 345, 31.12.2003, p. 90. [20] OJ L 283, 27.10.2001, p. 33.
Directive as amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [21] OJ L 1, 4.1.2003, p. 65. [22] OJ L 123, 17.5.2003, p. 42. [23] OJ L 52, 21.2.2004, p. 50. [24] OJ L 11, 16.1.2003, p. 1. [25] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23.
Decision as amended by Decision 2006/512/EC (OJ L 200, 22.7.2006, p. 11). [26] OJ L 79, 24.3.2005, p. 1. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX I Indicative budgetary breakdown The indicative budgetary allocations for the specific programmes shall be the following: (a) 60 % of the overall budget for the pursuance of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme, of which approximately one fifth shall be allocated to promoting eco-innovation; (b) 20 % of the overall budget for the pursuance of the ICT Policy Support Programme; (c) 20 % of the overall budget for the pursuance of the Intelligent Energy — Europe Programme. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX II Implementation arrangements for the Community financial instruments for SMEs referred to in Article 17 1.
Interest received on or before 31 December 2013 may be added to the resources and can be used for the purpose of the respective instrument.
After 31 December 2013, any balances on the Trust accounts, other than funds committed and not yet debited and funds reasonably required to cover eligible costs and expenses, shall be returned to the general budget of the European Union.
The intermediaries shall be selected in conformity with best business and market practices in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner, avoiding any conflict of interest with the aim of working through a wide range of specialised funds or similar structures.
GIF1 GIF1 shall invest in intermediary venture capital funds and other investment vehicles investing in SMEs up to 10 years old, typically starting from pre-A (seed) and A (early stage) rounds and providing follow-on investment where appropriate.
The usual maximum aggregate investment in an intermediary venture capital fund shall be 25 % of the total capital held by the relevant fund, or up to 50 % for new funds likely to have a particularly strong catalytic role in the development of venture capital markets for a specific technology or in a specific region as well as business angels' investment vehicles.
The maximum aggregate investment in an intermediary venture capital fund shall be 50 % in those cases where the fund's investment focus is on SMEs active in eco-innovation.
At least 50 % of the capital invested in any fund shall be provided by investors operating in circumstances corresponding to normal market conditions (under the %quot%market economy investor principle%quot%), irrespective of the legal nature and ownership structure of the investors providing that part of the capital.
No commitment in a single fund shall exceed EUR 30 million.
GIF2 GIF2 shall invest in intermediary risk capital funds investing in SMEs, typically in B and C (expansion) rounds.
The usual maximum aggregate investment in an intermediary risk capital fund shall be 15 % of the total capital held by the relevant fund, or up to 25 % for: - new funds likely to have a particularly strong catalytic role in the development of risk capital markets for a specific technology or in a specific region, - funds the main investment focus of which is on SMEs active in eco-innovation, - funds set up by first time management teams.
In the case of co-investment of GIF2 resources with EIF own resources or resources under the EIB mandate or other resources managed by the EIF, the maximum GIF2 contribution shall be 15 %.
At least 50 % of the capital invested in any fund shall be provided by investors operating in circumstances corresponding to normal market conditions (under the market economy investor principle), irrespective of the legal nature and ownership structure of the investors providing that part of the capital.
No commitment in a single fund shall exceed EUR 30 million.
Cornerstone role For new funds likely to have a particularly strong catalytic role in the development of venture capital markets for a specific technology or in a specific region, EIF may play the role of a cornerstone investor.
Reinvestment of proceeds from realised investments Proceeds, including dividends and reimbursements received by the EIF before 31 December 2013, shall be added to the resources of the GIF and used for the purpose of the GIF. 3.
Any other revenues, such as commitment fees and guarantee fees, shall be credited to the Trust account and, if received before 31 December 2013, shall be added to the resources of the SMEG Facility.
Duration of the SMEG Facility Individual SME guarantees may have a maturity of up to 10 years. 4.
Intermediaries shall be selected in conformity with best market practices.
