Article 2 This Decision shall apply in so far as the provisions of the Protocol fall within the scope of Articles 179 and 181a of the Treaty.
Article 3 The President of the Council is authorised to designate the person empowered to deposit the instrument of formal confirmation in order to bind the Community.
Done at Brussels, 24 July 2006.
GENERAL PROVISIONS Article 1 Relation with the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime 1.
The offences established in accordance with article 5 of this Protocol shall be regarded as offences established in accordance with the Convention.
Article 2 Statement of purpose The purposes of this Protocol are: (a) to prevent and combat trafficking in persons, paying particular attention to women and children; (b) to protect and assist the victims of such trafficking, with full respect for their human rights; and (c) to promote cooperation among States Parties in order to meet those objectives.
Article 3 Use of terms For the purposes of this Protocol: (a) "trafficking in persons" shall mean the recruitment, transportation, transfer, harbouring or receipt of persons, by means of the threat or use of force or other forms of coercion, of abduction, of fraud, of deception, of the abuse of power or of a position of vulnerability or of the giving or receiving of payments or benefits to achieve the consent of a person having control over another person, for the purpose of exploitation.
Exploitation shall include, at a minimum, the exploitation of the prostitution of others or other forms of sexual exploitation, forced labour or services, slavery or practices similar to slavery, servitude or the removal of organs; (b) the consent of a victim of trafficking in persons to the intended exploitation set forth in subparagraph (a) of this article shall be irrelevant where any of the means set forth in subparagraph (a) have been used; (c) the recruitment, transportation, transfer, harbouring or receipt of a child for the purpose of exploitation shall be considered "trafficking in persons" even if this does not involve any of the means set forth in subparagraph (a) of this article; (d) "child" shall mean any person under 18 years of age.
Article 5 Criminalisation 1.
Each State Party shall adopt such legislative and other measures as may be necessary to establish as criminal offences the conduct set forth in article 3 of this Protocol, when committed intentionally. 2.
Each State Party shall also adopt such legislative and other measures as may be necessary to establish as criminal offences: (a) subject to the basic concepts of its legal system, attempting to commit an offence established in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article; (b) participating as an accomplice in an offence established in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article; and (c) organising or directing other persons to commit an offence established in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article.
PROTECTION OF VICTIMS OF TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS Article 6 Assistance to and protection of victims of trafficking in persons 1.
Each State Party shall consider implementing measures to provide for the physical, psychological and social recovery of victims of trafficking in persons, including, in appropriate cases, in cooperation with non-governmental organisations, other relevant organisations and other elements of civil society, and, in particular, the provision of: (a) appropriate housing; (b) counselling and information, in particular as regards their legal rights, in a language that the victims of trafficking in persons can understand; (c) medical, psychological and material assistance; and (d) employment, educational and training opportunities. 4.
Article 7 Status of victims of trafficking in persons in receiving States 1.
In addition to taking measures pursuant to article 6 of this Protocol, each State Party shall consider adopting legislative or other appropriate measures that permit victims of trafficking in persons to remain in its territory, temporarily or permanently, in appropriate cases. 2.
In implementing the provision contained in paragraph 1 of this article, each State Party shall give appropriate consideration to humanitarian and compassionate factors.
Article 8 Repatriation of victims of trafficking in persons 1.
This article shall be without prejudice to any applicable bilateral or multilateral agreement or arrangement that governs, in whole or in part, the return of victims of trafficking in persons.
PREVENTION, COOPERATION AND OTHER MEASURES Article 9 Prevention of trafficking in persons 1.
Policies, programmes and other measures established in accordance with this article shall, as appropriate, include cooperation with non-governmental organisations, other relevant organisations and other elements of civil society. 4.
Article 10 Information exchange and training 1.
Article 11 Border measures 1.
Each State Party shall adopt legislative or other appropriate measures to prevent, to the extent possible, means of transport operated by commercial carriers from being used in the commission of offences established in accordance with article 5 of this Protocol. 3.
Each State Party shall take the necessary measures, in accordance with its domestic law, to provide for sanctions in cases of violation of the obligation set forth in paragraph 3 of this article. 5.
Each State Party shall consider taking measures that permit, in accordance with its domestic law, the denial of entry or revocation of visas of persons implicated in the commission of offences established in accordance with this Protocol. 6.
Without prejudice to article 27 of the Convention, States Parties shall consider strengthening cooperation among border control agencies by, inter alia, establishing and maintaining direct channels of communication.
Article 12 Security and control of documents Each State Party shall take such measures as may be necessary, within available means: (a) to ensure that travel or identity documents issued by it are of such quality that they cannot easily be misused and cannot readily be falsified or unlawfully altered, replicated or issued; and (b) to ensure the integrity and security of travel or identity documents issued by or on behalf of the State Party and to prevent their unlawful creation, issuance and use.
Article 13 Legitimacy and validity of documents At the request of another State Party, a State Party shall, in accordance with its domestic law, verify within a reasonable time the legitimacy and validity of travel or identity documents issued or purported to have been issued in its name and suspected of being used for trafficking in persons.
FINAL PROVISIONS Article 14 Saving clause 1.
Nothing in this Protocol shall affect the rights, obligations and responsibilities of States and individuals under international law, including international humanitarian law and international human rights law and, in particular, where applicable, the 1951 Convention [1] and the 1967 Protocol [2] relating to the Status of Refugees and the principle of non-refoulement as contained therein. 2.
Article 15 Settlement of disputes 1.
Each State Party may, at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance or approval of or accession to this Protocol, declare that it does not consider itself bound by paragraph 2 of this article.
The other States Parties shall not be bound by paragraph 2 of this article with respect to any State Party that has made such a reservation. 4.
Any State Party that has made a reservation in accordance with paragraph 3 of this article may at any time withdraw that reservation by notification to the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Article 16 Signature, ratification, acceptance, approval and accession 1.
This Protocol shall be open to all States for signature from 12 to 15 December 2000 in Palermo, Italy, and thereafter at United Nations Headquarters in New York until 12 December 2002. 2.
This Protocol shall also be open for signature by regional economic integration organisations provided that at least one member State of such organisation has signed this Protocol in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article. 3.
This Protocol is open for accession by any State or any regional economic integration organisation of which at least one Member State is a Party to this Protocol.
Article 17 Entry into force 1.
For each State or regional economic integration organisation ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to this Protocol after the deposit of the 40th instrument of such action, this Protocol shall enter into force on the 30th day after the date of deposit by such State or organisation of the relevant instrument or on the date this Protocol enters into force pursuant to paragraph 1 of this article, whichever is the later.
An amendment adopted in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by States Parties. 4.
An amendment adopted in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article shall enter into force in respect of a State Party 90 days after the date of the deposit with the Secretary-General of the United Nations of an instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of such amendment. 5.
Article 19 Denunciation 1.
Article 20 Depositary and languages 1.
The Secretary-General of the United Nations is designated depositary of this Protocol. 2.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned plenipotentiaries, being duly authorised thereto by their respective Governments, have signed this Protocol. [1] United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 189, No 2545. [2] Ibid., vol. 606, No 8791. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX II Declaration concerning the competence of the European Community with regard to matters governed by the protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women And Children, supplementing the United Nations Convention Against Transnational Organised Crime Article 16(3) of the Protocol to prevent, suppress and punish trafficking in persons, especially women and children, provides that the instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of a regional economic integration organisation shall contain a declaration specifying the matters governed by the Protocol in respect of which competence has been transferred to the organisation by its Member States which are Parties to the Protocol.
