Actions related to food safety are not covered by this framework. (5) The general objectives of the European Union include, according to Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, the achievement of balanced and sustainable development.
Article 2 Areas of action The actions to be undertaken under this framework shall concern the following specific areas: (a) protection of consumer health and safety with respect to services and non-food products; (b) protection of the economic and legal interests of consumers; (c) promotion of consumer information and education; (d) promotion of the capacity of consumer organisations to contribute at European level.
Article 3 Objectives of the actions The actions to be taken under this framework shall help to achieve the following general objectives: (a) a high common level of consumer protection, in particular through the establishment of common consumer protection rules and practices and the integration of consumer interests into other Community policies; (b) effective enforcement of consumer protection rules, in particular through market surveillance, administrative and enforcement cooperation, consumer access to information about services and non-food products and consumer access to mechanisms for the resolution of complaints and disputes and (c) proper involvement of consumer organisations in the development of consumer policy and other Community policies affecting consumer interests.
Article 4 Types of action 1.
Actions 1 to 8, 11 to 15 and 19 are directly implemented by the Commission. 3.
Actions 9 and 10 are jointly financed by the Community and one or more Member States, or by the Community and the competent authorities of the third countries participating pursuant to Article 9. 4.
Article 5 Funding 1.
The financial framework for the implementation of this Decision for the period from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2007 is set at EUR 72 million, of which EUR 54 million shall cover the period until 31 December 2006. 2.
For the period following 31 December 2006, the amount proposed shall be deemed to be confirmed if it is consistent with the financial perspectives in force for the period commencing in 2007. 3.
The Community contribution to joint actions 9 and 10 will, in principle, be 50 %, and in no event exceed 70 %, of the total cost of the action.
The Commission shall set out clearly which joint actions will be eligible for a financial contribution of more than 50 %. 2.
The financial contributions for action 16 shall not exceed 50 %, of the expenditure for carrying out eligible activities. 3.
The financial contributions for action 17 shall not exceed 95 % of the expenditure for carrying out eligible activities. 4.
The renewal of the financial contributions for actions 16 and 17 to eligible organisations that in the preceding year have proved actively and effectively to represent consumer interests shall not be subject to the rule of gradual decrease. 5.
The financial contributions for action 18 will, in principle, be 50 %, and in no event exceed 75 %, of the eligible expenses for implementing the project.
The Commission shall set out clearly which specific projects will be eligible for a financial contribution of more than 50 %.
Article 7 Beneficiaries 1.
The financial contributions for joint actions 9 and 10 may be awarded to a public body or a non-profit-making body designated by the Member State or the competent authority concerned and agreed by the Commission. 2.
The financial contributions for action 18 may be awarded to any legal person or association of legal persons, including appropriate independent public bodies and regional consumer organisations, that acts independently of industry and commerce and is actually responsible for the implementation of the projects.
Article 8 Exclusions Applicants or tenderers and contractors who are found guilty of making false declarations, or are found to have seriously failed to meet their contractual obligations, shall be excluded from the award of further contracts as set out in Article 96 of the Financial Regulation.
Article 9 Participation of third countries The framework shall be open to the participation of: (a) the EFTA/EEA countries in accordance with the conditions established in the EEA Agreement; (b) the associated countries, in accordance with the conditions laid down in the respective bilateral agreements establishing the general principles for their participation in Community programmes.
Article 10 Consistency and complementarity 1.
Article 11 Work programme The Commission shall adopt an annual work programme including: (a) the priorities for action under each objective; (b) the breakdown of the annual budget among the types of action identified in Article 4; (c) the planned timing of the calls for tenders, the joint actions and the calls for proposals; (d) in the case of calls for proposals, the selection and award criteria for actions 16, 17 and 18, the criteria for financial contributions of more than 50 % for action 18, and the indicative amount available for each of these calls for proposals, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Financial Regulation and taking into account to the extent possible the need to set simple administrative requirements in particular in the case of small amounts of financial contributions for specific projects.
Article 12 Publication and procedures 1.
The Commission shall, within three months of the deadline for the submission of applications, decide on the attribution of financial contributions for actions 16, 17 and 18. 4.
Article 13 Monitoring and evaluation 1.
The Commission shall ensure effective and regular monitoring of the actions undertaken under this framework and shall present to the European Parliament and to the Council a midterm report on the implementation of this framework by 31 December 2005.
The Commission shall inform the European Parliament annually if the decision-making procedure concerning applications for actions 16, 17 and 18 exceeds the three-month period as set out in Article 12(3). 2.
Article 14 Implementation of measures 1.
Article 15 Committee procedure 1.
Article 16 Entry into force This Decision will enter into force on the third day after its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Done at Brussels, 8 December 2003.
Cox For the Council The President F.
Action 19: Evaluation of actions undertaken under this framework. (1) Directive 2001/95/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 December 2001 on general product safety (OJ L 11, 15.1.2002, p. 4).
