Development policy is at the heart of the EU's [1] relations with all developing countries [2]. 2.
Development cooperation is a shared competence between the European Community [3] and the Member States.
Community policy in the sphere of development cooperation shall be complementary to the policies pursued by the Member States.
PART I: THE EU VISION OF DEVELOPMENT The first Part of the European consensus on development sets out common objectives and principles for development cooperation.
It reaffirms EU commitment to poverty eradication, ownership, partnership, delivering more and better aid and promoting policy coherence for development.
It will guide Community and Member State development cooperation activities in all developing countries [4], in a spirit of complementarity. 1.
Common objectives 5.
We reaffirm our commitment to promoting policy coherence for development, based upon ensuring that the EU shall take account of the objectives of development cooperation in all policies that it implements which are likely to affect developing countries, and that these policies support development objectives. 10.
The MDG agenda and the economic, social and environmental dimensions of poverty eradication in the context of sustainable development include many development activities from democratic governance to political, economic and social reforms, conflict prevention, social justice, promoting human rights and equitable access to public services, education, culture, health, including sexual and reproductive health and rights, as set out in the ICPD Cairo Agenda, the environment and sustainable management of natural resources, pro-poor economic growth, trade and development, migration and development, food security, children's rights, gender equality and promoting social cohesion and decent work. 3.
Common values 13.
Common principles 4.1 Ownership, Partnership 14.
It will also address the fight against corruption, the fight against illegal migration and the trafficking of human beings. 4.3 Participation of civil society 18.
The promotion of gender equality and women's rights is not only crucial in itself but is a fundamental human right and a question of social justice, as well as being instrumental in achieving all the MDGs and in implementing the Beijing platform for Action, the Cairo Programme of Action and Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women.
Particular attention will be given to fragile states and donor orphans. 5.2 More effective aid 25.
The EU is dedicated to working with all development partners to improve the quality and impact of its aid as well as to improve donor practices, and to help our partner countries use increased aid flows more effectively.
The EU will implement and monitor its commitments on Aid Effectiveness [9] in all developing countries, including setting concrete targets for 2010.
National ownership, donor coordination and harmonisation, starting at field level, alignment to recipient country systems and results orientation are core principles in this respect. 26.
The EU is committed to promote better donor coordination and complementarity by working towards joint multiannual programming, based on partner countries' poverty reduction or equivalent strategies and country's own budget processes, common implementation mechanisms including shared analysis, joint donor wide missions, and the use of co-financing arrangements. 32.
The EU will take a lead role in implementing the Paris Declaration commitments on improving aid delivery and has in this context made four additional commitments: to provide all capacity building assistance through coordinated programmes with an increasing use of multi-donors arrangements; to channel 50 % of government-to-government assistance through country systems, including by increasing the percentage of our assistance provided through budget support or sector-wide approaches; to avoid the establishment of any new project implementation units; to reduce the number of un-coordinated missions by 50 %. 33.
Policy coherence for development (PCD) 35.
EU action for development, centred on the eradication of poverty in the context of sustainable development, makes an important contribution to optimising the benefits and sharing the costs of the globalisation process more equitably for developing countries, which is in the interests of wider peace and stability, and the reduction of the inequalities that underlie many of the principal challenges facing our world.
It will guide the planning and implementation of the development assistance component of all Community instruments and cooperation strategies with third countries [12].
It shall be taken into account in other Community policies that affect developing countries, to ensure policy coherence for development. 41.
Community policy in the sphere of development cooperation shall be complementary to the policies pursued by the Member States [13]. 42.
At the Community level, these objectives will be pursued in all developing countries and applied to the development assistance component of all Community cooperation strategies with third countries. 43.
The Community will also promote policy coherence for development, based upon ensuring that the Community shall take account of development cooperation objectives in the policies that it implements which are likely to affect developing countries. 45.
The particular role and comparative advantages of the Community 46.
Second, with the support of Member States, ensuring policy coherence for development in Community actions [14], in particular where Community policies have significant impacts on developing countries, such as trade, agriculture, fisheries and migration policies, and promoting this principle more widely.
Seventh, in putting into effect the principle of participation of civil society, the Commission will be supported by the European Economic and Social Committee which has a role in facilitating the dialogue with local economic and social interest partners. 55.
Implementation of Community development cooperation is necessarily country or region-specific, 'tailor-made' to each partner country or region, based on the country's own needs, strategies, priorities and assets.
In this framework, the thematic programmes are subsidiary, complementary and defined on the basis of their distinctive value added vis-à-vis the geographical programmes. 2.2 Objective and transparent criteria for resource allocation 64.
The Community will apply this principle in all its country and regional programmes.
These priorities will be identified through a transparent and in-depth dialogue with partner countries on the basis of a joint analysis and in such a way as to ensure complementarity with other donors, in particular with Member States.
The Community will assist developing countries on trade and regional integration through fostering, equitable and environmentally sustainable growth, smooth and gradual integration into the world economy, and linking trade and poverty reduction or equivalent strategies.
The priorities in this area are institutional and capacity building to design and effectively implement sound trade and integration policies, as well as support for the private sector to take advantage of new trading opportunities. 73.
The environment and the sustainable management of natural resources 75.
Water and energy 80.
Community policy therefore is focused on supporting a sound institutional and financial environment, awareness raising, capacity building, and fund-raising in order to improve access to modern, affordable, sustainable, efficient, clean (including renewable) energy services through the EU Energy Initiative, and other international and national initiatives.
Agriculture and rural development are crucial for poverty reduction and growth.
Governance, democracy, human rights and support for economic and institutional reforms 86.
The Community will on this basis promote the respect for human rights of all people in cooperation with both states and non-state actors in partner countries.
The Community will actively promote a participatory in-country dialogue on governance, in areas such as anti-corruption, public sector reform, access to justice and reform of the judicial system.
The Community will promote democratic governance principles in relation to financial, tax and judicial matters. 88.
The Community will continue to be a key player, in co-ordination with the Bretton Woods Institutions, in supporting economic and institutional reforms, including PRS, by engaging in dialogue and providing financial assistance to governments engaged in these programmes.
Support will be provided to the development and implementation of nationally anchored sector plans as well as the participation in regional and global thematic initiatives on education.
Priority actions will include support for social security and fiscal reforms, corporate social responsibility, pro-poor growth and employment. 99.
These cross-cutting issues are at once objectives in themselves and vital factors in strengthening the impact and sustainability of cooperation. 102.
Democracy, Good Governance, Human rights and the rights of children will be promoted in partnership with all countries receiving Community development assistance.
The gender aspect must be addressed in close conjunction with poverty reduction, social and political development and economic growth, and mainstreamed in all aspects of development cooperation.
Environmental sustainability 105.
The Community will support the efforts by partner countries (governments and civil society) to incorporate environmental considerations into development, including implementation of multilateral environmental agreements [19].
Protection of the environment must be included in the definition and implementation of all Community policies, particularly in order to promote sustainable development.
The added value of global initiatives and funds will have to be assessed on a case-by-case basis after Commission consultation with Member States and, where appropriate, with the European Parliament as regards budget provision.
Notwithstanding making progress on other PCD commitments, urgent attention will be given to commitments and actions on migration.
It brought about: (i) improved programming within a coherent project cycle with a focus on poverty eradication; (ii) the creation of one single entity — EuropeAid — responsible for the implementation of assistance; (iii) a completed devolution process with 80 delegations now responsible for aid management; (iv) the strengthening of human resources to speed up implementation; (v) improved working methods through harmonised and simplified procedures, better information systems and better trained staff; (vi) improved quality through a process of quality support and monitoring of the different stages of project management; and finally (vii) speedier implementation of assistance. 123.
Within this framework, quality of projects and programmes at entry will receive more attention through a reinforced quality support process.
The Commission should develop a set of measurable objectives and targets for implementing this Policy and assess progress against this on a regular basis, in the Annual Report for implementation of the European Community Development Policy. 126.
The Commission will ensure that all its services and delegations managing programming and implementation of Community development assistance use this European Community Development Policy as the key reference for the Community's objectives and principles for implementation of all development cooperation. [1] The EU includes both Member States and the European Community. [2] Developing countries are all those in the list of Official Development Assistance (ODA) recipients, due to be decided by OECD/DAC in April 2006. [3] Community development cooperation is based on Articles 177 to 181 of the Treaty of the European Community. [4] Development cooperation activities of Member States are defined as ODA, as agreed by the OECD/DAC. [5] Action programmes adopted at the UN conferences of the 1990s in the social, economic, environmental, human rights, population, reproductive health and gender equality fields, and reaffirmed 2002-2005 by: Millennium Declaration and Millennium Development Goals (2000), Monterrey (2002), Johannesburg Sustainable Development (2002), Millennium Review Summit (2005). [6] Set out in the EU Programme for the Prevention of Violent Conflicts, Gothenburg European Council, June 2001. [7] May 2005 Council conclusions set out that: Member States which have not yet reached a level of 0,51 % ODA/GNI, undertake to reach, within their respective budget allocation processes, that level by 2010, while those that are already above that level undertake to sustain their efforts.
Member States undertake to achieve the 0,7 % ODA/GNI target by 2015 whilst those which have achieved that target commit themselves to remain above that target; Member States which joined the EU after 2002 will strive to increase by 2015 their ODA/GNI to 0,33 %. [8] In 2003 the EU allocated average 67 % of aid to LICs, excluding Member States joining in 2004 (OECD DAC figures). [9] Rome Declaration of February 2003 and Paris Declaration of March 2005. [10] This includes the Council Conclusions of November 2004 on: %quot%Advancing Coordination, Harmonisation and Alignment: the contribution of the EU%quot%. [11] May 2005 Council Conclusions confirm the EU is committed to the implementation of the objectives contained in the Commission's Communication on PCD dealing with the areas of Trade, Environment, Climate change, Security, Agriculture, Fisheries, Social dimension of globalisation, employment and decent work, Migration, Research and innovation, Information society, Transport and Energy. [12] The development assistance component is defined as all official development aid (ODA) as agreed by the OECD Development Assistance Committee. [13] Community development cooperation is based on Articles 177 to 181 of the Treaty of the European Community. [14] In all 12 areas set out in the May 2005 Council Conclusions and attached Communication on PCD. [15] Made in the context of the Paris Declaration of March 2005. [16] The Commission proposal to the Council and the Parliament is based on three policy-driven regulations: the European Neighbourhood and Partnership, Development Cooperation and Economic Cooperation, and Pre-accession to the EU and three horizontal instruments: for Humanitarian assistance, Stability and Macro-financial assistance. [17] 2003 Communication on Governance and Development set out the EC's definition and approach to governance. [18] Strategic environmental assessments and gender-equality impact assessments will be carried out on a systematic basis, including in relation to budget (%quot%greening the budget%quot%) and sectoral aid. [19] Climate, biodiversity, desertification, waste and chemicals. -------------------------------------------------- Declaration by the Council and the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States meeting within the Council In the event that any Member State wishes to review the country applicability of this Statement subsequent to the OECD/DAC decision of April 2006, the Council will consider this. --------------------------------------------------
