This Regulation applies to head-restraint devices conforming to one of the types defined in paragraph 2.2 below [2]. 1.1.1.
This device may, in particular, permit: 2.9.1.
longitudinal displacement, 2.9.2.
vertical displacement, 2.9.3.
APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL 3.1.
In the case of a "removable" head restraint (see the definition in paragraph 2.2.2): 3.2.2.1.
a detailed description of the type or types of seats for which approval of the head restraint is sought, 3.2.2.2.
In the case of a "separate" head restraint (see the definition in paragraph 2.2.3): 3.2.3.1.
If the head restraint is of the "integral" type (see the definition in paragraph 2.2.1), four complete seats. 3.3.2.
If the head restraint is of the "removable" type (see the definition in paragraph 2.2.2): 3.3.2.1.
two seats of each of the types to which the head restraint is to be fitted; 3.3.2.2. 4 + 2N head restraints, N being the number of types of seat to which the head restraint is to be fitted. 3.3.3.
If the head restraint is of the "separate" type (see the definition in paragraph 2.2.3), three head restraints and the relevant part of the vehicle structure, or a complete vehicle. 3.4.
The devices submitted for approval shall: 4.1.1.
Where the head restraint is of the "integral" or "removable" type (see definitions in paragraphs 2.2.1 and 2.2.2), the markings referred to in paragraphs 4.1.1 and 4.1.2 above may be reproduced on labels situated at a site shown in the drawings referred to in paragraph 3.2.4 above. 5.
The same Contracting Party shall not assign this number to another type of head restraint. 5.3.
There shall be affixed to every head restraint defined in paragraphs 2.2.1, 2.2.2 and 2.2.3 approved under this Regulation, whether incorporated in a seat or not, an international approval mark consisting of: 5.4.1.
the approval number; and 5.4.3.
in the case of a head restraint incorporated in the seat back, in front of the approval number, the number of this Regulation, the letter "R" and a dash. 5.5.
The approval mark shall be clearly legible and be indelible. 5.7.
Annex 2 to this Regulation gives examples of the arrangement of the approval marks. 6.
GENERAL SPECIFICATIONS 6.1.
Parts of the head restraint which are situated in the impact zone defined below shall be capable of dissipating energy in the manner specified in annex 6 to this Regulation. 6.1.1.
The impact zone is bounded laterally by two vertical longitudinal planes, one on each side of and each 70 mm distant from the plane of symmetry of the seat considered. 6.1.2.
The impact zone is limited in height to the part of the head restraint situated above the plane perpendicular to the reference line R and 635 mm distant from the H point. 6.1.3.
If the above-mentioned parts of the head restraints and their supports are covered with material softer than 50 Shore (A) hardness, the requirements of this paragraph, with the exception of those relating to energy absorption as defined in annex 6 to this Regulation, shall apply only to the rigid parts. 6.3.
The head restraint shall be anchored to the seat or, where appropriate, to the vehicle structure, in such a way that no rigid and dangerous part projects from the padding of the head restraint, from the anchorage or from the seat back as a result of the pressure exerted by the head during the test. 6.4.
The height of the head restraint, measured in accordance with the requirements of paragraph 7.2 below, shall conform to the following specifications: 6.4.1.
The height of head restraints shall be measured as described in paragraph 7.2 below. 6.4.2.
For head restraints not adjustable for height, the height shall be not less than 800 mm in the case of front seats and 750 mm in the case of other seats. 6.4.3.
the height shall be not less than 800 mm in the case of front seats and 750 mm in the case of other seats; this value shall be obtained in a position between the highest and lowest positions to which adjustment is possible; 6.4.3.2.
in the case of seats other than the front seats the head restraints may be such that they can be displaced to a position resulting in a height of less than 750 mm, provided that such position is clearly recognizable to the occupant as not being included for the use of the head restraint; 6.4.3.4.
in the case of front seats head restraints may be such that they can be automatically displaced when the seat is not occupied, to a position resulting in a height of less than 750 mm, provided that they automatically return to the position of use when the seat is occupied. 6.4.4.
The dimensions mentioned in paragraphs 6.4.2 and 6.4.3.1 above may be less than 800 mm in the case of front seats and 750 mm in the case of other seats to leave adequate clearance between the head restraint and the interior surface of the roof, the windows or any part of the vehicle structure; however, the clearance shall not exceed 25 mm.
Furthermore, by derogation to paragraph 6.4.3.2 above, there shall not be any "use position" resulting in a height lower than 700 mm. 6.4.5.
By derogation to the height requirements mentioned in paragraphs 6.4.2 and 6.4.3.1 above, the height of any head restraint designed to be provided in rear centre seats or seating positions shall be not less than 700 mm. 6.5.
The height of the device on which the head rests, measured as prescribed in paragraph 7.2, shall in the case of a head restraint adjustable for height be not less than 100 mm. 6.6.
If the head restraint is adjustable for height it shall, in its lowest position, be not more than 25 mm from the top of the seat back. 6.6.2.
above a plane perpendicular to the reference line at 540 mm from the R point and 6.6.2.2.
between two vertical longitudinal planes passing at 85 mm on either side of the reference line.
In this area, one or more gaps, which regardless of its shape can show a distance "a" measured as described in paragraph 7.5 of more than 60 mm, are permitted provided that after the additional test under paragraph 7.4.3.4, the requirements of paragraph 7.4.3.6 are still met. 6.6.3.
In the case of head restraints adjustable for height, one or more gaps, which regardless of its shape can show a distance "a" measured as described in paragraph 7.5 of more than 60 mm, are permitted on the part of the device serving as the head restraint provided that, after the additional test under paragraph 7.4.3.4, the requirements of paragraph 7.4.3.6 are still met. 6.7.
In the plane of measurement of width defined in paragraph 7.3 below, the head restraint shall cover an area extending not less than 85 mm to each side of the plane of symmetry of the seat for which the head restraint is intended, that distance being measured as prescribed in paragraph 7.3. 6.8.
The head restraint and its anchorage shall be such that the maximum backward displacement of the head permitted by the head restraint and measured in conformity with the static procedure prescribed in paragraph 7.4 below is less than 102 mm. 6.9.
The manikin corresponding to a fiftieth percentile adult male or the manikin shown in annex 3 to this Regulation shall be placed in a normal position on the seat.
The seat back, if inclinable, shall be locked in a position corresponding to a rearward inclination of the reference line of the manikin's torso of as nearly as possible 25° from the vertical. 7.2.3.
The projection of the reference line of the manikin shown in annex 3 shall in the case of the seat considered be drawn in the plane specified in paragraph 7.2.1.
The tangent S to the top of the head restraint shall be drawn perpendicular to the reference line. 7.2.4.
The distance h from the H point to the tangent S is the height to be taken into consideration in implementing the requirement of paragraph 6.4. 7.3.
The plane S1 perpendicular to the reference line and situated 65 mm below the tangent S defined in paragraph 7.2.3 defines a section in the head restraint bounded by the outline C.
The direction of the straight lines tangential to C representing the intersection of the vertical planes (P and P′), parallel to the plane of symmetry of the seat considered, with the plane S1 shall be traced in the plane S1. 7.3.2.
The width of the head restraint to be taken into consideration in implementing the requirement of paragraph 6.7 is the distance L separating the traces of planes P and P′ in plane S1. 7.3.3.
The width of the head restraint shall if necessary also be determined 635 mm above the reference point of the seat, this distance being measured along the reference line. 7.4.
If the seat or the seat-back is adjustable relative to a head restraint anchored to the vehicle structure, it shall be placed in the most unfavourable position as considered by the technical service. 7.4.3.
Testing 7.4.3.1.
All lines shall be drawn in the vertical plane of symmetry of the seat considered (see annex 5 to this Regulation). 7.4.3.2.
A projection of the reference line R shall be drawn in the plane referred to in paragraph 7.4.3.1. 7.4.3.3.
In the case described in paragraphs 6.6.2 and 6.6.3 above, the test shall be repeated by applying to each gap, using a sphere of 165 mm in diameter, a force: passing through the centre of gravity of the smallest of the sections of the gap, along transversal planes parallel to the reference line, and reproducing a moment of 37,3 daNm about the "R" point. 7.4.3.5.
In cases where the force prescribed in paragraph 7.4.3.4 is applied at a distance of 65 mm or less below the top of the head restraint, and only in such cases, it shall be increased to 89 daNm unless breakage of the seat or its back occurs earlier. 7.5.
Determination of distance "a" of head restraint gaps (see annex 7 to this Regulation) 7.5.1.
CONFORMITY OF PRODUCTION 8.1.
Every head restraint or seat bearing an approval mark in conformity with annex 2 shall conform to the type of head restraint approved and comply with the conditions prescribed in paragraphs 6 and 7 above. 8.2.
Head restraints selected for verification of conformity with an approved type shall undergo the test described in paragraph 7 of this Regulation. 9.
Approved head restraints The approval granted in respect of a type of head restraint pursuant to this Regulation may be withdrawn if head restraints bearing the particulars referred to in paragraph 5.4 above fail to pass the random checks or do not conform to the type approved. 9.2.
If a Contracting Party to the Agreement applying this Regulation withdraws an approval it has previously granted, it shall forthwith so notify the other Contracting Parties applying this Regulation, by means of a communication form conforming to the model in annex 1 to this Regulation. 10.
The department may then either: 10.1.1.
The competent authority issuing the extension of approval shall assign a series number for such an extension and inform thereof the other Parties to the 1958 Agreement applying this Regulation by means of a communication form conforming to the model in annex 1 to this Regulation. 11.
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF TECHNICAL SERVICES RESPONSIBLE FOR CONDUCTING APPROVAL TESTS AND OF ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS The Parties to the 1958 Agreement applying this Regulation shall communicate to the Secretariat of the United Nations the names and addresses of the technical services responsible for conducting approval tests and of the administrative departments which grant approval and to which forms certifying approval or extension or refusal or withdrawal of approval, issued in other countries, are to be sent. [1] Incorporating the 03 series of amendments. [2] The head restraints of category M1 vehicles which conform to the provisions of Regulation No 17 are not required to conform to the provisions of this Regulation. [3] 1 for Germany, 2 for France, 3 for Italy, 4 for the Netherlands, 5 for Sweden, 6 for Belgium, 7 for Hungary, 8 for the Czech Republic, 9 for Spain, 10 for Yugoslavia, 11 for the United Kingdom, 12 for Austria, 13 for Luxembourg, 14 for Switzerland, 15 (vacant), 16 for Norway, 17 for Finland, 18 for Denmark, 19 for Romania, 20 for Poland, 21 for Portugal, 22 for the Russian Federation, 23 for Greece, 24 (vacant), 25 (vacant), 26 for Slovenia and 27 for Slovakia.
Subsequent numbers shall be assigned to other countries in the chronological order in which they ratify or accede to the Agreement concerning the Adoption of Uniform Conditions of Approval and Reciprocal Recognition of Approval for Motor Vehicle Equipment and Parts and the numbers thus assigned shall be communicated by the Secretary-General of the United Nations to the Contracting Parties to the Agreement. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX 1 COMMUNICATION (Maximum format: A4 (210 × 297 mm)) +++++ TIFF +++++ -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX 2 ARRANGEMENTS OF APPROVAL MARKS [1] Approval mark for an "integrated" or "removable" type head restraint (see the definitions in paragraphs 2.2.1 and 2.2.2 of this Regulation). +++++ TIFF +++++ The above approval mark affixed to one or more "integrated" or "removable" type head restraints shows that, pursuant to Regulation No 25, the type of head restraint has been approved in the Netherlands (E4) under approval number 032439.
Approval mark for a "separate" type head restraint (see the definition in paragraph 2.2.3 of this Regulation). +++++ TIFF +++++ The above approval mark affixed to a head restraint shows that the head restraint in question has been approved and that it is a "separate" head restraint, approved in the Netherlands (E4), under approval number 032439.
The first two digits of the approval number indicate that the approval was granted in accordance with the requirements of Regulation No 25, as amended by the 03 series of amendments. [1] The approval number must be placed close to the circle and either above or below the "E", or to the left or right of that letter. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX 3 PROCEDURE FOR DETERMINING THE "H" POINT AND THE ACTUAL TORSO ANGLE FOR SEATING POSITIONS IN MOTOR VEHICLES 1.
PURPOSE The procedure described in this annex is used to establish the "H" point location and the actual torso angle for one or several seating positions in a motor vehicle and to verify the relationship of measured data to design specifications given by the vehicle manufacturer [1]. 2.
the "H" point and the "R" point and their relationship; 2.1.2.
For other seats, the centreplane of the occupant is specified by the manufacturer; 2.9. "Three-dimensional reference system" means a system as described in appendix 2 to this annex; 2.10. "Fiducial marks" are physical points (holes, surfaces, marks or indentations) on the vehicle body as defined by the manufacturer; 2.11. "Vehicle measuring attitude" means the position of the vehicle as defined by the co-ordinates of fiducial marks in the three-dimensional reference system. 3.
Data presentation For each seating position where reference data are required in order to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of the present Regulation, all or an appropriate selection of the following data shall be presented in the form indicated in appendix 3 to this annex: 3.1.1.
all indications necessary to adjust the seat (if it is adjustable) to the measuring position set out in paragraph 4.3 below. 3.2.
The co-ordinates of the "H" point and the value of the actual torso angle obtained by the procedure set out in paragraph 4 below shall be compared, respectively, with the co-ordinates of the "R" point and the value of the design torso angle indicated by the vehicle manufacturer. 3.2.2.
The vehicle shall be preconditioned at the manufacturer's discretion, at a temperature of 20 ±10 degrees C to ensure that the seat material reaches the room temperature.
If the seat to be checked has never been sat upon, a 70 to 80 kg person or device shall sit on the seat twice for one minute to flex the cushion and back.
The vehicle shall be at the measuring attitude defined in paragraph 2.11 above. 4.3.
If test is run on a seat outside the vehicle, the floor on which the seat is placed shall have the same essential characteristics [2] as the floor of the vehicle in which the seat is intended to be used. 4.5.
A line through the "H" point sight buttons shall be parallel to the ground and perpendicular to the longitudinal centreplane of the seat. 4.7.
The line passing through the "H" point sight buttons shall be maintained perpendicular to the longitudinal centreplane of the seat. 4.7.1.2.
If the feet then rest on parts of the floor which are at different levels, the foot which first comes into contact with the front seat shall serve as a reference and the other foot shall be so arranged that the spirit level giving the transverse orientation of the seat of the device indicates the horizontal. 4.7.3.
Other designated seating positions: The general procedure indicated in paragraph 4.7.1 above shall be followed except that the feet shall be placed as specified by the vehicle manufacturer. 4.8.
Apply a 100 + 10 N load to the back and pan assembly of the 3-D H machine at the intersection of the hip angle quadrant and the T-bar housing.
The direction of load application shall be maintained along a line passing by the above intersection to a point just above the thigh bar housing (see figure 2 of appendix 1 to this annex).
Holding the T-bar to prevent the 3-D H machine from sliding forward on the seat cushion, proceed as follows: (a) return the back pan to the seat back; (b) alternately apply and release a horizontal rearward load, not to exceed 25 N, to the back angle bar at a height approximately at the centre of the torso weights until the hip angle quadrant indicates that a stable position has been reached after load release.
The 3-D H machine should not be left loaded on the seat assembly longer than the time required to perform the test. 4.16.
If the seats in the same row can be regarded as similar (bench seat, identical seats, etc.) only one "H" point and one "actual torso angle" shall be determined for each row of seats, the 3-D H machine described in appendix 1 to this annex being seated in a place regarded as representative for the row.
This place shall be: 4.16.1.
in the case of the front row, the driver's seat; 4.16.2.
Body element weights are placed at the corresponding centres of gravity to provide seat penetration equivalent to a 76 kg male.
The machine corresponds to that described in ISO Standard 6549-1980. +++++ TIFF +++++ +++++ TIFF +++++ [1] For details of the construction of the 3-D H machine refer to Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE), 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, Pennsylvania 15096, United States of America. -------------------------------------------------- Appendix 2 THREE-DIMENSIONSAL REFERENCE SYSTEM 1.
The three-dimensional reference system is defined by three orthogonal planes established by the vehicle manufacturer (see figure) [1]. 2.
The co-ordinates of the "R" point and the "H" point are established in relation to the fiducial marks defined by the vehicle manufacturer. +++++ TIFF +++++ [1] The reference system corresponds to ISO standard 4130, 1978. -------------------------------------------------- Appendix 3 REFERENCE DATA CONCERNING SEATING POSITIONS 1.
Co-ordinates of fiducial marks X … Y … Z … 3.
Seating position: … 3.1.1.
Specifications for seat adjustment [1] horizontal: … vertical: … angular: … torso angle: … Note: List reference data for further seating positions under 3.2, 3.3, etc. [1] Strike out what does not apply. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX 4 DETERMINATION OF HEIGHT AND WIDTH OF HEAD RESTRAINT +++++ TIFF +++++ +++++ TIFF +++++ -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX 5 DETAILS OF LINES DRAWN AND MEASUREMENTS TAKEN DURING TESTS +++++ TIFF +++++ -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX 6 TEST PROCEDURE FOR CHECKING ENERGY DISSIPATION 1.
Test apparatus 1.2.1.
This apparatus consists of a pendulum whose pivot is supported by ball-bearings and whose reduced mass [1] at its centre of percussion is 6,8 kg.
The lower extremity of the pendulum consists of a rigid headform 165 mm in diameter whose centre is identical with the centre of percussion of the pendulum. 1.2.2.
Acceleration: accuracy = ±5 % of the actual value frequency class of the measurement chain: CFC 600 corresponding to the characteristics of ISO standard 6487 (1987) Transverse sensitivity ≤ 5 % of the lowest point on the scale. 1.3.2.
Speed: accuracy = ±2,5 % of the real value; sensitivity = 0,5 km/h 1.3.3.
Test procedure 1.4.1.
With the head restraint installed and adjusted as indicated in paragraph 1.1 of this annex, the impact shall take place at points selected by the laboratory in the impact zone defined in paragraph 6.1 of this Regulation and possibly outside the impact zone defined in paragraph 6.2 of this Regulation on surfaces with a radius of curvature of less than 5 mm. 1.4.1.1.
On the rear surface, the direction of impact from the rear towards the front in a longitudinal plane shall be at an angle of 45° to the vertical. 1.4.1.2.
On the front surface, the direction of impact from the front towards the rear, in a longitudinal plane, shall be horizontal. 1.4.1.3.
The headform shall strike the test item at a speed of 24,1 km/h; this speed shall be achieved either by the mere energy of propulsion or by using an additional impelling device. 2.
RESULTS In tests carried out by the above procedure the deceleration of the headform shall not exceed 80 g continuously for more than 3 milliseconds.
EQUIVALENT PROCEDURES 3.1.
Equivalent test procedures shall be permitted on condition that the results required in paragraph 2 above can be obtained, in particular, items of test apparatus may be oriented differently so long as the relative angles between the head restraint and the direction of impact are respected. 3.2.
Responsibility for demonstrating the equivalence of a method other than that described in paragraph 1 shall rest with the person using that other method. [1] The relationship of the reduced mass "mr" of the pendulum to the total mass "m" of the pendulum at a distance "a" between the centre of percussion and the axis of rotation and at a distance "l" beween the centre of gravity and the axis of rotation is given by the formula: mr = m (l/a). -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX 7 DETERMINATION OF DIMENSION "A" OF HEAD RESTRAINT GAPS (see paragraphs 6.6.2 and 6.6.3 of this Regulation) Section A — A Note: Section A — A is to be made in a point of the gap area which allows the maximum sphere intrusion, without exerting any load. +++++ TIFF +++++ Note: Section A — A is to be made in a point of the gap area which allows the maximum sphere intrusion, without exerting any load. +++++ TIFF +++++ --------------------------------------------------
