The official texts of the instruments consolidated are to be found in the following Official Journals.
Article 2 Application of law of non-contracting States Any law specified by this Convention shall be applied whether or not it is the law of a Contracting State.
TITLE II UNIFORM RULES Article 3 Freedom of choice 1.
Any variation by the parties of the law to be applied made after the conclusion of the contract shall not prejudice its formal validity under Article 9 or adversely affect the rights of third parties. 3.
The existence and validity of the consent of the parties as to the choice of the applicable law shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Articles 8, 9 and 11.
Article 4 Applicable law in the absence of choice 1.
However, if the contract is entered into in the course of that party's trade or profession, that country shall be the country in which the principal place of business is situated or, where under the terms of the contract the performance is to be effected through a place of business other than the principal place of business, the country in which that other place of business is situated. 3.
A contract for the carriage of goods shall not be subject to the presumption in paragraph 2.
In such a contract if the country in which, at the time the contract is concluded, the carrier has his principal place of business is also the country in which the place of loading or the place of discharge or the principal place of business of the consignor is situated, it shall be presumed that the contract is most closely connected with that country.
Article 5 Certain consumer contracts 1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4, a contract to which this Article applies shall, in the absence of choice in accordance with Article 3, be governed by the law of the country in which the consumer has his habitual residence if it is entered into in the circumstances described in paragraph 2 of this Article. 4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4, this Article shall apply to a contract which, for an inclusive price, provides for a combination of travel and accommodation.
Article 6 Individual employment contracts 1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 3, in a contract of employment a choice of law made by the parties shall not have the result of depriving the employee of the protection afforded to him by the mandatory rules of the law which would be applicable under paragraph 2 in the absence of choice. 2.
Article 7 Mandatory rules 1.
Article 8 Material validity 1.
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall not apply to a contract to which Article 5 applies, concluded in the circumstances described in paragraph 2 of Article 5.
The formal validity of such a contract is governed by the law of the country in which the consumer has his habitual residence. 6.
Article 10 Scope of applicable law 1.
The law applicable to a contract by virtue of Articles 3 to 6 and 12 of this Convention shall govern in particular: (a) interpretation; (b) performance; (c) within the limits of the powers conferred on the court by its procedural law, the consequences of breach, including the assessment of damages in so far as it is governed by rules of law; (d) the various ways of extinguishing obligations, and prescription and limitation of actions; (e) the consequences of nullity of the contract. 2.
Article 11 Incapacity In a contract concluded between persons who are in the same country, a natural person who would have capacity under the law of that country may invoke his incapacity resulting from another law only if the other party to the contract was aware of this incapacity at the time of the conclusion of the contract or was not aware thereof as a result of negligence.
Article 12 Voluntary assignment 1.
Article 15 Exclusion of convoi The application of the law of any country specified by this Convention means the application of the rules of law in force in that country other than its rules of private international law.
Article 16 "Ordre public" The application of a rule of the law of any country specified by this Convention may be refused only if such application is manifestly incompatible with the public policy ("ordre public") of the forum.
Article 17 No retrospective effect This Convention shall apply in a Contracting State to contracts made after the date on which this Convention has entered into force with respect to that State.
Article 18 Uniform interpretation In the interpretation and application of the preceding uniform rules, regard shall be had to their international character and to the desirability of achieving uniformity in their interpretation and application.
Article 20 Precedence of Community law This Convention shall not affect the application of provisions which, in relation to particular matters, lay down choice of law rules relating to contractual obligations and which are or will be contained in acts of the institutions of the European Communities or in national laws harmonised in implementation of such acts.
Article 21 Relationship with other conventions This Convention shall not prejudice the application of international conventions to which a Contracting State is, or becomes, a party.
Article 22 Reservations 1.
Any Contracting State may, at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance or approval, reserve the right not to apply: (a) the provisions of Article 7(1); (b) the provisions of Article 10(1) (e). 2. [2] 3.
TITLE III FINAL PROVISIONS Article 23 1.
However, the period of two years, referred to in paragraph 3 of that Article, shall be reduced to one year. 2.
Article 25 If a Contracting State considers that the unification achieved by this Convention is prejudiced by the conclusion of agreements not covered by Article 24(1), that State may request the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Communities to arrange consultations between the signatory States of this Convention.
Article 26 Any Contracting State may request the revision of this Convention.
This Convention shall be open from 19 June 1980 for signature by the States party to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community.
This Convention shall remain in force for 10 years from the date of its entry into force in accordance with Article 29(1), even for States for which it enters into force at a later date. 2.
The Convention will remain in force as between all other Contracting States. [8] The Secretary-General of the Council of the European Communities shall notify the States party to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community of: (a) the signatures; (b) deposit of each instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval; (c) the date of entry into force of this Convention; (d) communications made in pursuance of Articles 23, 24, 25, 26 and 30 [9]; (e) the reservations and withdrawals of reservations referred to in Article 22.
Article 32 The Protocol annexed to this Convention shall form an integral part thereof. [10] This Convention, drawn up in a single original in the Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Irish and Italian languages, these texts being equally authentic, shall be deposited in the archives of the Secretariat of the Council of the European Communities.
The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Communities.", - as regards the 1992 Accession Convention, by Article 4 of that Convention, which reads as follows: - "Article 4This Convention shall be ratified by signatory States.
The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Communities.", - as regards the 1996 Accession Convention, by Article 5 of that Convention, which reads as follows: - "Article 5This Convention shall be ratified by signatory States.
The instruments of ratification shall be deposited with the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union.", - as regards the 2005 Accession Convention, by Article 4 of the Convention, which reads as follows: - "Article 4This Convention shall be ratified by signatory States.
