Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament AND to the Council on the independence, integrity and accountability of the national and Community statistical authorities /* COM/2005/0217 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 25.5.2005 COM(2005) 217 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL on the independence, integrity and accountability of the national and Community statistical authorities RECOMMENDATION OF THE COMMISSION on the independence, integrity and accountability of the national and Community statistical authorities COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL on the independence, integrity and accountability of the national and Community statistical authorities 1.
INTRODUCTION ON 22 DECEMBER 2004, THE COMMISSION ADOPTED A COMMUNICATION TO THE COUNCIL AND THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT ENTITLED 'TOWARDS A EUROPEAN GOVERNANCE STRATEGY FOR FISCAL STATISTICS'.
ON 17 FEBRUARY 2005, THE COUNCIL (ECOFIN MEETING) WELCOMED THIS OVERALL STRATEGY AND, IN PARTICULAR, THE WORK THAT WAS ALREADY IN PROGRESS ON A CODE FOR EUROPEAN STANDARDS FOR THE STATISTICAL AUTHORITIES.
In order to implement this strategy, the Commission presented a proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 3605/93 as regards the quality of statistical data in the context of the excessive deficit procedure[1].
This proposal was adopted by the Commission on 2 March 2005 and is currently under examination by the legislative authority.
It constitutes the response to the invitation sent on 2 June 2004 to the Commission by the Council to put forward a proposal, by June 2005, to develop minimum European standards, and also to the Council’s invitation of 17 February 2005 to enhance the independence of Eurostat in the performance of its tasks.
Subsequently, a working group was entrusted by the SPC with the task of finalising a proposal for a Code, which was unanimously endorsed by the SPC on 24 February 2005, thus expressing its attachment to the Code as a self-regulatory instrument.
The Code represents, in its substance, the response to the invitation of 2 June 2004 from the Council and, in certain respects, exceeds the required minimum standards.
The ESS refers to the existing partnership comprising Eurostat, the national statistical institutes and other national statistical bodies responsible in each Member State for producing and disseminating statistics necessary for the performance of the activities of the European Union.
Article 10 of Council Regulation (EC) No 322/97 specifies that " impartiality is an objective and independent manner of producing Community statistics, free from any pressure from political or other interest groups, particularly as regards the selection of techniques, definitions and methodologies best suited to the attainment of the objectives as set out (…)".
The need for an active role by an external advisory body to enhance independence, integrity and accountability of the European Statistical System In view of reinforcing the governance of the European Statistical System, in line with the principles set in the Code of Practice and the elements contained in this Communication, an external advisory body would be useful.
Such Committee, which assists both the Council and the Commission, was set up in 1991 to voice the interests of the users, thus ensuring that user requirements and the costs borne by the information producers are taken into account.
Principle 9 of the Code provides that statistical authorities should set targets for the reduction of the burden on respondents over time.
Therefore, and in line with the ECOFIN Council conclusions of 2 June 2004, ministers are looking forward to discussing in June 2005 proposals by the Economic and Financial Committee on the rebalancing of statistical priorities”.
recognise in the attached Code a common set of standards at European level for the statistical authorities; B.
promote an extensive exchange of information and expertise within the European statistical system, based on the experience gained through the implementation of the Code; F.
support, and intensify where necessary, the wide-ranging co-operation between statistical authorities within the European Statistical System, as well as with statistical authorities of international bodies and organisations; G.
will ensure that the principles of the Code are respected by Eurostat with a view to producing and disseminating high-quality, harmonised Community statistics and to contributing in general to the proper functioning of the European statistical system as a whole; B.
will take appropriate measures to facilitate the implementation of the Code in the European Statistical System, in particular towards developing official Community statistics so that information produced in observance of this Code can be recognised by the users.
to set up a reporting system to monitor adherence to the Code within the European Statistical System in line with the proportionality principle; C.
to present to the European Parliament and to the Council, within three years of the adoption of this Recommendation and after consultation of the Statistical Programme Committee and possibly of the external advisory body mentioned above, a report on progress in the implementation of this Code in the European Statistical System, based in particular on self-assessments and peer reviews and including, where necessary, proposals to enhance independence, integrity and accountability.
Done at Brussels, For the Commission The President EUROPEAN STATISTICS CODE OF PRACTICE adopted by the Statistical Programme Committee on 24 February 2005 Preamble Definitions: | For the purpose of this document: European Statistics shall mean Community Statistics as defined in Council regulation (EC) No 322/97 of 17 February 1997 on Community Statistics, produced and disseminated by national statistical authorities and the Community’s statistical authority (Eurostat) in conformity with Article 285(2) of the Treaty.
The Statistical Authority shall mean, at national level, the National Statistical Institute (NSI) and other statistical bodies in charge of producing and disseminating European Statistics and, at Community level, Eurostat.
It is addressed for information to: - Users - to show that European and national statistical authorities are impartial and that the statistics they produce and disseminate are trustworthy, objective and reliable; - Data providers - to show that the confidentiality of the information they provide is protected, and that excessive demands will not be placed on them.
He/She should be of the highest professional calibre. - The head of the statistical authority and, where appropriate, the heads of its statistical bodies have responsibility for ensuring that European Statistics are produced and disseminated in an independent manner. - The head of the statistical authority and, where appropriate, the heads of its statistical bodies have the sole responsibility for deciding on statistical methods, standards and procedures, and on the content and timing of statistical releases. - The statistical work programmes are published and periodic reports describe progress made. - Statistical releases are clearly distinguished and issued separately from political/policy statements. - The statistical authority, when appropriate, comments publicly on statistical issues, including criticisms and misuses of official statistics.
Indicators - The mandate to collect information for the production and dissemination of official statistics is specified in law. - The statistical authority is allowed by national legislation to use administrative records for statistical purposes. - On the basis of a legal act, the statistical authority may compel response to statistical surveys.
Principle 4: Quality Commitment - All ESS members commit themselves to work and co-operate according to the principles fixed in the Quality Declaration of the European Statistical System.
Indicators - Product quality is regularly monitored according to the ESS quality components. - Processes are in place to monitor the quality of the collection, processing and dissemination of statistics. - Processes are in place to deal with quality considerations, including tradeoffs within quality, and to guide planning for existing and emerging surveys. - Quality guidelines are documented and staff are well trained.
Indicators - Statistical confidentiality is guaranteed in law. - Statistical authority staff sign legal confidentiality commitments on appointment. - Substantial penalties are prescribed for any wilful breaches of statistical confidentiality. - Instructions and guidelines are provided on the protection of statistical confidentiality in the production and dissemination processes.
Principle 6: Impartiality and Objectivity - Statistical authorities must produce and disseminate European Statistics respecting scientific independence and in an objective, professional and transparent manner in which all users are treated equitably.
Indicators - Statistics are compiled on an objective basis determined by statistical considerations. - Choices of sources and statistical techniques are informed by statistical considerations. - Errors discovered in published statistics are corrected at the earliest possible date and publicised. - Information on the methods and procedures used by the statistical authority are publicly available. - Statistical release dates and times are pre-announced. - All users have equal access to statistical releases at the same time and any privileged pre-release access to any outside user is limited, controlled and publicised.
Principle 11: Relevance - European Statistics must meet the needs of users.
Indicators - Processes are in place to consult users, monitor the relevance and practical utility of existing statistics in meeting their needs, and advise on their emerging needs and priorities. - Priority needs are being met and reflected in the work programme. - User satisfaction surveys are undertaken periodically.
Principle 12: Accuracy and Reliability - European Statistics must accurately and reliably portray reality.
Indicators - Statistics are presented in a form that facilitates proper interpretation and meaningful comparisons. - Dissemination services use modern information and communication technology and, if appropriate, traditional hard copy. - Custom-designed analyses are provided when feasible and are made public. - Access to microdata can be allowed for research purposes.
