The responsibility for this lies primarily with the countries themselves, but the EU can substantially encourage and support their reform efforts.
The EU needs to be more active, and more present, in regional or multilateral conflict-resolution mechanisms and in peace-monitoring or peace-keeping efforts.
The more progress a partner country makes in implementing reforms, the deeper the relationship can become, and the more support the EU should provide. 3.1.
A deep and comprehensive FTA should cover substantially all trade in goods and services between the EU and ENP partners including those products of particular importance for our partners and should include strong legally-binding provisions on trade and economic regulatory issues.
Action points: Trade, investment and economic integrationpursuit of a “deep and comprehensive FTA” approach for all ENP partners, including “behind the border” elements and liberalisation of trade flows among partner countries, with a certain level of asymmetry if appropriateenhanced support for reforms and efforts to improve trade and economic regulatory environment and the investment climatestrengthened economic integration and cooperation in key sectors | 3.2.
Taking account of the need for a balanced approach and building on the dialogue on migration and visa issues foreseen in the ENP Action Plans, the Union should be willing to enter negotiations on readmission and visa facilitation with each neighbouring country with an Action Plan in force, once the proper preconditions have been met.
Many of these exchanges will be predominantly economic and social in character, but cultural exchanges and inter-cultural dialogue will also be important here. · An important specific instance of these civil society exchanges will be enhanced business-to-business contacts.
Employers’ organisations in the EU and in ENP countries, particularly those for small and medium-sized companies, should be actively encouraged to establish closer links and transfer experience. · Civil society participation in the ENP should go beyond exchanges and cooperation programmes.
The Commission has already put in place an ENP information and communication strategy.
In addition, there are a number of steps which could considerably strengthen the ENP’s political dimension. · The possibility of aligning, on a case-by-case basis, with CFSP Declarations (already offered to eastern ENP partners), could be proposed also to southern partners. · ENP partners could be invited, also on a case-by-case basis, to briefing and coordination meetings organised by the EU in international fora such as the UN, Council of Europe, and OSCE. · An informal high-level meeting with all ENP partners with whom an Action Plan is in force could take place in 2007 serving the immediate practical purpose of launching the enhanced ENP proposed in this Communication. · Parliamentary cooperation could also be intensified, whether between the European Parliament and national parliaments, or through the work of European political foundations. · The Union’s presence across the region could also be enhanced through the strengthening of EC and Member State diplomatic missions in ENP countries.
Action points: Political cooperationmore active EU role in regional or multilateral conflict-resolution efforts, including participation as appropriate in civil and military peace-keeping missionspossibility of alignment with CFSP Declarations offered to all ENP partnersinformal high-level ENP meeting in 2007intensified parliamentary cooperationstrengthening of EU diplomatic presence in all ENP partners | 3.6.
The Commission intends to address the question of strengthened Black Sea dialogue further in a separate Communication next year.
With the Action Plans with Egypt and Lebanon now being finalised, the bilateral aspect of Euro-Mediterranean relations will be on a par with the regional aspect.
In Central Asia, for example, or in the Gulf, the new instruments (both ENPI and DCI) will be able to fund regional cooperation activities including countries in both regions – this could be of particular importance in sectors such as energy, transport, environment and research policy.
