Amended proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council creating a European order for payment procedure (presented by the Commission pursuant to Article 250 (2) of the EC Treaty) /* COM/2006/0057 final - COD 2004/0055 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 7.2.2006 COM(2006) 57 final 2004/0055 (COD) Amended proposal for a REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL creating a European order for payment procedure (presented by the Commission pursuant to Article 250 (2) of the EC Treaty) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
BACKGROUND ON 19 MARCH 2004 THE COMMISSION ADOPTED A PROPOSAL FOR A REGULATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL CREATING A EUROPEAN ORDER FOR PAYMENT PROCEDURE [1].
On 9 February 2005, the European Economic and Social Committee issued its Opinion on the proposal[2].
At the plenary session on 13 December 2005, the European Parliament adopted its opinion approving the Commission proposal subject to a number of amendments.
The amendments adopted by the European Parliament correspond to the text agreed by the Council on 2 December 2005.
OBJECTIVE OF THE AMENDED PROPOSAL This amended proposal adapts the original proposal for a Regulation creating a European order for payment procedure in response to amendments voted by the European Parliament. 3.
COMMISSION OPINION ON THE AMENDMENTS ADOPTED BY PARLIAMENT 3.1 Amendments accepted in their entirety by the Commission Amendments 26, 27, 28, 32, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 48, 49, 50, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, and 73 can be accepted as presented by Parliament since they simplify the proposed procedure, add an additional dimension relating to the free circulation of European orders for payment, or they make improvements relating either to the clarity of the instrument or to questions of detail, and add material that will be potentially useful in implementing the proposed Regulation.
The inclusion of the abolition of exequatur in the Regulation requires the inclusion of additional recitals which are derived, to a large extent, from Regulation No (EC) 805/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 creating a European enforcement order for uncontested claims. 3.2 Amendments accepted by the Commission as to substance, subject to reformulation Amendments 30, 31, 33, 47, 51, 52, 53, 68, 69, 70, 72, 74, and 75 can be accepted in principle, subject to redrafting: Amendment 30 aims at clarifying that Regulation No (EEC/Euratom) 1182/71 of the Council of 3 June 1971 determining the rules applicable to periods, dates and time limits applies for purposes of computing time limits.
Amendment 31 proposes to inform the defendant in the relevant standard form about the computation of time limits in accordance with Regulation No (EEC/Euratom) 1182/71 of the Council of 3 June 1971 determining the rules applicable to periods, dates and time limits.
Amendment 33 obliges the courts to take into account any form of opposition by the defendant if it is expressed in a clear manner.
Amendments 52 and 53 are necessary in the light of the inclusion of the abolition of exequatur for European orders for payment.
However, one technical modification is needed, resulting from the definition of “cross-border cases” proposed in Amendment 39 (Article 1a, paragraph 1 of the text of the Parliament).
Amendment 70 should refer to the annexes (in plural) because the Regulation will contain several annexes.
Amendment 72 provides for a detailed review clause concerning the operation of the Regulation in the light of national order for payment procedures.
Amendment 74 must be substantially verified from a technical point of view and must be re-drafted on the basis of the software needed to ensure an electronic processing of the European order for payment.
Amendment 75 proposes an annex to the application form.
Amendment 39 aims at defining the concept of “cross-border case” for purposes of this Regulation.
This reference means that the European order for payment procedure cannot be used by non-EU domiciled claimants or against non-EU domiciled defendants, in certain cases where European Union courts have jurisdiction, in particular under Council Regulation No (EC) 44/2001 of 22 December 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters.
Also, the combined application of the future instrument with the 1988 Lugano Convention on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters creates highly undesirable situations with respect to claimants domiciled or habitually resident in a non-EU State party to that Convention.
Amendment 76 proposes to delete annexes 2 and 3 of the original Commission proposal.
Annex 3, as well as the other annexes constituting the standard forms, must be redrafted in order to bring them in line with the amended proposal, on the basis of the software needed to ensure an electronic processing of the European order for payment 3.4 Amendments rejected Amendment 71 cannot be accepted because the proposed modification is technically not correct.
This was taken forward by the Hague Programme, adopted by the European Council on 5 November 2004, which calls on work to be pursued actively on the European order for payment procedure. (4) The Commission adopted a Green Paper on a European order for payment procedure and on measures to simplify and speed up small claims litigation on 20 December 2002.
The examination does not necessarily need to be carried out by a judge. (16) The European order for payment should apprise the defendant of his options to either pay his outstanding debt to the claimant or to submit a statement of opposition if he wants to contest the claim within a time limit of 30 days.
In particular, any method based on legal fiction as regards the fulfilment of those standards cannot be considered sufficient for the service of a European order for payment. (19) All the methods of service listed in Articles 13 and 14 are characterised by either full certainty (Article 13) or a very high degree of likelihood (Article 14) that the document served has reached its addressee. (20) Personal service on certain persons other than the defendant himself pursuant to Article 14(1)(a) and (b) should be understood to meet the requirements of those provisions only if those persons actually accepted/received the European order for payment. (21) Article 15 should apply to situations where the defendant cannot represent himself in court, as in the case of a legal person, and where a person to represent him is determined by law as well as situations where the defendant has authorised another person, in particular a lawyer, to represent him in the specific court proceedings at issue. (22) The court should ensure full compliance with the minimum procedural standards and issue a standardised European order for payment. (23) The defendant may submit a statement of opposition using the standard form set out in the annex.
Such a review in exceptional cases does not mean that the defendant is given a second chance to object to the claim.
Without prejudice to the provisions of this Regulation, in particular Articles 22 (1) and (2) and 23, the rules for the enforcement of a European order for payment will continue to be governed by national law. (28) It is recalled that the computation of periods and time limits is to be governed by Council Regulation No 1182/71 of 3 June 1971 determining the rules applicable to periods, dates and time limits.[6] (29) Since the objectives of this Regulation cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale and the impact of the Regulation, be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
Article 2 Scope 1.
Article 3 Cross-border cases 1.
Domicile shall be determined in accordance with Articles 59 and 60 of Council Regulation (EC) No 44/2001 of 22 December 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters.[8] 3.
Article 4 European order for payment procedure The European order for payment procedure is established for the collection of pecuniary claims for a specific amount that have fallen due at the time when the application for a European order for payment is submitted.
Article 5 Definitions For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1. "Member State of origin": the Member State in which a European order for payment is issued; 2. "Member State of enforcement": the Member State in which enforcement of the European order for payment is sought; 3. "court": any authority in the Member States with competence regarding the European order for payment or any other related matters; 4. "court of origin": the court which issues the European order for payment.
Article 6 Jurisdiction 1.
However, if the claim relates to a contract concluded by a person, the consumer, for a purpose which can be regarded as being outside his trade or profession, and if the defendant is the consumer, only the courts in the Member State in which the defendant is domiciled within the meaning of Art. 59 of Regulation 44/2001 of 22 December 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters shall have jurisdiction.
Article 7 Application for a European order for payment 1.
Article 8 Examination of the application The court seized of an application for a European order for payment shall examine, as soon as possible and on the basis of the application form, whether the requirements set out in Articles 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7 are met and whether the claim appears to be founded and admissible.
Article 9 Completion and rectification 1.
The court shall use the standard form in the Annex. 2.
Article 10 Modification of the application 1 .
If the requirements set out in Article 8 are met for only a part of the application, the court shall inform the claimant thereof, using the standard form in the Annex.
Article 11 Rejection of the application 1.
The court shall reject the application if (a) the claimant fails to send his response within the time limit set by the court under Article 9(2); or (b) the claimant fails to send his reply within the time limit specified by the court or refuses the court's proposal, in accordance with Article 10; or (c) the requirements set out in Articles 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7 are not met; or (d) the claim is clearly unfounded or inadmissible .
Article 12 Issue of a European order for payment 1.
If the conditions set out in Article 8 are met, the court shall issue, as soon as possible and normally within 30 days as of the lodging of the application, a European order for payment, using the standard form in the Annex.
The 30 days period shall not include the time taken by the claimant to complete, rectify or modify the application. 2.
In the European order for payment, the defendant shall be advised of his options to (a) pay the amount indicated in the order to the claimant; or (b) oppose the order by lodging a statement of opposition with the court of origin, sent within the time limit laid down in Article 16(2). 4.
In the European order for payment, the defendant shall be informed that (a) the order was issued on the sole basis of the information which was provided by the claimant and was not verified by the court; (b) the order will become enforceable unless a statement of opposition has been lodged with the court in accordance with Article 16; (c) where a statement of opposition is lodged, the proceedings shall continue before the competent courts of the Member State of origin in accordance with the rules of ordinary civil procedure unless the claimant has explicitly requested to terminate the proceedings in that event. 5.
The court shall ensure that the order is served on the defendant in accordance with national law by a method that shall meet the minimum standards laid down in Articles 13 to 15 below.
Article 13 Service with proof of receipt by the defendant The European order for payment may be served on the defendant in accordance with the national law of the State addressed, by one of the following methods: (a) personal service attested by an acknowledgement of receipt, including the date of receipt, which is signed by the defendant; (b) personal service attested by a document signed by the competent person who effected the service stating that the defendant has received the document or refused to receive it without any legal justification, and the date of service; (c) postal service attested by an acknowledgement of receipt including the date of receipt, which is signed and returned by the defendant; (d) service by electronic means such as fax or e-mail, attested by an acknowledgement of receipt including the date of receipt, which is signed and returned by the defendant.
Article 14 Service without proof of receipt by the defendant 1.
The European order for payment may also be served on the defendant in accordance with the national law of the State addressed, by one of the following methods: (a) personal service at the defendant’s personal address on persons who are living in the same household as the defendant or are employed there; (b) in the case of a self-employed defendant or a legal person, personal service at the defendant’s business premises on persons who are employed by the defendant; (c) deposit of the order in the defendant’s mailbox; (d) deposit of the order at a post office or with competent public authorities and the placing in the defendant’s mailbox of written notification of that deposit, provided that the written notification clearly states the character of the document as a court document or the legal effect of the notification as effecting service and setting in motion the running of time for purposes of time limits; (e) postal service without proof pursuant to paragraph 3 where the defendant has his address in the Member State of origin; (f) electronic means attested by an automatic confirmation of delivery, provided that the defendant has expressly accepted this method of service in advance. 2.
For the purposes of this Regulation, service under paragraph 1 is not admissible if the defendant’s address is not known with certainty. 3.
Service pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) to (d) shall be attested by: (a) a document signed by the competent person who effected the service, indicating: (i) the method of service used; (ii) the date of service; (iii) where the order has been served on a person other than the defendant, the name of that person and his relation to the defendant; or (b) an acknowledgement of receipt by the person served, for purposes of paragraphs (1)(a) and (b).
Article 16 Opposition to the European order for payment 1.
Article 17 Effects of the lodging of a statement of opposition 1.
If a statement of opposition is entered within the time limit laid down in Article 16(2), the proceedings shall continue before the competent courts of the Member State of origin in accordance with the rules of ordinary civil procedure unless the claimant has explicitly requested to terminate the proceedings in that event in accordance with Article 7(4).
Where the claimant pursued his claim through the European order for payment procedure, nothing under national law shall prejudice his position in subsequent ordinary proceedings. 2.
The transfer to ordinary proceedings within the meaning of paragraph 1 shall be governed by the law of the Member State of origin. 3.
Article 18 Enforceability 1.
Article 19 Abolition of exequatur A European order for payment which has become enforceable in the Member State of origin shall be recognised and enforced in the other Member States without the need for a declaration of enforceability and without any possibility of opposing its recognition.
Article 20 Review in exceptional cases 1.
Upon the expiry of the time limit laid down in Article 16(2), the defendant is also entitled to apply for a review of the European order for payment before the competent court in the Member State of origin where the European order for payment was clearly wrongly granted, having regard to the requirements laid down in this Regulation, or due to other exceptional circumstances. 3.
If the court decides that the review is justified for one of the reasons laid down in paragraphs 1 and 2, the European order for payment shall be null and void.
Article 21 Enforcement 1.
Without prejudice to the provisions of this Regulation, enforcement procedures shall be governed by the law of the Member State of enforcement.
Article 22 Refusal of enforcement 1.
Enforcement shall, upon application by the defendant, be refused by the competent court in the Member State of enforcement if the European order for payment is irreconcilable with an earlier decision or order previously given in any Member State or in a third country, provided that: (a) the earlier decision involved the same cause of action and was between the same parties; and (b) the earlier decision fulfils the conditions necessary for its recognition in the Member State of enforcement; and (c) the irreconcilability could not have been raised as an objection in the court proceedings in the Member State of origin. 2.
Article 23 Stay or limitation of enforcement Where the defendant has applied for a review in accordance with Article 20, the competent court in the Member State of enforcement may, upon application by the defendant: (a) limit the enforcement proceedings to protective measures; or (b) make enforcement conditional on the provision of such security as it shall determine; or (c) under exceptional circumstances, stay the enforcement proceedings.
Article 24 Legal representation Representation by a lawyer or another legal professional shall not be mandatory: (a) for the claimant in respect of the application for a European order for payment; (b) for the defendant in respect of the statement of opposition to a European order for payment.
Article 26 Relationship with national procedural law All procedural issues not specifically dealt with in this Regulation shall be governed by national law.
Article 27 Relationship with Regulation (EC) No 1348/2000 This Regulation shall not affect the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1348/2000 on the service in the Member States of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil and commercial matters.
Article 28 Information relating to service costs and enforcement The Member States shall cooperate to provide the general public and professional circles with information on a) costs of service of documents; and b) which authorities have competence with respect to enforcement for the purposes of the application of Articles 21 to 23, notably via the European Judicial Network in civil and commercial matters established in accordance with Council Decision 2001/470/EC of 28 May 2001.
Article 29 Information relating to jurisdiction, review procedures, means of communication and languages 1.
By __ _______________, 200_, the Member States shall communicate to the Commission: (a) which courts have jurisdiction to issue a European order for payment; (b) the review procedure and the competent courts for the purposes of the application of Article 20; (c) the means of communication accepted for purposes of the European order for payment procedure and available to the courts; and (d) the languages accepted pursuant to Article 21(2)(b).
The Commission shall make the information notified in accordance with paragraph 1 publicly available through publication in the Official Journal of the European Union and through any other appropriate means.
Article 30 Amendments to the annexes The standard forms set out in the Annexes shall be shall be updated or technically adjusted, ensuring full conformity with the provisions of this Regulation, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 31.
Article 31 Committee 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the committee provided for by Article 75 of Regulation (EC) No 44/2001. 2.
Article 32 Review By __ _________ 200_,[10] the Commission shall present to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee a detailed report reviewing the operation of the European order for payment procedure.
Article 33 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on __ _______________ 200_.
Done at Brussels, For the European Parliament, The President For the Council The President [1] COM (2004) 173 final, 19.03.2004 and COM(2004)173 final/3 of 25.05.2004. [2] CESE/2005/133, OJ C 221, 8.9.2005, p. 77. [3] COM (2004) 173 final, 19.03.2004 and COM(2004)173 final/3 of 25.05.2004. [4] CESE/2005/133, OJ C 221, 8.9.2005, p. 77 [5] OJ C 12, 15.1.2001, p. 1. [6] OJ L 124, 8.6.1971, p. 1. [7] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [8] OJ L 12, 16.1.2001, p. 1. [9] OJ L 13, 19.1.2000, p. 12. [10] Five years after the date of entry into application of the Regulation.
