SIMPLER AND MORE DEVELOPMENT-FRIENDLY RULES: DETERMINATION OF PREFERENTIAL ORIGIN AND CUMULATION OF ORIGIN 8 1.1.
Basic rules for the determination of preferential origin 8 1.1.1.
Scope for cumulation and conditions for its application and extension 10 1.2.2.
Regional conventions on origin 10 1.2.3.
Declaration of the origin by the importer claiming the preference 12 2.2.
Information, training and technical assistance on preferential rules of origin 14 3.2.
Monitoring compliance by the public authorities to the obligations in the arrangements 14 3.2.2.
Green paper on the future of rules of origin in preferential trade arrangements - In the context of international trade liberalisation, the Commission has adopted a Green Paper[4] which provided: - an overall assessment of the current problems of origin in preferential arrangements; - a focus on aspects which require a consistent approach to bring them under control; - an overview of the options available, particularly with regard to the systems for certification, declaration and control of the originating status of products and ways of refocusing the current system of administrative cooperation.
In addition, it should not represent an obstacle to improving efficiency and competitiveness by reducing production costs. - Different percentages could be fixed in different sectors for that purpose and under GSP specific thresholds could also be established, for Least Developed Countries benefiting from Everything But Arms. - Moreover, in a number of sectors including agricultural, fishery or textiles products , moving to a new method for the determination of origin will represent a major change whose impact needs to be properly evaluated in advance.
Regional conventions on origin - Rules of origin common to a given group of trade partners associated in a cumulation zone should be laid down in a single international instrument , to which the various preferential agreements would refer. - In the PanEuroMediterranean zone , such a single international instrument should take the form of a regional convention on origin between the trade partners.
On the other hand the 'Expanded Exports Helpdesk' data base provides, by product heading, the rules of origin necessary which must be complied with in the context of a number of preferential arrangements . - Insofar as technical support by the Community is concerned, it should mainly focus on those countries which need more assistance in the field of origin (LDCs and smallest countries and countries in political transition or reconstruction). - To this end, technical assistance can be provided through the trade and customs components of existing programmes like MEDA, TACIS or CARDS, from the new instrument for the European Neighbourhood Policy or through instruments to be developed in the context of the new regional Economic Partnership Agreements with the ACP.
Obviously, before introducing any external financial responsibility clause, the Commission and Member States should reach agreement regarding Member States' internal financial responsibility for their active errors. [1] Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament and the European Economic and Social Committee - COM(2004) 461, 7.7.2004. [2] Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the future of the textiles and clothing sector in the enlarged European Union – COM(2003) 649, 29.10.2003. [3] Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 of 2 July 1993 (OJ L 253, 11.10.1993), last amended by the Act of Accession (OJ L 236, 23.9.2003). [4] Green paper on the future of rules of origin in preferential trade arrangements - COM(2003) 787, 18.12.2003. [5] COM(2004) 461 on GSP, point 6.6: "The rules of origin lay down the main criteria for access to preferences but they were drawn up at a time when the international economy was very different from that of today and when goods were produced in a very different way.
