At its 414th plenary session on 9 and 10 February (meeting of 9 February 2005), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 138 votes to 1, with 4 abstentions: 1.
The Committee feels that this holistic approach is one of the Lisbon strategy's notable strengths. 2.2 On the jobs front, Lisbon was designed to breath new life into the European employment strategy, to strengthen the role of pro-active employment policy in tackling poverty, to foster entrepreneurship as a key engine of growth and employment and to increase labour force participation across the EU through quantitative targets. - The aim was, by 2010, to raise the average overall EU employment rate from 61 % to 70 % and to increase the number of women in employment from 51 % to 60 %.
A year later, intermediate targets were agreed on in Stockholm to raise the employment rate to 67 % overall and 57 % for women by 2005.
The economic slowdown, caused by external shocks from which macroeconomic policy provided an inadequate shield, meant that overall progress in employment rates came to a virtual standstill in 2001.
A swift upturn in economic growth may make this target reachable by 2010, at least for the EU-15. - At more than 8 % for the EU-15 and almost 10 % for the EU-25, the gap to the employment target for older workers is widest and least bridgeable [2].
For instance, the average exit age from the labour market increased from 60.4 years in 2001 to 60.8 in 2002 [3].
On the other hand, current economic development in the new Member States is considerably more dynamic, with annual growth rates sometimes running at well over 4 %.
The Committee has already addressed this issue in depth with representatives from organised civil society from the new Member States in the joint consultative committee. 3.
Minimum tax rates should be discussed for taxes on mobile factors and in the environmental field. - The Committee has also repeatedly called on Member States to step up efforts to modernise and improve their social security systems in a bid to make them more employment-friendly [21]. 5.9 Increasing the participation of older workers in the labour market is also one of the Lisbon tasks.
The recommendations of the European broad economic policy guidelines should take this into account. - There must be a noticeable revival of the demand components — consumption and private and public investment — in order to overcome the weakness of purchasing power in Europe.
Those with participation rates of 70 % or above are called upon to do so just as much as those below that rate.
