On 4 September 2002 contacts on this matter were resumed between the Commission services and the Andorran authorities, on the basis of some reflections and suggestions on their part.
Andorra has strong bilateral relations with its neighbours and is so far linked to the European Community mainly through an Agreement, signed in Luxemburg on 28 June 1990, which established a custom union.
Negotiations on the Cooperation Agreement were completed on 29 April 2004.
Having regard to the assent of the European Parliament [2], [2] OJ C [...], [...], p. [...].
Article 2 The President of the Council is herby authorized to designate the person empowered to sign the Agreement on behalf of the European Community.
Article 3 The President of the Council shall, on behalf of the Community, give the notification provided for in Article 14 of the Agreement.
The Community shall be represented in the Cooperation Committee set up under Article 9 of the Agreement by the Commission assisted by the representatives of the Member States. 2.
The European Community shall help establish cooperation between the European Environment Agency and the Principality of Andorra.
Article 3 Communications, information, culture Within the scope afforded by Community initiatives and Andorran law, the Contracting Parties agree to undertake joint projects in the area of communications, information and culture in the spirit of Article 151 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
Article 4 Education, vocational training and youth Guided by Articles 149 and 150 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Contracting Parties undertake to cooperate in the field of education and vocational training with a view to helping create a European education area.
Article 5 Social and health issues The Contracting Parties undertake to study ways of strengthening coordination in social matters through exchanges of experts, cooperation between administrations, cooperation between businesses and training.
Article 6 Trans-European networks and transport The Contracting Parties undertake to pursue their cooperation on trans-European transport, energy and telecommunications networks and on transport in general.
Article 7 Regional policy The Contracting Parties, each in accordance with its own legislation, agree to step up their regional cooperation, in line with the European Community's policy of cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation.
Article 8 Other areas of cooperation The Contracting Parties may by mutual consent extend this Agreement by concluding agreements on specific matters.
General provisions Article 9 1.
The Cooperation Committee shall take decisions by common accord. 6.
Article 10 The Contracting Parties agree that any dispute arising between them over the implementation or interpretation of this Agreement will be submitted to the Cooperation Committee.
Article 11 This Agreement shall be concluded for an unlimited period.
Article 12 Either Contracting Party may denounce this Agreement by notifying the other Contracting Party in writing.
Article 13 This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories to which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other, to the territory of the Principality of Andorra.
Article 14 This Agreement will be approved by the Contracting Parties in accordance with their own procedures.
Article 15 This Agreement is drawn up in duplicate in the Catalan, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish languages, each of these texts being equally authentic.
