At its 412th plenary session of 27 and 28 October 2004 (meeting of 27 October 2004), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 105 votes to 3, with 2 abstentions. 1.
This situation is accompanied by a comparative growth deficit and a major shortfall of investment in training, research and the new technologies, while the relocation of European companies is increasing in the face of international competition. 1.2 However, with its model of society that places value on social relations, Europe is not lacking in assets for its business competitiveness: - its international trade bears witness to its strong involvement in globalisation; - its enlarged domestic market is now the world's biggest; - its monetary union, despite its persisting limitations, is a step forward that has no equivalent elsewhere; - its current Lisbon programme consists of economic, social and environmental reforms that aim, among other things, to renew its competitiveness in a sustainable manner. 1.3 While some of these assets are still more ongoing processes than firm acquisitions, Europe also has handicaps, which penalise its companies and contribute to its current sluggish performances on the growth and jobs front.
The EESC will continue to get involved and participate in any initiatives that are needed to raise the profile of social issues in international trade. 3.1.4 The international trading and investments of European companies are supported by the European Union, which has organised itself, through the European Commission, to defend their interests with one voice at international negotiations, such as those at the WTO. 3.2 The single continent-wide market 3.2.1 The single market is the first trump card of European companies, built on common rules with a general principle of mutual recognition, supplemented by numerous cases of harmonisation through some 1500 directives, 300 regulations and almost 20000 common standards.
By creating a single currency for twelve Member States and 300 million Europeans already, the euro has eliminated any exchange-rate risk in the eurozone, neutralised transaction costs in trade and ensured permanent transparency of economic data.
Among the EU's objectives, the new Treaty adopted by the 25 in June 2004 quotes that of a highly competitive social market economy, aiming at full employment and social progress, and a high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment.
This is particularly the case with services, which account for 70 % of economic activity, but where the level of mutual recognition and harmonisation still falls far short of requirements.
A procedure of prior notification to the Commission has been set up (Directive 83/189), but the latter, weighed down by its many tasks, can only react effectively in the most blatant cases, and enlargement will complicate its task. 4.2.4 There are still too few directives transposed into law by all the Member States; usually 10 % are not fully implemented, and even 25 % in some sectors.
Violations are also too frequent, with around 1500 cases currently under investigation by the Commission. 4.2.5 Tax convergence within the single market remains woefully inadequate, not least because of the need for unanimity in the Council.
The enlargement of the European Union from 15 to 25 Member States still raises some big questions about how to improve the various aspects of employment (training, occupational and geographical mobility, quality of employment, reconversions, etc). 4.2.9 Lastly, the principle of freedom of movement and free establishment within the single market has been temporarily limited with enlargement, because of the exemptions of up to seven years decided with respect to nationals of the new Member States.
It is not respected by several states, including France and Germany, which have exceeded the 3 % ceiling for the public sector deficit.
It represents 1,9 % of GDP, compared with 2,6 % in the USA, and investments by enterprises are twice as high in the USA as in the EU of 15.
This is far below the objective fixed at Lisbon of 3 % of GDP to be spent on R%amp%D, with two-thirds coming from the private sector.
Despite their growth, these reforms are encountering major delays as regards social protection provided by supplementary schemes, as well as problems of implementation and effectiveness, particularly too many early retirements despite the pledges made in 2002 in Barcelona.
Growth rates have fallen from 3,5 % in 2000 to 1,6 % in 2001, and barely 1 % since 2002, and unemployment has risen to over 8 %.
At the end of the day, achieving a more efficient and competitive Europe will above all depend on the multiplication and mutual strengthening of such initiatives by firms and associations, which the European, national and regional authorities will have to facilitate and manage, above all, by providing a favourable competitive environment. 5.2 Finish completing the single market 5.2.1 It is high time to ensure the rapid completion of the essential provisions of the single market, which has now grown from 15 to 25 Member States.
This should not be postponed beyond the deadline of 2010 fixed in Lisbon.
It is essential to develop this common economic policy in line with the competitiveness pledge for 2010 given in Lisbon.
The multiannual social dialogue agenda for 2003-2005 agreed by the social partners (UNICE, CEEP, UEAPME and ETUC) also helped consolidate their involvement in the implementation of the reforms strategy.
Brussels, 27 October 2004.
The President of the European Economic and Social Committee Anne-Marie Sigmund [1] An EESC opinion is being prepared on the draft directive. --------------------------------------------------
