The reform must be implemented in such a way that it safeguards the long-term conditions for EU economic growth and reinforces the commitment of all Member States to common goals.
For the new Member States, achieving the current level of productivity in the EU-15 will not be enough in the longer term.
In addition to economic and social sustainability, it is important to ensure sustainable environmental development.
It is self-evident that the gaps in living standards between the EU-15 and the new Member States will not be closed quickly.
Of course, the fact that there has been hardly any assessment or analysis of the impact of enlargement in the Commission's communications has had a bearing on the content of EESC opinions. 2.
Economic performance and the effects of enlargement 3.1 Economic performance and prospects in the new Member States 3.1.1 The enlargement process is having a positive impact on economic development.
This was in line with international developments but also reflected a slowdown in the reform process in these countries.
Budget positions ranged from a surplus of 1 % in Estonia to a deficit of 7 % of GDP in the Czech Republic.
Besides the Czech Republic, the deficit also exceeded the 3 % reference value in five more of the new Member States — Cyprus, Hungary, Malta, Poland and Slovakia (see the statistical appendix).
Only in a few of them does the general government debt exceed 60 % of GDP.
One thing which the new Member States share in common is the fact they are poorer than the EU-15 countries on average.
The poverty threshold is 60 % of national median income.
The over-65s are overrepresented in the lowest income group in Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia and Lithuania.
About 89 % of all 25-64 year olds have completed upper secondary education, as against 65 % in the EU-15, the highest percentages being in the Czech Republic, Estonia and Slovakia.
However, it is often overlooked that productivity levels in these countries are, on average, notably lower than those in the EU-15.
Brussels, 10 March 2005.
The President of the European Economic and Social Committee Anne-Marie Sigmund [1] Better governance in the EU, EESC opinion – OJ C 74 of 23.3.2005, adopted 15 September 2004. [2] See the last opinion on the subject: Budgetary policy and type of investment, EESC opinion – OJ C 110/19 of 30.4.2004, pp. 111-115. [3] The Committee would nevertheless draw attention to the fact that to deal with the issue of standard of living correctly, it would be preferable to refer to the concept of "available household income".
The Committee would use this opportunity to call again for a strengthening of the EU's statistical machinery and greater cooperation between the competent national institutions and EUROSTAT. [4] European business competitiveness, EESC opinion – OJ C 120 of 20.5.2005. --------------------------------------------------
