On the date of its entry into force, this Agreement repeals and replaces the Agreement between the European Community and the Gabonese Republic on fishing off the Gabonese coast which entered into force on 3 December 1998.
The Protocol and the Annex thereto setting out the technical and financial conditions governing the fishing activities of European Community vessels were signed for a period of six years from 3 December 2005.
They are applicable as from 3 December 2005.
The financial contribution is fixed at EUR 860 000 per year.
Of this financial contribution, 60% will allow annual financial support for defining and implementing a sectoral fisheries policy in Gabon, with a view to introducing responsible and sustainable fishing.
The fishing opportunities provided for in the Agreement have been laid down according to two categories: (1) for the fishing category "freezer tuna seiners": 24 vessels; (2) for the fishing category "surface longliners": 16 vessels.
Shipowners' fees have been fixed for each category and, overall, could create an additional annual income of around EUR 142 000 million for Gabon.
Article 2 The fishing opportunities set out in the Protocol to the Agreement shall be allocated among the Member States as follows: Fishing category | Type of vessel | Member State | Licences or quota | Tuna fishing | Surface longliners | Spain | 13 | Portugal | 3 | Tuna fishing | Freezer tuna seiners | Spain | 12 | France | 12 | If licence applications from these Member States do not cover all the fishing opportunities laid down by the Protocol, the Commission may take into consideration licence applications from any other Member State.
Article 3 The Member States whose vessels fish under this Agreement shall notify the Commission of the quantities of each stock caught within the Gabonese fishing zone in accordance with Commission Regulation (EC) No 500/2001 of 14 March 2001 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93 on the monitoring of catches taken by Community fishing vessels in third country waters and on the high seas[1].
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the seventh day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Article 2 – Definitions For the purposes of this Agreement: 1. "Gabonese authorities" means the Government of Gabon; 2. "Community authorities" means the European Commission; 3. "Gabonese waters" means the waters over which Gabon has sovereignty or jurisdiction; 4. "fishing vessel" means any vessel equipped for commercial exploitation of living aquatic resources; 5. "Community vessel" means a fishing vessel flying the flag of a Member State of the Community and registered in the Community; 6. "Joint Committee" means a committee made up of representatives of the Community and Gabon, as specified in Article 9 of this Agreement; 7. "transhipment" means the transfer in port or at sea of some or all of the catch from one fishing vessel to another vessel; 8. "unusual circumstances" means circumstances, other than natural phenomena, which are beyond the reasonable control of one of the Parties and are such as to prevent fishing activities in Gabonese waters.
Article 3 – Principles and objectives underlying the implementation of this Agreement 1.
During the period covered by this Agreement, the Community and Gabon shall endeavour to monitor the evolution of resources in the Gabonese fishing zone. 2.
The two Parties, on the basis of the recommendations and resolutions adopted within the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT), and in the light of the best available scientific advice, shall consult each other within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 of the Agreement and adopt, where appropriate after a scientific meeting and by mutual agreement, measures to ensure the sustainable management of fisheries resources affecting the activities of Community vessels. 3.
Article 5 – Access by Community vessels to the fisheries in Gabonese waters 1.
Gabon undertakes to authorise Community vessels to engage in fishing activities in its fishing zone in accordance with this Agreement, including the Protocol and Annex thereto. 2.
The Gabonese authorities shall notify the Commission of any amendments to that legislation 3.
Community vessels shall cooperate with the Gabonese authorities responsible for carrying out such monitoring. 4.
Article 6 – Licences 1.
Community vessels may fish in the Gabonese fishing zone only if they are in possession of a fishing licence issued under this Agreement and the Protocol hereto. 2.
Article 7 – Financial contribution 1.
The financial contribution granted by the Community shall be paid each year in accordance with the Protocol and subject to this Agreement and the Protocol in the event of any change to the amount of the contribution as a result of: (a) unusual circumstances; (b) a reduction in the fishing opportunities granted to Community vessels, made by mutual agreement for the purposes of managing the stocks concerned, where this is considered necessary for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of resources on the basis of the best available scientific advice; (c) an increase in the fishing opportunities granted to Community vessels, made by mutual agreement between the Parties, where the best available scientific advice concurs that the state of resources so permits; (d) a reassessment of the terms of financial support for implementing a sectoral fisheries policy in Gabon, where this is warranted by the results of the annual and multiannual programming observed by both Parties; (e) termination of this Agreement under Article 12. (f) suspension of the application of this Agreement under Article 13.
Article 9 – Joint Committee 1.
Article 10 – Geographical area to which the Agreement applies This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community applies, under the conditions laid down in that Treaty, and, on the other, to the territory of Gabon.
Article 11 – Duration This Agreement shall apply for six years from the date of its entry into force; it shall be tacitly renewed for additional periods of six years, unless notice of termination is given in accordance with Article 13.
On receipt of this notification, the Parties shall enter into consultations with a view to resolving their differences amicably. 2.
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis , according to the duration of the suspension.
Article 13 – Termination 1.
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in Article 7 for the year in which the termination takes effect shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis .
Article 14 – Protocol and Annex The Protocol and the Annex shall form an integral part of this Agreement.
Article 15 National law The activities of Community vessels operating in Gabonese waters shall be governed by the applicable law in Gabon, unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, the Protocol and the Annex and Appendices thereto.
Article 16 – Repeal On the date of its entry into force, this Agreement repeals and replaces the Agreement between the European Community and the Gabonese Republic on fishing off the coast of Gabon which entered into force on 3 December 1998.
However, the Protocol setting out for the period from 3 December 2005 to 2 December 2011 the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Fisheries Agreement between the European Community and the Gabonese Republic on fishing off the coast of Gabon shall remain in force during the period referred to in Article 1(1) thereof and shall become an integral part of the present Agreement.
Article 17 – Entry into force This Agreement, drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Estonian, Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish and Swedish languages, each of these texts being equally authentic, shall enter into force on the date on which the Parties notify each other in writing that they have completed the necessary internal procedures to that end.
Protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the Agreement between the European Community and the Gabonese Republic on fishing off the coast of Gabon for the period from 3 December 2005 to 2 December 2011 Article 1 Period of application and fishing opportunities 1.
For a period of six years from 3 December 2005, the fishing opportunities granted under Article 5 of the Agreement shall be as follows:Highly migratory species (species listed in Annex 1 to the 1982 United Nations Convention) - freezer tuna seiners: 24 vessels, - surface longliners: 16 vessels, 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4 and 5 of this Protocol. 3.
Vessels flying the flag of a Member State of the European Community may fish in the Gabonese fishing zone only if they are in possession of a fishing licence issued under this Protocol in accordance with the Annex hereto.
The financial contribution referred to in Article 7 of the Agreement shall comprise, for the period referred to in Article 1, an annual amount of EUR 715 000, equivalent to a reference tonnage of 11 000 tonnes per year, and a specific amount of EUR 145 000 per year for the support and implementation of initiatives taken in the context of the Gabonese sectoral fisheries policy.
This specific amount shall be an integral part of the single financial contribution defined in Article 7 of the Agreement. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall apply subject to Articles 4, 5 and 7 of this Protocol. 3.
If the overall quantity of catches by Community vessels in Gabonese waters exceeds 11 000 tonnes per year, the amount of the annual financial contribution (EUR 715 000) shall be increased by EUR 65 for each additional tonne caught.
However, the total annual amount paid by the Community shall not be more than twice the amount indicated in paragraph 3 (EUR 1 430 000).
Payment of the financial contribution referred to in paragraph 1 shall be made no later than 30 September 2006 for the first year and no later than 30 June 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 for the following years. 6.
Subject to Article 6, the Gabonese authorities shall have full discretion regarding the use to which this financial contribution is put. 7.
The financial contribution shall be paid into account No 47069 X, "Pêche Maritime" (Sea Fisheries) in the name of the Public Treasury of Gabon.
Article 3 Cooperation on responsible fishing – Scientific meeting 1.
During the period covered by this Protocol, the Community and the Gabonese authorities shall endeavour to monitor the evolution of resources in the Gabonese fishing zone. 3.
In accordance with Article 4 of the Agreement and on the basis of the recommendations and resolutions adopted within the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT), and in the light of the best available scientific advice, the Parties shall consult each other within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 of the Agreement and adopt, where appropriate after a scientific meeting possibly at subregional level, and by mutual agreement, measures to ensure the sustainable management of fisheries resources affecting the activities of Community vessels.
Article 4 Review of fishing opportunities by mutual agreement 1.
The fishing opportunities referred to in Article 1 may be increased by mutual agreement provided that the conclusions of the scientific meeting referred to in Article 3(4) confirm that such an increase will not endanger the sustainable management of Gabon's resources.
In this case the financial contribution of EUR 715 000 referred to in Article 2(1) shall be increased proportionately and pro rata temporis .
However, the total amount of the financial contribution paid by the European Community in respect of the reference tonnage shall not be more than twice the amount of EUR 715 000.
Where the quantities caught annually by Community vessels are more than twice 11 000 tonnes (i.e. 22 000 tonnes), the amount due for the quantity exceeding that limit shall be paid the following year. 2.
Conversely, if the Parties agree to adopt a reduction in the fishing opportunities provided for in Article 1, the financial contribution shall be reduced proportionately and pro rata temporis . 3.
The allocation of the fishing opportunities among different categories of vessels may also be reviewed, following consultations and by mutual agreement between the Parties, provided that any changes comply with recommendations made by the scientific meeting referred to in Article 3 regarding the management of stocks liable to be affected by such redistribution.
Article 5 New fishing opportunities 1.
Where appropriate, the Parties shall agree on the conditions applicable to these new fishing opportunities and, if necessary, make amendments to this Protocol and to the Annex hereto. 2.
Article 6 Suspension and review of the payment of the financial contribution in the event of unusual circumstances 1.
Where unusual circumstances, other than natural phenomena, prevent fishing activities in the Gabonese exclusive economic zone (EEZ), the European Community may suspend payment of the financial contribution provided for in Article 2(1).
Article 7 Promotion of responsible fishing in Gabonese waters 1.
Gabon shall manage the corresponding amount following the identification by mutual agreement between the two Parties, in accordance with the current priorities of Gabonese fisheries policy for ensuring sustainable and responsible management of the sector, of the objectives to be attained and the annual and multiannual programming required to attain them, pursuant to paragraph 2 below. 2.
On a proposal from Gabon and for the purposes of the preceding paragraph, as soon as this Protocol enters into force and no later than three months after that date, the Community and Gabon shall agree, within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 of the Agreement, on a multiannual sectoral programme and detailed implementing rules covering, in particular: (a) annual and multiannual guidelines for using the percentage of the financial contribution referred to in paragraph 1 and its specific amounts for the initiatives to be carried out each year; (b) the objectives, both annual and multiannual, to be achieved with a view to promoting responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries, taking account of the priorities expressed by Gabon in its national fisheries policy and other policies relating to or having an impact on the introduction of responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries; (c) criteria and procedures for evaluating the results obtained each year. 3.
Where the annual evaluation of the progress made in implementing the multiannual sectoral programme so warrants, the European Community may ask for the financial contribution referred to in Article 2(1) of this Protocol to be readjusted with a view to bringing the actual amount of financial resources allocated to implementation of the programme into line with its results.
Article 8 Disputes – suspension of application of the Protocol 1.
Any dispute between the Parties over the interpretation of this Protocol or its application shall be the subject of consultations between the Parties within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 of the Agreement, in a special meeting if necessary. 2.
Article 10 National law The activities of Community vessels operating in Gabonese waters shall be governed by the applicable law in Gabon, unless otherwise provided in the Agreement, this Protocol and the Annex and Appendices hereto.
Article 11 Review clause During the fourth year of application of this Protocol, the Annex and the Appendices hereto, the Parties may review the provisions of the Protocol, the Annex and the Appendices and, where necessary, make amendments.
Article 12 Repeal The Annex to the Agreement between the European Community and Gabonese Republic on fishing off the coast of Gabon is hereby repealed and replaced by the Annex to this Protocol.
Article 13 Entry into force 1.
This Protocol with its Annex shall enter into force on the date on which the Parties notify each other of the completion of the procedures necessary for that purpose. 2.
It shall apply as from 3 December 2005.
ANNEX CONDITIONS GOVERNING FISHING ACTIVITIES BY COMMUNITY VESSELS IN THE GABONESE FISHING ZONE CHAPTER I - APPLICATION FOR AND ISSUE OF LICENCES Section 1 Issue of licences 1.
The relevant Community authorities shall present to the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Gabon an application for each vessel wishing to fish under the Agreement at least 15 working days before the date of commencement of the period of validity requested. 5.
Applications shall be submitted to the Ministry responsible for fisheries on a form drawn up in accordance with the specimen in Appendix I. 6.
Licences for all vessels shall be issued to shipowners or their representatives via the European Commission Delegation to Gabon within 15 working days of receipt of all the documents referred to in point 6 by the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Gabon. 10.
Licences shall be issued for a specific vessel and shall not be transferable. 12.
However, at the request of the European Community and where force majeure is proven, a vessel's licence shall be replaced by a new licence for another vessel of the same category as the first vessel, as referred to in Article 1 of the Protocol, with no further fee due.
The European Commission Delegation to Gabon shall be informed of the licence transfer. 15.
Section 2 Licence conditions – fees and advance payments 1.
The fee shall be EUR 35 per tonne caught within the Gabonese fishing zone in the case of tuna seiners and surface longliners. 3.
Licences shall be issued once the following standard amounts have been paid to the competent national authorities: - EUR 4 550 per tuna seiner, equivalent to the fees due for 130 tonnes of highly migratory species and associated species caught per year; - EUR 2 030 per surface longliner, equivalent to the fees due for 58 tonnes of highly migratory species and associated species caught per year. 4.
No later than 15 May of each year, the Member States shall notify the European Commission, with a copy to the European Commission Delegation and the Gabonese authorities, of the catch tonnages for the past year, as confirmed by the scientific institutes referred to in point 5 below. 5.
The final statement of the fees due for year n shall be drawn up by the European Commission by 30 June of year n + 1 at the latest on the basis of the catch declarations made by each shipowner and confirmed by the scientific institutes responsible for verifying catch data in the Member States, such as the Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD), the Instituto Español de Oceanografía (IEO) and the Instituto de Investigação das Pescas e do Mar (IPIMAR) via the European Commission Delegation. 6.
Any additional payments shall be made by the shipowners to the competent Gabonese national authorities by 31 July of year n + 1 at the latest, into the account referred to in point 7 of Section 1 of this Chapter. 8.
CHAPTER II – FISHING ZONES 1.
Community vessels may carry out fishing activities in waters beyond 12 nautical miles from the base lines in the case of tuna seiners and surface longliners. 2.
The Ministry responsible for fisheries in the Gabonese Republic shall notify the coordinates of these zones to shipowners when the fishing licence is issued.
CHAPTER III – CATCH REPORTING ARRANGEMENTS 1.
All vessels authorised to fish in Gabonese waters under the Agreement shall be obliged to communicate their catches to the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Gabon so that it can check the quantities caught, which shall be validated by the competent scientific institutes in accordance with the procedure referred to in point 4 of Section 2 of Chapter I of this Annex.
The original of the declarations shall be transmitted on a physical medium to the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Gabon within 45 days following the end of the last trip made during the period.
Copies shall be sent at the same time by electronic means or by fax to the flag Member State and the Ministry responsible for fisheries in Gabon. 2.2 Vessels shall declare their catches on the corresponding form in the logbook, in accordance with the specimen in Appendix 2.
CHAPTER IV – TRANSHIPMENT AND LANDINGS The Parties shall cooperate with a view to improving landing or transhipment options in Gabonese ports. 1.
Landings: Community tuna vessels which opt to land their catches in a Gabonese port shall benefit from a reduction of EUR 5 per tonne landed in the fee indicated in point 2 of Section 2 of Chapter 1 of the Annex.
An additional reduction of EUR 5 shall be granted where fisheries products are sold to a Gabonese processing factory.
This mechanism shall apply, for all Community vessels, up to a maximum of 50% of the final statement of catches (as defined in Chapter III of the Annex) from the first year of this Protocol. 2.
CHAPTER V – EMBARKING SEAMEN 1.
CHAPTER VI – TECHNICAL MEASURES Vessels shall comply with the measures and recommendations adopted by ICCAT in the region regarding fishing gear and the technical specifications thereof and all other technical measures applicable to their fishing activities.
CHAPTER VII – OBSERVERS 1.
The conditions under which observers are taken on board shall be agreed between shipowners or their representatives and the competent regional authorities. 4.
Where vessels are operating in Gabonese waters, they shall carry out the following tasks: 8.1 observe the fishing activities of the vessels; 8.2 verify the position of vessels engaged in fishing operations; 8.3 perform biological sampling in the context of scientific programmes; 8.4 note the fishing gear used; 8.5 verify the catch data for Gabonese waters recorded in the logbook; 8.6 verify the percentages of by-catches and estimate the quantity of discards of species of marketable fish; 8.7 report fishing data by radio, including the quantity of catches and by-catches on board. 9.
CHAPTER VIII – MONITORING 1.
Entering and leaving the zone 3.1 Community vessels shall notify, at least three hours in advance, the Gabonese authorities responsible for fisheries inspection of their intention to enter or leave the Gabonese fishing zone; they shall also declare the overall quantities and the species on board. 3.2 When notifying leaving, vessels shall also communicate their position.
This information should preferably be communicated by fax (+241-76 46 02) or, for vessels not equipped with a fax, by radio (call sign DGPA-6241 MH2) or e-mail (dgpa@internetgabon.com). 3.3 Vessels found to be fishing without having informed the competent Gabonese authority shall be regarded as vessels in breach of the legislation. 3.4 Vessels shall also be informed of the fax and telephone numbers and e-mail address when the fishing licence is issued. 4.
Satellite monitoring 5.1 All Community vessels fishing under this Agreement shall be subject to satellite monitoring in line with Appendix 4.
Boarding 6.1 The competent Gabonese authorities shall inform the flag State and the European Commission, within no more than 24 hours, of all boardings of and penalties imposed on Community vessels in Gabonese waters. 6.2 The flag State and the European Commission shall at the same time receive a brief report of the circumstances and reasons leading to the boarding. 7.
Settlement of boarding 9.1.
Transhipment 10.1 All Community vessels wishing to tranship catches in Gabonese waters shall do so within Gabonese ports. 10.2.
The owners of such vessels must notify the following information to the competent Gabonese authorities at least 24 hours in advance: - the names of the transhipping fishing vessels, - the names of the cargo vessels, - the tonnage by species to be transhipped, - the day of transhipment; 10.3.
Provisions applicable to the satellite-based vessel monitoring system (VMS) and coordinates of the Gabonese fishing zone Appendix 1 MINISTRY OF FISHERIES APPLICATION FOR A LICENCE FOR FOREIGN INDUSTRIAL FISHING VESSELS: 1.
Name of shipowner: 2.
Address of shipowner: 3.
Address of shipowner's representative or local agent: ……………………………………………………………………………………..….. 5.
Name of skipper: 6.
Name of vessel: 7.
Registration No: 8.
Flag country: 13.
Port of registration: 14.
Port of fitting out: 15.
Fishing gear: 23.
Communications equipment: 25.
Place of landing: 29.
Fishing zones: 30.
Be sure to record N/S and E/W. | 6 - All information reported herein will be kept strictly confidential. | Appendix 3 Provisions applicable to satellite monitoring of Community fishing vessels operating in the Gabonese EEZ and on the basis of the EC/GABON Fisheries Agreement 1.
The Gabonese authorities shall transmit this information in electronic form, expressed in decimal degrees (WGS 84). 3.
The Parties shall exchange information on X.25 addresses and the specifications for electronic data transmission between their Control Centres in accordance with points 5 and 7.
The messages specified in point 5 shall be transmitted electronically in X.25 format, or any other secure protocol.
Where the continuous satellite monitoring equipment installed on board a fishing vessel develops a technical fault or breaks down, the skipper of the vessel shall transmit the information specified at 5 to the Control Centre of the flag State and the Gabonese FMC in good time.
It will be necessary in those circumstances to send a global position report every eight hours.
This global position report shall include the position reports as recorded by the skipper of the vessel on a two-hourly basis in accordance with the requirements laid down in point 5.
After this deadline, the vessel in question must leave the Gabonese EEZ. 8.
The Parties agree to exchange upon request information on the equipment used for satellite monitoring, in order to ensure that each piece of equipment is fully compatible with the requirements of the other Party for the purposes of these provisions. 13.
Any dispute over the interpretation or application of these provisions shall be the subject of consultation between the Parties within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 of the Agreement. 14.
The Parties agree to review these provisions, as appropriate.
COMMUNICATION OF VMS MESSAGES TO GABON POSITION REPORT Data Element | Code | Mandatory/Optional | Comments | Start of record | SR | M | System detail – indicates start of record | Recipient | AD | M | Message detail – recipient.
Alpha 3 ISO country code | From | FR | M | Message detail – sender.
Alpha 3 ISO country code | Flag State | FS | O | Type of message | TM | M | Message detail – Message type "POS" | Radio call sign | RC | M | Vessel detail – international radio call sign of vessel | Contracting party internal reference number | IR | O | Vessel detail - unique contracting party number (ISO-3 code of flag State followed by number) | External registration number | XR | M | Vessel detail – number marked on side of vessel | Latitude | LA | M | Vessel position detail – position in degrees and minutes N/S DDMM (WGS-84) | Longitude | LO | M | Vessel position detail – position in degrees and minutes E/W DDMM (WGS-84) | Course | CO | M | Vessel course 360° scale | Speed | SP | M | Vessel speed in tenths of knots | Dates | DA | M | Vessel position detail – date of record of UTC position (YYYYMMDD) | Time | TI | M | Vessel position detail – time of record of UTC position (HHMM) | End of record | ER | M | System detail – indicates end of record | Character set: ISO 8859.1 Each data transmission is structured as follows: - a double slash (//) and field code indicate the start of the message; - a single slash (/) separates the field code and the data.
BUDGET LINES 3.1.
The Protocol lays down the financial contribution, the categories of and conditions for fishing activities for Community vessels in Gabonese fishing zones. 3.3 Budgetary characteristics ( add rows if necessary ): Budget line | Type of expenditure | New | EFTA contribution | Contribution from applicant countries | Heading Financial Perspective | 11.0301 | Comp. | Diff.[2] | NO | NO | NO | No 4 | 11.010404 | Comp. | Non-diff.[3] | NO | NO | NO | No 4 | 4.
Annual requirements | Year n | Year n+1 | Year n+2 | Year n+3 | Year n+4 | Year n+5 | Total number of human resources | 0.55 | 0.55 | 0.55 | 0.55 | 0.55 | 0.55 | 5.
CHARACTERISTICS AND OBJECTIVES 5.1 Need to be met in the short or long term The previous Protocol to the Fisheries Agreement between the European Community and the Gabonese Republic expired on 2 December 2005.
The main elements of the new Protocol are: - Fishing opportunities : 24 freezer tuna seiners and 16 surface longliners (a reduction of 37.5% against the previous Protocol) allocated as follows (based on applications by the Member States and the historical rates of utilisation by Member State and by category), i.e.: - tuna seiners: France: 12, Spain: 12 - surface longliners: Spain: 13, Portugal: 3 - Annual reference tonnage : 11 000 tonnes of tuna - Annual financial contribution : EUR 860 000 - Advances and fees payable by shipowners : EUR 35 (compared with EUR 25 previously) per tonne of tuna caught in the Gabonese fishery zone.
X Centralised Management X Directly by the Commission ( indirectly ( Shared or decentralised management ( Joint management with international organisations (please specify) 6.
In order to avoid these risks, it would be desirable to enhance checks on revenue and expenditure, improve maritime control activities, strengthen satellite monitoring (VMS), finance measures for local fishermen, etc. 6.2.2 Ex-ante estimate of the economic value of the Agreement and the Community's financial contribution The financial contribution granted by the Community under this new Fisheries Partnership Agreement is a single allocation established on the basis of an annual financial envelope of EUR 860 000 for the 2005-11 Protocol. 6.2.3 Measures taken following an intermediate/ex-post evaluation (lessons learned from similar experiences in the past) The failure to use the category of demersal fishing, due to the fact that Community vessels preferred to take out private fishing licences rather than licences under the previous Protocol, has led the Community to remove this demersal fishing category from the new FPA and to add the exclusivity clause for licences in the Gabonese EEZ.
Technical and administrative assistance (including related staff costs) | Executive Agencies[14] | Other technical and administrative assistance: | - intra-muros | - extra muros (1) | 0.04 | 0.04 | Total technical and administrative assistance | 0.04 | 0.04 | (1) Ex-post evaluation of the current Protocol and ex-ante evaluation of the future Protocol. 8.2.5 Financial cost of human resources and associated costs not included in the reference amount (EUR million to four decimal places) Type of human resources | Year n | Year n+1 | Year n+2 | Year n+3 | Year n+4 | Year n+5 | TOTAL | Officials and temporary staff (11 01 01) | 0.0594 | 0.0594 | 0.0594 | 0.0594 | 0.0594 | 0.0594 | 0.3564 | Staff financed by Art.
Total other management expenditure (XX 01 02 11) | 3.
Other expenditure of an administrative nature (specify including reference to budget line) | Total administrative expenditure, other than human resources and associated costs (NOT included in reference amount) | 0.0215 | 0.0215 | 0.0215 | 0.0215 | 0.0215 | 0.0215 | 0.129 | [1] OJ L 73, 15.3.2001, p. 8. [2] Differentiated appropriations. [3] Non-differentiated appropriations. [4] Expenditure that does not fall within Chapter 11 01 of the Title 11 concerned. [5] Expenditure within Article 11 01 04 of Title 11. [6] Expenditure within Chapter 11 01 other than Articles 11 01 04. [7] See points 19 and 24 of the Interinstitutional Agreement. [8] If more than one method is indicated, please give details in the "Comments" section under this point. [9] Licences already issued at 3 December 2004 for the period from 3 December 2004 to 2 December 2005. [10] As described in point 5.3. [11] Cost of which is NOT covered by the reference amount. [12] Cost of which is NOT covered by the reference amount. [13] Cost of which is included in the reference amount. [14] Reference should be made to the specific legislative statement for the Executive Agency/Agencies concerned. [15] Specify the type of committee and the group to which it belongs.
