Summary and recommendations 2.
The energy issue 3.
Coal, oil and natural gas in a sustainable energy mix 7.
CO2 separation and storage 1.
We are talking about the depletion of finite resources. 1.4 The use of these vital raw materials has led to Europe being heavily dependent on high-grade imports of them, and this is set to increase in future, particularly as regards oil and, increasingly, natural gas. 1.5 The expected lifetime of world-wide resources and reserves [3] of coal, oil and gas is dependent on several factors (economic growth, exploration and technological advances).
Cooperation with the Russian Federation, the CIS states, countries in the Middle East and regions neighbouring the EU (such as Algeria and Libya) is particularly important in this regard. 1.8 Making greater use of Europe's considerable coal deposits could also help to mitigate this dependency. 1.9 If the European internal market is working as it should and appropriate climate-protection measures are in place, there would be applications for fossil fuels in accordance with their respective characteristics and price and cost levels.
This automatically ensures they will be used in a way that is particularly energy-efficient and economical. 1.10 This has produced a situation in which coal predominates in the steel industry and in power plants, while oil and gas are used primarily in producing heat and in non-energy spheres.
Oil-based products prevail in the transport sector. 1.11 Natural gas and oil are both more scarce and more versatile and so should be used in the energy mix predominantly for applications — such as fuel for transport and as raw material for the chemicals industry — where the use of coal would involve extra costs, energy consumption and CO2 emissions. 1.12 Progress in technology must be used to achieve a sustained reduction in CO2 emissions per product unit (e.g., kg CO2/kWh, t CO2/t steel and g CO2/passenger-kilometre).
This requires an improvement in energy efficiency in all areas of energy conversion and application. 1.13 Energy and economic policy needs, therefore, to provide a reliable framework for investment which will lead to improved technology in industry, trade and private consumption. 1.14 In the coming decades, Europe will have to increase its power plant capacity by around 400 GW [5].
It should particularly include those measures which increase the efficiency of fossil fuel use, as the overall benefits to be had here are particularly great. 1.18 In the case of electricity from fossil fuels, there is also a chance of significantly reducing CO2 emissions when converting energy, provided CO2 sequestration and storage procedures (Clean Coal Technology) are used.
This applies particularly to nuclear energy and to backing given to renewable energies. 3.2.1 According to the reference prognoses [8] issued in 2004 by the International Energy Agency in Paris and the US Department of Energy's Information Administration (EIA), even 25 years from now, these fossil fuels will still account for over 80 % of the world's energy consumption. 3.2.2 The contribution of renewable energies will grow, but not at a rate above that of energy consumption, according to IEA and EIA estimates; their share will thus remain constant.
As a result, the IEA and EIA are now even anticipating a decline in nuclear energy's share in covering the world's energy consumption. 3.2.3 The European Commission's baseline scenario [9] for the EU-25, published in September 2004 and at variance with the worldwide trend as seen by the IEA and EIA, envisages an increase in the share of renewable energies in the EU-25's total energy consumption from today's 6 % to 9 % in 2030.
However, as this estimate also sees a reduction in the share of nuclear energy in the EU-25, the Commission's baseline scenario equally concludes that, in the EU-25 too, fossil fuels will still account for over 80 % of the total energy consumption in 2030. 3.3 Fossil fuels are non-renewable raw materials.
This gives us a static lifetime for resources worldwide of around forty years for oil, around sixty years for gas and around two hundred years for coal. 3.9 However, the reserves and their static lifetime are by no means fixed amounts.
In the case of coal, the estimated EUR of 3400 billion tons of oil units, only around 3 % has yet been recovered. 3.14 However, exploration for gas (methane) hydrates and the technology for recovering them are still at the research stage, so no reliable claims can be made about how much they can contribute to the energy supply.
Depending on the deposit, those for oil currently stand at between 2 and 20 USD a barrel.
In terms of the economic performance it produces, energy consumption in Europe is only around half the average in all non-European regions, as energy is used here substantially more efficiently than in many other parts of the world. 4.2 The most important energy sources in the EU of 25 in 2004 — measured in total primary energy consumption — were mineral oil at 39 %, natural gas at 24 % and coal at 17 %.
Other important staples of the EU energy supply are nuclear energy at 14 % and renewable and other energy sources at 6 %.
They range in the case of natural gas from 1 % in Sweden to almost 50 % in the Netherlands, in the case of mineral oil from less than 30 % in Hungary to two-thirds in Portugal, and in the case of coal from 5 % in France to 60 % in Poland.
The main reason for these differences is the different size of fossil energy reserves in the individual Member States. 4.3 The total energy reserves of the EU of 25 are comparatively tiny at around 38 billion tons of coal equivalent.
Natural gas reserves stand at 4 billion tons of coal equivalent and oil reserves at 2 billion tons of coal equivalent.
According to the European Commission's Green Paper, this will increase to 70 % by 2030.
Imports of natural gas stand at 55 %, and of coal at one-third. 4.6 This has led to Europe being heavily dependent on imports of the vital raw material "energy" (especially oil and, increasingly, gas) and it is set to be even more dependent in the future.
Its prognosis follows. 5.2 Primary energy consumption will rise by 2040 to 2.9 billion tons of coal equivalent — a mere 0.6 % p.a.
Coal's share in primary energy consumption in the EU-25 will then be around 15 %, as it was in 2005.
As a downturn of 40 % in coal extraction in the EU is expected in the period 2005 to 2030, together with an increase in coal imports of around 125 %, the share of imports in covering the EU-25's coal consumption will rise from 1/3 in 2005 to almost 2/3 in 2030. 5.5 Oil: As growth rates are then expected to be sluggish — at 0.2 % p.a. -, oil's share in primary energy consumption is expected to fall in 2030 to 34 % — 5 percentage points lower than today. 5.6 Gas: At 2.7 % p.a., growth in gas consumption will initially be buoyant up to 2015.
The share of natural gas in the EU-25's primary energy consumption will increase from 26 % in 2005 to 32 % in 2030.
At the present time, LNG accounts for around 25 % of world trade in oil.
As already mentioned, in 2030 import levels for coal will be at almost two-thirds, for gas more than 80 % and for oil almost 90 %.
Particularly critical is the growing dependence on gas imports from a restricted number of suppliers. 5.8 Electricity consumption will grow to 2030 by an average of 1.4 % p.a.
This will increase the demand on power station capacity from today's c. 700 GW (maximum electrical capacity) to c. 1100 GW in 2030.
Coal, oil and natural gas in a sustainable energy mix 6.1 Coal, oil and natural gas are natural hydrocarbons produced over millions of years through a transformation from biological substances — deposited biomass; in effect, then, it is deposited solar energy.
Economic, technological and environmental criteria determine the choice of the hydrocarbon to be used. 6.3 Around 7 % of fossil fuels consumed in the EU are used for "non-energy" consumption, i.e., mainly the production of chemical products.
At 475 kg per ton, the average consumption of reducing agent in modern European plants is close to the minimum that is technologically possible. 6.5 The transport sector is still experiencing high growth rates.
This sector accounts for around 25 % of energy consumption and road transport is almost entirely dependent on oil products.
It remains to be seen whether these product lines will be able to secure greater market share [14]. 6.7 Households and small consumers require around 30 % of energy.
In this sector heating oil, natural gas, electricity — and in populated areas district heating from combined heat and power plants — are in competition with one another. 6.8 40 % of the EU's energy consumption is converted in power stations to electricity and heat.
In technologically highly efficient power stations, natural gas can provide an efficiency (in converting primary energy into electrical energy) of almost 60 %.
For hard coal the figure in modern plants is between 45 % and 50 %, and for lignite 43 %. 6.9 Around 40 % of the world's electricity needs and around 30 % in the EU are derived from coal.
Worldwide supplies of coal are substantially greater than those of oil and natural gas. 6.11 The broad policy conditions should therefore provide incentives to use natural gas and oil, which are both relatively scarce and relatively versatile, predominantly for applications — such as fuel for transport and as raw material for the chemicals industry — where the use of coal (as well as of nuclear power and, to some extent, renewable energy sources) would involve extra costs, technology and energy consumption — and hence more CO2 production!
Something similar applies in the case of coal mining to the fire damp produced, which can contain large amounts of methane. 7.3 The European Large Combustion Plant Directive sets strict environmental standards for the building and running of power stations with a performance of ≥ 50 MWth.
The ash content of hard coal is normally up to 10 % (and occasionally as much as 15 %).
In coal and oil power stations dust emission is restricted by the European Large Combustion Plant Directive's ceiling of 20 mg/m.
The current state of technology allows separation of sulphur parts to a level of more than 90 %.
The European Large Combustion Plant Regulation demands that nitrogen oxide emissions from power stations &lt;300 MW not exceed 200 mg/m3. 7.9 Science goes on the basis of a causal relationship between the emission of man-made CO2 and other so-called greenhouse gases and an increase in temperature of the earth's surface (the greenhouse effect).
The European Large Combustion Plant Directive and the European Air Quality Directive have made important contributions to this, as have policies and measures to increase energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 8.
Technological development [16] 8.1 In the EU of 25, coal, oil and gas power stations account for more than 60 % of the total installed capacity of power stations and thus form the backbone of electricity supply in Europe.
This also concerns the further development of power station technology for using fossil fuels, which would also benefit the competitiveness of the European plant construction industry in a globally expanding power station market. 8.4 Modern coal-fired power stations achieve an efficiency of more than 45 % using hard coal and more than 43 % using lignite.
Such ambitious development aims require the kind of international cooperation that exists in the EU projects AD 700 and Comtes 700 for the development of a 700° C power station.
The efficiency of newer natural gas power stations has reached almost 60 %.
These lines of development should be pursued not only in view of the increase in efficiency for coal-fired power stations, but should also be the technological basis for further development of a so-called zero-CO2 coal-fired power station. 8.7 Efficiency improvement and reduction of CO2 need not be limited to industry and electricity production.
If this technology proves successful, a synergy with hydrogen technology in other fields is on the horizon. 9.4 For more than twenty years the concept of power stations with IGCC (Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle) has been intensively researched and developed.
Europe is thus excellently equipped technologically for developing zero-CO2 coal-fired power stations and for testing in demonstration plants. 9.6 Not only power stations, but other industrial process which produce large quantities of CO2 emissions — such as H2 production, various chemical processes and mineral oil processing, as well as the production of cement and steel -, should be examined with a view to their potential for CO2 separation.
Brussels, 26 October 2005.
One GW (gigawatt) equals 1000 megawatts (MW), 1 million kilowatts (KW) or 1 billion watts (W).
This happens through conversion processes such as coal combustion, the conversion of wind energy into electricity, and nuclear fission (conservation of energy; E = mc2).
However, the terms "energy supply", "energy production" and "energy consumption" are also used. [8] (IEA) World Energy Outlook 2004, p. 57: "Fossil fuels will continue to dominate global energy use.
Their share in total demand will increase slightly, from 80 % in 2002 to 82 % in 2030".(EIA) International Energy Outlook, April 2004, [http://www.eia.doe.gov/oiaf/ieo/]: The IEO2004 reference case projects increased consumption of all primary energy sources over the 24-year forecast horizon (Figure 14 and Appendix A, Table A2). [9] (EU-Commission), [http://europa.eu.int/comm/dgs/energy_transport/figures/scenarios/doc/chapter_1.pdf], EU-25 energy and transport reference case to 2030 (baseline): page 9, table 1-8. [10] 1 kg oil = 42.7 MJ; 1 kg TCE = 29.3 MJ; 1 m2 gas Hu = 31,7 MJ (for joules (J) und megajoules (MJ) see footnote 3). [11] Indeed, the current crisis in oil prices, which continues to deteriorate, suggests matters could come to a head much earlier. [12] World Energy Council, Energie für Deutschland, Fakten, Perspektiven und Positionen im globalen Kontext 2004 Schwerpunktthema, "Zur Dynamik der Öl- und Erdgasmärkte". [13] European Commission, Directorate-General for Energy and Transport, September 2004. [14] The same is true for liquid fuel from biomass, which so far has only been marketable thanks to high subsidies. [15] Council Directive 96/62/EC of 27 September 1996 on ambient air quality. [16] See the Committee's Opinion: Research needs for a safe and sustainable energy supply. --------------------------------------------------
