At its 426th plenary session, held on 20/ 21 April 2006 (meeting of 20 April 2006), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 103 votes to 19 with 11 abstentions: 1.
Introduction On 20 October 2005, the European Commission submitted its proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on improving the portability of supplementary pension rights.
No negotiations were launched on an agreement between the social partners due to divergent views on the thrust of Community-level action and on the instruments. 2.3 On the basis of Articles 42 and 94 of the EC Treaty, the Commission is seeking in its proposal to flesh out the laws of the Member States in this area.
Provisions must therefore be in place for contributions to be either reimbursed or transferred. 3.3 To ensure that young workers in particular do not lose pension rights after a change of employer, the Commission suggests that the minimum age at which a worker can start acquiring supplementary pension rights should not exceed 21 in any Member State.
For example, transfers must not penalise employees financially as a result of differing calculating methods or excessive administrative charges. 3.6 Employees are to always have a choice between transferring rights and leaving them in the previous scheme. 3.7 The proposal also provides for employees to be given information on request and within a reasonable period as to the implications of a change of job for supplementary pension rights. 3.8 Transposition The Directive is to be transposed in the Member States by 1 July 2008 at the latest.
Member States have the option of an additional 60 months (starting from 1 July 2008) for transposing the provision to reduce the period after which rights are definitively acquired to two years.
On the European level, rules on conditions for acquisition should therefore focus on principles and provide direction for measures at national level, thereby leaving the social partners sufficient room for collective bargaining. 4.4.2 Article 4 of the directive should be replaced by the following: %quot%where conditions for acquisition are stipulated, such as minimum age, waiting periods and/or vesting periods, such conditions should be fair and justified on objective (and non discriminatory) grounds.%quot% 4.5 A change of employer can have a negative impact on the acquisition and level of supplementary pension rights.
Supplementary pension schemes are therefore becoming increasingly important, even though such systems are also exposed to the repercussions of demographic change. 4.7 Insofar as it ties in with the fundamental Single Market goal of guaranteeing the free movement of persons, and also in view of the need to improve conditions for supplementary pension schemes, the Commission's approach to removing barriers to mobility created by supplementary pension schemes is welcome. 4.8 Moreover, Article 40 of the EC Treaty obliges the Council to %quot%issue Directives or make regulations setting out the measures required to bring about freedom of movement for workers%quot%.
The Commission has sought therefore to deal with taxation through its Communication of 19 April 2001 and is currently taking infringement proceedings against a number of Member States.
Voting For: 49 Against: 54 Abstentions: 19 --------------------------------------------------
