The proposal for a Council Regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations was sent by the Commission to the EDPS by letter dated 29 March 2006.
The proposal in its context 2.
Therefore, the EDPS welcomes the reference (Recital 22) to the respect for private and family life, and the protection of personal data, as laid down by Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. 4.
Furthermore, maintenance claims are based on ongoing and dynamic situations, and they can be managed both by private and public parties [1]. 7.
This complexity, which is confirmed by the Commission's Impact Assessment [2], increases if one considers the huge differences in this field between the 25 Member States.
The choice of a centralised system 10.
The EDPS notes that the current proposal should not only take into account the complexity of national provisions on maintenance obligations, but should also ensure full compliance with existing national legislation on protection of personal data, adopted pursuant to Directive 95/46/EC. 13.
Nonetheless, Article 13 of the aforementioned directive requires that these exceptions shall be necessary and based on legislative measures.
Legal grounds for processing of personal data by national central authorities 17.
Similar considerations shall be made in relation to the legal grounds on which the processing of personal data by national central authorities is based.
Meanwhile, the Court of Justice confirmed in the Österreichischer Rundfunk case [3], that Directive 95/46/EC has a wide scope and that only specific exceptions to its basic principles can be accepted.
The proposed legal basis gives the occasion to reiterate some remarks already made in previous opinions [4]. 22.
Secondly, in this area the Court of Justice, according to Article 68 TEU, still has limited powers, especially with regard to preliminary rulings.
In the current text, the definition and limitation of purposes is dealt with by Articles 44 and 46. 29.
Article 44 lays down the specific purposes for which information shall be provided by national administrations and authorities to the relevant central authorities: to locate the debtor; to evaluate the debtor's assets; to identify the debtor's employer and to identify the bank accounts of the debtor. 30.
In addition, a clarification in the concept of location would also help circumscribing the kinds of personal data that might be processed according to this proposal (see further, points 35-37). 31.
In any event, it is essential that also the purposes for which data on creditor are processed are precisely and explicitly defined in the proposal. 32.
Furthermore, their processing shall be necessary, inter alia, for compliance with a legal obligation or for the performance of a task carried out in the public interests or in the exercise of official authority (Article 7, letters c) and e)). 34.
The EDPS stresses the need to define more precisely both the nature of personal data which can be processed according to this regulation, as well as the authorities whose databases can be accessed. 36.
A limitation should relate not only to the authorities, but also to the kinds of data that can be processed.
Therefore, processing of sensitive data should be in principle excluded, pursuant to Article 8 of Directive 95/46/EC.
As the EDPS has already pointed out in other opinions [6], processing of these kinds of data, which may well be used to locate/identify a person, may entail specific risks and in certain cases may also reveal sensitive information about the data subject.
Indeed, national central authorities and courts should be allowed to process personal data only to the extent that this is necessary in the specific case to facilitate the enforcement of maintenance obligations [7]. 41.
Indeed, according to the information provided by the Commission, in the EU a maintenance claim is paid for 8 years on average [8]. 49.
For these reasons, the EDPS prefers a flexible but proportionate storage period rather than a rigid a priori limitation of the storage period to one year (as currently proposed by Article 46(3)), which can prove in certain cases too short for the envisaged purposes of the processing.
The obligation to provide information to the data subject reflects one of the basic principles of data protection, enshrined in Articles 10 and 11 of Directive 95/46/EC.
In this perspective, the EDPS welcomes the obligation to provide information to the debtor laid down by Article 47 of the proposal.
Furthermore, the EDPS notes that it is essential that adequate information is also provided to the creditor, in case personal data concerning him/her are exchanged. 52.
The exception, according to which the notification to the debtor might be postponed when it might prejudice the effective recovery of a maintenance claim, is proportionate, also in consideration of the maximum length of postponement (no more than 60 days) laid down by Article 47. 53.
In particular, the EDPS recommends duly taking into account the complexity and variety of maintenance obligations, the broad differences in Member States laws in this domain, and the obligations on protection of personal data stemming from Directive 95/46/EC. 55.
Furthermore, the EDPS considers essential to clarify some aspects of the functioning of the system, such as the change in the purpose for which personal data are processed, the legal grounds for processing by national central authorities, and the definition of the data protection rules applicable to further processing by judicial authorities.
There is a need to define more precisely both the nature of personal data which can be processed according to this regulation, as well as the authorities whose databases can be accessed.
The proposal should ensure that national central authorities and courts should be allowed to process personal data only to the extent that this is necessary in the specific case to facilitate the enforcement of maintenance obligations.
Processing of sensitive data for the purpose of enforcing maintenance obligations should be in principle excluded, unless it is carried out in compliance with Article 8 of Directive 95/46/EC.
EDPS prefers a flexible but proportionate storage period rather than rigid a priori limitation to a definite period of time, which can prove in certain cases too short for the envisaged purposes of the processing. - Information to creditor and debtor.
It is essential that adequate information is also provided to the creditor, in case personal data concerning him/her are exchanged.
For example, the provision of address of debtor's family members shall be strictly limited, on a case by case basis and depending on the kind of maintenance obligation concerned. [8] See Commission Staff Working Document — Impact Assessment, of 15 December 2005, p. 10. --------------------------------------------------
