The Security System and its Reform 4 3.1.
The security system and its reform 5 4.
Areas of engagement 6 4.2.
The particular role and strength of EC support for SSR 8 5.
EU support for SSR in the Future 9 5.1.
The particular role and strength of EC support for SSR The EC aims to provide added value in support of SSR on the basis of the following factors: - The Commission’s supranational nature and its experience in promoting democracy, human rights and nation-building, including in very difficult situations, provides it with the ability to conduct activities which might not be possible for other actors, including bilateral donors. - The global reach of the EC enables the Commission to act in almost any region of the world, if considered necessary, and to respond to a wide variety of situations. - Long-term presence on the ground, through the EC Delegations, means that the EC can lend long-term support to both the national dialogue on SSR and to different aspects of the SSR process. - The commitment to policy coherence for development, in particular where EC policies have a significant impact on developing countries.
The Stability Instrument could have an important role in ensuring rapid and flexible support for critical phases of the reform process, and complementing both long-term assistance programmes and other short-term instruments.
Cooperation should also be strengthened with civil society organisations and other donors at field level with a view to improve the efficiency of EU support in the area of SSR. [1] As reflected in key policy documents like the European Union’s Development Policy Statement, “The European Consensus” on development, adopted by the Council on 22 November 2005, published in Official Journal No C 46 of 24/02/2006, and in the European Security Strategy (ESS) adopted by the European Council in December 2003. [2] Ibid. [3] Council Conclusions, General Affairs and External Relations Council, 21-22 November 2005 [4] Human Security Now, the final Report of the Commission on Human Security (2003) and the Commission Communication on Governance and Development, COM(2003) 615 final. [5] Security System Reform and Governance, Policy and Practice, DAC Guidelines and Reference Series (Paris: OECD 2004). [6] See annex 2 - Areas of EC support for SSR – Regional and Country examples. [7] Ibid. [8] See annex 1 - EC Policy frameworks - and annex 3 concerning the programming cycle. [9] Security System Reform and Governance, Policy and Practice, DAC Guidelines and Reference Series (2004). [10] Technical cooperation provided to parliament, government ministries, law enforcement agencies and the judiciary to assist, review and reform the security system and thus improve democratic governance and civilian control; technical cooperation provided to governments to improve civilian oversight and democratic control of budgeting, management, accountability and auditing of security expenditure, including military budgets, as part of a public expenditure management programme; assistance to civil society to enhance its competence and capacity to scrutinise the security system so that it is managed in accordance with democratic norms and principles of accountability, transparency and good governance.
