Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on The role of technology parks in the industrial transformation of the new Member States Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on "The role of technology parks in the industrial transformation of the new Member States" (2006/C 65/11) On 10 February 2005, the European Economic and Social Committee decided to draw up an opinion, under Rule 29(2) of its Rules of Procedure, on: The role of technology parks in the industrial transformation of the new Member States.
At its 422nd plenary session of 14 and 15 December 2005 (meeting of 14 December), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 127 votes to none with six abstentions: 1.
A review of the situation in the new Member States 3.1 In the ten countries which joined the European Union on 1 May 2004, it can be observed that industrial parks generally match the types described in point 2.1.
These are private organisations dealing with specific projects. 3.2 In the Czech Republic, 82 industrial zones were set up through CzechInvest, the government agency to promote investment, in the framework of the governments programme to support the development of industrial zones.
There are currently two such parks, in Tartu and in Tallinn.
The Incubation Centre provides facilities for investment or financing, together with a wide range of infrastructure services, to companies operating in the above sectors. 3.9 Support for industrial parks in Slovakia is regulated by Act No 193 on support for industrial parks, adopted in 2001 and amended in 2003 and 2004.
Local and regional authorities can set up industrial parks on land owned by them; the Act also provides for joint establishment of industrial parks on the basis of a contract between two or more authorities. 3.10 In Slovenia, parks are referred to as "technology parks".
In the USA, it was in areas such as these that the first innovation parks were sited (for example Silicon Valley and the vicinity of Route 128 in Boston). 6.3.3 Today, innovation parks exist in all the countries of the European Union, from Lisbon to Athens.
The EESC has always been strongly in favour of Community action with an impact on industrial and technological parks and clusters. 7.2.7 The EESC feels that it would be useful if the New European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, and in particular that part of it which was previously covered by action areas 2 and 3 of the INTERREG programme, were to include measures concerning industrial and technological parks and clusters in its funding for inter-regional, trans-regional, European and pan-European networks. 7.2.8 The EESC advocates cooperation in the Member States with job centres and with all institutional players at EU level with an interest in job creation to ensure that parks remain in a position to generate new jobs, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by networking.
Brussels, 14 December 2005.
The President of the European Economic and Social Committee Anne-Marie Sigmund --------------------------------------------------
