A Communication on a thematic programme for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide under the future Financial Perspectives (2007-2013) was thus published by the Commission in January [12] which had been prepared following consultations in the later part of 2005 [13].
The proposal mirrors the main ideas developed in the Communication for a Thematic programme for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide under the future Financial Perspectives (2007-2013), and thus takes account of the consultations carried out in that context.
The Regulation in its entirety is subject to the co-decision procedure under Article 251 TEC. 9.
The Regulation is divided into three Titles which cover the objectives and scope of the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (Title I – Articles 1 to 3), general rules for the implementation of the instrument (Title II – Articles 4 to 15), and final provisions (Title III – Article 16 to 20). 10.
The provision of Article 1 of Title I reflects the strategic objectives for the instrument as developed and presented in the Commission’s Communication on a Thematic Programme for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide under the future Financial Perspectives (2007-2013) [15].
Strategy papers are drawn up in line with the Common Framework and Procedure for Strategy Papers for the Thematic Programmes 2007-2013 [17].
Article 6 provides that financing decisions under the instrument generally are taken by the Commission in the form of Annual Action Programmes.
The Annual Action Programme includes all types of financing in terms of Article 8 and Article 12 of this Regulation, and in particular comprises the Annual Work Programme on the basis of Article 110(1) of the Financial Regulation [18].
In exceptional cases (Article 7) and for financing Support Measures (Article 8), the Commission may take financing decisions not covered by the Strategy Papers. 14.
Article 7 on Special Measures increases the Community’s capacity to respond to unforeseen situations and developments and introduces a particular flexibility for the effective implementation of the Community’s complementary external assistance in the field of promoting democracy and human rights.
Thus, the Commission may decide on assistance measures originally not covered by Strategy Papers.
Article 9 lists the entities, bodies and institutions eligible for receiving grants under this Regulation.
Article 10 allows the Commission to manage the measures financed under this Regulation using management methods provided for in the Financial Regulation (centralised management or joint management with international organisations).
In accordance with Article 54 of the Financial Regulation, Article 10(2) establishes the criteria for delegating budget implementation tasks to national public-sector bodies or bodies governed by private law with a public-service mission. 18.
Article 11 and 12 of Title II list the forms of budget commitments and types of financing on the basis of Commission decisions on Strategy Papers (Article 5), Annual Action Programmes (Article 6), Special Measures (Article 7) and Support Measures (Article 8).
Article 13 of Title II sets out the rules for participation in the award of grants and public contracts financed under this Regulation.
Article 13 allows in particular natural and legal persons of third countries which open their own grant procedures and public procurement to EU Member States to take part in grant award and procurement procedures under this Regulation.
Articles 16 to 20 of Title III comprise final provisions pertaining to the establishment of a management committee of Member States’ representatives (Article 16) in accordance with the comitology decision of the Council [21], an annual report by the Commission on the implementation of assistance measures under this Regulation (Article 17), the financial reference amount for the implementation of the Regulation (Article 18), and a review of this Regulation after four years of implementation on the basis of a Commission proposal (Article 19). 22.
Article 20 of Title III determines that the Regulation shall apply from 1 January 2007 for a period of seven years until 31 December 2013.
Council Regulation (EC) No [...] establishes an Instrument for Pre-Accession (IPA) for Community assistance to candidate and potential candidate countries.
Any European State which respects these principles may according to Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union apply to become a member of the Union; (3) The promotion of democracy and the rule of law, and human rights and fundamental freedoms constitutes a prime objective of the Community’s development policy and economic, financial and technical cooperation with third countries. .
The task of building and sustaining a culture of human rights and making democracy work for its citizens, though especially urgent and difficult in emerging democracies, is essentially a continuous challenge, belonging first and foremost to the people of the country concerned; (9) In order to address the above issues in an effective, timely and flexible manner beyond the expiry of Council Regulation (EC) No 975/1999 [27] and Council Regulation (EC) No 976/1999 [28], which served as the legal base for the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights and which expire by 31 December 2006, specific financial resources and a self-contained financing instrument are required that can continue to work in an independent manner whilst remaining complementary to humanitarian aid and long term development and cooperation financing instruments; (10) Community assistance under this Regulation is designed to complement the various other tools for implementation of EU policies on democracy and human rights, which range from political dialogue and diplomatic demarches to various instruments of financial and technical cooperation, including both geographic and thematic programmes.
It will also complement the more crisis-related interventions of the Instrument for Stability; (11) In particular, in addition and complementary to the measures agreed with partner countries in the context of the cooperation pursued under the Instrument for Pre-accession, the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, the Development Cooperation and Economic Cooperation Instrument, the Cotonou Agreement with ACP countries and the Instrument for Stability, the Community provides assistance under this Regulation that addresses global, regional and national human rights and democratisation issues in partnership with civil society; (12) Furthermore, whilst democracy and human rights objectives are increasingly mainstreamed in all external assistance financing instruments, Community assistance under this Regulation will have a specific complementary role by virtue of its global nature and its independence of action from the consent of third country authorities.
It also provides a Community capacity to articulate and support specific objectives and measures at international level, which are neither geographically linked nor crisis related, which may require a transnational approach or involve operations both within the Community and in a range of third countries.
It provides the necessary framework for operations such as independent EU election observation requiring policy coherence, a unified management system and common operating standards; (13) The 2001 “Guidelines for strengthening operational coordination between the Community, represented by the Commission, and the Member States in the field of external assistance” emphasise the need for enhanced coordination of EU external assistance in the fields of supporting democratisation and promoting respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms worldwide.
The Commission and Member States shall ensure that their respective assistance measures are complementary; (14) The relevance and scope of Community assistance in promoting democracy and human rights calls for the Commission to seek regular and frequent exchanges of information with the European Parliament. (15) The Commission needs to consult representatives of civil society, as well as other donors and actors, as early as appropriate in the programming process in order to facilitate their respective contributions and to ensure that assistance activities are as complementary to each other as possible; (16) The Community needs to be able to respond rapidly to unforeseen needs and in exceptional circumstances in order to enhance the credibility and effectiveness of its commitment to the promotion of democracy and human rights in countries where such situations arise.
This requires the possibility for the Commission to decide on Special Measures not covered by Strategy Papers.
This assistance management instrument corresponds to those included in the other external assistance financing instruments; (17) This Regulation establishes a financial framework for the entire duration of the programme which is to be the principal point of reference for the budgetary authority, within the meaning of point 37 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management; (18) Financial support needs to be secured for the European Inter-University Centre for Human Rights and Democratisation, providing a European Masters Degree in Human Rights and Democratisation and an EU-UN Fellowship Programme, beyond the expiry by end 2006 of Decision No 791/2004/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 establishing a Community action programme to promote bodies active at European level and support specific activities in the field of education and training [29], which served as the legal basis for funding; (19) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Regulation should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission [30]. (20) In accordance with the principle of proportionality, it is necessary and appropriate for the achievement of the basic objectives of this Regulation to lay down rules on a European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights.
Such assistance shall aim in particular at a) enhancing respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms where they are most at risk and providing support and solidarity to victims of repression and abuse; b) strengthening the role of civil society in promoting human rights and democratic reform, developing political participation and representation, and supporting conflict prevention; c) supporting the international framework for the protection of human rights, the rule of law and the promotion of democracy; d) building confidence in democratic electoral processes through further development of electoral observation and assistance.
Article 2 Scope 1.
This includes support through civil society for: i) the abolition of the death penalty, prevention of torture and ill-treatment and rehabilitation of victims of torture and human rights abuses; ii) human rights defenders; iii) the fight against racism and xenophobia, discrimination on any ground; iv) minorities, ethnic groups and indigenous peoples; v) the rights of women vi) the rights of children; vii) core labour standards; viii) education, training and monitoring in the area of human rights and democracy; (c) the strengthening of the international framework for the protection of human rights, the rule of law and the promotion of democracy, in particular by i) providing support for specific international and regional instruments concerning human rights, justice and democracy; ii) fostering cooperation with multilateral and regional organisations; iii) promoting observance of international humanitarian law; (d) building confidence in democratic electoral processes, in particular i) through deployment of European Union Election Observation Missions; ii) by contributing to developing electoral observation capacity at regional and local level, and supporting initiatives to enhance participation and trust in the electoral process; 2.
Article 3 Complementarity and Coherence of Community Assistance 1.
Strategy papers shall be reviewed at mid-term, or ad hoc if necessary. 4.
Article 6 Annual Action Programmes 1.
Notwithstanding Article 7, the Commission shall adopt Annual Action Programmes based on the Strategy Papers and Revisions referred to in Article 5. 2.
In case an Annual Action Programme has not yet been adopted, the Commission may exceptionally, on the basis of the Strategy Papers referred to in Article 5, adopt measures not provided for in an Annual Action Programme under the same rules and procedures as for Annual Action Programmes.
Article 7 Special Measures 1.
Notwithstanding Article 5, in the event of unforeseen needs or exceptional circumstances, the Commission may adopt Special Measures not covered in Strategy Papers. 2.
Article 8 Support measures 1.
Community financing shall also cover expenditure at Commission delegations on the administrative support needed to manage operations financed under this Regulation. 3.
The Commission shall adopt Support Measures not covered by Strategy Papers as referred to in Article 5 in accordance with Article 7, paragraph 3 and 4.
Article 9 Eligibility 1.
Without prejudice to Article 13, the following bodies and actors shall be eligible for funding under this Regulation for the purposes of implementing the assistance measures referred to in Articles 6 and 7: a) civil society and community based organisations and networks thereof at national, regional, and international level; b) public or private sector non-profit agencies, institutions and organisations and networks at national, regional, and international level; c) international and regional inter-governmental organisations; d) natural persons when this is necessary to achieve the objectives of this Regulation. 2.
Article 10 Management Procedures 1.
The assistance measures financed under this Regulation shall be implemented in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 [32] and any revision thereof on a centralised basis or by joint management with international organisations in accordance with Article 53(1) of that Regulation. 2.
The Commission may, in accordance with Article 54 of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002, decide to entrust tasks of public authority, and in particular budget implementation tasks, to bodies referred in Article 54(2)(c) of that Regulation.
Article 11 Budget commitments 1.
Budget commitments shall be made on the basis of decisions taken by the Commission in accordance with Articles 6, 7 and 8. 2.
Community financing may take one of the following legal forms, inter alia: a) grant agreements, grant decisions or contribution agreements; b) agreements according to Article 54 Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002; c) procurement contracts; d) employment contracts.
Article 12 Types of financing 1.
Community financing may take the following forms: a) projects and programmes; b) grants to finance projects submitted by international and regional inter-governmental organisations listed in Article 9(1) (c) ; c) grants to support operating costs of the European Inter-University Centre for Human Rights and Democratisation (EIUC), in particular for the European Master’s Degree Programme in Human Rights and Democratisation and the EU-UN Fellowship Programme, fully accessible to nationals of third countries, as well as other education, training and research activities promoting human rights and democratisation; d) contributions to international funds, such as those managed by international or regional organisations; e) human and material resources for effective implementation of European Union Election Observation Missions; f) public contracts as defined in Article 88 of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 [33]. 2.
Measures financed under this Regulation are eligible for cofinancing from the following, in particular from: a) Member States and their local authorities, and in particular their public and parastatal agencies; b) other donor countries, and in particular their public and parastatal agencies; c) international and regional inter-governmental organisations; d) companies, firms, other private organisations and business, and other non-state actors. 3.
Such funds shall be dealt with as assigned revenue in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002. 5.
In the event of co-financing and in other duly justified cases, the Commission may entrust tasks of public authority, and in particular budget implementation tasks, to bodies referred to in Article 54(2)(c) of Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002.
Article 13 Rules of participation and rules of origin 1.
Participation in the award of procurement or grant contracts financed under this Regulation shall be open to all natural persons who are nationals of or legal persons who are established in a Member State of the Community, in an official candidate country as recognised by the European Community or in a Member State of the European Economic Area.
Participation in the award of procurement or grant contracts financed under this Regulation shall also be open to all natural persons who are nationals of or legal persons who are established in a developing country, as specified by the OECD Development Assistance Committee, in addition to natural or legal persons eligible by virtue of this Regulation.
Reciprocal access shall be established by means of a specific decision concerning a given country or a given regional group of countries.
Such a decision shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 16(2) and shall be in force for a minimum period of one year. 3.
Participation in the award of grants and public contracts financed under this Regulation shall be open to international organisations. 4.
The provisions of paragraph 1, 2 and 3 are without prejudice to the participation of categories of eligible organisations by nature or by localization in regard to the objectives of the action to carry out. 5.
If measures financed under this Regulation are implemented on a centralised basis and indirectly by delegation to specialised Community bodies, international or national public sector bodies, or bodies governed by private law with a public service mission in accordance with Article 54(2) c) Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002, participation in the public procurement and grant award procedures of the managing entity shall be open to natural persons who are nationals of the countries having access to Community contracts and grants in accordance with the principles set out in paragraph 1, and of any other country eligible under the rules and procedures of the managing entity, and to legal persons which are established in those countries. 7.
Whenever Community funding covers an operation co-financed with a third country, subject to reciprocity, or with a regional organisation, or with a Member State, participation in the appropriate contractual procedures shall be open to all natural persons and legal persons who are eligible pursuant to this Article as well as to all natural persons and legal persons who are eligible under the rules of such third country, regional organisation or Member State.
All supplies and materials purchased under a contract financed under this Regulation must originate from the Community or from an eligible country as defined in paragraph 1 and 2.
Article 14 Protection of the financial interests of the Community 1.
Any agreement or contract resulting from the implementation of this Regulation shall contain provisions ensuring the protection of the Community's financial interests, in particular with respect to fraud, corruption and any other irregularities in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2988/1995 [34], Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2185/1996 [35], and Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1073/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council [36]. 2.
They shall also expressly authorise the Commission to carry out on-the-spot checks and inspections, as provided for in Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2185/1996 of 11 November 1996.
Article 15 Evaluation 1.
Title III Final Provisions Article 16 Committee 1.
The period provided for in Article 4(3) of Council Decision 1999/468/EC shall be 30 days. 3.
Article 17 Annual Report 1.
The report shall be an integral part of the Annual Report on European Community development policy implementation and implementation of external assistance and of the EU Annual Report on Human Rights. 2.
Article 18 Financial reference amount The financial reference amount for the implementation of this Regulation for the period 2007-2013 shall be EUR 1.103,702 million.
Article 20 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
BUDGET LINES 3.1.
Budget lines (operational lines and related technical and administrative assistance lines (ex- B.A lines)) including headings: 19.01.04.01 | Development Cooperation and Economic Cooperation Instrument (DCECI) – Expenditure on administrative management (part) | 19.01.04.02 | European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) – Expenditure on administrative management (part) | 19.01.04.03 | Instrument for Stability (IfS) – Expenditure on administrative management | 19.04.01 | European Inter-University Centre | 19.04.02.01 | Human Rights and Democracy – Activities under horizontal and geographical coverage of the European Neighbourhood Instrument | 19.04.02.02 | Human Rights and Democracy – Activities under horizontal and geographical coverage of the Development Cooperation and Economic Cooperation Instrument | 19.04.02.03 | Human Rights and Democracy – Activities under horizontal and geographic coverage of the Pre-accession Instrument | 19.04.02.04 | Human Rights and Democracy – Activities under the horizontal and geographic coverage of the Stability Instrument | 19.04.03.01 | EU electoral and observation missions – Activities under the horizontal and geographical coverage of the European Neighbourhood Instrument | 19.04.03.02 | EU electoral and observation missions – Activities under the horizontal and geographical coverage of the Development Cooperation and Economic Cooperation Instrument | 19.04.04 | Preparatory action to establish a conflict-prevention network | 19.04.05 | Completion of former cooperation | It should be noted that the adoption of the proposal for a Regulation establishing a financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights world wide will necessitate a review of the structure of budget chapter 19.04. 3.2.
Duration of the action and of the financial impact: 2007 - 2013 3.3.
Budgetary characteristics: Budget line | Type of expenditure | New | EFTA contribution | Contributions from applicant countries | Heading in financial perspective | 19.04 | Non-comp | Diff [38]/ Non-diff [39] | YES | NO | NO | No 4 | 4.
SUMMARY OF RESOURCES 4.1.
Financial Resources 4.1.1.
Summary of commitment appropriations (CA) and payment appropriations (PA) EUR million (to 3 decimal places) Expenditure type | Section no. | | Year n | n + 1 | n + 2 | n + 3 | n + 4 | n + 5 and later | Total | Operational expenditure [40] | | | | | | | | | Commitment Appropriations (CA) | 8.1. | a | 130,673 | 136,963 | 141,764 | 145,825 | 151,873 | 320,533 | 1.027,631 | Payment Appropriations (PA) | | b | 64,422 | 101,890 | 129,824 | 142,211 | 150,358 | 438,926 | 1027,631 | Administrative expenditure within reference amount [41] | | | | | Technical %amp% administrative assistance (NDA) | 8.2.4. | c | 9,406 | 10,248 | 10,599 | 10,712 | 11,240 | 23,866 | 76,071 | TOTAL REFERENCE AMOUNT | | | | | | | | Commitment Appropriations | | a+c | 140,079 | 147,211 | 152,363 | 156,537 | 163,113 | 344,399 | 1.103,702 | Payment Appropriations | | b+c | 73,828 | 112,138 | 140,423 | 159,923 | 161,598 | 462,792 | 1103,702 | 4.1.2.
CHARACTERISTICS AND OBJECTIVES 5.1.
Method of Implementation (indicative) Centralised Management directly by the Commission indirectly by delegation to: executive Agencies bodies set up by the Communities as referred to in art. 185 of the Financial Regulation national public-sector bodies/bodies with public-service mission Shared or decentralised management with Member states with Third countries Joint management with international organisations (please specify) Article 10(2) of the proposed Regulation 6.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION 6.1.
Monitoring system Monitoring and evaluation of the assistance provided under the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR) in the past took place at four levels.
Mid-Term Review Article 19 of the proposed Regulation provides for a mid-term review of the implementation of the Regulation.
The Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the Council by 31 December 2010 a report evaluating the implementation of assistance under the Regulation in the first three years (2007-2009).
Anti-fraud measures Reference is made to the provision of Article 14 of the proposed Regulation. 8.
DETAILS OF RESOURCES 8.1.
Impact on human resources The human resources needed to manage assistance are estimated at 4,8 staff (comprising all categories of staff) per EUR 10 million in commitment appropriations managed yearly.
Over the whole period, this would mean a total increase estimated at 775 FTE (full time staff equivalent) for the following four instruments for external assistance – DCECI, ENPI, Instrument for Stability, and European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR) – on top of existing staff in place as of 1 April 2006.
The resources needed for 2007 are compatible with the Preliminary Draft Budget 2007. 8.2.
p. 1 [37] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23 [38] Differentiated appropriations [39] Non-differentiated appropriations hereafter referred to as NDA [40] Expenditure that does not fall under Chapter xx 01 of the Title xx concerned. [41] Expenditure within article xx 01 04 of Title xx. [42] See points 19 and 24 of the Interinstitutional agreement. --------------------------------------------------
