Proposal for a Council Decision on the signature of the Agreement between the European Community and the United States of America renewing the co-operation programme in the field of higher education and vocational education and training /* COM/2006/0180 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 27.4.2006 COM(2006) 180 final 2006/0061 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the signature of the Agreement between the European Community and the United States of America renewing the co-operation programme in the field of higher education and vocational education and training Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the United States of America renewing the co-operation programme in the field of higher education and vocational education and training (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
Enhance collaboration between the European Community and the United States in the domains of higher education and vocational training 4.
Support collaboration between higher education and vocational training institutions with a view to promoting joint study programmes and mobility 8.
In so doing, the programme will also contribute to the Commission’s public diplomacy effort in the US, including the public diplomacy activities of the Commission’s Delegations in Washington and New York, in line with the increased commitment to public diplomacy activities in particular with regard to the EU’s main strategic partners. 4.
CONSULTATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS - 2001 Study on modalities for cooperation in vocational education and vocational training The study contracted by the Commission confirmed the value of EC/US cooperation in vocational education and training.
OPTIONS EXAMINED 5.1.
Integration into existing or proposed frameworks The existing education and training programmes like “ Socrates” or “ Leonardo da Vinci” are designed for and target exclusively the public of the Member States.
Legal Basis The proposal is based on articles 149, 150 and 300 of the Treaty. 6.2.
BUDGETARY IMPLICATION The proposed programme would cost a maximum of 46 M€ over an eight year period (2006-2013), provided that matching funds are made available by the US. 8.1.
Joint consortia projects : 664,000 € for four-year projects resulting from 544,000 € for student scholarships (calculated on the basis of 1000 € per month, and 2000 € for travel and relocation per student for average study periods of 15 months for a total of 32 students), 60,000 € in lump sumps for consortia partners (7,500 € per institution per year: 7500x2x4), and 60,000 € for mobility grants for faculty and staff (1,000 € per scholar-week plus 1000 € for travel).
Target outputs The programme will support some 274 projects over an eight year period (see details under point 8 of the Financial Statement).
Article 2 The delegation of the European Community to the Joint Committee referred to in Article 6 of the Agreement shall consist of a representative from the Commission assisted by a representative from each Member State.
Article 3 The President of the Council is authorised to designate the person empowered to make the notification provided in Article 12(1) of the Agreement.
Article 2 Definitions For the purpose of this Agreement: 1. “Higher education institution” means any establishment, according to the applicable laws or practices, which offers qualifications or diplomas at the higher education level, whatever such establishment may be called; 2. “Vocational education and training institutions” means any type of public, semi-public or private body, which, irrespective of the designation given to it, in accordance with the applicable laws and practices, designs or undertakes vocational education or training, further vocational training, refresher vocational training or retraining; and 3. “Students” means all those persons participating in learning or training courses or programmes which are run by higher education or vocational education and training institutions as defined in this Article.
Article 3 Objectives 1.
Article 5 Programme Actions The Programme shall be pursued by means of the actions described in the Annex, which forms an integral part of this Agreement.
Article 6 Joint Committee 1.
Decisions of the Joint Committee shall be reached by consensus.
Article 7 Monitoring and Evaluation The Programme shall be monitored and evaluated as appropriate on a cooperative basis.
Article 8 Funding 1.
Article 9 Entry of Personnel Each Party shall use its best efforts to facilitate entry to and exit from its territory of personnel, students, material and equipment of the other Party engaged in or used in cooperative activities under this Agreement.
Article 10 Other Agreements This Agreement shall not replace or otherwise affect other agreements or activities undertaken in the fields covered between any Member State of the European Community and the United States of America.
Article 11 Territorial Application of this Agreement This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the United States.
Article 12 Entry into Force and Termination 1.
This Agreement replaces the 2000 Agreement Between the European Community and the United States Renewing a Programme of Cooperation in Higher Education and Vocational Education and Training in its entirety. 2.
LEGISLATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENT 1.
BUDGET LINES 3.1.
Budgetary characteristics ( add rows if necessary ) : Budget line | Type of expenditure | New | EFTA contribution | Contributions from applicant countries | Heading in financial perspective | 15.02.03 | Non-comp | Diff | NO | NO | NO | No 4 | 15.01.04.17 | Non-comp | Diff | NO | NO | NO | No 4 | 15.01.04.32 | Non-comp | Diff | NO | NO | NO | No 4 | 4.
SUMMARY OF RESOURCES 4.1.
Financial Resources 4.1.1.
CHARACTERISTICS AND OBJECTIVES 5.1.
In particular, the bilateral cooperation programme will complement the Erasmus Mundus programme in that it will focus on undergraduate mobility and include transatlantic exchanges in the field of vocational training.
Operational objectives | Results obtained by participants | To support collaboration between higher education and vocational training institutions with a view to promoting joint study programmes and mobility; | Institutions: improved curricula and teaching methodologies; greater transparency and understanding of respective credit system; improved preparedness for transatlantic cooperation Students: enriching transatlantic experience; better education and cultural understanding. | To support collaboration between public and private organisations active in the field of higher education and vocational training with a view to encouraging discussion and exchange of experience on policy issues; | Organisations, institutions: better understating of policy issues; | To support transatlantic mobility of professionals with a view to improving mutual understanding of issues relevant to EU/US relations. | Individuals: better understanding of key issues in EU/US relations. | 5.4.
X Centralised Management X Directly by the Commission X Indirectly by delegation to: X Executive Agency ٱ Bodies set up by the Communities as referred to in art. 185 of the Financial Regulation ٱ National public-sector bodies/bodies with public-service mission ٱ Shared or decentralised management ٱ With Member states ٱ With Third countries ٱ Joint management with international organisations (please specify) The proposed programme is based on the principle of joint funding from the European Union and from the US.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION 6.1.
Measures taken following an intermediate/ex-post evaluation (lessons learned from similar experiences in the past) The proposed programme will be designed taking into account the conclusions from the ex-ante evaluation, namely, it would - maintain and develop the well tested and proven components of the programme - develop a specific approach for vocational training - build on projects of proven excellence - reinforce mobility - increase the financial envelope of the programme. 6.2.3.
DETAILS OF RESOURCES 8.1.
Description of tasks deriving from the action A*/AD: Policy development, programme manager, relations with partner countries: B*/AST Financial assistant C*/AST Secretarial and financial support 8.2.3.
Sources of human resources (statutory) (When more than one source is stated, please indicate the number of posts originating from each of the sources) 2,5 Posts currently allocated to the management of the programme to be replaced or extended. ( Posts pre-allocated within the APS/PDB exercise for year n 1 Posts to be requested in the next APS/PDB procedure ( Posts to be redeployed using existing resources within the managing service (internal redeployment) ( Posts required for year n although not foreseen in the APS/PDB exercise of the year in question 8.2.4.
