Communication from the Commission - Developing a Common Aviation Area with Ukraine /* COM/2005/0451 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 27.9.2005 COM(2005) 451 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION Developing a Common Aviation Area with Ukraine 1.
INTRODUCTION In its Communication “Developing the agenda for the Community’s external aviation policy” (COM (2005) 79 final), the Commission highlighted the importance to create a common aviation area with its Eastern and Southern Neighbours.
The Council of the European Union on 27 June supported this objective in its “conclusions on developing the agenda for the Community’s external aviation policy” in which it welcomed the progress in developing a wider European Common Aviation Area by 2010 incorporating EU neighbouring countries.
In the Communication “A Community aviation policy towards its neighbours” (COM (2004) 74 final), the Commission announced that it will closely monitor the legislative and economic developments in Ukraine with a view to making concrete proposals for closer aviation relations at the appropriate time.
As a consequence of the “open skies” judgements of the European Court of Justice on 5 November 2002, the 25 bilateral agreements between Member States and Ukraine had to be amended because some of their provisions, in particular the provisions that do not authorise European carriers to fly to Ukraine unless they leave from their countries of origin, are not in line with Community law.
The improvement of EU aviation relations with other neighbours with the final objective to create a Common Aviation Area is an important objective for the further economic development of the European aviation industry.
At the same time, the Commission received negotiation directives for a comprehensive aviation agreement with Morocco with the aim to integrate the country’s aviation sector as far as possible into the European aviation area.
The EC and Ukraine signed a bilateral agreement on trade in textiles on 9 March 2005.
Ukraine is seeking to accede to the WTO, and in March 2003 signed its bilateral market access protocol with the EC.
Ukraine has 68 bilateral air services agreements with third countries and is a long-standing member of the International Organisation of Civil Aviation (ICAO).
Ukraine is one of the few countries in the world which has bilateral air services agreements with all 25 EU Member States.
The European choice of the Ukrainian aviation policy has been enhanced following the change of government in early 2005 and was confirmed by the initialling of the horizontal agreement with the European Community on 3 June 2005 in which Ukraine has accepted the principle of designation of Community carriers.
JAA, the functions of which will be integrated into the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), has 39 member countries and developed important safety standards valid throughout Europe.
In 2004, Aerosvit accounted for 33% of the Ukrainian market and saw its passenger numbers grow by nearly 50% to 1 million passengers.
Ukraine International Airlines serves 20 international destinations mainly in Western Europe and is majority owned by the State Property Fund of Ukraine with a 22% stake of Austrian Airlines.
FURTHER STRENGTHENING THE RELATIONS WITH A KEY NEIGHBOUR In June 2005, following the initialling of a horizontal agreement between the Community and Ukraine, Ukraine has requested to enter into more comprehensive aviation relations with the European Union.
Between 1992 and 2003, the number of intra-Community routes increased by more than 40%.
The Commission will work closely together with Member States and all relevant stakeholders in further developing and achieving the objectives set out in the proposed Council Decision. [1] World Tourism Organisation, Facts &amp; Figures, International Tourist Arrivals, Europe (http://www.world-tourism.org/facts/tmt.html) [2] Sesame, the technical implementation of the Single European Sky launched by the European Commission, aims at preparing for a new generation of Air Traffic Management systems which is able to cope with growing air traffic. [3] Annex to the Communication from the Commission « developing the agenda for the Community’s external aviation policy » COM (2005) 79 final
