Report from the Commission - Report on Competition Policy 2005 /* SEC/2006/0761 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 15.6.2006 SEC(2006)761 final REPORT FROM THE COMMISSION Report on Competition Policy 2005 TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction 7 I – Antitrust – Articles 81, 82 and 86 EC 12 A – Legislative, interpretative and procedural rules 12 1.
Abuse of dominance 12 2.
Agreements and concerted practices 13 2.1.
Transport block exemption Regulations 13 2.1.1.
Maritime transport 13 2.1.2.
Air transport 14 2.2.
Motor vehicle distribution block exemption Regulation 14 3.
Procedural rules 16 3.1.
Dealing with market information and complaints 17 Box 1: Articles 81 and 82 EC: Community interest in pursuing allegations of infringement and priority setting 18 4.
Competition screening of EU legislation 20 5.
Basic industries 28 1.3.
Chemicals 29 1.4.
Pharmaceuticals 30 Box 2: AstraZeneca: abuse of government procedures in the pharmaceutical sector 31 2.
Services 41 3.1.
Financial services 41 3.2.
Transport 44 3.2.1.
Air transport 44 3.2.2.
Inland transport 46 3.3.
Cartels 54 5.1.
The Commission’s leniency programme 56 5.2.
Amicus curiae intervention 67 2.4.
Summaries of opinions issued by the Commission under Article 15(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 67 3.
Streamlined case allocation in action – experience during 2005 85 3.1.
Statistical overview 85 3.2.
Decisions taken under Article 8 87 2.
Rescue and restructuring aid 122 1.1.
Road transport 163 16.4.
Air transport 164 C – Enforcement of state aid decisions 167 1.
Introduction 167 2.
Individual cases 168 D – Selected Court cases 169 E – Statistics 176 IV – International activities 178 A – Enlargement and Western Balkans 178 B – Bilateral cooperation 179 1.
Introduction 179 2.
Cooperation with other countries and regions 182 C – Multilateral cooperation 185 1.
International Competition Network 185 2.
OECD 187 V – Outlook for 2006 191 1.
Articles 81, 82 and 86 EC 194 2.
State aid 197 Introduction INTRODUCTION BY THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL FOR COMPETITION In 2005, the Competition DG made substantial progress towards a more effective and targeted application of the competition rules across all of our areas of activity.
Cartels artificially raise the price of goods and services, reduce supply and hamper innovation (so that consumers end up paying more for less quality), and can significantly increase the input costs for European businesses.
In 2005, the Commission adopted five decisions against cartels; the fines imposed totalled EUR 683.029 million.
In order to reinforce cartel-fighting capabilities, in 2005 a dedicated Cartels Directorate was created in the Competition DG.
Analysing the results of these sectoral inquiries and giving them the appropriate follow-up will be major tasks for the Competition DG in 2006 and beyond.
Enhancing the effectiveness of the EU competition rules was a major aim of modernisation, one that can only be achieved by ensuring the proper functioning of the European Competition Network (ECN), which brings together the Commission and the national competition authorities (NCAs) of the Member States.
In that context, the Commission was informed, pursuant to Article 11(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003, of almost 80 cases where an NCA envisaged adopting a decision pursuant to Article 81 and/or 82.
The Competition DG plays, in coordination with the Information Society DG, an important role in the implementation of the regulatory framework for electronic communications adopted by the Commission in 2002, which builds on principles of EU competition law.
Under that framework, the Competition DG is co-responsible, with the Information Society DG, for reviewing notifications by national regulatory authorities of regulatory measures for electronic communications markets.
Decisions adopted by the Commission on such notifications have also nearly doubled in 2005 compared with 2004, going from 64 to 117.
In 2005, we also took important steps to ensure the effective implementation of Commission decisions in the competition field, as shown by the opening of formal proceedings for non-compliance in the Microsoft case (December).
In the state aid area, too, the amount of illegal and incompatible state aid to be recovered on the basis of decisions adopted between 2000 and mid-2005 has been reduced: of the EUR 9.4 billion total, some EUR 7.9 billion had been effectively recovered by the end of June 2005.
In addition to the SAAP, the Competition DG made important progress on its ambitious review process in competition policy, which aims at extending competition enforcement to both enhance the effectiveness of the EU’s competition rules and promote competitiveness.
The Competition DG discussion paper on the application of Article 82 EC to exclusionary abuses and the adoption of the Green Paper on damages claims will contribute to a strengthened competition culture in the EU.
Finally, the Competition DG also invested considerable resources in 2005 in support of better regulation initiatives.
Together with our own policy development work, these actions contributed to improving the effectiveness of competition rules and to providing transparency and predictability to the business community and consumers.
Confidentiality versus access to the file in the context of the Notice on the rules for access to the file In 2005, difficult issues relating to access to the file arose in a number of cases.
It is important that the non-confidential versions and the descriptions of the deleted information be established in a manner that enables any party with access to the file to determine whether the information deleted is likely to be relevant for its defence and therefore whether there are sufficient grounds to request the Commission to grant access to the information claimed in question. - Parties requesting access to confidential information should submit detailed, substantiated requests that clearly demonstrate their interest in specific documents in terms of the right of defence.
Hearing Officer reports and oral hearings The Hearing Officers drew up interim and/or final reports in three merger and twelve antitrust cases in 2005, the hearings for some of which had been held in 2004.
The decreasing interest in oral hearings in merger cases might result from the parties’ desire to use the limited time available for remedy negotiations instead of calling into question the Commission’s assessment in front of a wider audience which might also include companies hostile to the concentration.
On 19 December, the Competition DG issued a discussion paper on the application of the EU competition rules on the abuse of dominance (Article 82 EC)[1].
The paper suggests a framework for the continued rigorous enforcement of Article 82 EC, building on the economic analysis carried out in recent cases, and setting out one possible methodology for the assessment of some of the most common abusive practices, such as predatory pricing, single branding, tying, and refusal to supply.
The Competition DG has invited comments on the present discussion paper by 31 March 2006. 2.
Article 82 EC prohibits the abuse of a dominant position.
The paper also considers whether efficiencies should be taken into account under Article 82 EC, and, if so, how.
As part of this consultation process the Commission will hold a public hearing in spring 2006 on abuse of dominance, and in particular concerning the proposed framework set out in the discussion paper. 2.
Maritime transport Repeal of Council Regulation (EEC) No 4056/86 – Liner conference block exemption 5.
On 14 December, the Commission adopted a proposal[2] for a Council Regulation repealing Regulation (EEC) No 4056/86 applying Articles 81 and 82 EC to maritime transport[3].
The objective is to put an end to the liner conference block exemption which allows shipping lines meeting in conferences to fix freight prices and to regulate capacity.
After a three-year review the impact assessment carried out shows that liner conferences do not fulfil the four cumulative conditions of Article 81(3) and that the repeal of the block exemption is likely to lower transport prices whilst maintaining reliable services and enhancing the competitiveness of European industry, in particular that of EU exporters.
The proposal envisages a two-year transition period from the time of the adoption of the Regulation by the Council for the provisions regarding the liner conference block exemption. 7.
To ease the transition to a fully competitive regime, the Commission plans to issue appropriate guidelines on competition in the maritime sector in 2007.
Prolongation of and amendments to Commission Regulation (EC) No 823/2000 – Consortia block exemption Regulation 9.
On 20 April, the Commission adopted Regulation (EC) No 611/2005 amending the existing block exemption Regulation for liner shipping consortia[5].
It prolongs Commission Regulation (EC) No 823/2000 until 25 April 2010 and introduces two minor amendments.
The amendments allow a consortium member the right to withdraw from a consortium agreement without financial penalty after an initial period of up to 24 months, which constitutes an extension of six months as compared with the previous regime.
Finally, one of the basic conditions for exemption, namely the existence of effective price competition within the consortium, has been amended: “individual confidential contracts” may now also be taken into consideration to demonstrate the existence of such competition. 10.
The consortia block exemption is closely linked to the block exemption for liner shipping conferences (Council Regulation (EEC) No 4056/86).
Due to the close links between the two block exemptions, the Commission considered that it is neither necessary nor appropriate to introduce substantial modifications to the consortia block exemption before the end of the review of Council Regulation (EEC) No 4056/86. 2.1.2.
Air transport Replacement of Commission block exemption Regulation (EEC) No 1617/93 11.
The Commission pursued the consultation process launched in 2004 concerning the revision of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 1617/93[6], with the publication on 2 March of a paper discussing the submissions received in the context of the consultation. 12.
On 15 November, the Commission adopted a preliminary draft block exemption regulation, with a view to replacing Commission Regulation (EEC) No 1617/93.
Motor vehicle distribution block exemption Regulation Location clauses in car distribution agreements no longer block exempted 14.
On 1 October, the final part of the Commission’s reform of the competition rules applicable to motor vehicle distribution came into force: “location clauses” in distribution contracts between carmakers and dealers are now no longer covered by the Commission’s motor vehicle block exemption Regulation (EC) No 1400/2002.
The new rule concerns passenger cars and light commercial vehicles.
By dealing with location clauses under Article 5 of the Regulation, the Commission recognised the greater scope for individual assessment, on a case-by-case basis, of whether a clause meets all conditions required to justify an exception under Article 81(3).
The most likely potential positive effects of location clauses in selective distribution systems are that they may prevent free-riding on the investments and promotion efforts of established dealers. 18.
This means that where dealers open a secondary sales outlet in another Member State, an additional contract with the local importer is not needed, although the carmaker can of course delegate to the local importer functions such as checking compliance with the qualitative criteria.
PROCEDURAL RULES 3.1 .
On 13 December, the Commission adopted a Notice on the rules for access to the Commission file in antitrust and merger cases[9].
The Notice provides the framework for the exercise of the right to access to the file in accordance with the provisions referred to expressly in the Notice.
Such a right is, however, more limited in scope than the right of access to the file. 3.2.
Dealing with market information and complaints 24.
Informal pre-complaint contacts make it possible to have early discussions concerning the information available to the potential complainant and can help to clarify whether a case is likely to be a priority for the Commission. 26.
Box 1: Articles 81 and 82 EC: Community interest in pursuing allegations of infringement and priority setting Potential complainants are invited to take into account the following considerations before lodging a formal complaint with the Commission.
Member States’ competition authorities and courts When considering whether to send a formal complaint to the Commission, consumers and businesses should bear in mind that Member States’ competition authorities also apply EU competition law and work together with the Commission in the European Competition Network (ECN).
Potential complainants should therefore consider whether a Member State competition authority is likely to be well placed to act.
Even where a case has effects on competition in more than one Member State, NCAs can cooperate in gathering evidence for a competition case, and two or three Member States’ competition authorities can take a case forward together.
Potential complainants should also consider bringing an action before a national court.
However, these criteria are applied flexibly.
The Commission endeavours to inform complainants within four months from the receipt of a complaint whether or not it intends to investigate the case. | - 4.
A key action identified in the Lisbon Strategy, which was relaunched on 22-23 March, was to improve the regulatory environment at both EU and national level in order to enhance competitiveness.
Work aimed at achieving “better regulation” began in 2002 under a Commission Action Plan, which was revised on 16 March.
The basic “competition test” applied in the context of competition policy screening involves asking two fundamental questions at the outset.
This is in the interests of both consumers and industry. 5.
The competition rules set out in Articles 81 and 82 EC can be enforced both by competition authorities (public enforcement) and by private parties bringing proceedings before a national court (private enforcement).
Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 emphasizes the joint responsibility of the Commission, the national courts and the NCAs in that regard, and provides the necessary tools to achieve an increased and coherent enforcement of the EC antitrust rules.
With regard to private enforcement, Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 abolished the Commission’s monopoly on the application of Article 81(3), thus empowering national courts to apply Articles 81 and 82 EC in their entirety.
Antitrust damages actions are the focus of the Green Paper adopted by the Commission on 19 December[23].
The Commission wishes to encourage this kind of action, of which there have been very few so far[24], because it serves a double purpose.
Moreover, by being able effectively to bring a damages claim, individual firms or consumers in Europe become directly engaged in the enforcement of the competition rules.
Such first-hand experience increases the direct relevance of the competition rules for firms and consumers.
On 13 June, the Commission adopted a decision[26] launching sector inquiries into the gas and electricity sectors pursuant to the Commission’s powers under Article 17 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003.
The justification for the sector inquiries was set out in a Communication from the Commissioner for Competition, in agreement with the Commissioner for Energy[27]. 36.
The sector inquiries are part of the Commission’s efforts to relaunch the Lisbon Strategy with its goals of boosting economic growth, increasing employment and transforming the European Union into “the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world”.
These elements suggested that the markets are not functioning optimally and justified the opening of an inquiry under Article 17 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 and the use of the investigative instruments available to the Commission. 38.
The gas and electricity inquiries examine different issues because competition in these sectors is at different stages of development and because they have quite different production structures.
The Competition DG’s objective is to identify whether infringements of Articles 81, 82 and 86 EC are responsible for the apparent malfunctioning of the electricity and gas markets, in which case the Commission could undertake proactive corrective action.
The results of the inquiries are also expected to play a role in assessing the effectiveness of the current legislative framework in the liberalisation of the gas and electricity markets. 42.
Long-term gas supply agreements in downstream markets 44.
A particular problem that arose following the opening-up of the gas sector to competition in 2005 is possible foreclosure of the downstream market through long-term gas supply contracts between the traditional suppliers on the one hand and distribution companies and industrial and commercial users on the other hand. 45.
So long-term contracts in the downstream gas market can also delay the ability of alternative suppliers to build up sufficient market share to compete effectively.
Such long-term contracts may therefore foreclose markets and give rise to competition concerns when they are not indispensable to generate countervailing benefits for consumers. 46.
The Competition DG and the NCAs and NRAs discussed the issue of long-term downstream contracts in the European Competition Network (ECN) Energy subgroup on two occasions.
The Bundeskartellamt published a report on the question of long-term contracts in the market for the supply of gas to local utilities (“ Stadtwerke ”) in Germany.
It then entered into negotiations with the 15 largest suppliers on this market to introduce clear limits on the duration of their supply contracts.
These negotiations broke down in September, and the Bundeskartellamt announced that it would launch formal prohibition proceedings[30].
The Competition DG is also investigating a case concerning long-term gas supply contracts in the Belgian market.
These endeavours were rewarded by the removal of territorial restrictions from the gas supply contracts concluded by Gazprom with a number of important historic wholesalers in the EU.
Territorial restrictions prevent gas importers from exporting gas to other Member States and/or limit their incentives to do so, thereby frustrating market integration and competition between incumbents. 48.
In 2003, the Competition DG had ensured that Gazprom and the Italian oil and gas company Eni Spa[31] would abandon such practices.
In February[32], the Competition DG secured improvements to gas supply contracts between the Austrian incumbent gas wholesaler OMV and Russian gas producer Gazprom.
OMV also agreed to contribute to increasing capacity on the TAG pipeline that transports Russian gas, through Austria, to Italy.
This outcome is similar to that reached with respect to Eni in 2003.
The undertakings given are identical in substance to those given to the Commission by Eni, the other shareholder of the TAG pipeline, in October 2003.
In June[33], the Competition DG closed its investigation into the gas supply contracts between Gazprom and the biggest German wholesale company E.on Ruhrgas AG, which is part of the E.on group, having obtained the removal of territorial restrictions from these contracts.
Moreover, Gazprom will no longer be bound by a “most favoured customer” provision previously included in these contracts.
These clauses obliged Gazprom to offer Ruhrgas similar conditions to those it offered to Ruhrgas’ competitors on the wholesale market in Germany. 50.
The closure of these two cases implies that all Commission cases opened in 2001 into export restrictions on Russian gas (Austria, France, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands) have now been closed.
On 28 September the Council and Parliament adopted a Regulation on the conditions for third party access to the natural gas transmission network, which is expected to improve opportunities for cross-border trade by new entrants[34].
The Commission presented its report to the Energy Council on 1 December.
It is coherent with the analysis of the Competition DG in its sector inquiries, and suggests carrying out country reviews before deciding at the end of 2006 about the need for a third liberalisation package. 53.
The Court of Justice also clarified some important aspects of the regulatory framework when, on 7 June, it handed down its judgment in the VEMW case[38].
The Court also considered that the Netherlands could have asked for an exemption under the Directive for existing contracts, but failed to do so in good time. 55.
Although during 2005 the Commission gave priority to the recently liberalised gas and electricity sectors, action against infringements in other energy sectors, such as distribution of motor fuels, continued. 59.
On 17 June 2004, a preliminary assessment within the meaning of Article 9(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 was sent to REPSOL. 61.
This preliminary assessment suggests that market access is difficult and that REPSOL’s contracts contribute significantly to a possible foreclosure of the market because they tie a large part of the market to REPSOL and are of long duration (the “tenancy” and “usufruct” contracts in particular, where REPSOL had a time-limited property right, have durations of 25 to 40 years). 62.
The commitments offered by REPSOL grant a number of dealers with a “tenancy” or “usufruct” contract (“U/S contract”) a right of early termination, subject to payment of compensation to REPSOL.
REPSOL would also not conclude any new agreement with DODO[42] stations longer than five years; and until the end of 2006, not buy any new DODO station.
Following the outcome of the market test of the proposed commitments, REPSOL submitted revised commitments and the Commission envisages proceeding to the adoption of a decision pursuant to Article 9(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003, which would make these revised commitments binding. 1.2.
Basic industries ALROSA – De Beers trade agreement 64.
On 3 June, the Commission published a notice[43] pursuant to Article 27(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 in order to market test commitments[44] submitted by ALROSA and De Beers within the meaning of Article 9(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003.
The statements of objections addressed to the companies in January and July 2003 constituted the Commission’s preliminary assessment within the meaning of Article 9(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003. 66.
The preliminary assessment suggests that De Beers holds a dominant position in a worldwide market for rough diamonds.
This would, on the one hand, eliminate ALROSA as a source of supply on the market outside Russia, and would enhance the already existing market power of De Beers with the effect of hindering the growth or maintenance of competition in a market for rough diamonds. 67.
The commitments offered by ALROSA and De Beers proposed to gradually decrease the value of sales of rough diamonds between them to USD 700 million in 2005, USD 625 million in 2006, USD 550 million in 2007, USD 475 million in 2008, USD 400 million in 2009 and USD 275 million in 2010 and beyond.
With respect to pricing, sorting and valuation, ALROSA and De Beers would conclude an agreement similar to the trade agreement.
Following the outcome of the market test of the proposed commitments, the Commission is considering whether to proceed to the adoption of a decision pursuant to Article 9(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003, which would make revised commitments binding. 1.3.
The competition analysis, which is ongoing in view of possible amendments to be made to the text of the proposals in the course of the legislative process, has focused on ensuring that these legislative texts and, in particular, the costs imposed on the industry do not lead to distortions of competition. 1.4.
The Commission considers parallel trade in pharmaceutical products to be a means of arbitration between high-price and low-price Member States, contributing to the creation of a common market in pharmaceutical products.
The European Courts have taken a narrow view concerning the application of Article 81 EC to supply quota systems which limit or make impossible trade between Member States, on the ground that such systems constitute unilateral behaviour on the part of the undertakings. 75.
Unilateral supply quota systems could nonetheless be caught by Article 82 EC.
AZ’s dominance on the national PPI markets concerned The Commission’s findings on dominance during the relevant years in the countries concerned are based inter alia on AZ’s high market shares and position as incumbent on the PPI market.
Moreover, the monopsony buyers are not in a position to control entry to the market. 3.
The abuse essentially consisted of a pattern of misleading representations made by AZ as of mid-1993 before patent offices in a number of EEA countries in connection with its SPC applications for omeprazole (the active substance in AZ’s product Losec).
Due to this misleading information AZ obtained extra protection in several countries.
Misuse of drug authorisation procedures The second abuse took place towards the end of the 1990s and consisted of AZ’s requests for the deregistration of its market authorisation for Losec capsules in Denmark, Norway and Sweden in a context where Losec capsules were withdrawn from the market and Losec MUPS tablets were launched in those three countries.
Dominant companies have a special responsibility to use specific entitlements, whether private or public, in a reasonable way in respect of market access for other parties.
KG (T-Mobile) and Vodafone D2 GmbH (Vodafone) .
The objections relate to the rates that both T-Mobile and Vodafone charged foreign mobile network operators for international roaming at the wholesale level (so-called inter-operator tariffs – IOTs).
The provisional conclusions of the Commission’s investigation into T-Mobile were that T-Mobile abused its dominant position in Germany for the provision of international roaming services at wholesale level on its own network from 1997 until at least the end of 2003, by charging unfair and excessive prices.
The Commission has reached the same provisional conclusions as regards the tariffs charged by Vodafone for the period 2000 until at least the end of 2003.
As regards broadband services, in 2004 the Commission accepted commitments by Deutsche Telekom AG (DT) to terminate behaviour, in the form of a “margin squeeze” as regards shared access to the local loop (line sharing) in Germany, that had provisionally been found to amount to an abuse of a dominant position[49].
After consulting the German national regulatory authority – the Bundesnetzagentur (BNetzA) – the settlement was accepted by the Commission and led to a substantial decrease in line-sharing fees.
However, in an application to the BNetzA dated 24 May, DT announced its intention to increase line-sharing fees again.
In order to prevent the Commission from starting formal proceedings, DT filed a new application with the BNetzA in which it applied for the same tariffs as in 2004.
In September, the Commission concluded its sector inquiry into the competitive situation in the market for new systems of mobile communication that are able to transmit audiovisual content (3G).
The findings of the sector inquiry had been the subject of a public presentation on 27 May and market participants had commented on the findings. 79.
Around 230 organisations responded to the questionnaires sent out in 2004.
Consultation procedure under Article 7 of the Framework Directive (2002/21/EC) 84.
Under the EU regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services[53], national regulatory authorities (NRAs) are obliged to define relevant electronic communication markets appropriate to national circumstances in accordance with the principles of EU competition law. 85.
In 2005, the Commission received 201 notifications from NRAs (a net increase compared with 89 notifications in 2004). 86.
In 2005, the Commission adopted one decision requesting the withdrawal of notified measures[54].
The Commission considered, however, that the NRA had not provided sufficient evidence to support the countervailing buyer power argument. 87.
Infringement proceedings under Article 226 EC concerning the Competition Directive (2002/77/EC) 89.
In addition to and in combination with the EU competition rules and the consultation procedure provided for in Article 7 of the Framework Directive, infringement proceedings under Article 226 EC are used by the Commission to ensure that Member States (i) transpose EC directives into national law and (ii) transpose them correctly.
It is the responsibility of the Competition DG to monitor Member States’ compliance with one of the directives in the EU regulatory framework for electronic communications, namely the so-called Competition Directive[57].
The purpose of the Competition Directive is primarily to ensure that Member States do not grant or maintain in force any exclusive or special rights for the provision of electronic communications networks and electronic communications services contrary to Article 86 EC, and thus to ensure that competitive market conditions prevail across the EU. 90.
On the other hand, by judgment of 14 April the Court of Justice found that Greece had not yet adopted the necessary measures to comply with the Competition Directive[58].
Similarly, in a judgment of 16 June the Court of Justice concluded that Luxembourg had failed to adopt the measures necessary to comply with this Directive[59].
However, on 23 June Luxembourg notified measures to the Commission which will bring the country’s legislation into line with the Competition Directive. 91.
In 2004 it was brought to the Commission’s attention that regulations remained in force in Sweden which oblige television broadcasters to acquire terrestrial broadcasting and transmission services exclusively from the state-owned company Teracom AB.
Therefore, on 16 March, the Commission adopted a reasoned opinion against Sweden under Article 226 EC.
Broadcasters that wish to distribute their programming via a digital terrestrial network in Sweden are obliged to cooperate with Teracom for certain key aspects of the digital distribution chain (such as multiplexing).
The Commission concluded that Teracom has de facto been awarded a special or exclusive right also for digital broadcasting services which infringes the Competition Directive.
The Commission therefore sent a complementary letter of formal notice to the Swedish Government on 12 October. 92.
Abolishing the restriction would increase competition between cable operators as well as between cable operators and operators using other types of infrastructure.
EU competition policy in the postal sector is applied in a context of yet incomplete liberalisation of postal markets.
The Postal Directive[61] allows that, to the extent necessary to ensure the operation of the universal service under financially balanced conditions, Member States may reserve certain postal services to the universal postal service operators, which still account for a vast portion of the market.
By 31 December 2006 at the latest, the Postal Directive requires the Commission to table proposals introducing, if appropriate, the full liberalisation of the EU postal market by 2009.
Against that background, in 2005, the Commission examined the draft laws on postal services in a number of Member States.
The Commission took the view that the draft postal law of the Czech Republic contained provisions which would have extended the monopoly of the incumbent operator beyond the scope of the Postal Directive and would thus have remonopolised a market previously open to competition in that Member State.
In most of these cases, the allegedly abusive behaviour relates to practices which leverage the dominant position from the market of monopoly services into adjacent markets open to competition.
Therefore, the Commission and NCAs must remain vigilant so as to ensure that anticompetitive behaviour does not cancel out the benefits of the gradual liberalisation process decided upon by the Council and Parliament. 2.2.
On 19 January, the Commission adopted the German Bundesliga[63] decision – the first commitment decision pursuant to Article 9 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003.
The decision declared the commitments of the German football league concerning the joint and exclusive selling of media rights for football matches legally binding and ended the proceedings. 97.
Because of the structure of the media sector, where a limited number of operators are trading a small amount of valuable exclusive audiovisual sports rights, competition concerns easily arise in this sector.
Bundesliga clubs were possibly prevented from dealing independently with broadcasters and/or sports rights intermediaries and in particular from taking independent commercial decisions about the price and content of the rights packages, hence excluding competition between the clubs for the sale of rights.
The proposed commitments were market tested in a notice published pursuant to Article 27(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003[67].
Moreover, whilst acknowledging the need for a certain degree of exclusivity to protect the value of sports rights, the risk of long-term market foreclosure has been addressed by a commitment to limit the duration of the exclusive vertical licence contracts to no more than three seasons.
Furthermore, in order to allow a range of potentially interested buyers to bid for the audiovisual rights, the Ligaverband undertook that the scope of exclusivity would be limited by unbundling the audiovisual rights into a reasonable number of separate packages, which would be designed in such a way that each package is individually exploitable by an operator.
Finally, in order to limit the risk of output restrictions caused by collective selling of exclusive rights, the clubs would retain the right to sell certain rights individually.
Football Association Premier League [69] 105.
In November, the Commission announced that it had received commitments from the FA Premier League (FAPL) in respect of their joint marketing in the UK of media rights to Premier League football matches.
This follows a 2002 statement of objections and a public consultation on a first set of commitments in April 2004.
The commitments are to apply for the sale of rights for the 2007 football season onwards.
On the basis of these commitments the Commission may adopt a decision under Article 9 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 in 2006. 2.3.
On 28 July, the Commission adopted a decision concerning the monitoring trustee in the Microsoft case[70].
The trustee was appointed on 4 October from a list of candidates presented by Microsoft. 108.
After the rejection of Microsoft’s application for interim measures on 22 December 2004, the Commission engaged in discussions with Microsoft concerning its compliance with the Decision.
As regards the interoperability remedy (Article 5 of the Decision), the Commission focused on Microsoft’s obligation to provide complete and accurate information which would allow Microsoft’s competitors to develop work group server operating system products that interoperate with Windows PCs and servers on an equal basis with Microsoft’s server operating system products.
In order to comply with this obligation, Microsoft made available a technical description of the relevant software (“protocols”) used in the communication between Windows PCs and work group servers (the “Technical Documentation”). 109.
This decision is the first step in a procedure pursuant to Article 24 of the Regulation.
On 21 December, the Commission issued a statement of objections in the procedure pursuant to Article 24 with regard to Microsoft’s obligation to supply complete and accurate interoperability information.
The Commission’s objections are backed by further reports of the trustee in which he concludes that the Technical Documentation supplied by Microsoft in response to the Article 24(1) Decision was still incomplete and inaccurate. 3.
Competition policy and internal market policy are complementary and can help deliver an integrated and competitive market for all financial services.
The Commission is strengthening competition in financial services with the targeted use of sector inquiries, individual cases and the wider development of competition policy in this area.
On 13 June, on the basis of its powers under Article 17 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003, the Commission launched inquiries into the financial services sector.
The justification for the sector inquiries was set out in a Communication from the Commissioner for Competition, in agreement with the Commissioner for Internal Market and Services[71]. 115.
The inquiry into business insurance will examine in particular the extent of cooperation among insurers and insurance associations in areas such as the setting of standard policy conditions[73].
For instance, in July, on the basis of Article 18(1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003, the Commission undertook a survey of payment cards based on a representative sample of approximately 200 undertakings across the EU.
MasterCard Europe/International (multilateral interchange fees) 118.
The Commission’s investigation into MasterCard’s MIF, opened on 24 September 2003, continued throughout 2005.
As competition can contribute to promoting this efficiency, the application of competition rules to this technically complex but economically very significant sector is a priority. 120.
The Commission investigated a possible infringement of Article 82 EC in the context of Euronext ’s response to competition from the London Stock Exchange with trading Dutch securities.
Indeed, the reduction in Euronext’s prices had benefited users and the continued presence of London Stock Exchange in the Dutch equities trading market appeared to prevent Euronext from returning to its original pricing levels. 121.
The aim of this ongoing work is to determine if more competition in these markets would bring user benefits, particularly in terms of lower costs.
The International Underwriting Association of London and the Lloyd’s Market Association are parties to the commitments, which provide inter alia for greater transparency in key industry committees based in London, including the committee establishing standard wording for aviation insurance policies and clauses.
In addition, the commitments provide that, if an unforeseeable crisis resulting from war or terrorism arises, insurers will limit any coordinated action to that which is indispensable to ensure that capacity continues to be available and which keeps the effects on competition to a strict minimum. 3.2.
Air transport Austrian Airlines/SAS 125.
In 1999 SAS and Austrian Airlines notified a cooperation agreement to the Commission to obtain an individual exemption.
On 22 September, the Commission published a notice[78] pursuant to Article 27(4) of Council Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 in which it published a concise summary of the cooperation agreement and the main content of the commitments.
On 15 July and 23 December, the Commission adopted the first five decisions[80] under Council Regulation (EC) No 847/2004 on the negotiation and implementation of air service agreements between Member States and third countries.
In these decisions, the Commission set out the criteria according to which it assessed the agreements negotiated by Member States with a view to authorising or not their provisional application or their conclusion by Member States.
In line with settled case law[81], the Commission also stated in the decisions that its discretion under the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 847/2004 cannot allow it to authorise a result which is otherwise contrary to EU law. 127.
It is settled law that Articles 81 and 82 EC, read in conjunction with Article 10 EC, require Member States not to introduce or maintain in force measures, even of a legislative or regulatory nature, which may render ineffective the competition rules applicable to undertakings; this would be the case, the Court of Justice has declared[82], if a Member State were to require or favour the adoption of agreements, decisions or concerted practices contrary to Article 81 EC or reinforce their effects.
A fair proportion of bilateral air service agreements concluded between Member States and third countries require or encourage air carriers designated under these agreements to agree on or coordinate tariffs and/or the capacity they operate. 128.
Such air service agreements, the Commission has argued in its decisions under Regulation (EC) No 847/2004, infringe Articles 10 and 81 EC read jointly.
Accordingly, the Commission has allowed Member States to provisionally apply or to conclude such agreements inter alia on condition that the provisions breaching Articles 10 and 81 EC are brought in conformity with EU law within 12 months of the date of notification of the decisions. 129.
The five decisions adopted by the Commission under Regulation (EC) No 847/2004 authorised the conclusion or provisional application of air service agreements negotiated by Member States with third countries inter alia on condition that infringements of Articles 10 and 81 EC are resolved in 45 instances.
On 18 November, the Commission finalised the draft text of a new agreement with the United States of America that will replace the existing bilateral agreements concluded by Member States.
This agreement will create a new cooperation framework between the Commission and the US Department of Transportation in the areas of competition law and policy in the field of air transport.
Inland transport 131.
On 20 July, the Commission tabled a revised proposal on public service requirements and contracts in passenger transport by road, rail and inland waterway[83].
The Commission’s work in the professional services sector continued with the publication of its first follow-up report to the 2004 Report “Competition in Professional Services”[84].
The follow-up report was published on 5 September.
The Communication gives an overview of progress made by individual Member States in the review and removal of unjustified regulatory restrictions since the issue of the 2004 Report.
It also provides details of enforcement action in this sector by national competition authorities and the Commission.
The report sets out to provide a balanced analysis of progress made by comparing Member States’ reported reform activity over the past 18 months against levels of existing regulation.
This is important since Member States are all starting at different points; some have relatively low levels of regulation, while in others the professions are more heavily regulated. 137.
The report finds a mixed picture in terms of reform activity during 2004/05.
A handful of countries are making good progress while in others the reform process has yet to get started. 138.
The NCAs are also actively applying the EU competition rules to cases in their countries.
In 2003, the Competition DG decided to enter into a comprehensive dialogue process with the NCAs to identify key competition issues in the field of waste management systems and to ensure a coherent competition policy by the Commission and the NCAs in this area.
The draft paper was circulated for consultation to the NCAs in December 2004.
In applying competition policy to the waste management sector, the overall objective is to achieve the implementation of competition and environment policies in a mutually reinforcing way in order to best contribute to the Lisbon Strategy goal of making the EU the world’s most dynamic, competitive and sustainable economy by 2010, while at the same time improving the welfare of consumers.
The markets in question are relatively new.
The Competition DG has identified three principal competition concerns in the field of waste management systems.
Second, it is important to ensure a legal environment that will allow for the existence of several competing waste management systems.
Cases in the waste management sector are likely to be dealt with mainly at the national level as most of the relevant markets would appear to be national.
Consumer goods and foodstuffs Coca-Cola [91] 147.
On 22 June, the Commission adopted a commitment decision pursuant to Article 9 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003, based on Article 82 EC and Article 54 EEA and addressed to The Coca-Cola Company (TCCC) and its three anchor bottlers, Bottling Holdings (Luxembourg) sarl, Coca-Cola Erfrischungsgetränke AG and Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company SA (referred to collectively as “Coca-Cola”).
Furthermore, in the take-home channel, TCCC and its bottlers applied shelf space arrangements whereby the supermarkets reserved a large part of their CSD shelf space for TCCC-branded products to the advantage of the weaker CSDs of the TCCC brand portfolio.
Finally, TCCC and its bottlers also attached certain exclusivity-related restrictions to the installation of technical sales equipment, such as beverage coolers and fountain dispensers. 150.
In response to the preliminary assessment, Coca-Cola submitted commitments which took into account the competition issues identified.
On 26 November 2004 the Commission published a notice pursuant to Article 27(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003[92], inviting interested third parties to submit their observations on Coca-Cola’s proposed commitments.
In response to these observations, Coca-Cola submitted an amended commitment proposal. 151.
In particular, Coca-Cola will refrain from concluding exclusivity agreements save in specific circumstances and from granting growth and target rebates.
Mechanical and other manufacturing industries including transportation equipment SEP and Others/Automobiles Peugeot SA [93] 153.
On 5 October, the Commission imposed a fine of EUR 49.5 million on Automobiles Peugeot SA and its wholly-owned importer Peugeot Nederland NV, for having obstructed, from January 1997 until September 2003, exports of new cars from the Netherlands to consumers resident in other Member States.
By implementing a strategy designed to prevent dealers from selling cars to consumers in other Member States, so as to curb exports by Dutch Peugeot dealers, the companies committed a very serious infringement of the prohibition on restrictive agreements set out in Article 81 EC. 154.
The infringement by Peugeot consisted of two measures. 155.
The decision also does not question the manufacturer’s freedom to agree with its dealers sales targets set in terms of sales to be achieved in the contract territory or its freedom to adopt appropriate incentives, in the form of performance bonuses in particular, in order to urge dealers to increase sales volumes in their allocated territory. 157.
However, the bonus system implemented by Peugeot in agreement with its Dutch dealer network went further than what was necessary to encourage Dutch dealers to devote their best sales efforts to their contract territory.
Dutch dealers had to achieve certain sales targets in their territory in order to acquire the right to a bonus.
The second measure consisted in pressure exercised by Peugeot, through Peugeot Nederland, on those dealers who were identified as having developed a significant export activity, for example by threatening to reduce the number of cars supplied.
Peugeot Nederland exerted direct pressure by occasionally acting to limit the export sales of certain dealers.
In addition to this, certain models were also strictly reserved for the Dutch market and their export was regarded by Peugeot as improper conduct for which the exporting dealer would be held responsible. 159.
As a result of the two measures, exports from the Netherlands declined after 1997, the year in which the remuneration system was implemented, then fell sharply after 1999.
Such a drastic decline in exports could not be explained by extraneous factors such as changes in the level of price differentials between the Netherlands and other Member States. 160.
In determining the level of the fine, the Commission took into account the very serious nature and the relatively long duration of the infringement committed by Peugeot and its Dutch subsidiary.
BMW and General Motors – unjustified obstacles to multi-branding and restrictions on access to their authorised repair networks 161.
The BMW[96] and the General Motors (Opel)[97] cases were opened in 2003/early 2004 following formal and informal complaints by several dealer associations.
After in-depth investigations and constructive discussions with the parties, the Commission informed the respective complainants at the end of 2005 that, in view of measures taken by both BMW and GM, there are no longer grounds to pursue the proceedings further as far as the two central issues of the complaints are concerned[98].
These two issues relate to (i) unjustified obstacles to multi-brand distribution and servicing, and (ii) unnecessary restrictions for garages on becoming members of these manufacturers’ authorised repair networks. 162.
In order to address concerns expressed by the Commission and to benefit from legal certainty under Commission Regulation (EC) No 1400/2002[99], BMW and General Motors (GM) have clarified and adjusted their respective distribution and servicing agreements by means of circular letters to all members of their various authorised dealer and repairer networks. 163.
Second, targets will be set taking into account possible changes to the dealer’s individual business circumstances (including the start of multi-brand activities) and local market conditions while refraining from assessing GM’s dealers’ performance on the basis of a comparison between local and national market shares.
Third, the evolution of dealer performance in terms of local compared to national market shares of GM brands will not be used to sanction a dealer. 166.
By contrast, the Commission did not find that BMW’s requirements that its dealers display a minimum of three to four cars (a number which is far from covering the entire BMW model range) could be regarded as an indirect non-compete obligation.
In order to remove potential obstacles to joint purchasing and stocking of spare parts, BMW and GM made clear that authorised repairers are free to organise buying groups and to jointly warehouse spare parts.
During the year, price dispersion as measured by the average standard deviation of pre-tax prices between the 25 national markets continuously decreased to 6.3% compared to 6.9% in the August 2003 issue.
Prices increased somewhat in Denmark (+2.4%) and Greece (+1.8%), whereas they decreased in Finland (-2%), Estonia (-8.3%) and Poland (-7.6%).
This seems to indicate that car prices have not tended to converge upwards towards price levels in high-price countries. 5.
Upon taking up office the Commissioner for Competition, Neelie Kroes, identified the fight against hardcore cartels as one of the areas in which the Competition DG must concentrate its efforts.
The major task of the new Cartels Directorate is to ensure the efficient and sound handling of a large volume of cartel investigations.
In terms of case work regarding hardcore cartels, the leniency programme continued to give rise to a steady stream of cases being reported to the Commission.
However, only a limited number of those cases actually led to investigations being opened.
In 2005, the Commission received 17 applications for immunity and 11 applications for a reduction of fines.
Other information sources such as complaints and market monitoring and in particular cooperation with national competition authorities within the European Competition Network were valuable in detecting cartels.
In terms of final decisions, the Commission issued five final decisions in which it fined 37 undertakings[100] a total of EUR 683 million (compared with 21 undertakings and a total of EUR 390 million in fines in 2004).
It is noted that three out of the five cartel decisions adopted in 2005 were based on the 1996 Leniency Notice, but this ratio will of course change in the future: most of the statements of objections issued in 2005 resulted from applications filed under the 2002 Leniency Notice[101]. 5.1.2.
Leniency remains a very important enforcement tool in cartel cases.
However, the high number of applications received does not reflect the number of cartel investigations the Commission has opened since 2002.
In deciding which hardcore cartels to target, the Commission, within the framework of the European Competition Network, focused its efforts on violations that have an impact in at least several Member States or in the EEA as a whole.
A number of cases, although formally falling within the prohibition set out in Article 81 EC, concerned violations that were of limited size, often limited to a single Member State or even part of a Member State.
In such cases, the applications were sometimes given an investigative follow-up by a national competition authority (NCA) in the Member State concerned rather than the Commission, in particular when similar applications were also made by the undertaking to the NCA in the Member State.
In deciding which cases to pursue, the Commission therefore has to set its priorities.
In other cases, the evidence presented may be too scarce or imprecise to justify a decision of conditional immunity and/or the opening of an inquiry. 177.
The Commission must ensure that the leniency programme is not misused to bring agreements to the attention of the Commission that previously would have fallen under the notification system that was abolished with the entry into force of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003.
Finally, the Commission informed an undertaking to which it had granted conditional immunity that its status would not be confirmed in the final cartel decision.
The undertaking had breached its duty of cooperation by disclosing to other competitors that it had applied for immunity before inspections were carried out by the Commission. 178.
As regards applications for a reduction in fines, the statistics provided should be seen in the light of the fact that in a single investigation normally more than one undertaking applies for a reduction in fines. 179.
Undertakings which are awarded conditional immunity must cooperate fully and continuously with the Commission.
This duty of cooperation includes, inter alia , the duty not to disclose the application to third parties without the prior consent of the Commission, to search for and provide to the Commission all possible information regarding the alleged cartel and to answer all questions the Commission may ask, which includes the possibility of taking oral statements from company employees.
Whether or not evidence can be recorded as having significant added value – and therefore qualifying for a reduction in the fine – depends on the facts of the case and the strength of the evidence already in the possession of the Commission.
Where the information provided by the immunity applicant and the inspections is still insufficient to prove the infringement, new evidence provided by an applicant for a reduction of fines may allow the Commission to actually prove the infringement.
Even where the Commission has already been able to find an infringement, additional evidence can still have a significant added value if it has a direct bearing on the gravity or duration of the suspected cartel.
The purpose is to ensure effective deterrence of cartels to allow for prompt investigation and to ensure that cartels are severely penalised, in order to ensure a competitive environment for the benefit of consumers. 5.2.
On 19 January, the Commission fined three chemicals undertakings Akzo, Hoechst and Atofina (now known as Arkema) a total amount of nearly EUR 217 million for their participation in a cartel in the market for monochloroacetic acid (MCAA).
The participants in the cartel held over 90% of the European market for MCAA.
Clariant, Atofina and Akzo all cooperated with the Commission under the Leniency Notice.
The 1996 Leniency Notice was applicable as the investigation started prior to the introduction of the 2002 Notice.
Atofina was the second undertaking to come forward and was granted a 40% reduction in fines.
In setting the fines, the Commission also took into account the duration of the infringement, the large size and overall resources of some of the undertakings and the fact that some of the undertakings were addressees of previous Commission decisions establishing infringements of the same type.
On this basis, Akzo, the largest producer of MCAA, received the highest individual fine of EUR 84.38 million, followed by Hoechst with EUR 74.03 million and Atofina with EUR 58.5 million.
On 14 September, the Commission fined thread producers from Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, France, Switzerland and the United Kingdom a total of EUR 43.497 million for operating cartels in the market for industrial thread.
By means of unannounced inspections carried out by the Commission in November 2001 at the premises of several Community producers of textile/haberdashery products and the subsequent investigation, the Commission discovered evidence that undertakings had taken part in the following three cartel agreements and concerted practices: a cartel on the market in thread for industrial customers in Benelux and the Nordic countries from January 1990 until September 2001; a cartel on the market in thread for industrial customers in the United Kingdom from October 1990 until September 1996; and a cartel on the market in thread for automotive customers in the EEA from May/June 1998 until 15 May 2000. 187.
The following companies were involved: Ackermann Nähgarne GmbH %amp% Co, Amann und Söhne GmbH, Barbour Threads Ltd, Belgian Sewing Thread NV, Bieze Stork BV, Bisto Holding BV, Coats Ltd, Coats UK Ltd, Cousin Filterie SA, Dollfus Mieg et Cie SA, Donisthorpe %amp% Company Ltd, Gütermann AG, Hicking Pentecost plc, Oxley Threads Ltd, Perivale Gütermann Ltd and Zwicky %amp% Co AG. 189.
On 20 October, the Commission imposed fines totalling EUR 56.05 million on four Italian tobacco processors (Deltafina, Dimon – now renamed Mindo, Transcatab and Romana Tabacchi), for colluding over a period of more than six years (1995–2002) on the prices paid to tobacco growers and intermediaries and on the allocation of tobacco suppliers in Italy.
The decision is also addressed to Universal Corporation (the US parent company of Deltafina and the biggest tobacco merchant worldwide) and Alliance Once International Inc., the company resulting from the merger of the parent companies of Transcatab and Dimon and the second biggest tobacco merchant worldwide. 191.
The decision also applies fines of EUR 1 000 on the processors’ and producers’ associations (APTI and UNITAB) for their price-fixing activities in the negotiation of sector-wide agreements. 192.
This is the second time that the Commission has taken a decision with fines in the raw tobacco sector.
The fines imposed on Mindo/Dimon and Transcatab include reductions of 50% and 30% respectively.
The decision however refused the benefit of immunity to Deltafina due to a serious breach by Deltafina of its cooperation obligations (Deltafina informed its competitors that it had applied for leniency, thereby revealing the existence of an investigation against them, before the Commission could carry out surprise inspections).
On 30 November, the Commission fined sixteen industrial plastic bag producers a total amount of EUR 290.71 million for their participation in a cartel in Germany, the Benelux countries, France and Spain.
The participants in the cartel held around 75% of the market for industrial bags in those countries in 1996.
Several other undertakings had their fines reduced under the Leniency Notice in reward for the information they provided (Trioplast, Bischof + Klein, Cofira-Sac) or for not contesting the facts as set out in the statement of objections addressed to them (Nordfolien, Bonar Technical Fabrics and Low %amp% Bonar).
Aggravating circumstances led to an increase of the fines for Bischof + Klein (destruction of a document during the inspection) and UPM-Kymmene (repeated infringement of the same type).
On 21 December, the Commission fined four undertakings a total amount of EUR 75.86 million for operating a cartel in rubber chemicals.
In 2001, the value of the EEA market was estimated at about EUR 200 million and the value of the worldwide market at EUR 1.5 billion. 199.
The investigation into the rubber chemicals sector began following an application for conditional immunity from fines by Flexsys in April 2002.
Subsequently, the Commission carried out unannounced inspections at the premises of Bayer, Crompton Europe and General Quimica in September 2002.
After these inspections, Crompton (now Chemtura), Bayer and General Quimica applied for leniency. 200.
Whilst there are a number of indications that collusive activities within the rubber chemicals industry were already taking place at least occasionally in the 1970s, the Commission only had sufficiently firm evidence of the existence of the cartel for the period covering the years 1996-2001 for Flexsys, Bayer and Crompton (now Chemtura) (including Crompton Europe and Uniroyal Chemical Company) and 1999 and 2000 for General Quimica.
Repsol YPF SA and Repsol Quimica SA, although they did not themselves participate in the arrangements in question, are nevertheless held responsible for the conduct of their wholly owned subsidiary General Quimica.
Cooperation on policy issues 202.
First, the Director-General of the Competition DG and the heads of all NCAs met in order to discuss important competition policy issues; it is planned that this meeting should take place once a year.
Second, the NCAs and the Commission met in so-called “plenary meetings” where general issues of common interest relating to antitrust policy are discussed and where exchanges of experiences and know-how take place; such discussions and exchanges foster the creation of a common competition culture within the Network; for example useful discussion took place concerning sector inquiries and the oral procedure for corporate statements in the context of leniency.
Plenary meetings also allow preliminary discussions between Network members on policy proposals from the Commission such as the Green Paper on actions for damages. 205.
Third, there are six working groups dealing with specific issues.
In 2005, one working group was dedicated to transitional issues arising from the new enforcement system; another was devoted to addressing the possible difficulties arising from discrepancies between leniency programmes; the third working group addressed issues related to the heterogeneity of procedures and sanctions in the Member States; the fourth working group dealt with information and communication about the ECN; the fifth working group is dedicated to issues relating to abuse of dominant position and the sixth working group consists of chief competition economists from the agencies within the ECN.
Finally, there were 13 ECN sectoral subgroups dedicated to particular sectors[109].
Some scheduled regular meetings whereas others communicated mainly via electronic means; they can address any sector-specific issues and allow for a useful exchange of experience and best practices; for example, in 2005, the Telecommunications subgroup examined price squeezing in the telecommunications markets and the Energy subgroup dealt with long-term gas supply contracts.
Over and above legal obligations arising from the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003, a significant level of convergence of national laws towards EU law can be observed in new national legislation.
This is for instance reflected in the abolition of the notification system in a large number of Member States; today, in all but eight Member States, national competition law systems are aligned on the system of direct application of Article 81(3) that was introduced by Regulation (EC) No 1/2003; of those eight Member States three are considering an amendment to their system.
This is a very significant development for cartel enforcement in the Community as leniency programmes are the cornerstone of efficient cartel detection.
It will also greatly ease the decision of potential applicants to seek the benefit of leniency programmes as they can now be protected almost everywhere in the EU. 1.3.
Cooperation between the ECN members in individual cases is organised around two principal obligations on the NCAs to inform the Commission: at the outset of proceedings (Article 11(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003) and before the final decision (Article 11(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003).
The first requirement to inform facilitates the swift reallocation of cases in the few cases where it appears necessary, whereas the second plays an important role in ensuring consistent application of EU law.
Case allocation 210.
The Commission was informed of some 180 new case investigations launched by NCAs.
The experiences of worksharing within the Network have confirmed that the flexible and pragmatic approach which has been introduced by the Regulation and the Network Notice functions very well in practice.
From the experience in 2005, there were two principal areas in which work sharing in the ECN can be said to have played a role. 212.
This situation is characterised by a strong need for confidentiality and speed. 213.
On the basis of information received pursuant to Article 12, the Commission organised inspections.
The Commission and Member States’ NCAs also cooperated in the early stages of several cases in which parallel leniency applications had been received. 214.
The second scenario concerned a certain number of complaints received by the Commission or an NCA or both[112] and which have been or are being followed up by a well-placed authority in the network.
In order to ensure consistent application of Articles 81 and 82 EC, Article 11(4) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 requires NCAs to inform the Commission at the latest 30 days before they adopt a prohibition decision or a decision accepting commitments.
Pursuant to Article 11(5) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003, the NCAs may consult the Commission on any case involving the application of EU law. 216.
In 2005, the Commission received information pursuant to Article 11(4) of envisaged decisions in almost 80 cases, from 18 different NCAs.
These cases related to a large variety of infringements in various sectors of the economy. [pic] 217.
The Commission did not open proceedings in any of these cases.
In a number of instances, the services of the Competition DG at various levels entered into discussions with the NCA and provided comments and advice to the authority on an informal basis.
Application of EU competition rules by national courts in the EU: Report on the implementation of Article 15 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 2.1.
Opinions will be posted on the Competition DG’s website once the judgment in the case in which the opinion was requested has been notified to the Commission pursuant to Article 15(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003.
Article 15(2) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 requires the EU Member States to forward to the Commission a copy of any written judgment issued by national courts deciding on the application of Articles 81 or 82 EC.
The Commission received copies of 54 judgments handed down in 2005, which were posted on the Competition DG’s website to the extent that the transmitting authority did not class them as confidential (confidential judgments are merely listed).
Only 10 judgments were given by appeal courts reviewing NCA administrative decisions. 2.3.
Article 15(3) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 allows the Commission and NCAs to submit observations to national courts on issues relating to the application of EU competition rules.
The Commission did not have recourse to this device in 2005. 2.4.
Financing the training of national judges in EU competition law 224.
Continuing training and education of national judges in EU competition law is very important so as to ensure both effective and coherent application of those rules.
In 2005, the Commission cofinanced 12 training projects, committing almost EUR 600 000 for the training of national judges from all 25 EU Member States. 2.5.
Firstly, the Court of Appeal asked whether it was compatible with Article 81 EC for a brewery to conclude a five-year exclusive purchasing agreement for beverages other than beer in 1997, after having concluded a 10-year exclusive purchasing agreement for beers with the same buyer in 1993.
With regard to the issue of compatibility with Article 81 EC, the opinion referred to the Delimitis judgment of the European Court of Justice (ECJ) and the Commission’s de minimis Notices.
The opinion drew attention to the relevant Commission block exemption Regulations (namely Regulation (EC) No 1984/83 (until 31 May 2000) and its successor Regulation (EC) No 2790/1999).
Finally, with regard to the scope of Article 81(2) EC, the opinion recalled the relevant case law of the ECJ, in particular the Courage judgment. 227.
Secondly, the Court of Appeal asked whether under Article 81 and 82 EC an agreement between the organiser of a truck exhibition and the importers and distributors showing their trucks at the exhibition could include a prohibition on participation in any similar event in Belgium for the six-month period prior to the exhibition. 228.
The opinion set out the analytical framework under Article 81 EC, highlighting the guidelines on the application of Article 81(3), as well as the decision-making practice of the Commission in the field of exhibitions.
The opinion also clarified the relationship between Article 81 EC and Article 82 EC and pointed out that efficiencies can be taken into account in assessments under Article 82 EC. 229.
Finally, the Court of Appeal asked whether the criteria set by a collecting society for giving the status of “ grand organisateur ” to certain commercial users and the rebate of 50% granted to such users are compatible with Article 82 EC or whether this amounts to illegal discrimination within the meaning of that provision. 230.
The opinion, by reference to the case law on collecting societies, set out the various elements which can be taken into account to determine whether the criteria or their application may constitute a breach of Article 82 EC.
The Spanish court asked whether the type and size of the network of the supplier in Spain could affect interstate trade and lead to a restriction of competition and whether the contractual relationship between the parties could benefit from an exemption further to Article 81(3). 232.
It highlighted that a network of exclusive supply contracts can lead to problems of foreclosure and explained how to assess possible foreclosure of the market by reference to the ECJ’s case law ( Delimitis ), the Commission’s guidelines and notices, as well as an Article 27(4) notice that was published in the context of Case COMP/38.348 (REPSOL).
In a similar case, a Spanish court asked whether an agreement between a wholesale supplier of petroleum products and a service station operator was compatible with Article 81 EC.
In particular, it requested clarification as to whether a non-compete clause and a resale price maintenance clause (RPM) were compatible with Article 81 EC, whether the agreement at stake could benefit from the block exemption Regulations, and whether the service station operator could be considered an agent. 234.
Finally, the opinion noted that it is for the court to conclude whether any clause that it might find void could be severed from the contract or whether the entire contract should be set aside.
The Vilnius District Court asked whether it was compatible with Article 86(1) EC, in conjunction with Article 82 EC, for a municipality to carry out a tender procedure for the award of an exclusive right to collect waste for 15 years.
The opinion addresses the issue of the existence of a dominant position in the waste management sector under Article 82 EC by reference to the ECJ’s case law on waste management ( Københavns [113] and Dusseldorp [114]) and the Commission Notice on the definition of relevant market for the purposes of Community competition law[115].
The opinion outlines the conditions to be fulfilled for a finding of a violation of Article 86(1), in conjunction with Article 82 EC, namely that an abuse by the successful concession-holder would have to be the inevitable or at least the likely result of the tender conditions.
Finally, the opinion indicates that a violation of the competition rules may be justified under Article 86(2) EC, with reference to the Københavns judgment. 3.
ECN working group on abuse of dominant position 238.
The first meeting of the ECN working group of chief competition economists was held on 30 September.
By establishing closer contact between economists from the NCAs and the Commission, this subgroup aims to develop technical expertise and a joint approach in the application of modelling tools to competition policy.
As a next step, in March 2006 an ad-hoc meeting will discuss working methods for economists in competition authorities.
During 2005 the NCAs engaged in a high level of activity within the telecommunications and postal sector, submitting a large number of new cases as well as envisaged decisions to the ECN.
In the postal sector, most of the cases also concerned various abuses aimed at leveraging market power or tying monopoly markets with liberalised markets.
Following its launch in 2004, the ECN subgroup on energy met three times in 2005.
The subgroup also discussed market definitions in electricity wholesale markets.
A number of very prominent cases in the energy sector dealt with at national level were submitted to the Commission, relating to highly important issues such as the compatibility of long-term exclusive gas supply contracts with EU competition law or excessive pricing in the electricity sector.
Following previous discussions it was possible to have a first exchange of views with the rail regulatory bodies (RBs) on how to strengthen cooperation between NCAs and RBs with respect to the opening up of the railway market.
The exchange of views will be pursued once a year.
In 2005, the ECN subgroup on environment discussed the Competition DG paper concerning issues of competition in waste management systems which was published on the Competition DG’s website in September.
Regular contacts facilitate convergence in the application of competition rules to this sector at national and EU level.
D – Selected Court cases max.mobil [116] 245.
By judgment of 22 February, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) set aside the judgment of the Court of First Instance (CFI) in Case T-54/99 max.mobil v Commission , which acknowledged a general right of the complainants to challenge the Commission’s refusal to act under Article 86(3) EC.
By judgment of 30 May, the ECJ rejected as inadmissible a request for a preliminary ruling made by the Greek Competition Council in relation to an interpretation of Article 82 EC with regard to parallel trade in pharmaceuticals.
The ECJ found that the Greek national competition authority (NCA) was not a tribunal within the meaning of Article 234 EC.
Specialty graphite [118] 247.
By judgment of 15 June, which largely deals with fines, the CFI supported the essence of the Commission’s findings and reasoning in its decision of 17 December 2002 concerning two cartels in the specialty graphite sector. 248.
The CFI ruled that, when assessing the respective weight of the participants to a worldwide price-fixing cartel and accordingly when setting the starting amount of the fine to be imposed on each of them, the Commission is entitled to use worldwide product turnover and market shares as a reference. 250.
By judgment of 28 June, the ECJ dismissed all appeals against the judgments of the CFI of 20 March 2002[121] concerning the Commission decision in the pre-insulated pipes case.
It underlined that the Commission enjoys a wide discretion in the field of competition policy, in particular as regards the determination of the amount of fines.
Undertakings involved in an administrative procedure in which fines may be imposed cannot acquire legitimate expectations that the Commission will not exceed the level of fines previously imposed or that a particular method of calculating the fines will be used. 255.
The principle of non-retroactivity was therefore not violated.
By judgment of 18 July, the CFI rejected all grounds raised by SAS in support of its claim for annulment or reduction of the fine imposed on it by Commission decision of 18 July 2001 which found that SAS and Maersk Air had infringed Article 81 EC by entering into a series of market-sharing agreements. 259.
By judgment of 27 July, the CFI confirmed in its entirety the Commission’s decision of 5 December 2001 imposing fines for a long-standing cartel established by way of an express agreement on beer ties in Luxembourg.
The CFI held that for the purpose of fines this infringement could have been be qualified as very serious solely on the basis of the nature of the infringement, and this would be the case even though it concerned only one Member State, namely Luxembourg.
In its judgment of 15 September the CFI confirmed part of the Commission’s decision of 10 October 2001 in the Mercedes-Benz case[129] in which the Commission found that DaimlerChrysler AG had, itself or through its Belgian and Spanish subsidiaries, infringed EU competition rules.
The decision imposed a fine of over EUR 71 million on DaimlerChrysler for three distinct infringements.
Second, DaimlerChrysler was sanctioned for having prevented its German agents and Spanish dealers from supplying cars to leasing companies where no customer was identified, thus preventing them from having a stock of immediately available vehicles for upcoming leasing contracts.
With respect to the alleged anticompetitive conduct of DaimlerChrysler in Germany, the CFI found that the distribution agreements concluded by DaimlerChrysler in Germany came within the definition of genuine agency agreements and fell, therefore, outside the scope of Article 81 EC.
With respect to the conduct of DaimlerChrysler in Spain, the CFI found that under Spanish law every leasing company must already have an identified customer for the leasing contract at the time of acquiring the vehicle.
The CFI confirmed the fine of EUR 9.8 million relating to the participation of DaimlerChrysler, through its Belgian wholly owned subsidiary, in a retail price maintenance agreement with its Belgian dealers.
The CFI also confirmed that there is no obligation to define a relevant market for infringements by object and that a reduction for cooperation is not due for replies which do not go beyond what the undertaking is obliged to provide, in response to a request for information.
By judgment of 6 October, the CFI annulled the Commission decision of 21 November 2001 in the Vitamins case, as far as Sumitomo Chemical Co Ltd and Sumika Fine Chemicals Ltd are concerned.
The CFI stated that, under such circumstances, the Commission is entitled to adopt a decision finding a past infringement, provided that it has a legitimate interest in so doing.
In four judgments handed down on 29 November, the CFI fully confirmed the Commission’s assessment and dismissed all applications for annulment or reduction of fines that had been imposed in a price-fixing and market-sharing cartel in zinc phosphate, an anti-corrosion mineral pigment widely used in the manufacture of industrial paints.
Instead, the CFI went on to say that in this particular case, the Commission was correct in relying on the most recent turnover corresponding to a “complete” year of economic activity, i.e.
E – Statistics [pic] [pic] [pic] II – Merger control 273.
The number of mergers and acquisitions notified to the Commission increased considerably in 2005 to 313 cases as compared with 249 cases the previous year. 274.
In addition the Commission referred seven cases to national competition authorities pursuant to Article 9 of Council Regulation (EC) No 139/2004 (the “Merger Regulation”)[133].
The Commission also received 14 requests pursuant to Article 4(4) of the Merger Regulation, 27 requests under Article 4(5) as well as four requests pursuant to Article 22.
Despite the high total number of notifications, there were only five decisions taken pursuant to Article 8 of the Merger Regulation.
In addition three notifications were withdrawn by the notifying parties in Phase II. 276.
The percentage of notified concentrations resulting in a prohibition decision remains modest, averaging at around 1% or 2% if Phase II withdrawals are included.
The current Regional Aid Guidelines were adopted in 1998 for an unlimited period.
In April 2003, the Commission decided to apply these guidelines until 2006 and to proceed to their review for the period after 2006 “in due course in order to give the Member States and the Commission time before the end of 2006 to draw up, notify and approve the regional aid maps for the period after 1 January 2007”.
A document proposed by the Competition DG containing draft guidelines was sent to Member States in July, and also placed on the Competition DG’s website.
Two multilateral meetings with experts from the Member States, EEA countries, Romania and Bulgaria were organised in February and September, and numerous meetings took place at all levels with representatives of the regions concerned.
In total, more than 500 submissions were received from interested parties.
The European Parliament adopted an own-initiative report on the guidelines on 15 December, which was also largely taken into account. 406.
The existing Community Framework for state aid for Research and Development[166] was to expire on 31 December[167] but was prolonged until 31 December 2006[168].
A first exchange of views with Member States should take place at the beginning of 2006, with a view to adoption of the future R%amp%D and Innovation Framework around the summer of 2006.
Accordingly, the Commission decided to apply the existing R%amp%D Framework until the entry into force of such a document, by 31 December 2006 at the latest. 412.
In September, the Commission launched a public consultation on measures to improve state aid for innovation.
The Communication on the application of the state aid rules to short-term export-credit insurance (“STEC”)[171] expired on 31 December.
Following the completion of a study on the situation of the private reinsurance market in the field of export-credit insurance and after consulting the Member States and other interested parties, the Commission decided to leave the definition of marketable risks contained in the 2001 amendment unchanged.
This new provision will apply from 1 January 2006 until 31 December 2010.
However, the Commission will assess the market situation for those SMEs with limited export turnover within three years.
At the same time, it decided to extend the validity of the 1997 Communication until 31 December 2010. 1.5.
The Commission has started reviewing the current guidelines[173], which are applicable until the end of 2007, in order to prepare new guidelines for environmental aid.
The Commission will analyse the answers and incorporate the conclusions in the new draft guidelines for environmental aid, which will be discussed with Member States during the course of 2006. 1.6.
The package adopted by the Commission provides greater legal certainty to the financing of services of general economic interest.
The Decision is applicable to compensation of less than EUR 30 million per year provided its beneficiaries have an annual turnover of less than EUR 100 million.
The Commission Framework specifies the conditions under which compensation not covered by the Decision is compatible with State aid rules.
Agriculture 2.1.
Despite the launch of infringement procedures, some Member States never or only partially submitted annual reports of very variable quality, making analysis and comparisons very difficult. 420.
In accordance with Annex IV, part 4, point 4 of the Accession Treaty concerning existing state aid in the agricultural sector, the new Member States could communicate to the Commission all schemes and individual aid granted before accession and still applicable after accession in order to have them considered by the Commission as “existing” aid within the meaning of Article 88(1) EC.
The Accession Treaty requires the Commission to publish a list of aid measures it has approved as existing aid.
On 17 June, the Commission published a list of existing aid measures in the Official Journal [179], and the full text of all existing state aid measures notified by the ten new Member States has also been put on the Competition DG’s website.
A total of 451 measures have thus been made accessible.
The number of measures submitted per new Member State is as follows: Czech Republic (63), Lithuania (30), Latvia (33), Slovakia (32), Estonia (23), Malta (19), Hungary (108), Cyprus (70), Poland (51) and Slovenia (22).
The Commission has published the full texts of these existing measures on the Competition DG’s website[180]. 3.
In June, the Commission approved the long-term restructuring plans for the coal sectors in Germany, Poland and Hungary.
The Commission, after opening the formal procedure, in December approved the restructuring plan for the Spanish coal industry for the years 2003 to 2005.
In 2005 Slovakia submitted its plan for initial investments for the years 2005 to 2010. 426.
In this sense, the revitalisation of the railway sector is considered a key element in the EU’s common transport policy.
The arrival of new railway companies should make the sector more competitive and encourage the national companies to restructure. 429.
In this context, specific Guidelines for the railway sector will be issued in 2006.
Further, as regards legislation, following the consultation of Member States in April, the Commission published in June a draft proposal amending the de minimis Regulation by including in its scope the transport sector (except for aid given for the purchase of vehicles by road transport companies) and excluding the coal industry.
Finally, following the publication of the Green Paper on energy efficiency and the adoption of a proposal for a Directive on the promotion of green cars in public procurement, state aid for improving the energy performance of the different modes of transport plays an increasingly important role.
Concerning the air sector, on 6 September the Commission adopted a Communication on guidelines on financing of airports and start-up aid to airlines departing from regional airports[181].
These Guidelines also give airports and Member States guidance on the public financing of airports establishing a firm legal framework for agreements between airports and airlines.
The Register provides detailed information on all state aid cases which have been the subject of a final Commission decision since 1 January 2000.
By the end of 2005, the Commission had finalised its preliminary assessment of all measures submitted, thereby bringing to an end the interim procedure for the ten new Member States.
Of the 344 measures for which there was a preliminary decision, 335 (97%) were accepted as existing aid.
The Commission decided to open the formal investigation procedure in respect of the remaining nine measures (3%). 6.2.
According to the Commission’s comprehensive monitoring report on the state of preparedness for EU membership published in October, both Bulgaria and Romania have continued to make progress in adopting and implementing EU legislation and have reached a considerable degree of alignment.
Romania and Bulgaria were called on to make increased efforts in the area of competition policy as regards in particular the enforcement of state aid rules.
No existing aid measures have been attached to the Accession Treaty of Romania, nor will the interim procedure be applied until the Commission concludes that Romania’s state aid enforcement record has reached a satisfactory level.
In the case of Bulgaria, three measures have been annexed to the Accession Treaty that will thus be regarded as existing aid upon accession.
By the end of 2005, no decision had been taken as to its possible classification as existing aid.
The Commission approved rescue aid in favour of five companies in 2005[186].
SVZ, a German company active in the treatment of hazardous waste, incurred unexpected additional costs while setting up a pilot project for a more effective treatment of waste which led to its insolvency.
Finally, EUR 2 million was awarded to Ernault[191], a French manufacturer of machine tools. 440.
For MG Rover, the aid was meant to give the appointed administrators up to one week to look at any remaining prospect of selling the assets in administration as a going concern after the negotiations about a possible joint venture with Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp broke down.
The UK, however, undertook to present the Commission with proof that the aid had been repaid, or had been claimed back by enforcement procedures, within the same period of six months.
Restructuring aid Monitoring Alstom (France) [193] 442.
On 7 July 2004, the Commission authorised France to grant restructuring aid to Alstom.
Firstly, it was verified that the company was implementing the operational restructuring plan, which is indispensable to making it competitive and viable in the long term.
Thirdly, the Commission monitored implementation of the structural measures aimed at rendering the French rolling-stock market more competitive.
Frucona (Slovakia) [194] 443.
On 5 July, the Commission decided to initiate a formal investigation procedure with respect to the write-off by the Slovak tax authorities of a tax debt owed by Frucona Kosice, a.s.
The Commission concluded that the measure in question constituted state aid, and raised doubts as to its compatibility as rescue or restructuring aid under the 1999 Guidelines, which apply to this case.
AB Vingriai (Lithuania) [195] 444.
On 1 June, the Commission authorised Lithuania to grant LTL 7 million in restructuring aid to AB Vingriai, a company producing metal-cutting machine tools.
It also noted that the company had severely (minus 90%) but correctly adjusted the workforce to the lower level of demand and the lower need resulting from the implementation of efficient production processes.
Chemische Werke Piesteritz GmbH (Germany) [196] 445.
On 2 March, the Commission terminated a three-year-long investigation into aid granted to Chemische Werke Piesteritz (CWP), a producer of phosphoric acid and phosphates situated in the Land of Saxony-Anhalt, Germany.
The Commission concluded that an amount of EUR 6.7 million provided to the company in 1997 and 1998 for its restructuring constituted state aid incompatible with the common market and ordered its recovery.
The Commission found that the 1996 restructuring plan for CWP was not sound.
The decision followed a judgment of the Court of First Instance of 2001 by which the Court annulled the initial 1997 Commission decision approving the aid.
On 19 January, the Commission opened a formal investigation into restructuring aid for Euromoteurs, a French manufacturer of engines, and on 6 September it opened a formal investigation into restructuring aid for Ernault, a French manufacturer of machine tools (lathes).
Both companies had seen a dramatic decrease in their sales over time, while Euromoteurs was also suffering from overcapacity.
The Commission raised doubts as to whether the restructuring plan would restore the companies' viability, whether the aid was limited to the minimum necessary and whether undue distortions of competition were avoided.
In the case of Euromoteurs, the Commission also questioned whether the company had received illegal and incompatible aid under the French scheme “ article 44 septies du Code des Impôts ”[199], which had not yet been repaid.
On 20 July, the Commission approved restructuring aid of EUR 197 million granted to Imprimerie Nationale (IN), a state-owned company operating in the printing industry.
In February 2004, the Commission authorised rescue aid for IN under the condition that the French authorities presented a restructuring plan within six months. 448.
Accordingly, the French authorities proposed appropriate quid pro quos including the establishment of an exhaustive list of the products covered by the monopoly and, with a view to ruling out any risk of cross-subsidisation, legal separation of the monopoly from the company’s competitive activities by 1 July 2007.
The restructuring plan presented by the French authorities should enable IN to refocus on its traditional business, namely security printing (for the fiduciary document and continuous printing markets).
It also involved reorganising and rationalising the company’s remaining resources.
Profitability should be restored by 2008.
As such, the aid was declared fully compatible with the 1999 Guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty.
British Energy plc (United Kingdom) [201] 450.
On 22 September 2004, the Commission authorised the restructuring aid that the UK Government had earmarked for British Energy plc (BE) and imposed three conditions for that authorisation. 451.
On 7 March 2003, the UK authorities had notified a restructuring plan in favour of BE.
On 23 July 2003, the Commission launched an in-depth probe aimed at assessing whether the plan was compatible with the EU state aid rules.
During this inquiry, the Commission received contributions from the United Kingdom and BE, but also from more than twenty interested third parties.
But a number of competitors expressed their concerns that the company might use the aid for purposes other than meeting its historical nuclear liabilities, such as making new investments in more efficient power plants or aggressively gaining market share by offering abnormally low prices in the most rewarding segments of the market. 453.
Biria group (Germany) [202] 455.
On 20 October, the Commission initiated a formal investigation into two guarantees granted to companies of the Biria group, a German producer of bicycles, in 2003 and 2004, and into a public participation in another company of the group in 2001.
As regards the public participation, the Commission – considering the difficult financial situation of the company – doubted that it complied with the private investor principle as claimed by Germany.
Konas (Slovakia) [203] 456.
On 9 November, the Commission decided to initiate the Article 88(2) procedure with respect to the write-off by the Slovak tax authorities of a tax debt owed by Konas s.r.o.
Various factors led the Commission to conclude that the tax office did not act as a diligent private creditor (securities available but not used, non-use of prerogatives of a separate creditor, continuous absence of enforcement of tax obligations due).
The Commission, applying the 1999 Guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty, then raised doubts whether the aid was compatible as restructuring aid.
The overall budget of the UK proposals amounted to some GBP 87 million.
From a state aid point of view, all the above measures were operated under approved aid schemes, the block exemption Regulations for SME, training and employment aid, and the de minimis rule.
Accordingly, since there was no need for prior notification to the Commission, the UK authorities were able to put the support package in place quickly in order to tackle the crisis.
Huta Stalowa Wola SA (Poland) [205] 459.
On 23 November, the Commission opened a formal investigation into restructuring aid for Huta Stalowa Wola SA, a Polish construction machinery company.
According to the Polish authorities the aid was granted before accession and cannot be considered still applicable after accession.
Chemobudowa Kraków (Poland) [206] 460.
On 21 December, the Commission opened a formal investigation into restructuring aid for Chemobudowa Kraków, a Polish building company.
Moreover, Poland informed the Commission about 18 state aid measures granted in the period August 2001 – August 2004.
In March, the Commission approved schemes for innovation aid to shipbuilding for Germany[207], France[208] and Spain[209], the first of their kind after the entry into force in January 2004 of the new Framework on state aid to shipbuilding (“the Shipbuilding Framework”)[210].
The German scheme provides a budget of nearly EUR 27 million in total for the period 2005 to 2008.
The French scheme has an annual budget of EUR 25 million.
The Spanish scheme will expire on 31 December 2006.
For all types of aid, the scheme’s total budget amounts to approximately EUR 20 million annually.
As part of a response to unfair Korean shipbuilding practices, in 2002 the Council adopted a temporary defensive mechanism (TDM) for shipbuilding as an exceptional and temporary measure[211].
On its basis, in January and February the Commission approved national aid schemes in Germany[212], Finland[213] and Poland[214].
In accordance with the Shipbuilding Framework, on 2 February the Commission authorised development aid that the Netherlands had granted to BV Scheepswerf Damen Gorinchem for the construction of two tugboats for Ghana[218] and three search and rescue vessels for Vietnam[219].
Among other conditions, aid granted as development assistance to a developing country must have a clear development content in order to be compatible with the internal market.
In all the cases mentioned above, the Commission was satisfied that the vessels supplied were equipped with state-of-the-art technology making them suitable for operations such as the berthing of large-tonnage vessels, assistance to ships in difficulty, fire fighting or the prevention of natural disasters.
The latter duly applies the Commission Notice on the application of Articles 87 and 88 EC to state aid in the form of guarantees[225] in that it charges adequate premiums and differentiates the premium level by risk.
On 1 June, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure under Article 88(2) with respect to restructuring aid to the major Polish shipyards in Gdynia, Gdansk[226] and Szczecin[227].
It will nevertheless be taken into account in the final compatibility assessment, in particular in the context of the criterion that the aid is limited to the minimum necessary for restoration of the company’s viability.
The other measures constitute new aid. 473.
The Commission raised doubts as to the compatibility of this aid with the 1999 Guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty, which apply to these cases.
Furthermore, the Commission doubted whether adequate capacity reductions were being carried out to offset the distortion of competition and whether the contribution of the recipients themselves or of external private sources to the restructuring activities was sufficient to indicate market confidence in the ongoing restructuring. 3.
The Commission took several decisions concerning the restructuring of the steel industry in the new Member States.
Huta Czestochowa (Poland) 475.
In its decision of 5 July[229] the Commission found that the restructuring of Huta Czestochowa, Poland’s second-biggest steel producer, did not involve state aid, thereby clearing the way for the sale of the company.
The Commission opened an investigation because the company’s restructuring required a significant debt write-off, inter alia by public creditors, although the company was not eligible for state aid under the above-mentioned steel protocol.
On the basis of a detailed assessment of all claims and waivers, the Commission concluded that the write-off of public claims was compliant with normal market behaviour and therefore did not involve state aid.
The company had planned comprehensive restructuring in 2003, including a partial write-off of public and commercial debt claims.
The decision established that such evaluation may consider a realistic bankruptcy scenario taking into account that bankruptcy proceedings are more time-consuming and costly than restructuring.
On this basis and following a detailed assessment of all claims and waivers, the Commission concluded that the write-off of public claims was compliant with normal market behaviour and therefore did not involve state aid.
The first concerned Czech steel producer Válcovny Plechu Frýdek-Místek[231] and the second Mittal Steel Poland[232], the biggest steel producer in Poland. 4.
In these cases the Commission considered that, while state aid was present, the authorities had proved the necessity of the intervention, which was implemented in a proportionate manner, including a multitude of safeguards.
The Commission accepted that the measure fulfils the definition of a service of general economic interest and since the criteria established by the Court of Justice in its Altmark judgment[238] were met, the state funding involved did not constitute state aid.
An appeal against this decision has been brought by UPC France in the Court of First Instance[239]. 480.
On 20 October, the Commission opened a formal investigation to assess whether the public funding for a fibre access network in the Dutch town of Appingedam complied with the EU state aid rules[240].
On 16 March, the Commission issued its first decision regarding state support for digital broadcasting, concerning the Austrian Digitalisierungsfonds[241].
The Commission decided not to raise objections after the measure had been substantially modified by the Austrian authorities during the notification process.
The measure consisted of different sub-measures: financial support for pilot projects and research activities regarding digital TV transmission, financial incentives for consumers to purchase digital receivers, grants to companies to develop innovative digital services and subsidies to broadcasters to compensate for additional transmission costs when broadcasting analogue and digital TV in parallel (“simulcast phase”). 483.
On 9 November, the Commission issued a final negative decision concerning subsidies in favour of DVB-T in the German Land of Berlin-Brandenburg[242].
It decided that subsidies worth some EUR 4 million granted to commercial broadcasters for use of the DVB-T network were incompatible with the common market and it ordered recovery of the part of the aid which had already been paid to broadcasters (about half the total). 484.
Without notifying the Commission, the media authority of Berlin-Brandenburg (Mabb) gave the subsidy to commercial broadcasters, for example RTL and ProSiebenSat.1, to meet part of their transmission costs via the DVB-T network launched in November 2002.
In the decision, the Commission recognised that the digital switchover might be delayed if left entirely to market forces and that public intervention could be beneficial.
In the case of Berlin-Brandenburg none of these conditions were met.
The Commission recognised the existence of certain market failures, but found that the aid was neither the most appropriate instrument nor necessary to solve these problems.
On 21 December, the Commission opened a formal investigation into subsidies for digital decoders granted by Italy in 2004 and 2005.
Besides the issues of digital switchover and technological neutrality, the decision also discusses the aspects of applicability of the Article 87(2)(a) derogation to measures that do not have a social character and of qualification as state aid of advantages granted indirectly to undertakings.
The public broadcasters in France, Italy and Spain are granted the receipts from licence fees in order to finance their public service missions.
These licence fee mechanisms constitute existing aid because they were established before the EEC Treaty entered into force in the countries concerned and their essential features have remained unaltered since then. 490.
In the course of an existing aid procedure aimed at ensuring the ongoing compatibility of the licence fee schemes in force in these countries, the Commission formally recommended appropriate measures[243] which were accepted by the three countries.
These recommendations aimed at securing compliance with the following principles: public and private broadcasters must compete on equal terms in commercial markets such as TV advertising; and the financing of public broadcasters should not exceed the strict minimum necessary to ensure the proper execution of the public service mission, should not unduly benefit commercial activities (cross-subsidies) and should be transparent.
On 3 March, the Commission requested clarifications[244] from Germany, Ireland and the Netherlands about the role and financing of public service broadcasters.
These investigations reflect the Commission’s general approach to ensuring the transparency necessary to assess the proportionality of state funding and to prevent cross-subsidies for activities not related to public service functions as laid down in its 2001 Communication on applying state aid rules to public service broadcasting[245].
In line with the approach taken in past investigations into similar financing schemes in France, Italy, Spain and Portugal, the Commission has requested Germany, Ireland and the Netherlands to implement the very same principles: clear definition of the public service remit, separation of accounts distinguishing between public service and other activities and adequate mechanisms to prevent overcompensation of public service activities.
Member States also need to ensure that commercial activities by public broadcasters are in line with market principles.
The complaints in Germany and the Netherlands have also raised new issues, such as the financing of public broadcasters’ online activities.
It was therefore not possible to conclude that the budget forecast reflected the costs of a well-run and adequately equipped company. 497.
Banking Hessicher Investitionsfonds (Germany) [247] 498.
On 6 September, the Commission authorised the transfer of the Hessian Investment Fund (HIF), a special fund of the Land of Hessen, as unlimited silent partnership participation to Landesbank Hessen-Thüringen (Helaba), a German regional public bank.
On 6 September, the Commission authorised capital increases worth a total of some EUR 1.2 billion by their public shareholders for the German Landesbanks HSH Nordbank[248] (EUR 556 million) and BayernLB[249] (EUR 640 million).
The Commission came to the conclusion that the expected return on the investments was indeed in conformity with what a private investor would accept and that therefore the investments did not constitute state aid. 6.
In accordance with Section 2 of the Regional Aid Guidelines[250], in order to justify the compatibility of ad hoc regional aid with the internal market, the positive impact on development of the region in question must demonstrably outweigh the distortion of competition caused by the aid.
Regional development aid in favour of SABIC (Netherlands) [251] 501.
On 2 February, the Commission authorised EUR 4.2 million in investment aid to SABIC, a Saudi-based chemicals producer, to help it set up its European headquarters in the Netherlands.
Lignit Hodonín (Czech Republic) [252] 502.
On 20 July, the Commission authorised individual regional aid to Lignit Hodonín, the operator of a Czech lignite mine situated in an area assisted under Article 87(3)(a).
Due to specificities of lignite trading and a relatively low level of production by Lignit Hodonín, the distortive effects on competition and trade between Member States are in this particular case fairly limited.
Kronoply (Germany) [253] 503.
The Commission opened a formal investigation in 2004, expressing significant doubts about the lack of incentive and necessity because the plant had already been finished.
In the final decision adopted on 21 September, the Commission maintained its position that Kronoply’s production plant was a viable economic operation because Kronoply had continued its operations after the approval of the lower aid amount in 2001. 505.
E-Glass (Germany) [254] 506.
In December 2003 the German authorities notified, in accordance with the 1998 Multisectoral Framework, investment aid to E-Glass AG, Osterweddingen, Saxony-Anhalt (Germany) – an assisted area under Article 87(3)(a).
Since the new information could have had an influence on the maximum allowable aid intensity, it had to be considered a determining factor for the decision within the meaning of Article 9 of the Procedural Regulation[255].
Accordingly the Commission had to open the formal investigation procedure in order to determine whether it was necessary to revoke the earlier decision and to take a new, correct decision.
In April, the Commission took the decision to open the formal investigation procedure and expects to reach a final decision in the first half of 2006.
Glunz (Germany) [256] 508.
On 25 July 2001, the Commission adopted a decision not to raise objections to the granting of EUR 69.8 million in aid to Glunz AG and OSB Deutschland GmbH for the setting-up of a centre for wood processing which comprises two combined plants and which produces OSB (oriented strand board) and particle boards.
Real estate transfer tax exemption for housing companies in Berlin (Germany) [257] 510.
On 23 November, the Commission prohibited, under the state aid rules, the implementation of a proposed German aid scheme to exempt housing companies in the labour market region of Berlin from real estate transfer tax in case of mergers and acquisitions.
Modifications to the national regional state aid maps in Finland [258] and Greece [259] 513.
These modified regional state aid maps will remain in force until the end of 2006, when the national regional state aid maps for all Member States will be revised. 7.
The Portuguese Government awarded a EUR 45.2 million grant to BIAL in support of an R%amp%D project for the development of drugs in the central nervous system area.
The Commission also concluded that serious doubts existed as to the existence of further large non-notified individual aid awards.
These new doubts exceeded the scope of the proceedings as opened on 1 October 2003, not only because they concerned issues that were not raised within the scope of those proceedings, but also because they were not limited to the six cases. 521.
Taking all this into account, the Commission decided on 22 June to widen the scope of the Article 88(2) procedure to include doubts concerning the repayment modalities of the principal loan and on the possible existence of other large non-notified individual aid awards, and to extend the scope of these doubts to include the whole application of Law 808/85.
On 3 May, the Commission authorised an aid scheme in Germany amounting to approximately EUR 120 million per year for newly created or technology-oriented small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) using the services of technology centres, incubators and industrial centres.
In its decision to initiate the formal investigation procedure on 18 February 2004, the Commission expressed doubts as to whether the measure was compatible with the common market, as Germany had not provided sufficient information as to whether state aid was involved at all levels of the scheme, particularly at the level of the owners of the centres and the SMEs using the services of the centres, or whether all aid was passed through to the said SMEs.
As Germany committed itself to respecting all the requirements of Commission Regulations on de minimis aid[265] and aid to SMEs[266], the Commission considered that the aid did not threaten to distort competition in the single market and was therefore compatible with Article 87 EC.
The approved measure was based on Part II, point 7 of the Framework Plan for the joint Federal Government/ Länder programme for improving regional economic structures and runs until 31 December 2006.
Investbx (United Kingdom) [267] 524.
On 20 October, the Commission opened a formal investigation pursuant to Article 88(2) into a proposal by the United Kingdom to spend GBP 3.8 million (approximately EUR 4.38 million) to set up “Investbx”, a market for equity investments in SMEs in the West Midlands.
Funding of GBP 3.8 million would be provided by Advantage West Midlands (AWM), the regional development authority of the West Midlands region.
After five years, AWM would either sell its shares in Investbx or close it down. 525.
The Commission, in its decision to open the formal investigation procedure, considered that the measure constituted state aid to Investbx within the meaning of Article 87(1), but that neither the investors nor the SMEs using Investbx’s services prima facie seemed to be aid recipients.
As to the compatibility of the project, the Commission expressed doubts concerning the compliance with Article 87(3)(c), particularly in light of the complaint received, and announced that it would assess in more detail whether the measure addresses a well-defined market failure, whether the aid instrument targets the identified market failure and whether the distortions of competition and the effect on trade are limited to ensuring that the aid measure is not, on balance, against the common European interest.
Licensed enterprise capital funds (ECFs) will combine private and public money and use these funds to supply equity finance to SMEs.
In May 2004, the Commission opened a formal investigation under Article 88(2) in order to give interested third parties the opportunity to comment on the actual size of the equity gap.
This trend was not only evidenced by private venture capital funds active in the same market, but also by academic studies and by other Member States.
As all other conditions of the Communication on state aid and risk capital were fulfilled, the Commission therefore closed the formal investigation procedure with a positive final decision and concluded that enterprise capital funds are compatible with the common market pursuant to Article 87(3)(c).
The scheme provides for the option of making first-stage initial investments up to EUR 217 000 without private involvement, but on a strictly profit-driven basis.
In its assessment, the Commission concluded that the measure contributes to overcoming a specific equity gap for SMEs in their seed and other early stages.
The potential adverse effects on trade and competition are very limited and are proportionate and necessary to achieve the objectives of the scheme.
As the measure fulfils all other conditions of the Commission Communication on state aid and risk capital, the Commission concluded that the scheme was compatible with Article 87(3)(c). 8.
On 20 October, the Commission approved a EUR 58.8 million scheme, notified by the United Kingdom, for wave and tidal stream demonstration energy plants.
The operating aid complies with the rules in the Guidelines on aid for environmental protection[272].
While the investment aid intensity did not, strictly speaking, comply with the relevant rule in the Environmental Guidelines, the Commission took into account that, if investment aid were granted in the form of additional operating aid, this would comply with the rules.
From an economic point of view, the measure provides a minimum incentive without overcompensating developers of plants and the split between investment and operating aid causes no undue distortion to the electricity market.
Moreover, the results of the programme will be widely disseminated.
On 22 June, the Commission authorised EUR 47.3 million in operating aid to AVR (Rotterdam) of the Netherlands for hazardous waste disposal over the period 2002-2005.
The aid of EUR 13.5 million for Solvay Rosignano, to promote a EUR 48 million investment, about EUR 5 million for Altair Chimica, which planned a EUR 13.5 million investment, and EUR 5.7 million for Tessenderlo, which invested EUR 19 million, represented in each case 30% of the eligible investment cost, plus an additional 10% of the eligible cost in the case of Altair as it is a medium-sized enterprise.
Volvo (Sweden) [275] 538.
Upon building a new coating and painting plant, Volvo had made an additional investment of SEK 245 million (EUR 26 million) in order to improve on EU standards regarding noise and volatile organic compounds emissions.
The Commission found that aid amounting to 35% of this additional environmental investment was compatible with the common market since it represented an incentive for the company to minimise pollution and contributed to the Community objective of sustainable production.
According to the rules on operating aid in the Community Guidelines on aid for environmental protection, a partial exemption from such excise duty can be allowed, but where the reduction concerns a Community tax the beneficiaries should pay at least the harmonised Community minimum in order to provide them with an incentive to improve environmental protection.
Thus, as regards the period up to 31 December 2003, the Commission found that exemption up to the level of EUR 13 per 1 000 kg[277] was incompatible with the common market.
Since Council Directive 2003/96/EC[278] became applicable on 1 January 2004, there is no longer a minimum level of excise duty on energy products used for electrolytic and metallurgical processes, including alumina production.
In this situation, according to the same rules on aid for environmental protection, the beneficiaries should pay at least a significant proportion of the national tax.
The Commission doubted, therefore, whether the total exemptions were fully compatible with the common market and extended the investigation in this respect for the period starting January 2004.
CO2 tax reductions (Slovenia) [279] 541.
On 23 November, the Commission closed the investigation procedure and approved under the state aid rules a Slovenian scheme granting reductions in carbon dioxide taxation to operators of combined heat and power (CHP) installations, non-energy-intensive companies that participate in the EU emissions trading scheme, and companies that enter into voluntary environmental agreements. 542.
The measure allows beneficiaries to adapt more easily to national environmental taxation, with a decreasing rate of tax reduction each year.
The scheme ends in 2009 and no reductions will apply as of 2010. 543.
Since the introduction of these exemption Regulations, the number of notified cases falling under one of these three objectives has fallen significantly.
Occasionally however, a notified aid measure or an unlawful aid measure may require a more in-depth investigation by the Commission.
Reform of the Italian vocational training system (Italy) [293] 546.
Following a complaint in 2002 alleging that unlawful aid was being granted by the Region of Piedmont to entities in charge of training activities, it emerged that the scheme applied to the whole vocational training system in Italy, as its main legal basis was a national law.
The aim of the measure was to help recipients attain certain quality requirements associated with the ongoing reform of the Italian training system.
Accordingly, the Commission concluded, in its final decision adopted on 28 February, that a large part of the activities concerned were not of an economic nature and therefore compensations related to these activities were deemed not to constitute state aid.
The Commission concluded that a part of the aid was compatible under the block exemption Regulations on aid to training and to employment but considered the remainder to be incompatible and ordered its recovery from the recipients.
Ford Genk (Belgium) [294] 549.
On 22 June, the Belgian authorities notified a proposal for training aid to Ford-Werke GmbH - part of the Ford Motor Company - in Genk, Belgium.
It concerns ad hoc aid from the Flemish Community amounting to EUR 12.28 million, for eligible costs covering a period of three years (2004 to 2006).
The Commission opened a formal investigation procedure in view of the serious doubts that the envisaged aid fulfils the conditions of the training aid Regulation.
On 7 December, the Commission authorised fiscal incentives for companies adopted by Italy in the Competitiveness Decree-law (14.03.2005 No 80).
The budgetary cost (revenue foregone) amounts to around EUR 846 million. 551.
Therefore, in its assessment, the Commission concluded that, to the extent that Italy is entitled to apply IRAP, the measure meets all the conditions laid down in Regulation (EC) No 2204/02 on the application of state aid rules for employment and considered the measure to be compatible with the state aid rules because it encourages the creation of jobs particularly in assisted areas (the Mezzogiorno) where unemployment is still high compared with other parts of Italy. 10.
On 19 January, the Commission proposed appropriate measures for the United Kingdom to phase out the Gibraltar exempt companies legislation.
Once these appropriate measures were formally accepted by the UK on 18 February, they became legally binding.
Under this scheme an “exempt company” did not pay any income tax on its profits, but was subject only to a fixed annual tax of between GBP 225 and GBP 300 (approximately EUR 350-EUR 500).
No Gibraltarian or Gibraltar resident could have a beneficial interest in the shares of an exempt company and it could not conduct any trade or business in Gibraltar. 555.
As the scheme predated the accession of the United Kingdom to the EU it was considered to be existing aid, for which the Commission has to follow a cooperation procedure with the Member State and cannot order recovery. 556.
This was the first time that the Commission imposed such limits in a state aid case.
Moreover, new entrants’ benefits will end in December 2007, instead of December 2010 for existing beneficiaries.
The five-year transition period for existing beneficiaries of existing fiscal aid reflects the Commission’s decisional practice in similar cases[297].
Tax exempt reserve fund in Greece [298] 557.
On 20 October, the Commission opened a formal investigation procedure and in the same decision adopted for the first time a suspension injunction on a tax exempt reserve fund scheme in Greece.
This measure constitutes state aid as it partially relieves companies in the specified sectors that are involved in active cross-border trade from corporate taxation.
Moreover, the Commission concluded on a preliminary basis that the scheme does not fulfil the compatibility conditions set out in the appropriate state aid rules. 559.
Being part of the Greek tax system it was directly applicable; therefore, thousands of companies could claim the benefit directly from the tax authorities.
In order to stop its application immediately and to prevent an increase in the distortion of competition, the Commission ordered Greece to suspend immediately the granting of state aid until a final decision was taken.
Tax breaks for investment vehicles specialized in small capitalization companies (Italy) [299] 560.
On 6 September, the Commission took a negative decision ordering recovery in respect of an Italian tax scheme reducing the substitute tax on capital earnings accruing to open-ended collective investment vehicles specialised in holding stocks of small and medium-sized capitalised companies listed on EU regulated stock exchanges (“small caps”) from 12.5 to 5%.
The small caps in question were companies listed on regulated stock exchanges in the EU, having a capitalisation below EUR 800 million. 561.
The Commission also concluded that the aid was incompatible with the common market on the grounds that it was not aimed at achieving either development objectives or job creation.
The aid was enacted without prior Commission approval and the Commission ordered the recovery of the tax breaks received by the financial intermediaries.
On 16 March, the Commission decided that an Italian scheme reducing the nominal and effective tax rates of companies listing on a regulated EU stock exchange in 2004 constituted aid incompatible with the common market.
The decision is interesting in that it clarifies the concept of selectivity of business tax measures.
The Commission decided that, although formally available to all undertakings listing on an EU stock exchange, the incentives had to be viewed as state aid because they were granted only to companies that could list within the narrow timeframe permitted by the Italian legislation.
The Commission found that the incentives resulted in partial exemption of the revenues earned by beneficiaries in the three-year period following listing - a tax incentive disproportionate to the aim of encouraging new listings.
The Commission finally considered that, since the aid was not paid in relation to investments eligible to receive assistance under the state aid rules, it was incompatible with the single market.
As the aid was enacted without prior approval from the Commission, the final decision orders recovery of the tax breaks granted.
On 20 October, the Commission proposed appropriate measures regarding Luxembourg’s legislation on “Exempt 1929 Holdings”.
The review took place under the cooperation procedure applicable to measures in force before the EEC Treaty came into effect. 565.
It considered that the tax breaks were operating aid, as they relieved beneficiaries of charges typically imposed on undertakings in Luxembourg without contributing to economic development or job creation.
The modifications were introduced by Italy by Law No 62 of 18 April, which allowed the Commission to decide on 22 June[302] that the amended measures no longer constituted state aid.
On 2 March, the Commission adopted measures calling on France to abolish, by 1 January 2006, the exemption from tax on insurance contracts enjoyed by mutual and provident societies in the case of non-health insurance risks. 568.
The Commission considered that this exemption constituted state aid in that it conferred an advantage on mutual and provident societies not enjoyed by other French and foreign insurance companies with which they were in competition. 569.
The Commission’s recommendation and its implementation by France is a follow-up to the action taken on 13 November 2001[304], when the Commission called on France to put an end to the exemption of mutual and provident societies from the tax on insurance contracts in the case of health insurance risks.
The latter exemption was considered by the Commission to be compatible with the rules on state aid on 2 June 2004[305].
On 1 June, the Commission approved a new French scheme of tax breaks for takeovers of ailing industrial firms.
In some provinces local authorities measured water levels not experienced in the past for up to 300 years which caused considerable damage to public infrastructure, households and enterprises located in the affected areas.
In all cases the concept of damage was based on refinancing costs and/or replacement value.
On 3 May, the Commission authorised EUR 15 billion of public funding for a fundamental reform of the health insurance system in the Netherlands.
The new Health Insurance Act will create a single market for private health insurance in the Netherlands.
The Commission found this measure to be necessary and proportional and thus concluded that the measure was compatible with the common market under Article 87(3)(c).
Creation of Banque Postale (France) [313] 578.
Following notification by the French authorities, the Commission examined several measures forming part of the hiving-off of the financial business of the Post Office, La Poste (LP), to its subsidiary, Banque Postale (BP). 579.
The Commission checked that the own funds transferred to BP, in line with the accounting standards applicable to operations of this nature, corresponded to the own funds currently assigned to the financial services of LP.
In the absence of additional capital from LP, the Commission took the view that, taking into account the situation at the time of transfer of the business, this measure did not constitute state aid.
The Commission also verified on the basis of relevant case law[314] that BP will not receive any economic advantage through the remuneration paid to LP for the provision of services.
On 21 December, the Commission approved the hiving-off of the financial activities of LP because it would not confer any economic advantage on BP.
Hellenic Vehicle Industry SA – ELVO 582.
On 7 December, the Commission initiated a formal investigation procedure in the case of non-notified aid in favour of Hellenic Vehicle Industry SA – ELVO[315], a Greek producer of civilian and military motor vehicles and the main supplier to the Greek Army.
In 1999, the Greek Government approved the write-off of the company’s debts toward the public sector incurred in 1989-1999.
According to Greece, the aid amounts to EUR 3.5 million, benefited only the military production of ELVO and, therefore, would be covered by Article 296 EC, which allows derogation from the general prohibition of state aid for reasons directly linked to essential interests of national security.
On the basis of the information available, the Commission considers, however, that only part of the aid was in favour of military production and falls within the scope of Article 296 EC.
On 19 January, the Commission decided not to raise objections to Denmark’s proposed new tax on phosphorous in feed, which aims at reducing the use of phosphorous in agriculture[316].
The average amount of the tax reduction per farmer is also very low (approximately DKK 700 (EUR 95) per year).
On 16 March, the Commission approved a new state aid measure[317] that would be combined with existing support for less-favoured areas cofinanced by the Community within the framework of the Finnish rural development programme.
The aid consists of a basic payment of EUR 20 per hectare in support areas A, B and C1 and EUR 25 per hectare in support areas C2-C4.
On 5 July, the Commission approved state aid of approximately EUR 325 million granted within the framework of the public service system for rendering ( service public d'équarrissage ) for the storage and destruction of meat meals and for the transport and destruction of fallen stock and animal waste in 2003[320].
At the same time the Commission decided to open the formal investigation procedure provided for in Article 88(2) concerning aid granted to certain meat traders, consisting of an exemption from the rendering tax in 2003.
This exemption was applicable to companies whose turnover was less than EUR 762 245 in the previous calendar year.
This exemption does not seem justified by the nature of the tax system and could therefore constitute state aid.
On 20 July, the Commission opened a formal investigation into potentially illegal state aid granted by France between 1991 and 2002 in the fruit and vegetable sector[322].
The Commission doubts that such measures may be considered compatible with the competition rules, as they would seem to interfere with the proper functioning of the common market organisation for fruit and vegetables.
A final decision is expected in 2006.
On 6 September, the Commission decided not to raise objections to state aid of approximately EUR 1.41 million granted via subsidised loans to producer groups to accompany restructuring measures in the banana sector[323].
The Commission authorised this support as operating aid, using the special legal basis for those regions in which the aid was granted, which allows operating aid to be granted to compensate for the combination of handicaps which seriously hinder economic development in ultra-peripheral regions.
On 6 September, the Commission approved for the first time state aid towards the cost of insurance premiums for the damage incurred by stock breeders as a result of attacks by predators such as wolves or bears[324].
In addition, the Commission concluded that state aid consisting in the financing of prevention and protection investments such as the construction/restructuring of cattle sheds, systems of photographic alert and the construction of animal enclosures are compatible with the Guidelines for state aid in the agricultural sector.
The aid was approved in order to combine the safeguarding of protected species with the reduction of the risk of loss to stockbreeders.
On 7 June, the Commission adopted a decision not to raise objections to a new framework law for state aid of approximately EUR 100 million per year towards the compensation of farmers for various losses due to bad weather[325].
The new law will establish a coherent legal basis for future bad weather compensation financed by central government.
The Italian Government foresees spending approximately EUR 100 million a year on direct compensation, and another EUR 100 million as a subsidy to insurance contracts.
Holland Malt (Netherlands) [326] 592.
On 3 May, the Commission decided to open a formal investigation into the planned subsidising in the Dutch malt sector of an investment project by Holland Malt BV (a collaborative venture between Bavaria NV and Agrifirm, a cereal farmers cooperative) relating to the establishment of a production plant.
On 20 July, the Commission authorised an aid scheme to grant the agriculture sector a tax rebate of EUR 687 million over a period of 10 years[327].
The United Kingdom ensures strict monitoring of the commitments. 597.
When assessing multisectoral state aid in the context of energy taxes, the Commission accepted equal treatment for agriculture with other sectors subject to the Guidelines on state aid for environmental purposes.
The legal basis for this was point 5.5.4 of the Guidelines for state aid in the agricultural sector. 14.
The investigation led to the conclusion that the funds used for the investment were derived from two trusts managed by the Shetland Islands Council and had to be considered state aid.
In June, it approved the restructuring plans for the coal sectors in Germany, Hungary and Poland. 604.
In January, the Commission approved the annual aid payments for Germany for the year 2005.
Finally, the Commission authorized closure aid for mines in the Czech Republic, annual aid for 2005 for mines in Slovakia and annual aid for the years 2004 to 2006 for Hungary. 16.
Transport[331] 16.1.
On 3 May, the Commission authorized the Czech Republic[332] to grant aid to facilitate the purchase of new railway rolling stock.
The Czech authorities will guarantee a loan amounting to EUR 45 million offered by the financing company EUROFIMA to Czech Railways.
On 7 June, the Commission approved a measure in the Netherlands[333] to grant aid to promote the installation of the European Train Control system (ETCS), a new signalling and speed-control system, on freight trains on the new railway freight line called the Betuwe Route.
The Commission considered that the plan is compatible with EU legislation as the aid is limited to the minimum necessary and is accompanied by compensatory measures such as the reduction of capacity and the anticipated opening of the French railway freight market. 16.2.
Combined transport 608.
On 16 March, the Commission approved a Belgian aid scheme[335] aimed at granting subsidies for the acquisition of combined transport equipment in the Walloon region.
In addition, a German scheme[337] designed to encourage the creation of new combined transport services and the acquisition of dedicated equipment was authorised by the Commission on 16 March. 610.
On 20 April, the Commission approved an Italian aid scheme[338] aimed at encouraging the transfer of heavy goods vehicles from road to sea.
The scheme will be in force for three years and its budget will amount to EUR 240 million.
Road transport 611.
The Commission decided on 7 December to approve the financial part of the restructuring plan for the ABX Logistics[339] group, worth EUR 176 million.
The decision was based on a restructuring plan which significantly reduced the capacity of the ABX Worldwide group, including its branches ABX Germany and ABX Netherlands, restored the viability of the whole of the group and transferred all of its capital to a private investor who must act within 12 months of the decision.
As for the domestic activities of ABX France, these were privatised in 2005. 612.
This is why the Commission made the acceptance of the restructuring aid conditional on selling the ABX group to a private investor who, in addition to the market price, should also make a substantial financial contribution to the ABX group. 16.4.
Air transport Alitalia (Italy) 613.
The Commission decided on 7 June that the recapitalisations of Alitalia and its services subsidiary do not involve any state aid, provided that the conditions laid down to ensure that the State behaves like a prudent investor are strictly complied with.
On the other hand, the proposed investment of EUR 216 million by the public holding company Fintecna in the ground activities of AZ Services must comply with market conditions.
Ryanair (Belgium) 616.
In its decision of 12 February 2004 concerning advantages granted by the Walloon Region and the publicly owned Brussels South Charleroi Airport (BSCA) to the airline Ryanair in connection with its establishment at Charleroi, the Commission concluded that certain types of aid which permit genuine development of new routes under clearly defined conditions could be authorised by the Commission.
Olympic Airways (Greece) 619.
In September, the Commission also concluded its investigation into allegations surrounding the granting by Greece of illegal and incompatible aid to Olympic Airways.
The Commission concluded that since 11 December 2002 (the date of its previous decision concerning the Greek flag carrier) Olympic Airways and Olympic Airlines had continued to receive unlawful state aid.
In opening the investigation procedure the Commission had expressed doubts about the continuing non-payment by Olympic Airways of tax and social security liabilities, as well as about the way in which Olympic Airlines was established in late 2003. 621.
On 19 January, the Commission decided that a German aid scheme[342] for the construction and development of regional airports in structurally weak regions is compatible with EU state aid rules.
On 20 April, the Commission considered, in particular, that the amount of public contributions and the choice of a commercial partner were finally determined by means of an open and non-discriminatory public tendering procedure, which respected the principle of equal treatment between competitors and ensured that the level of public participation is limited to the minimum necessary.
C – Enforcement of state aid decisions 1.
The number of recovery decisions still awaiting execution fell from 94 on 31 December 2004 to 75 on 31 December 2005.
The geographical distribution of pending recovery cases remains relatively stable: Germany still accounts for the largest number of pending recovery cases (35%).
Almost two thirds of the pending recovery cases concern individual aid measures, while the remainder concern aid schemes. 627.
In the course of 2005, the Commission ensured a close and consistent administrative follow-up of all pending recovery decisions to ensure their effective implementation.
Where the Commission considered that a particular Member State had not taken all the measures available in its respective legal system to implement the decision, it commenced legal action under either Article 88(2) or Article 228(2).
Individual cases Municipalizzate (Italy) [345] 629.
On 19 January[346], the Commission decided to refer Italy to the European Court of Justice (ECJ) for failure to comply with a decision of 5 June 2002.
The decision provided that aid granted by Italy to public service companies was incompatible and had to be recovered from the recipients.
Two years after the adoption of the decision, the Commission concluded that Italy had not taken any effective measures under national law to obtain immediate recovery of the aid.
Thüringen Porzellan GmbH, Kahla (Germany) [347] 630.
On 16 February, the Commission found that Germany had not fully complied with the recovery decision of 30 October 2002 regarding aid granted to German porcelain manufacturer Kahla Porzellan GmbH and its successor company Kahla/Thüringen Porzellan GmbH.
On 6 April, the Commission decided to refer Italy to the ECJ for failure to comply with a recovery decision of 30 March 2004.
On 20 December, the Commission decided to refer Spain to the Court of Justice for failure to comply with three recovery decisions concerning a Basque fiscal scheme.
These recovery decisions found that the Basque fiscal scheme providing a ten-year corporate tax exemption for newly created firms was contrary to the state aid rules.
Four years after the adoption of the three decisions, there is still no indication that Spain has taken any concrete measures to put an end to the scheme in question or to recover the illegal and incompatible aid already granted.
Application of the Deggendorf case law – Aid to ACEA Electrabel (Italy) [350] 633.
In 2003, the Commission opened an Article 88(2) procedure in respect of a district heating project in a neighbourhood of Rome, pursuant to the Deggendorf case law, because the recipient of the aid was ACEA, a company controlled by the municipality of Rome[351].
In the meantime, ACEA had organised and created a joint venture with the Belgian company Electrabel, called AceaElectrabel.
A subsidiary of the joint venture, AceaElectrabel Produzione, jointly controlled by Acea and Electrabel, became the aid recipient. 634.
On 16 March, the Commission decided to close the procedure with a decision confirming that the measure constitutes compatible aid, and that the recipient remains the same as in the “ municipalizzate ” case, even if there is a partial change in the recipient’s identity.
D – Selected Court cases Streekgewest Westelijk Noord-Brabant [352] 636.
Streekgewest Westelijk Noord-Brabant, a body responsible for collecting waste, had to pay a tax each time waste was delivered to a processing facility.
However, after an investigation of these measures, the Commission concluded that no aid elements were incompatible with the common market. 637.
In its judgment of 13 January on the preliminary questions put by the national court seized of the matter, the European Court of Justice (ECJ) held that taxes did not fall within the scope of the state aid provisions unless they constituted the method of financing an aid measure, so that they formed an integral part of that measure.
If this is the case, the revenue from the tax has a direct impact on the amount of the aid and, consequently, on the compatibility of the aid measure.
Individuals can rely on the direct effect of this article before national courts not only if they are affected by the distortion of competition, but also simply to obtain a refund of a tax levied in breach of that provision, provided of course that the individual was subject to a tax implemented in breach of the Treaty.
As in Streekgewest , the Netherlands had started granting the aid before the Commission gave its approval.
The ECJ ruled on 13 January that there was not a sufficient link between the tax and the aid measure, since under Dutch law the competent authorities could exercise discretion in allocating the revenue from the tax for various purposes.
Confédération nationale du Crédit Mutuel v Commission [354] 640.
In its judgment of 13 January, the Court of First Instance (CFI) annulled the Commission decision of 15 January 2002 declaring aid granted by France to Crédit Mutuel to be incompatible with the common market.
The CFI annulled the Commission decision for lack of a sufficient statement of reasons, pursuant to Article 253 EC. 642.
Secondly, as the operative part of the decision and the statement of reasons constitute an indivisible whole, the CFI looked at the other parts of the decision, and in particular at the analysis of the conditions of Article 87(1).
In this case, Belgium was seeking the annulment of Commission Regulation (EC) No 2204/2002 concerning the application of Articles 87 and 88 EC to state aid for employment.
The ECJ in its judgment of 14 April rejected the appeal by Belgium, upheld the Commission Regulation and made the following statements concerning the respective powers of the Commission and the Council in the field of state aid. 645.
The ECJ stated that the Commission did not exceed its powers by defining compatibility criteria for state aid.
The Commission did not have to confine itself to simple codification of its previous practice, but was allowed to use its experience to lay down new compatibility criteria, including even stricter criteria than the existing ones.
The CFI judgment of 14 April clarified the conditions for the admissibility of an action brought before the European Courts by the competitor of a recipient of aid.
In the case in question the applicant, Sniace, a Spanish company producing artificial and synthetic fibres, challenged a Commission decision allowing Austria to grant aid to the company Lenzing Lyocell GmbH %amp% Co.
By its judgment of 10 May in this case, the ECJ partly annulled the Commission decision of 6 August 1999 initiating proceedings concerning state aid granted to undertakings in the Tirrenia di Navigazione group.
The ECJ therefore concluded that the Commission decision should be partly annulled to the extent to which it entailed suspension of this specific aid measure. 652.
Second, on the alleged misuse of powers by the Commission, the ECJ indicated that a misuse of powers could only be established if there were clear doubts that the measures constituted existing aid or measures not incorporating any element of aid.
Finally, the ECJ examined whether the Commission was right in qualifying the measures as new aid in the opening decision.
The ECJ first stated that it was the responsibility of the Member State, which considered that the aid in question was existing aid, to provide the Commission at the earliest possible stage with the information on which that position was based, as soon as the Commission drew its attention to the measures concerned.
On 11 December 2002, the Commission took a decision declaring restructuring aid to Olympic Airways to be illegal and incompatible.
Some preliminary measures were taken by Greece to recover the aid.
However, after the recovery decision had been taken, Greece transferred the personnel and the most profitable assets of Olympic Airways, free of all debt and for no consideration, to a newly created company called Olympic Airlines and made it impossible to recover the former company’s debts from the new firm.
The ECJ ruled on 12 May that the transfer of the assets of the aid recipient was structured in such a way as to make it impossible to recover the recipient's debts.
Second, the CFI stated that the extension of a recovery order to an undertaking other than the original one would be possible in the case of an established circumvention of the recovery order.
Even if it is true that the assets were used by the successor company to continue the activity of the original recipient, and even if the aim of this transfer was to save part of the assets from legal and economic uncertainties, this was not sufficient to demonstrate that there was an intention to circumvent the recovery order of the Commission.
aid to traders and craftsmen who are over the age of 60 and permanently cease their activity.
Since the TACA was established, the revenue generated had increased considerably and this revenue surplus was then allocated to basic old-age insurance schemes for self-employed persons in the crafts sector or in manufacturing and trading occupations, as well as to the FISAC[362] and the CPDC[363].
In its judgment of 27 October, the ECJ first examined the exemption from the TACA enjoyed by small retail outlets.
In the event of such hypothecation, the revenue from the tax has a direct impact on the amount of the aid and, consequently, on the assessment of the compatibility of that aid with the common market. 666.
E – Statistics [pic] [pic] [pic] IV – International activities A – Enlargement and Western Balkans 668.
On 3 October, the EU opened accession negotiations with Turkey and Croatia.
The candidate countries are expected to establish a legislative framework for antitrust policy, merger control and state aid control, set up competition and state aid authorities, and ensure effective enforcement of these rules by the time of a possible accession. 669.
This mechanism provides that any aid measure applicable after accession which is considered to be state aid within the meaning of the Treaty and is not included in the existing aid list is deemed to constitute new aid upon accession. 671.
On 25 October, the Commission adopted a report on Romania’s progress in the area of competition policy[364], finding that Romania had made considerable progress in the enforcement of competition rules, notably in the area of state aid control. 672.
The Competition DG has been active in assisting in the development of sound competition regimes in all Western Balkan countries.
B – Bilateral cooperation 1.
The Competition DG cooperates with numerous competition authorities on a bilateral basis and in particular with the authorities of the EU’s major trading partners.
Cooperation with the US competition authorities is based on dedicated competition cooperation agreements[365]. 677.
The new cooperation framework between the Commission and the US Department of Transportation on competition law and policy in the field of air transport will facilitate the joint assessment of alliances between EU and US carriers and promotes the emergence of compatible regulatory results.
Cooperation in merger control with the US antitrust agencies continued at a high level of intensity during 2005.
The 2002 EU-US best practices on cooperation in reviewing mergers provide a useful framework for cooperation, in particular by indicating critical points in the procedure where cooperation could be particularly useful.
In Procter %amp% Gamble/Gillette there was again close cooperation with the FTC as regards product market, assessment of possible anticompetitive effects and remedies as well as to keep the procedures aligned to the extent possible given the different timing of the procedures.
Therefore, bilateral cooperation between the Commission and the US DoJ was particularly intense in cartel cases: numerous contacts took place between officials of the Competition DG’s cartel units and their counterparts at the DoJ on several current investigations.
In the declaration to the EU-US summit of 20 June “The European Union and the United States Initiative to Enhance Transatlantic Economic Integration and Growth”, both sides agreed to enhance cooperation in competition matters further and to explore ways of exchanging certain confidential information, including with respect to international cartels. 684.
Commissioner Neelie Kroes met the heads of the US antitrust agencies on several occasions.
There were 82 formal notifications made by the Commission during the year.
The Commission received 27 formal notifications from the US authorities during the same period.
Cooperation with the Canadian Competition Bureau is based on the EU/Canada Competition Cooperation Agreement signed in 1999[368].
Discussions have concerned both case-related issues and more general policy issues.
The Competition DG and the Canadian Competition Bureau also continued to maintain an ongoing dialogue on general competition issues.
The Commission received one formal notification from the Canadian authorities during the same period.
Cooperation with the Japan Fair Trade Commission (JFTC) is based on the 2003 Cooperation Agreement[369].
Contacts concerned both case-related issues and more general policy issues. 691.
A further meeting between the Competition DG and the JFTC took place on 11 November in Tokyo where a whole range of issues was discussed. 692.
The Commission received one formal notification from the Japanese authorities during the year. 3.
These contacts concerned both case-related and more competition policy-related issues.
During 2005, contacts with Chinese authorities on competition policy matters increased considerably and dealt with both general policy issues and questions concerning the establishment of a competition authority. 695.
During the course of the year, the Competition DG took various actions to help China in its process of developing its first comprehensive competition law and a competition authority.
The Competition DG has also financed and supervised a study that responds to a number of questions from the Chinese authorities relating to the EU approach and experience in developing an effective legislative and enforcement framework for competition policy.
In May the provisions adapting Protocols 21 and 23 of the EEA Agreement to the changes introduced by Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 entered into force.
Protocol 23 deals with cooperation between the ESA and the Commission in the application of Articles 53 and 54 of the EEA Agreement.
Based on this clause the EFTA States requested that the mechanisms for the enforcement of Articles 53 and 54 of the Agreement be reviewed.
Cooperation between the Competition DG and the Korean Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) is based on a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) which was signed in October 2004.
In June the first bilateral consultation meeting between the Competition DG and the KFTC under the MoU took place in Brussels with the participation of Commissioner Neelie Kroes and Director-General Philip Lowe on behalf of the European Commission and Chairman Kang on behalf of the KFTC.
During 2005, the Competition DG engaged in cooperation with the competition authorities of Mexico and Brazil concerning case-related and competition policy-related issues (for example on joint and collective market power, telecommunications issues, etc.).
The Commission received five formal notifications from the Mexican authorities.
C – Multilateral cooperation 1.
INTERNATIONAL COMPETITION NETWORK International Competition Network annual conference, Bonn, June 2005 700.
The ICN, to which the Commission attaches considerable importance as a forum for discussion and coordination between competition agencies, continued to grow in membership in 2005, with over 90 agencies as members.
The ICN cartels working group, launched in 2004, which is co-chaired by the Competition DG and the Hungarian competition agency (GVH), completed a number of significant projects in 2005, and undertook several others.
For the 2005/2006 ICN year, the cartels working group has undertaken new work projects on: electronic evidence gathering (on which a chapter for the aforementioned manual will be prepared), cooperation between agencies in cartel investigations (the Competition DG is in the lead on this project), interaction of public and private enforcement, and obstruction of investigations.
The results of these projects will be presented at the next ICN annual conference in Cape Town in May 2006, together with the template for information on cartel laws and regulations, filled in by ICN member agencies. 703.
The Competition DG continued to be actively involved in the work of this sub-group during the course of 2005.
The subgroup also finalised work on a couple of other projects: the development of a model form or forms for use by merging parties and competition agencies governing waivers of confidentiality protection for materials submitted in connection with merger review; and the preparation of a study on filing fees in merger control.
This review follows the 2003 OECD review of economic policies in the euro zone.
In addition to the peer review, the Competition DG continued to participate in and contribute to the work of the OECD Competition Committee.
Commissioner Neelie Kroes gave the keynote speech entitled “Regulating for Competition and Growth” at the OECD Global Forum on Competition in February.
In 2005, OECD Competition Committee meetings were held in February, June and October.
The discussion showed that there are considerable differences in the rail industries across OECD countries and that the nature, scope and role for competition also vary from country to country as will the appropriate structure which most facilitates competition.
The second Competition Committee meeting held roundtables on competition on merits and on the evaluation of actions and resources of competition authorities.
The roundtable on competition on merits showed that there are wide differences among countries on how this issue should be approached: some countries have a more form-based approach while other countries have an economics-based approach or are in a transition towards an economics-based approach.
The discussion showed that calculations of damages find their use mostly in private enforcement.
The first roundtable showed that OECD member countries have clearly been moving from an analysis that focused on evaluating whether certain factors would form barriers to entry, towards analysing the competition process and the impact of barriers to entry in such process.
The Committee working parties discussed competition in the provision of hospital services and held a full day meeting with the participation of public prosecutors on cooperation between competition authorities and public prosecutors in cartel investigations. 719.
Some OECD countries had very good experiences with the introduction of regulation that promotes competition among public hospitals. 720.
The Competition DG also submitted its 2004 Report on competition policy to the Competition Committee.
Cartels can also significantly increase the input costs for European businesses.
The Competition DG’s other priority in 2006 will be the completion and effective follow-up of the sector inquiries launched by the Commission in 2005, into the gas and electricity markets, on the one hand, and into the retail banking and insurance sectors, on the other.
Improving coordination within the European Competition Network (ECN) and ensuring effective interface with national competition authorities will therefore continue to be a major priority of the Competition DG’s work in 2006-2007. 729.
Finally, the Competition DG will continue its efforts to increase predictability and transparency in the application of competition rules through policy instruments and intensified communication vis-à-vis the public, the business community and the other institutions, in particular in the field of abuse of dominance. 2.
The Competition DG will continue to apply a more integrated approach in the assessment of cases as well as in the scrutiny of major proposals. 733.
It will also continue to encourage national courts to play a more active role in the enforcement of state aid rules at national level. 734.
The Competition DG’s work with the candidate countries and the other Western Balkan countries will continue in 2006. 736.
Within the framework of the neighbourhood policy, negotiations on the action plans which remain to be agreed (Egypt, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Lebanon) should be completed in 2006. 737.
The International Competition Network annual conference will be held in Cape Town on 3 to 5 May.
Within the framework of the formal EU–China bilateral competition dialogue, the Commission will continue to assist China in drafting its competition law.
Merger control Case | Publication | Point | AMI/Eurotecnica | 378 | Bertelsmann/Springer | 295 | Blackstone/Acetex | 301 | Blackstone/NHP | 342 | Commission v Tetra Laval | 381 | E.on/Mol | 319 | Energias de Portugal (EDP) v Commission | 388 | FIMAG/Züblin | 360 | Honeywell v Commission and General Electric v Commission | 398 | Honeywell/Novar | 340 | IESY Repository/Ish | 347 | Johnson %amp% Johnson/Guidant | 313, 680 | Lufthansa/Swiss | 332 | Maersk/PONL | 331 | MAG/Ferrovial Aeropuertos/Exeter Airport | 355 | Microsoft/TimeWarner/ContentGuard JV | 370 | Reuters/Telerate | 328, 680 | Siemens/VA Tech | 306 | Strabag/Dywidag (Walter Bau) | 350 | Tesco/Carrefour | 364 | Total/Sasol/JV | 374 | 3.
Pape v Minister van Landbouw, Natuurbeheer en Visserij | 639 | Fisheries sector - Damages caused by Storm (Latvia) | 602 | Flooding during summer 2005 (Austria and Germany) | 573 | Ford Genk (Belgium) | 549 | Frucona Kosice (Slovakia) | OJ C 233, 22.9.2005 | 443 | Gibraltar Exempt Companies (United Kingdom) | 554 | Glunz (Germany) | OJ C 263, 22.10.2005 | 508 | Guarantee scheme for shipbuilding (Italy) | 469 | Guarantee scheme for shipbuilding (Netherlands) | OJ C 228, 17.9.2005 | 469 | Hessicher Investitionsfonds (Germany) | 498 | Holland Malt (Netherlands) | 592 | HSH Nordbank (Germany) | 499 | Huta Czestochowa (Poland) | 475 | Huta Stalowa Wola (Poland) | 459 | Imprimerie Nationale (France) | 447 | Innovation aid for shipbuilding (France) | OJ C 256, 15.10.2005 | 461 | Innovation aid for shipbuilding (Germany) | OJ C 235, 23.9.2005 | 461 | Innovation aid for shipbuilding (Spain) | OJ C 250, 8.10.2005 | 461 | International news channel CFII (France) | 496 | Investbx (United Kingdom) | OJ C 288, 19.11.2005 | 524 | IRAP deductions (Italy) | 550 | Italy v Commission | 649 | Konas (Slovakia) | 456 | Kronopoly (Germany) | 503 | Lazio – Greenhouse gas reduction (Italy) | 633 | Licence fee schemes for public broadcasters (France, Italy and Spain) | 490 | Lignit Hodonín, s.r.o. (Czech Republic) | OJ C 250, 8.10.2005 | 502 | Measures in favour of sports clubs (Italy) | 566 | MG Rover (United Kingdom) | OJ C 187, 30.7.2005 | 439, 457 | Mittal Steel Poland (Poland) | 477 | Monitoring Alstom (France) | 442 | Municipalizzate (Italy) | 629 | National Fallen Stock Scheme (Fallen Fish) (United Kingdom) | 601 | National LFA aid scheme (Finland) | 584 | Nazairdis (now Distribution Casino France) | 662 | Neorion shipyards (Greece) | OJ C 230, 20.9.2005 | 466 | NESTA (United Kingdom) | 532 | Olympic Airways (Greece) | 619 | Open broadband infrastructure in Limousin (France) | 479 | Operating aid for biofuels (Austria, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Italy, Ireland, Lithuania, Sweden and Belgium) | 544 | Plans de Campagne (France) | 587 | Real estate transfer tax exemption for housing companies in the new Länder (Germany) | 510 | Reform of the Dutch health care insurance system (Netherlands) | 575 | Reform of training institutions (Italy) | 546 | Restructuring plans for the coal sector (Germany, Hungary and Poland) | 603 | Role and financing of public service broadcasting (Germany, Ireland and Netherlands) | 491 | Rural Broadband Access Project (United Kingdom) | 478 | Ryanair (Belgium) | 616 | SABIC (Netherlands) | OJ C 176, 16.7.2005 | 501 | Shetland Sea Fish Limited (United Kingdom) | 600 | SNCF Freight (France) | 607 | Sniace v Commission | 646 | Solvay Rosignano (Italy) | OJ C 176, 16.7.2005 | 537 | Stocznia Gdynia (Poland) | OJ C 220, 8.9.2005 | 471 | Stocznia Szczecinska (Poland) | OJ C 222, 9.9.2005 | 471 | Streekgewest Westelijk Noord-Brabant | 636 | SVZ Schwarze Pumpe GmbH (Germany) | 439 | Tax breaks for investment vehicles specialized in small capitalization companies (Italy) | 560 | Tax breaks for takeovers of ailing industrial firms (France) | 570 | Tax on mineral phosphorous in feed phosphates (Denmark) | 583 | Tax premium in favour of newly listed companies (Italy) | 562 | Tax-exempt reserve fund for certain companies (Greece) | 557 | Technology centres (Germany) | OJ L 295, 11.11.2005 | 522 | Temporary defensive measures for shipbuilding (Finland, Germany and Poland) | OJ C 131, 28.5.2005 OJ C 162, 2.7.2005 | 465 | Tessenderlo Italia (Italy) | OJ C 223, 10.9.2005 | 537 | Thüringen Porzellan, Kahla (Germany) | 630 | Tugboat Bangladesh (Spain) | OJ C 162, 2.7.2005 | 467 | Urgent employment measures (Italy) | 631 | Volvo Trucks (Sweden) | OJ C 230, 20.9.2005 | 538 | VPFM (Czech Republic) | OJ C 176, 16.7.2005 | 477 | Wave and tidal stream energy demonstration (United Kingdom) | 535 | [1] http://europa.eu.int/comm/competition/antitrust/others/article_82_review.html [2] COM (2005) 651.
below). [18] See in particular recital 3 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2003 as well as paragraph 11 of the Commission Notice on Complaints. [19] See paragraphs 41 et seq ., and in particular paragraph 43, of the Commission Notice on Complaints. [20] SEC (2005) 791. [21] See section 9 of the annexes to the Impact Assessment Guidelines. [22] See section 9.2 of the annexes to the Impact Assessment Guidelines. [23] The Green Paper can be found at http://europa.eu.int/comm/competition/antitrust/others/actions_for_damages/gp.html.
See in particular pages 8 and 19. [29] See: http://europa.eu.int/comm/competition/antitrust/others/sector_inquiries/energy/issues_paper15112005.pdf [30] http://www.bundeskartellamt.de/wDeutsch/entscheidungen/Kartellrecht/EntschKartell.shtml [31] 2003 Competition Report, point 98. [32] Press release IP/05/195, 17.2.2005. [33] Press release IP/05/710, 10.6.2005. [34] Regulation (EC) No 1775/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 September 2005 on conditions for access to the natural gas transmission networks (OJ L 289, 3.11.2005, p. 1). [35] Directive 89/2005/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning measures to safeguard security of electricity supply and infrastructure investment. [36] Directive 2003/55/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2003 concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas and repealing Directive 98/30/EC (OJ L 176, 15.7.2003, p. 57). [37] Directive 2003/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2003 concerning common rules for the internal market in electricity and repealing Directive 96/92/EC (OJ L 176, 15.7.2003, p. 37). [38] Case C-17/03 Vereniging voor Energie, Milieu en Water and Others v Directeur van de Dienst uitvoering en toezicht energie . [39] Directive 96/92/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 December 1996 concerning common rules for the internal market in electricity (OJ L 27, 30.1.1997, p. 20). [40] Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 October 2003 establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community and amending Council Directive 96/61/EC (OJ L 275, 25.10.2003, p. 32). [41] OJ C 258, 20.10.2004, p. 7. [42] DODO = Distributor Owned, Distributor Operated. [43] OJ C 136, 3.6.2005, p. 32. [44] See: http://europa.eu.int/comm/competition/antitrust/cases/index/by_nr_76.html#i38_381 [45] Council Directive 91/414/EEC of 15 July 1991 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market (OJ L 230, 19.8.1991, p. 1). [46] COM(2003) 644 final. [47] Press release IP/05/737, 15.6.2005. [48] Council Regulation (EEC) No 1768/92 of 18 June 1992 concerning the creation of a supplementary protection certificate for medicinal products (OJ L 182, 2.7.1992, p. 1). [49] Case COMP/38.436 QSC ; press release IP/04/281, 1.3.2004. [50] Joined Cases COMP/37.451, 37.578 and 37.579 Deutsche Telekom (OJ L 263, 14.10.2003, p. 9).
Thereby, both possibilities which are set out in the Notice on the application of the competition rules on access agreements in the telecommunications sector (OJ C 265, 22.8.1998, p. 2) to establish a margin squeeze test were considered. [52] Available at http://europa.eu.int/comm/competition/antitrust/others/sector_inquiries/new_media/3g/ [53] Directive 2002/21/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (Framework Directive) (OJ L 108, 24.4.2002, p. 33). [54] Commission decision C(2005)1442 in Case DE/2005/0144 available at: http://forum.europa.eu.int/Public/irc/infso/ecctf/home [55] Case UK/2004/0111 (in respect of managed transmission services) and Case FR/2005/0179; notices about withdrawals available at: http://forum.europa.eu.int/Public/irc/infso/ecctf/home [56] Commission decision in Cases FR/2005/221 to FR/2005/0226, SG-Greffe (2005) D/205048. [57] Commission Directive 2002/77/EC of 16 September 2002 on competition in the markets for electronic communications networks and services (OJ L 249, 17.9.2002, p. 21).
The Information Society DG is responsible for Member States’ compliance with the other directives in the regulatory framework for electronic communications. [58] Case C-299/04 Commission v Greece , judgment of 14 April 2005. [59] Case C-349/04 Commission v Luxembourg, judgment of 16 June 2005. [60] Procedure 2004/2197 – Liberalisation – Sweden – Infringement of Directive 2002/77/EC. [61] Directive 97/67/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 December 1997 on common rules for the development of the internal market of Community postal services and the improvement of quality of service (OJ L 15, 21.1.1998, p. 25); Directive 2002/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 June 2002 amending Directive 97/67/EC with regard to the further opening to competition of Community postal services (OJ L 176, 5.7.2002, p. 21). [62] Notice from the Commission on the application of the competition rules to the postal sector and on the assessment of certain State measures relating to postal services (OJ C 39, 6.2.1998, p. 2, paragraph 5.4). [63] COMP/37.214 – Joint selling of the media rights to the German Bundesliga.
Full text published on the Competition DG’s website: http://europa.eu.int/comm/competition/antitrust/cases/decisions/37214/en.pdf [64] See the Commission’s UEFA Champions League decision (OJ L 291, 8.11.2003, p. 25), dealing with the issue of joint selling. [65] A number of Commission merger decisions dealt with this issue; for example Newscorp/Telepiù , in Case COMP/M.2876 of 2 April 2003. [66] MEMO 05/16 contains a comprehensive summary of the commitments and a detailed description of the rights packages. [67] OJ C 229, 14.9.2004, p. 15. [68] The changes relating to television and (partly) to the Internet will enter into force on 1 July 2006.
This Directive was amended by Directive 2004/12/EC of 11 February 2004 (OJ L 47, 18.2.2004, p. 26). [87] Directive 2000/53/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 September 2000 on end-of-life vehicles (OJ L 269, 21.10.2000, p. 34). [88] Directive 2002/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 January 2003 on waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) (OJ L 37, 13.2.2003, p. 24). [89] Commission Decision of 16.10.2003 (OJ L 75, 12.3.2004, p. 59; ARA, ARGEV, ARO , concerning Article 81 EC) – appeal pending; Commission Decision of 17.9.2001 (OJ L 319, 4.12.2001, p. 1; DSD , concerning Article 81 EC) – appeal pending; Commission Decision of 15.6.2001 (OJ L 233, 31.8.2001, p. 37; Eco Emballages , concerning Article 81 EC); and Commission Decision of 20.4.2001 (OJ L 166, 21.6.2001, p. 1; DSD, concerning Article 82 EC) – appeal pending. [90] The paper is available at http://europa.eu.int/comm/competition/antitrust/others/waste.pdf [91] Case COMP/39.116 – Coca-Cola (OJ L 253, 29.9.2005, p. 21, and OJ C 239, 29.9.2005, p. 19).
See also http://europa.eu.int/comm/competition/antitrust/cases/index/by_nr_78.html#i39_116 [92] OJ C 289, 26.11.2004, p. 10. [93] Cases COMP/36.623, COMP/36.820 and COMP/37.275. [94] Commission Regulation (EC) No 1475/95 of 28 June 1995 on the application of Article 85(3) of the Treaty to certain categories of motor vehicle distribution and servicing agreements.
For a comprehensive description of the decision, see the 1998 Competition Report. [126] Case T-241/01 SAS v Commission . [127] Joined case T-49/02, T-50/02, T-51/02 Brasserie nationale v Commission . [128] Case T-325/01 DaimlerChrysler v Commission . [129] See the 2001 Competition Report, p. 187. [130] Case T-38/02 Groupe Danone v Commission and Case T-48/02 Haacht v Commission . [131] Joined Cases T-22/02 and T-23/02 Sumitomo Chemical Co.
Ltd and Sumika Fine Chemicals Co.
MEMO/05/33. [171] OJ C 281, 17.9.1997, as amended in OJ C 217, 2.8.2001, and OJ C 307, 11.12.2004. [172] OJ C 325, 22.12.2005.
Communication of the Commission to Member States amending the communication pursuant to Article 93(1) [now Article 87] of the EC Treaty applying Articles 92 and 93 [now Articles 87 and 88] of the Treaty to short-term export-credit insurance. [173] Community Guidelines on state aid for Environmental Protection (OJ C 37, 3.2.2001). [174] http://europa.eu.int/comm/competition/state_aid/others/00910_questionnaire_env_en.pdf [175] OJ L 312, 29.11.2005, p. 67. [176] OJ C 297, 29.11.2005, p. 4.
The Community Framework for state aid in the form of public service compensation is not applicable to public service broadcasting covered by the Commission communication on the application of state aid rules to public service broadcasting. [177] Commission Directive 2005/81/EC of 28 November 2005 amending Directive 80/732/EEC on the transparency of financial relations between Member States and public undertakings as well as on financial transparency within certain undertakings (OJ L 312, 29.11.2005, p. 47). [178] Case C-280/00 of 24 July 2003 concerning the grant of licences for scheduled bus transport services in the Landkreis of Stendal (Germany) and public subsidies for operating those services. [179] OJ C 147, 17.6.2005. [180] http://europa.eu.int/comm/agriculture/stateaid/newms/index_en.htm [181] Commission Communication – Community guidelines on financing of airports and start-up aid to airlines departing from regional airports (OJ C 312, 9.12.2005, p. 1). [182] COM(2005) 624 final, 9.12.2005, State Aid Scoreboard, autumn 2005 update. [183] COM(2005) 147 final, 20.4.2005, State Aid Scoreboard, spring 2005 update. [184] http://europa.eu.int/comm/competition/state_aid/scoreboard/ [185] http://europa.eu.int/comm/competition/state_aid/register/ [186] Excluding the transport sector. [187] Case NN 44/2004 Rescue aid to SVZ Schwarze Pumpe GmbH . [188] Case NN 42/2005 Rescue aid in favour of MG Rover (OJ C 187, 30.7.2005). [189] Case N 91/2005 Rescue aid in favour of Computer Manufacturing Services (OJ C 187, 30.7.2005). [190] Case N 275/2005 Rescue aid to Cynku Miasteczko Z[pic]l[pic]skie . [191] Case N 575/2004 Rescue aiczko Śląskie. [192] Case N 575/2004 Rescue aid for Ernault. [193] Community Guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty (OJ C 288, 9.10.1999). [194] Case C 58/2003, conditional decision of 7 July 2004. [195] Case C 25/2005 (ex NN 21/2005, ex CP 193/2004) Measures in favour of Frucona Kosice (OJ C 233, 22.9.2005). [196] Case N 584/2004 Restructuring aid to AB Vingriai . [197] Case C 43/2001 Chemische Werke Piesteritz GmbH (OJ L 296, 12.11.2005). [198] Case C 1/2005 Restructuring aid for Euromoteurs (OJ C 137, 4.6.2005). [199] Case N 250/2005 Restructuring aid in favour of Ernault (OJ C 324, 21.12.2005). [200] Case C 57/2002 Tax aid for takeovers of ailing companies (OJ L 108, 16.4.2004).
The Commission adopted a negative decision with recovery on 16 December 2003. [201] Case N 370/2004 Restructuring aid for Imprimerie Nationale . [202] Case C 52/2003 Aid in favour of British Energy plc (OJ L 142, 6.6.2005). [203] Case C 38/2005 Biria group . [204] C 42/2005 (ex NN 66/2005, ex N 195/2005) Restructuring aid in favour of Konas, Ltd. [205] Case PN 26/2005 Amendment of the regional aid map – MG Rover . [206] Case C 44/2005 Restructuring aid to Huta Stalowa Wola SA . [207] Case N 233/2005 Restructuring aid to Chemobudowa Kraków . [208] Case N 452/2004 Innovation aid for shipbuilding (OJ C 235, 23.9.2005). [209] Case N 429/2004 Innovation aid for shipbuilding (OJ C 256, 15.10.2005). [210] Case N 423/2004 Innovation aid for shipbuilding (OJ C 250, 8.10.2005). [211] OJ C 317, 30.12.2003. [212] Council Regulation (EC) No 1177/2002 of 27 June 2002 (OJ L 172, 2.7.2002).
Amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 502/2004 of 11 March 2004 (OJ L 81, 19.3.2004). [213] Case N 23/2005 Temporary defensive measures for shipbuilding (OJ C 131, 28.5.2005). [214] Case N 39/2005 Temporary defensive mechanism for shipbuilding (OJ C 131, 28.5.2005). [215] Case N 81/2005 Temporary defensive measures for shipbuilding (OJ C 162, 2.7.2005). [216] OJ L 202, 18.7.1998. [217] Case N 596/2003 Neorion shipyards (OJ C 230, 20.9.2005). [218] Case C 33/2004 (ex N 63/2004) Extension of three-year delivery limit for two ships . [219] Case N 450/2004 Development aid to Ghana-Tugboats (OJ C 100, 26.4.2005). [220] Case N 185/2005 Aid to Vietnam shipbuilding . [221] Case N 517/2004 Shipbuilding – Tugboat Bangladesh (OJ C 162, 2.7.2005). [222] Case N 436/2005 Aid to Mauritania – Shipbuilding decision . [223] Case C 28/2003 (ex N 371/2001) Guarantee scheme for shipbuilding . [224] Case N 253/2005 Guarantee scheme for shipbuilding (OJ C 228, 17.9.2005). [225] Case N 512/2003 German ship financing guarantee schemes (OJ C 62, 11.3.2004). [226] OJ C 71, 11.3.2000. [227] Joined Cases C 17/2005 (ex N 194/2005, ex PL 34/2004) and C 18/2005 (ex N 438/2004) Restructuring aid to Stocznia Gdynia (OJ C 220, 8.9.2005). [228] Case C 19/2005 (ex N 203/2005, ex PL 31/2004) Restructuring aid to Stocznia Szczecinska (OJ C 222, 9.9.2005). [229] More detail is provided in COM(2005) 359 final of 3.8.2005.
Case E 9/2005 (Italy) Capital and other measures – RAI , Commission decision of 20.4.2005.
For 31 of the 104 recovery decisions adopted since 2000, the Member State concerned has not yet submitted reliable information on the amount of aid involved.
The Commission continues its efforts to obtain information from the Member States on the amounts of aid involved. [346] CR 27/1999. [347] Case C-207/2005. [348] CR 62/2000. [349] CR 62/2003. [350] CR 58/1999, CR 59/1999 and CR 60/1999. [351] Case C 35/2003 Lazio – Greenhouse gas reduction . [352] See Case CR 27/1999 referred to in point 624. [353] Case C-174/2002 Streekgewest Westelijk Noord-Brabant . [354] Case C-175/02 F.J.
Pape v Minister van Landbouw, Natuurbeheer en Visserij . [355] Case T-93/02 Confédération nationale du Crédit Mutuel v Commission . [356] Case C-110/03 Belgium v Commission . [357] Cases T-88/01 and T-141/03 Sniace v Commission . [358] Case C-400/99 Italy v Commission . [359] Case C-415/03 Commission v Greece . [360] Case T-349/03 Corsica Ferries France SAS v Commission . [361] Case T-324/00 CDA v Commission . [362] Joined Cases C-266/04 to C-270/04 and C-321/04 to C-325/04 Nazairdis (now Distribution Casino France). [363] Intervention Fund for the Support of Crafts and Trade. [364] Fuel Distributors’ Trade Committee. [365] Annex 1 to the Comprehensive Monitoring Report on Romania, SEC (2005) 1354 final. [366] The agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Commission of the European Communities regarding the application of their competition laws was concluded on 23.9.1991.
By a joint decision of the Council and the European Commission on 10.4.1995 the Agreement was approved and declared applicable from the date it was signed by the European Commission (OJ L 95, 27.4.1995, p. 47).
On 4.6.1998 the positive comity agreement, which strengthens the positive comity provisions of the 1991 Agreement, entered into force (Agreement between the European Communities and the Government of the United States of America on the application of positive comity principles in the enforcement of their competition laws (OJ L 173, 18.6.1998, p. 26)). [367] Case M.3687. [368] Case M.3692. [369] Agreement between the European Communities and the Government of Canada regarding the application of the competition laws (OJ L 175, 10.7.1999, p. 50).
The Agreement was signed at the EU/Canada Summit in Bonn on 17.6.1999 and entered into force at signature. [370] Agreement between the European Community and the Government of Japan concerning cooperation on anticompetitive activities (OJ L 183, 22.7.2003, p. 12).
