Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social committee and the Committee of the Regions - Draft joint Report on Social Protection and Social Inclusion {SEC(2005)69} /* COM/2005/0014 final */ Brussels, 27.01.2005 COM(2005)14 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE AND THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS Draft joint Report on Social Protection and Social Inclusion {SEC(2005)69} TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction 3 1.
Social Protection and Social Inclusion: Responding to Change 3 2.
Pensions and Active Ageing 8 4.
In order to achieve their key role in European society and economy, social protection systems need to be responsive to wider social trends.
The increase in those aged 65 years and over accentuates the urgency of making adequate pensions sustainable.
Employment is a key factor for social inclusion, not only because it generates income but also because it can promote social participation and personal development and contributes to maintaining adequate living standards in old age through the accrual of entitlement to pension benefits.
Conversely through responding to the evolving needs of individuals over the life cycle, social protection systems will facilitate the management of new risks. - At EU level, the planned extension to health care and the streamlining of all social protection and social inclusion processes in 2006 should be used to put stronger focus on implementation and synergies across the area as a whole.
On the basis of the lessons drawn from the OMC on inclusion and from the European Employment Strategy, the Commission should consult in 2005 the social partners, the Member States and all relevant stakeholders on whether and how further action at EU level could be needed for addressing those challenges. - In the area of pensions, maintaining older workers in employment stands as a key challenge across the European Union.
