Proposal for a Council Decision on the conclusion of an additional Protocol to the Europe Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Romania, of the other part, on Conformity Assessment and Acceptance of Industrial Products - PECA /* COM/2006/0420 final - ACC 2006/0138 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 26.7.2006 COM(2006)420 final 2006/0137(ACC) 2006/0138(ACC) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the signature on behalf of the Community of an additional Protocol to the Europe Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Romania, of the other part, on Conformity Assessment and Acceptance of Industrial Products Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion of an additional Protocol to the Europe Agreement establishing an Association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Romania, of the other part, on Conformity Assessment and Acceptance of Industrial Products - PECA - (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM I.
The first mechanism, i.e., the mutual acceptance of industrial products, confirms that Articles 10.3 and 11.4 of the Europe Agreement with Romania apply without other restriction as referred to in Article 36 of the Europe Agreement.
Article 2: Definitions.
Article 11: Verification of notified bodies.
Article 12: Exchange of information.
Article 13: Confidentiality.
Article 14: Management of the Protocol.
Article 15: Technical co-operation and assistance .
Article 16: Agreements with other countries.
Article 17: Entry into force.
Article 18: Status of the Protocol.
I.1.2.2 Annexes on Mutual Acceptance of Industrial Products No such annexes have been negotiated for the moment.
It is accordingly proposed that the President of the Council be authorised to designate the person empowered to sign the Protocol on behalf of the Community, subject to conclusion later, on the basis of Articles 133 and 300 of the Treaty.
Article 2 The President of the Council shall, on behalf of the Community, transmit the diplomatic note provided for in Article 17 of the Protocol[9].
Following consultation of the special committee referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Commission shall determine the position to be taken by the Community in the Association Council and, where applicable, in the Association Committee, with regard to: (a) amendments to the Annexes in accordance with Article 14, point (a) of the Protocol; (b) addition of new Annexes in accordance with Article 14, point (b) of the Protocol; (c) any decisions regarding disagreements on the results of the verifications and the suspensions, in part or totally, of any notified body in accordance with the second and third subparagraphs of Article 11 of the Protocol; (d) any measures taken in the application of the safeguard clauses in Section IV of the Annexes of the Protocol; (e) any measures concerning the verification, suspension, or withdrawal of industrial products as having mutual acceptance under Article 4 of the Protocol. 3.
ARTICLE 3 Alignment of legislation For the purpose of this Protocol, Romania agrees to take appropriate measures, in consultation with the Commission of the European Communities, to maintain or complete the take-over of Community law, in particular in the fields of standardisation, metrology, accreditation, conformity assessment, market surveillance, general safety of products, and producer liability.
ARTICLE 4 Mutual acceptance of industrial products The Parties agree that, for the purpose of mutual acceptance, industrial products listed in the annexes on mutual acceptance of industrial products, which fulfil the requirements for being lawfully placed on the market of a Party, may be placed on the market of the other Party, without further restriction.
This shall be without prejudice to Article 36 of the Europe Agreement.
ARTICLE 5 Mutual recognition of the results of conformity assessment procedures The Parties agree to recognise the results of conformity assessment procedures carried out in accordance with the Community or national law listed in the Annexes on mutual recognition of the results of conformity assessment.
ARTICLE 6 Safeguard clause Where a Party finds that an industrial product placed on the market on its territory by virtue of this Protocol, and used in accordance with its intended use, may compromise the safety or health of users or other persons, or any other legitimate concern protected by legislation identified in the Annexes, it may take appropriate measures to withdraw such a product from the market, to prohibit its placing on the market, putting into service or use, or to restrict its free movement.
ARTICLE 7 Extension of coverage As Romania adopts and implements further national law taking over Community law, the Parties may amend the Annexes or conclude new ones, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14.
ARTICLE 8 Origin The provisions of this Protocol shall apply to industrial products irrespective of their origin.
ARTICLE 9 Obligations of Parties as regards their authorities and bodies The Parties shall ensure that authorities under their jurisdiction which are responsible for the effective implementation of Community and national law shall continuously apply it.
The Parties shall ensure that bodies, notified under their respective jurisdiction to assess conformity in relation to requirements of Community or national law specified in the Annexes, continuously comply with the requirements of Community or national law.
ARTICLE 11 Verification of notified bodies Each Party may request the other Party to verify the technical competence and compliance of a notified body under its jurisdiction.
ARTICLE 12 Exchange of information and cooperation In order to ensure a correct and uniform application and interpretation of this Protocol, the Parties, their authorities and their notified bodies shall: (a) exchange all relevant information concerning implementation of law and practice including, in particular, on procedure to ensure compliance of notified bodies; (b) take part, as appropriate, in the relevant mechanisms of information, coordination and other related activities of the Parties; (c) encourage their bodies to cooperate with a view to establishing mutual recognition arrangements in the voluntary sphere.
ARTICLE 13 Confidentiality Representatives, experts and other agents of the Parties shall be required, even after their duties have ceased, not to disclose information acquired under this Protocol which is of the kind covered by the obligation of professional secrecy.
ARTICLE 14 Management of the Protocol Responsibility for the effective functioning of this Protocol shall be borne by the Association Council in accordance with Article 106 of the Europe Agreement.
ARTICLE 15 Technical cooperation and assistance The European Community may provide technical cooperation and assistance to Romania where necessary in order to support the effective implementation and application of this Protocol.
ARTICLE 16 Agreements with other countries Agreements on conformity assessment concluded by either Party with a country which is not a Party to this Protocol shall not entail an obligation upon the other Party to accept the results of conformity assessment procedures carried out in that third country, unless there is an explicit agreement between the Parties in the Association Council.
ARTICLE 17 Entry into force This Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date on which the Parties have exchanged diplomatic notes confirming the completion of their respective procedures for entry into force of this Protocol.
ARTICLE 18 Status of the Protocol This Protocol shall constitute an integral part of the Europe Agreement.
General Secretariat of Industry). | Estonia: | Majandus- ja Kommunikatsiooniministeerium. | France: | Ministère de l’emploi et de la solidarité, Direction des relations du travail, Bureau CT 5. | Ireland: | Department of Enterprise and Employment. | Italy: | Ministero dell’Industria, del Commercio e dell’Artigianato. | Latvia: | Ekonomikas ministrija. | Malta: | Under the authority of the Government of Malta: Consumer and Industrial Goods Directorate of the Malta Standards Authority. | Hungary: | Gazdasági és Közlekedési Minisztérium. | Austria: | Bundesministerium für Wirtschaft und Arbeit. | Poland: | Ministerstwo Gospodarki, Pracy i Polityki Społecznej. | Slovak Republic: | Úrad pre normalizáciu, metrológiu a skúšobníctvo Slovenskej republiky. | Sweden: | Under the authority of the Government of Sweden: Styrelsen för ackreditering och teknisk kontrol (SWEDAC). | United Kingdom: | Department of Trade and Industry. | Romania | Ministerul Economiei si Comertului – Ministry of Economy and Commerce. | SECTION III NOTIFIED BODIES European Community Bodies which have been notified by the Member States of the European Community in accordance with the Community law of Section I and notified to Romania in accordance with Article 10 of this Protocol.
Romania Bodies which have been designated by Romania in accordance with the Romanian national law of Section I and notified to the European Community in accordance with Article 10 of this Protocol.
SECTION IV SPECIFIC ARRANGEMENTS Safeguard Clauses A.
