India represents a vibrant and rapidly growing consumer market with a fast increasing middle-class already exceeding 250 million inhabitants.
Representing nearly one fourth of India’s total trade, the EU is India’s largest trading partner and also its main source of foreign direct investment (FDI). 1.3 Demand for air transport in India is increasing rapidly both for corporate business travel, international tourism (both foreign visitors and different Indian ethnic communities living abroad) and domestic travel.
Due to its extraordinary growth rates and gradual market opening, India offers new business opportunities and a strong potential also for growth for European airlines, aircraft manufacturers and service providers. 1.5 As a consequence of the “open skies” judgements of the European Court of Justice on 5 November 2002, the 22 bilateral agreements between Member States and India are unsustainable and need to be amended.
In its Conclusions on external aviation relations, the Council has explicitly taken note of India as a potential candidate for a future request for comprehensive negotiating mandates.[3] 1.6 In India’s response in August 2004 to the European Commission’s Communication entitled “An EU-India Strategic Partnership”[4], India has expressed its readiness to consider a comprehensive air transport agreement with the EU.
Intensity in EU-India relations has increased in recent years and EU-India summits have been held on an annual basis since 2000.
India also expressed its readiness to consider a comprehensive agreement with the EU on air transport including in the areas of market access, regulation and air traffic management. 2.3 At the 5th India-EU Summit held on November 2004 in The Hague, India and the EU agreed to jointly elaborate a comprehensive EU-India Action Plan for implementing the strategic partnership.
Seven EU carriers currently fly passengers to India on scheduled routes while currently two Indian carriers (Air India and most recently Jet Airways) fly to Europe.
Of a total number of weekly frequencies between the EU and India of 130 in winter 2004/2005, Lufthansa and Air India each had a share of 22% while British Airways had a share of 15%.
Looking forward 3.3 Future growth rates in Indian air passenger traffic are expected to remain impressive in the coming years.
The Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation forecasts total air traffic in India to rise by five million passengers each year over the next ten years and that India’s domestic and international markets for the calendar year 2004 would increase by up to 30% to around 20 million passengers each.
The “Incredible India” campaign launched by the Ministry of Tourism in 2002 has been widely heralded as a major success.
having a fleet of at least 20 aircrafts and more than five years of operating experience) to operate on international routes.
Two carriers (Jet Airways and Air Sahara) already qualify for this and have recently been granted rights from the Indian government to fly to international destinations.
There are currently seven scheduled registered airlines in India: (1) the state-owned Air India; (2) Indian Airlines; (3) Alliance Air (subsidiary of Indian Airlines); (4) Air Sahara; (5) Jet Airways (privately owned); (6) Air Deccan (privately owned low-cost carrier); and (7) Blue Dart Cargo (specialised cargo carrier).
In 2005 alone, an additional five carriers are expected to enter the Indian market (SpiceJet; Kingfisher Airlines; Air India Express; Indus Airways and Go Air). 4.5 The Indian government is also continuing its policy of further liberalisation of bilateral air services agreements.
New green-field airports are being built in Bangalore and Hyderabad.
The Indian Ministry of Civil Aviation expects, for example, that in the next few years nearly €8bn needs to be invested in Indian airports.
In December 2004, it was reported that 10 completely new airports were being planned while modernisation of another 15 airports was foreseen (in addition to modernisation of the four main airports of Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta and Chennai).
Technical co-operation 4.9 The rapid increase in demand for air transport also poses significant technological challenges in relation to safety, security and air traffic management aspects.
The project started in 2001 with a currently foreseen duration until end-2006 with a total EU grant of 18 million € in Community funding.
CONCLUSIONS: SUBSTANTIAL ADDED VALUE OF A FUTURE EU-INDIA AIR TRANSPORT AGREEMENT 5.1 Since the 1940s, EU-India relations in civil aviation have been based on bilateral air services agreements between individual Member States and India with little, if any, coordination at Community level. 22 out of the 25 EU Member States have bilateral air services agreements with India (all except the three Baltic states).
Following the judgements of the European Court of Justice on 5 November 2002, existing bilateral air services agreements based on national designation urgently need to be amended to restore legal certainty by including Community designation clauses permitting designation of any Community air carrier established in a Member State. 5.2 The conduct and outcome of bilateral negotiations in recent months between Member States and India have not yet led to the necessary alignment of existing agreements with Community law.
As a result, bilateral agreements with India remain vulnerable to legal challenge. 5.3 However, the Commission’s use of the horizontal mandate in the course of 2005 has proven efficient in rendering more than 250 bilateral agreements compatible with Community law.
The Commission will work closely together with Member States and all relevant stakeholders in further developing and achieving the objectives set out in the negotiating directives. [1] COM(2005) 79 final, dated 11.3.2005 [2] “ Future developments in international air transport to and from the EU: An AEA perspective” , October 2004 [3] Council Conclusions of 27 June 2005 on developing the agenda for the Community’s external aviation policy. [4] COM(2004) 430 final, dated 16.6.2004 [5] Source: OAG schedules [6] “Asia/Pacific Air Traffic – Growth and Constraints”, Air Transport Action Group (ATAG), 2001
