Proposal for a Council Regulation imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of tungsten carbide and fused tungsten carbide originating in the People%rsquo%s Republic of China /* COM/2004/0776 final */ Brussels, 06.12.2004 COM(2004)776 final Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty on imports of tungsten carbide and fused tungsten carbide originating in the People’s Republic of China (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM On 8 April 2003, the Commission initiated an expiry review on imports into the Community of tungsten carbide and fused tungsten carbide originating in the People’s Republic of China.
Measures in force By Regulation (EEC) No 2737/90[2], the Council imposed a definitive anti-dumping duty of 33% on imports of tungsten carbide and fused tungsten carbide originating in the People’s Republic of China (‘PRC’).
Present investigation Following the publication of a notice of the impending expiry of the anti-dumping measures in force on imports of tungsten carbide and fused tungsten carbide originating in the PRC[7], on 9 January 2003 the Commission received a request for an expiry review from Eurometaux (‘the applicant’) on behalf of producers representing a major proportion, in this case more than 80%, of the total Community production.
The request was based on the grounds that the expiry of measures would be likely to result in a continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury to the Community industry.
Request for interim review On 25 November 2003, the Commission also received a request for an interim review from the applicant, on behalf of producers representing a major proportion of the total Community production.
The Commission sent questionnaires to all parties known to be concerned and received replies from the three complainant Community producers, one other Community producer, one importer that was also a user of the product concerned, seven exporters/producers, one trader based in Hong Kong, one trader/importer in Germany and one producer in the analogue country.
The Commission sought and verified all information it deemed necessary for the purpose of investigation, and carried out verification visits at the premises of the following companies: (a) Community producers - Wolfram Bergbau und Hütten-GmbH Nfg.KG., St Peter, Austria - H.
SpA, Anzola D'ossola, Italy (related companies) ( c) Exporters in the PRC - Nanchang Cemented Carbide Co., Ltd., Nanchang City, Jiangxi Province - Xiamen Golden Egret Special Alloy Co., Ltd., Xiamen City, Fujian Province - Zhuzhou Cemented Carbide Works Import %amp% Export Company, Zhuzhou City, Hunan Province - Zigong Cemented Carbide Corp., Ltd., Zigong City, Sichuan Province (d) Producer in the analogue country - Osram Sylvania Inc., Towanda, Pennsylvania, United States of America 5.
The examination of the trends relevant for the assessment of a likelihood of continuation of dumping and recurrence of injury covered the period from 1998 up to the end of the IP (the ‘period considered’). 6.
Product concerned It is recalled that, following the alleged appearance of a new product type on the market which shares the same basic physical and chemical characteristics and end uses as the product covered by the measures, a partial interim review limited in scope to the definition of the product concerned was initiated on 31 March 2004 (see recitals 6 to 8).
However, the product concerned by the present review is the same as the one under consideration in Council Regulation (EEC) No 2737/90 and its subsequent amendments, i.e.
LIKELIHOOD OF CONTINUATION OR RECURRENCE OF DUMPING 1.
In the IP of the previous review investigation, imports were 234 tonnes, representing a market share of 5%, while the dumping margin was 30.6%. 2.
It was found that the domestic sales by Osram Sylvania Inc to domestic customers, and in the ordinary course of trade, were made at volumes which considerably exceeded 5 % of the exports made by the Chinese exporters to the Community, as required if normal value is to be based on domestic sale prices.
Dumping margin In accordance with Article 2(11) of the basic Regulation, the normal value was compared to the export price.
The two other co-operating exporters which did not export the product concerned to the Community during the IP also submitted information on their production and sales during the IP.
One of these two exporters was a trader without own production, the other had its own production capacity, with a production capacity of approximately 200 tonnes and an actual production during the IP of 49 tonnes.
The seven exporters had spare production capacity of 1,541 tonnes during the IP, representing approximately 24% of free market consumption in the Community as defined in recital (41) above.
It is recalled that the total exports of the co-operating exporters amounted to 239 tonnes, or close to 100% of the total imports of the product concerned during the IP, and that the co-operating exporters therefore account for almost all exports to the Community. 7.2.
During the IP, approximately 4,846 tonnes (57%) of total production by the five co-operating exporters were further processed, whilst 1,557 tonnes (18%) were sold on the domestic market, and 2,021 tonnes (24%) were exported through the co-operating exporters.
The table below shows the average sales price by destination by the five co-operating exporters during the IP, and a comparison with the average sales price of the Community Industry: +++++ TABLE +++++ As seen above, Chinese exporters would have all interest in not only using their existing spare capacity to increase sales to the Community market, but also in shifting at least part of their domestic sales and sales to third countries to the Community market.
Accordingly, it was consdiered that should the measures be repealed, it was likely that significant quantities of the product concerned would be sold at prices which would undercut the average sales prices of the Community industry thereby causing injury to that industry. 8.
Conclusion As noted in recital (34), the Chinese exporters have continued their dumping practices.
Furthermore, the five co-operating producing exporters had spare production capacity in the IP representing approximately 24% of free market consumption in the Community.
Therefore, it was considered that should the measures be repealed, there would be a risk of continuation of injurious dumping.
The production of the three co-operating Community producers which produced for the free market and fully co-operated constituted approximately 89% of the total Community production of the product concerned for the free market during the IP.
Import data Eurostat information related to import volumes for CN code 2849 90 30 and verified export data from the co-operating exporters in the PRC were used as the source of the import data. 1.2 Community Industry data Community industry data were obtained from the verified questionnaire responses of the three co-operating Community producers which manufactured the product concerned for sale on the free market, and from the co-operating producer which manufactured the product concerned for its own captive use. 1.3 Community consumption Apparent consumption on the free market of the product concerned in the Community was established on the basis of: the total import volumes of the product concerned into the Community as reported by Eurostat, plus the total verified sales volumes to independent customers on the Community market of the three co-operating Community producers which produce for the free market.
Volume and market share +++++ TABLE +++++ The volume of imports from the PRC shows a somewhat fluctuating trend during the period considered, ending with an increase in volume in comparison with 1998 which is reflected in a higher market share in the IP compared to 1998. 2.2.
Volumes and unit prices of imports and Community Industry EU sales in the IP +++++ TABLE +++++ In comparison to imports originating in other third countries the prices of imports originating in the PRC (i.e. €12.59/kg on average) were considerably lower.
The reasons for the increase in production and capacity in 2000 and 2001 are explained in recital (61).
The dramatic surge in worldwide demand of the product concerned, which was due to higher economic activity on the world market and to the enforcement of a new export licensing system in the PRC, triggered investments in production capacity, especially during 2000 and 2001, which resulted in an increase in capacity of 22% in the period considered.
The decrease in the capacity utilisation rate during the IP compared to the preceding years is explained by the sudden drop in demand for the product concerned in the IP.
In consequence, production in the IP was more or less at the same level as in 1998.
During 2001, the average sales price increased to €17,10/tonne but subsequently fell back during the IP to €14.92.
Export sales volumes also increased during the period considered.
Quantities sold increased by 24% between 1998 and the IP, having peaked in 2001.
Total sales volumes increased by 16% between 1998 and the IP, having peaked in 2001 for the reasons explained in recital (61). 3.
There is also evidence that severe fluctuations in the price of the main raw material (APT), most of which originates in China, have affected the profitability of those producers in the Community which are dependent on purchasing this commodity on the open market. 4.
Productivity increased by 2% between 1998 and the IP in line with an increase in production.
The findings relating to this producer are as follows (on an indexed basis given that findings concern only one company): +++++ TABLE +++++ Production capacity increased by 16% between 1998 and 1999 and subsequently remained stable.
Capacity utilisation fell by 6% between 1998 and 2001, and then by a further 39% in the IP in line with a fall in production.
Productivity fluctuated between index 92 and index 111 from 1998 to 2000, but fell to index 84 in the IP in line with the fall in production, and notwithstanding the fall in employment, in that year.
COMMUNITY INTEREST 1.
It was examined whether, despite the conclusion on the likelihood of continuation of injurious dumping, compelling reasons existed which would lead to the conclusion that it is not in the Community interest to maintain the measures in this particular case. 2.
Therefore, it is in the interest of the Community Industry to maintain measures against dumped imports from the PRC. 3.
Concerning the interest of the large international manufacturers, the lack of support or opposition by these large users suggests that the continued imposition of measures on imports originating in the PRC would not have any significant impact on their situation in the Community.
Regarding Community interest, it is concluded that there are no compelling reasons not to impose anti-dumping measures against imports of the product concerned originating in the PRC.
It is therefore considered appropriate to maintain the current anti-dumping measures against imports of tungsten carbide and fused tungsten carbide originating in the PRC.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President [1] OJ L 56, 6.3.1996, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 461/2004 (OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p.12) [2] OJ L 264, 27.9.1990, p. 7. [3] OJ L 264, 27.9.1990, p. 59. [4] OJ L 248, 23.9.1994, p. 8. [5] OJ L 64, 22.3.1995, p. 1. [6] OJ L 111, 9. 4. 1998, p. 1. [7] OJ C 166, 12. 7. 2002, p. 2. [8] OJ C 84, 8.4.2003, p. 2. [9] OJ C 81, 31.3.2004, p. 8. [10] Production capacity was established on the basis of the maximum hourly output of the machines installed, multiplied by the annual maximum working hours, less a deduction for maintenance and other similar production interruptions.
The method applied is the same as the capacity calculations made for the Community Industry. [11] Free market consumption is defined as the total import volumes of the product concerned plus the total verified sales volumes on the Community market of the three co-operating Community producers which produce for the free market.
