BACKGROUND Transmission of the proposal to the Council and to the European Parliament - COM(2004) 599 final – 2004/0217 (COD) | 22 October 2004 | Date of opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee | 11 May 2005 | Date of opinion of the European Parliament - first reading | 7 September 2005 | Date of transmission of the Amended proposal COM(2005) 577 | 10 November 2005 | Date of adoption of the Council common position | 10 March 2006 | 2.
Other modifications introduced by the Council common position compared with the amended proposal Recital 5 in the amended proposal was modified to delete the explicit reference to Article 95 of the Treaty.
Although the Commission can accept this deletion, it should be noted that the legal basis for the paediatric regulation is Article 95 of the Treaty.
This definition was moved from Article 31 of the amended proposal (renumbered as 30 in the common position).
Article 4 in the amended proposal was modified in the common position to specify that all members of the Paediatric Committee will have alternate members and that three members will represent healthcare professionals and three members will represent patient associations.
Article 6 in the amended proposal was deleted in the common position as Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 already has strict rules for the European Medicines Agency committees as regards independence and interests in the pharmaceutical industry.
Recital 8 was correspondingly strengthened with respect to the independence and interests of Paediatric Committee members.
Paragraph 2 of that article was amended in the common position to stipulate that the Paediatric Committee shall consider whether or not proposed studies can be expected to be of significant therapeutic benefit to an / or fulfil a therapeutic need of the paediatric population.
Article 9 of the modified proposal was renumbered as 8 in the common position and modified to clarify that the requirements for the results of studies in children or an Agency decision on a waiver or deferral shall cover both the existing and the new indications, pharmaceutical forms and routes of administration.
Article 16 in the amended proposal was renumbered as 15 in the common position and modified to clarify that Paediatric Investigation Plans related to the requirements of Articles 8 and 30 may be submitted for agreement.
Article 18 in the amended proposal was renumbered as 17 in the common position and modified to state that the Committee shall consider whether or not the measures proposed to adapt the formulation of the medicinal product for use in different subsets of the paediatric population are appropriate.
Article 24 in the amended proposal was renumbered as 23 in the common position and modified to clarify that when the applications are submitted in accordance with the procedure set out in Articles 27 to 39 of Directive 2001/83/EC, the verification of compliance, including, as appropriate, requesting an opinion of the Paediatric Committee, shall be conducted by the reference Member State.
Article 25 in the amended proposal was renumbered as 24 in the common position and modified to clarify that incentives provided for in Article 38 would also not be granted in the event of non compliance detected during the scientific assessment.
Article 26 in the amended proposal was renumbered as 25 in the common position and modified to set the deadline at 10-days for the Agency to transmit the opinion of the Paediatric Committee to the applicant.
Article 33 in the amended proposal was renumbered as 32 in the common position and modified to state that the package leaflet shall contain an explanation of the meaning of the symbol, to provide that the Commission select the symbol based on a recommendation from the Paediatric Committee and to clarify the transitional arrangements.
Recital 17 in the amended proposal on the labelling of medicines for children was renumbered 18 in the common position and was amended to bring it in line with the revised article.
Article 35 in the amended proposal was renumbered as 34 in the common position and modified to bring the definition of risk management system in line with current scientific knowledge.
Article 40 in the amended proposal was renumbered as 41 in the common position and modified to clarify who would submit clinical trial results to the Agency.
Article 41 in the amended proposal was renumbered as 42 in the common position and modified to set a deadline for the Paediatric Committee to provide guidance on the data to be collected by the Member States.
Article 44 in the amended proposal was renumbered as 45 in the common position and modified to clarify that it is the Marketing Authorisation Holder that should submit any paediatric studies already completed, to clarify the competent authorities’ role in updating product information.
Article 45 in the amended proposal was renumbered as 46 in the common position and modified to clarify the competent authorities’ role in updating product information.
Article 50 in the amended proposal was deleted in the common position as the provision was judged to be unnecessary given the provisions of Article 11 of the amended proposal (Article 10 of the common position).
Article 54 in the amended proposal was renumbered as 55 in the common position and modified to add a new task for the Agency to take decisions related to the operation of the paediatric regulation. 4.
CONCLUSION The Commission supports the common position. [1] OJ L 121, 1.5.2001, p. 34
