Communication from the Commission The EU Economy: 2006 Review Strengthening the euro area: key policy priorities {SEC(2006) 1490} /* COM/2006/0714 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 22.11.2006 COM(2006) 714 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION The EU Economy: 2006 Review STRENGTHENING THE EURO AREA: KEY POLICY PRIORITIES {SEC(2006) 1490} COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION The EU Economy: 2006 Review STRENGTHENING THE EURO AREA: KEY POLICY PRIORITIES Over the past eight years since the creation of the euro area, the euro has established itself as a strong and stable currency on domestic and international markets, and has emerged as one of the pillars of the international monetary system.
Continued subdued growth performance and persistent divergences in growth and inflation raise questions as to whether internal adjustment in the euro area is working smoothly, and whether members have internalised fully in their economic policy-making the implications of living in a monetary union.
Challenges in the euro area must also be placed in a broader EU perspective so that key overlapping interests of all Member States are strengthened, not diluted, by targeted policy efforts of euro area members.
The 2006 EU Economy Review[2], published together with this Communication, focuses on questions raised by recent adjustment experience in the euro area.
Despite these successes, the individual economies in the euro area have not always adjusted to country-specific developments as smoothly or swiftly as would be desirable.
It is natural, under monetary union, for adjustment to take place through divergences in national inflation and growth rates.
It may seem tempting to blame such adjustment difficulties wholly on the fact that some euro area members lagged in their action to strengthen fiscal policy and structural reforms.
While this certainly played a significant role, policy-makers and economic agents were also faced with the new experience of adjustment under monetary union, which posed challenges that had not been fully anticipated.
Moreover, economic developments interacted with one another, and with policy initiatives, in ways that often triggered mutually-reinforcing consequences.
An important factor in individual euro area economies has been the way that economic developments interacted in certain cases to make current account imbalances larger and more protracted.
Spillover effects from the global economy can also impinge on euro area members in ways that pose adjustment challenges within the monetary union.
Wage setting must internalise the implications of monetary union .
In some cases, individual euro area members could face heightened adjustment challenges.
As we approach the end of the euro's first decade, policies and institutions in the euro area must prove well equipped for this challenge.
The integrated guidelines for Growth and Jobs adopted in July 2005 by the Council reflect this clear orientation towards an enhanced coordination between macroeconomic and structural policies, in particular through the guideline focused on the euro area.
Citizens have in fact benefited in many ways from monetary union, gaining from stable prices, from cheaper and more easily available credit, from ever deeper economic integration, and from protection against the effects of turbulence in international markets.
Yet this is essential if European citizens are to benefit fully from the economic and monetary union, and if the 10th anniversary of the euro is to be approached on a path of sustained growth. [1] "Annual Statement on the Euro Area", Communication from the Commission - COM(2006) 392, 12.7.2006. [2] 2006 EU Economy Review, "Adjustment Dynamics in the euro area: experiences and challenges", European Economy, Directorate General for Economic and Financial Affairs,http://ec.europa.eu/economy_finance/publications/european_economy/2006/the_eu_economy_review2006_en.htm [3] The European Competitiveness Report 2006 documents areas where additional efforts may be necessary.
