INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND 2004 marked the eleventh successive financial year for which the European Court of Auditors issued a qualified Statement of Assurance (DAS) as regards a part of the payment appropriations.
The present communication: - reports on action taken on the objectives set out in the June Communication, - addresses the main gaps identified in the Gap Assessment[3], also taking into account the 2004 Annual Report of the Court of Auditors, - reflects the follow-up to be given to ECOFIN conclusions of 8 November 2005, - and, on this basis, identifies the main concrete actions to be taken and the role that the Council, Member States and the European Parliament should play in achieving a reliable and functioning integrated internal control framework, giving assurance to the Commission and, ultimately to the Court of Auditors. 2.
CONCRETE PROPOSALS FOR ACTION IN THE 2006-07 PERIOD The following proposals have been grouped thematically, and within each a description has been provided of the conceptual development of each action, from the Single Audit Opinion and Roadmap to the gap assessment and ECOFIN Council conclusions of 8 November 2005.
The four themes for action[4] are: - Simplification and common control principles (action 1-4) - Management declarations and audit assurance (action 5-8) - Single audit approach: sharing results and prioritising cost-benefit (action 9-11) - Sector-specific gaps (action 12-16). 2.1.
In line with the above, in paragraph 17 of the ECOFIN conclusions, the Council concluded that it should reach an understanding with the European Parliament regarding the risks to be tolerated in the underlying transactions, taking also into account the multi-annual character of EU-funding.
The Commission will initiate an inter-institutional dialogue in March 2006 on the basic principles to be considered regarding the risks to be tolerated in the underlying transactions.
On this basis, the Council and the European Parliament should reach an initial agreement regarding these risks by end 2006. 2.2.
The Contact Committee of the Heads of Supreme Audit institutions of the European Union continues to contribute towards improving the framework in this context and plans follow up of this work in 2006[5].
Action 13: Analyse the controls under shared management (in particular Structural Funds) at regional level and the value of existing statements As requested by the ECOFIN Council, by the end of 2006 the Commission will examine the present implementation of controls on the Structural Funds at sector and regional level, covering sample checks, paying authorities and winding-up bodies, as well as the value of existing statements and declarations, based on annual reporting to be delivered by 30 June 2006 by the Member States' authorities under Article 13 of Regulation (EC) No 438/2001, and on audits performed by Commission services.
Member States should ensure that the relevant information to be provided by the authorities under Article 13 for Structural Funds is delivered in accordance with the proposed timetable.
Action 14: Provide greater guidance for Structural Funds on managing the risk of error The Roadmap identified a number of areas for improvement in the area of Structural Funds[9] which would contribute to managing the risk of error in the underlying transactions for both the current and future periods.
The Council (paragraph 6 of the ECOFIN conclusions) requested clarification with regard to a number of issues, most of which have been addressed in the gap assessment.
Member States should implement for Structural Funds the ‘Contracts of Confidence’ to provide assurance for the current period, and also to lay the groundwork for the next programming period.
ANNEX 1Summary of action plan and requested support from other Institutions Simplification and common control principles | 1 | Simplification review of proposed 2007-13 legislation | The Commission will keep under consideration the simplification of the regulatory framework during the negotiations on all the 2007-2013 legislation.
Those that do not should reflect on how to provide comparable assurance on the present period and how they will prepare their control systems for the next programming period. | September 2006 | 16 | Establish common guidelines per policy family | As this is mainly an internal Commission measure, Council, European Parliament and Court of Auditors should benefit from the progress made in this domain through clearer and more coherent reporting in the Annual Activity Reports of the services. | From 2006 onwards | A NNEX 2 Draft outline of Principle of effective and efficient Internal Control 1.
The implementation of the budget shall be ensured through effective and efficient internal control in accordance with each management mode. 2.
