According to this directive, in 2006 new vehicle types and respectively in 2007 new vehicles can only be granted approval by the Member States' authorities if they are equipped with a set of mirrors and other systems of indirect vision fulfilling certain requirements in order to reduce their blind spots.
This integrated approach included the compulsory introduction of new safety features, among others the improvement of heavy goods vehicles' blind spots. 2 Consultation of interested parties and impact assessment Consultation of interested parties Consultation methods, main sectors targeted and general profile of respondents Stakeholders were consulted during the cost-benefit study by the contractor of the study in 2004.
The Commission received 36 response(s).
Therefore, Member States are free to extend the scope of the directive to vehicles over 10 years. 2 Means used to make the expert advice publicly available The cost-benefit study was published on the EUROPA and can be downloaded: http://ec.europa.eu/transport/road/publications/projectfiles/mirrors_en.htm - 230 Impact assessment The "do nothing" option means missing a window of opportunity to save lives with a straightforward and not overly expensive measure.
For heavy good vehicles, the benefit-cost ratio is only higher than 1 in the case of the lateral field of indirect vision.
Furthermore, vehicles registered more than 10 years before entry into force of this directive are exempt from this directive.
Legal basis The measure is proposed on the basis of Article 71 of the EC Treaty.
European legislation will reduce the number of blind spot accidents involving heavy goods vehicles registered in another EU country.
Correlation table The Member States are required to communicate to the Commission the text of national provisions transposing the Directive as well as a correlation table between those provisions and this Directive. 2006/0183(COD) Proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on the retrofitting of mirrors to heavy goods vehicles registered in the Community THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 71(1)(c) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[1], Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee[2], Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions[3], Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty[4], Whereas: (1) A number of accidents are caused by drivers of heavy goods vehicles who are not aware that other road users are very close or beside their vehicle.
It is estimated that every year about 400 people are killed in such circumstances, most of them being vulnerable road users such as cyclists, motorcyclists and pedestrians. (2) In its White Paper of 12 September 2001 "European transport policy for 2010: time to decide"[5] the Commission set the target of halving the number of road fatalities by 2010.
Article 3 With effect from the date set out in Article 7 Member States shall ensure that all vehicles referred to in Article 2(1) are equipped, on the passenger’s side, with close proximity and large angle mirrors which fulfil the requirements for class IV and class V mirrors under Directive 2003/97/EC respectively.
Article 4 By way of derogation from the first paragraph of Article 3 Member States may provide the following: (1) Vehicles registered from 4 to 7 years before the date set out in Article 7 shall comply with the requirements of this Directive at the latest 1 year after that date; (2) Vehicles registered from 7 to 10 years before the date set out in Article 7 shall comply with the requirements of this Directive at the latest 2 years after that date.
Article 5 Vehicles of categories N2 and N3 which, by reason of the lack of available technical solutions, cannot be equipped with mirrors which comply with this Directive may be equipped with other devices of indirect vision, provided that such devices cover at least the same field of vision as set out in the second paragraph of Article 3.
Article 6 Member States shall accompany measures under this Directive by initiatives to raise awareness of the dangers for road users arising from vehicle blind spots.
Article 9 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President[pic][pic][pic] [1] OJ C , , p. . [2] OJ C , , p. . [3] OJ C , , p. . [4] OJ C , , p. . [5] COM(2001)370 final. [6] COM(2003)311 final. [7] OJ L 25, 29.1.2004, p.1.
Directive as amended by Commission Directive 2005/27/EC ( OJ L 81, 30.3.2005, p. 44.) [8] OJ L 42, 23.2.1970, p.1.
