Proposal for a Council Decision On a Community Position concerning the decision by the WTO General Council to apply provisionally the Transparency Mechanism for Regional Trade Agreements /* COM/2006/0644 final - ACC 2006/0212 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 31.10.2006 COM(2006) 644 final 2006/0212 (ACC) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION On a Community Position concerning the decision by the WTO General Council to apply provisionally the Transparency Mechanism for Regional Trade Agreements (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM As part of the Doha Development Agenda (DDA), negotiations are underway aimed at clarifying and improving current WTO rules for Regional Trade Agreements (RTAs).
Reflecting this, the Sixth WTO Ministerial Conference, (Hong Kong, December 2005) instructed the Negotiating Group on Rules-RTAs to work for a provisional decision on the Transparency Mechanism for Regional Trade Agreements by 30 April 2006.
The 133 Committee has been regularly consulted during the negotiations and all Member States have expressed support for the text referred to above.
As before, the Committee on Regional Trade Agreements will conduct the review of RTAs falling under Article XXIV of General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and Article V of the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS).
The Sixth WTO Ministerial Conference (Hong Kong, December 2005) instructed the WTO Negotiating Group on Rules to work for a provisional decision on the Transparency Mechanism for Regional Trade Agreements by 30 April 2006, 5.
Article 2 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, […] For the Council The President […] TRANSPARENCY MECHANISM FOR REGIONAL TRADE AGREEMENTS The General Council, Having regard to paragraph 1 of Article IX of the Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization ("WTO Agreement"); Conducting the functions of the Ministerial Conference in the interval between meetings pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article IV of the WTO Agreement; Noting that trade agreements of a mutually preferential nature ("regional trade agreements" or "RTAs") have greatly increased in number and have become an important element in Members' trade policies and developmental strategies; Convinced that enhancing transparency in, and understanding of, RTAs and their effects is of systemic interest and will be of benefit to all Members; Having regard also to the transparency provisions of Article XXIV of GATT 1994, the Understanding on the Interpretation of Article XXIV of GATT 1994 ("GATT Understanding"), Article V of GATS and the 1979 Decision on Differential and More Favourable Treatment, Reciprocity and Fuller Participation of Developing Countries ("Enabling Clause"); Recognizing the resource and technical constraints of developing country Members; Recalling that in the negotiations pursued under the terms of the Doha Ministerial Declaration[2], in accordance with paragraph 47 of that Declaration, agreements reached at an early stage may be implemented on a provisional basis; Decides: A.
The information referred to in paragraph 1 above is to be forwarded to the WTO Secretariat, which will post it on the WTO website and will periodically provide Members with a synopsis of the communications received.
Upon notification, and without affecting Members' rights and obligations under the WTO agreements under which it has been notified, the RTA shall be considered by Members under the procedures established in paragraphs 6 to 13 below. 11.
Upon request, the relevant WTO body shall provide an adequate opportunity for an exchange of views on the communications submitted under paragraphs 14 and 15. 22.
Other Provisions 25.
Provisional Application of the Transparency Mechanism 27.
Reappraisal of the Mechanism 28.
Members will review, and if necessary modify, this Decision, in light of the experience gained from its provisional operation, and replace it by a permanent mechanism adopted as part of the overall results of the Round, in accordance with paragraph 47 of the Doha Declaration.
