Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the Communication from the Commission &amp;mdash; Restructuring and employment &amp;mdash; Anticipating and accompanying restructuring in order to develop employment: the role of the European Union (COM(2005) 120 final) Opinion of the "European Economic and Social Committee on the Communication from the Commission — Restructuring and employment — Anticipating and accompanying restructuring in order to develop employment: the role of the European Union" (COM(2005) 120 final) (2006/C 65/12) On 28 April 2005 the European Commission decided to consult the European Economic and Social Committee, under Article 262 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, on the abovementioned proposal.
At its 422nd plenary session, held on 14 and 15 December 2005 (meeting of 14 December), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 121 votes to 1, with 9 abstentions.
The Commission has taken up an issue which is equally important for both enterprises and employees.
Success in this field does, however, depend upon tackling the social consequences of industrial change.
The EESC welcomes the idea of giving the social partners the opportunity to continue, in concrete terms, their work on the subject of restructuring.
Introduction 1.1 Both the Social Agenda, which was adopted on 9 February 2005, and the Communication on the Review of the sustainable development strategy [1], foresee that the Commission will develop a strategy for managing restructuring operations focused on improved interaction between the relevant European policies, greater involvement of the social partners, enhanced synergy between policies and financial levers, and adaptation of the frameworks of legislation and collective agreements. 1.2 The Commission's Communication of 31 March 2005 on Restructuring and Employment [2] sets out the measures which the EU has to introduce or strengthen in order to mobilise its available potential.
The European Union's regional and cohesion policy must act as a catalyst here. 2.4 The Communication sets out the measures to be developed or strengthened by mobilising the various means available to the Union through cross-cutting and sectoral action.
The Commission has taken up an issue which is equally important for both enterprises and employees.
The Committee will examine the new Commission Communication on a new industrial policy (COM 2005 — …) in this light. 3.3 The EESC agrees in principle with the Commission's analysis of the phenomenon.
It therefore supports the Commission in its endeavours to create a set of instruments of this kind. 4.2.5 The EESC has already set out its view on industrial policy in its opinion of December 2004 [3].
In this connection, the EESC stresses the need for greater focus on the relationship between state aid, restructuring and production relocation.
In this context, the Committee recommends that particular attention be paid to practices outside the European Union. 4.2.8 On the subject of the EU's external policy, the EESC has already set out its views in a number of opinions. 4.2.9 The EESC takes the view that the Dublin-based European Monitoring Centre on Change (EMCC) also has a key role to play with a view to developing the requisite analytical instruments for monitoring restructuring.
The CCMI should continue to strengthen its cooperation with the Monitoring Centre. 4.3 Strengthening the partnership for change 4.3.1 Special attention should be paid to the extension of the sectoral social dialogue.
This instrument should, however, not only come into play in crisis situations but should apply in the case of all situations in which, in the view of the social partners, there is a need to take action, not only when they wish to alert the Commission to "a particularly worrying development".
The civil society organisations concerned must have the opportunity to take part in its work. 4.4 Adapting the framework of regulation and collective agreement 4.4.1 In addition to the regulatory modernisation and simplification measures already provided for in the Lisbon Action Programme — measures which the EESC has always welcomed — the Commission announces that it is to submit a Green Paper on the Development of labour law.
This method is not universally endorsed and it has yet to be established whether the right process for consulting the social partners has been selected in this case. 4.5.2 Irrespective of these procedural questions, the EESC welcomes the idea of giving the social partners the opportunity to continue, in concrete terms, their work on the subject of restructuring. 4.5.3 European Works Councils (EWC) have a significant role to play in company restructuring.
Brussels, 14 December 2005.
The President of the European Economic and Social Committee Anne-Marie Sigmund [1] The 2005 Review of the EU Sustainable Development Strategy; Initial Stocktaking and Future Orientations (COM(2005) 37 final), dated likewise 9 February 2005. [2] COM(2005) 120 final. [3] JO C 157 of 28.6.2005 – Fostering structural change: an industrial policy for an enlarged Europe (COM(2004) 274 final). --------------------------------------------------
