At its 427th plenary session of 17 and 18 May 2006 (meeting of 17 May), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 98 votes to one, with one abstention: 1.
It is quite true that individuals do risk losing their job but the social security network ensures that they have enough to live on in the short term, while, in the longer run, their chances of finding a new job are enhanced through active labour market measures, combined with high levels of employment. 1.5 Danish-style flexicurity means low job security for individual workers, who face the prospect of losing their job several times during the course of their working life.
This is particularly the case in large countries and federal states. 1.7 Broadly speaking, the idea behind flexicurity is that a combination of worker flexibility and security can, together, safeguard social security and competitiveness.
Active labour market policy is vital to any labour market designed to function effectively with high levels of unemployment benefit. 1.8 That said, however, Danish-style flexicurity cannot be seen in isolation from the overall context of the welfare state and a strong organisational set-up.
For instance, public expenditure on labour market policies was 4.4 % of GDP in 2003 — a European record [1].
From 2000 to 2005, for instance, the average growth rate was 1.7 %, with an average employment rate of 77.5 % and an average general government balance surplus of 1.4 % of GDP.
On the formal labour market, therefore, any signs of the emergence of a %quot%working poor%quot% are few and far between — including among Danes of other ethnic origins. 3.3 This golden triangle is illustrated below.
The key features of the Danish flexicurity system: +++++ TIFF +++++ Active labour market and training policy—Better skills—High-quality job offers—Availability testsHigh mobilityMany job openings30% switch jobs yearly10% new jobs created annually10% of jobs disappear each yearGenerous support scheme—150 000 receive support—High wage-replacement levelsPayable for 4 years. 3.4 However, flexibility on the Danish labour market is multi-facetted and cannot be achieved through liberal firing rules alone; it also requires working-time flexibility whereby, under the relevant agreements, working time may be calculated on a yearly basis and job-sharing can be introduced for relatively short periods.
More provision in collective agreements for setting final wage rates at company level also ensures a certain degree of wage flexibility.
This interplay is illustrated in Appendix 7. 5.2 In the second half of the 1980s and the first half of the 1990s, the Danish economy was in crisis.
Between 1987 and 1993, for instance, the average annual growth was running at 0.8 %, while unemployment rose from 5 % in 1987 to 9.6 % in 1993.
The crisis was the result, among other things, of the economic constraints that had been introduced in the wake of the big government deficits of the previous years. 5.3 From 1993 onwards, active labour market policy was being strengthened just at the time the economy was also being boosted by low interest rates and an expansive economic policy.
High growth, falling unemployment and burgeoning optimism made it easier for people to accept more stringent labour market rules. 5.4 The extra public spending was used, among other things, on major schemes to expand childcare cover so that women with small children were genuinely available for work. 5.5 The increased focus on labour market policies also meant more emphasis on training and further training, with the state providing massive support for further training measures for people both in and out of work.
To maintain welfare state funding without tax hikes requires higher employment rates among people of working age. 6.6.1 At around 49 %, the Danish tax burden is among the highest in the EU, where the average is around 40 %.
Brussels, 17 May 2006.
