Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 251 (2) of the EC Treaty concerning the common position of the Council on the adoption of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on international rail passengers%rsquo% rights and obligations /* COM/2006/0517 final - COD 2004/0049 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 18.09.2006 COM(2006) 517 final 2004/0049 (COD) COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 251 (2) of the EC Treaty concerning the common position of the Council on the adoption of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on international rail passengers’ rights and obligations 2004/0049 (COD) COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 251 (2) of the EC Treaty concerning the common position of the Council on the adoption of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on international rail passengers’ rights and obligations 1- BACKGROUND Date of transmission of the proposal to the EP and the Council (document COM(2004)143 final - 2004/0049(COD)): | 3 March 2004 | Date of the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee: | 9 February 2005 | Date of the opinion of the European Parliament, first reading: A6 – 0123/2005 | 28 September 2005 | Date of adoption of the common position: | 24 July 2006 | 2- OBJECTIVE OF THE COMMISSION PROPOSAL The proposal for international rail passenger rights is one of the four measures proposed in the context of the third railway package (the other measures are intended to establish a certification system for train drivers, to improve the quality of rail freight services and to open up the market of the international transport of railway passenger s of 1.1.2010).
First, the Council revises the structure of the regulation and clearly distinguishes eight chapters (I - General provisions, II - Transport contract, information and ticketing, III - Liability of railway undertakings for passengers and their luggage, IV - Delays, missed connections and cancellation, V – Persons with reduced mobility, VI – Security, complaints and quality of service, VII – Enforcement and VIII – Final provisions).
The number of annexes is reduced from four to three, whereby Annex I and II of the Commission proposal are slightly adapted and merged in II, Annex II is incorporated into the text (delay compensation) and the provisions of COTIF/CIV relevant for chapters II, III and V become Annex I.
For a large part the Council confirmed the scope proposed by the Commission (“international journeys”, which are one or several rail services, of which at least one has to be international, undertaken under one transport contract), whereas the application of Chapter IV on delays is limited to international services and Chapter V on persons with reduced mobility has an extended scope covering also domestic journeys on international services.
In most aspects the Council, in line with a similar request from the European Parliament, replace the Commission’s proposal in relation to liability of railway undertakings for passengers or luggage in case of accidents and damage due to delay, missed connection or cancellation by the COTIF/CIV framework.
The Council proposes a simplification, based on a similar request by the European Parliament, of the framework originally proposed by the Commission for ad-hoc compensation and assistance in case of delay, missed-connection or cancellation , in order to allow its straightforward application to the advantage of passengers.
The Common Position rejects 25 amendments fully and 4 in part, which the Commission had accepted.
The Common Position did not take on board 26 amendments fully and 3 in part, which the Commission had also rejected.
Part of amendment 3 and amendments 10, 23, 27, 44, 45, 46, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 56, 57, 59, to some extent 64, 77, 78, 80, 81, 82 and 83, request the alignment of the liability regime governing railway undertakings to the international agreement COTIF/CIV (Vilnius protocol of 1999, which entered into force in 2006) or simply contain references to COTIF/CIV.
The amendments to specific provisions may be considered redundant because Recitals 6 and 13, Article 10 (liability in relation to death and injury of passengers and damage of their luggage), Article 13 (liability in relation to delay, missed connection and cancellation) and in particular Annex 1 of the Common Position, in a simple and concise form, introduce the relevant provisions of COTIF/CIV on liability into the regulation.
Amendments 6 and 76 propose details in relation to the way assistance is offered to Persons with reduced mobility in case of delay.
Details concerning the way such assistance shall be offered are mentioned in Recital 10 of the Common Position.
Amendment 18 proposes changes to the definition of “reservation” which the Common Position in Article 3(9) modifies even more radically.
Amendments 20, 61 and 120 propose a simplification to the compensation scheme establishing the refund of the ticket price in case of delay proposed by the Commission proposal.
Amendments 25, 36 and 42 relate to the organisation of the provision of information and ticketing as requested by the regulation and the possible use of a European Computer Information and Reservation System (CIRS).
Article 9 of the Common Position incorporates the request to establish a CIRS and obliges the Commission, Member States and the European railway agency to cooperate in order to develop a Technical Specification of Interoperability as referred to in Directive 2001/16/EC on information and ticketing.
Amendments 32, 33 34, 35, 108 and, in part, 138 request the alignment of provisions on transport contracts and ticketing to the international agreement COTIF/CIV (Vilnius protocol of 1999, which entered into force in 2006) or simply contain references to COTIF/CIV.
Article 14 of the Common Position incorporates this idea while going further by requesting railway undertakings to offer passengers “immediately” a choice between re-routing and reimbursement of the ticket price , etc.
Amendments 70, 71, 72 (the Commission has however not accepted the limitation of this obligation via the term "where possible") and 73 request passenger consent for consequential action by railway undertakings in case of re-routing and continuation of the journey due to delay and propose several clarifications in relation to ad hoc assistance to be offered in case of delay .
Amendment 86 proposes limits to the assistance offered to Persons with reduced mobility in relation to the capacity available.
Article 17 of the Common Position allows railway undertakings to establish beforehand non-discriminatory access rules for Persons with reduced mobility.
Amendments 87 and 126 make adjustments to the duties of station managers, railway undertakings including on board train staff as to the Persons with reduced mobility assistance to be provided.
Articles 19, 20 and 21 of the Common Position render duties on the parties involved, and in particular railway undertakings and station managers clear, simple and realistic.
Article 18 of the Common Position assures ticket sale to Persons with reduced mobility for no additional costs.
Amendment 92 simplifies the person with reduced mobility’s right to assistance in the absence of prior notification for it.
For such cases Article 21 assures ad hoc assistance based on best effort.
Amendments 99 and 100 are being reflected in Article 23 of the Common Position by changing the term “security” to “ personal security ”.
First part of amendment 109 deletes the obligation to inform passengers of any plans on discontinuation or alteration of services .
Amendments 114, part of amendement 115, 116 and 117 request adjustment to the minimum travel information offered to passengers by railway undertakings.
Amendment 15 requests to clarify the definition of “ Railway undertaking” .
Amendments 21 and 22 request not to consider delays and expected delays due to cancellation, which have been announced to the passenger 48 hours in advance.
The Common Position does not foresee any such provision.
The definition of “delay” in Article 3(15) may be used to clarify this matter.
Amendment 30 requests to provide information in a format accessible to Persons with reduced mobility with visual or sensory impairments.
The Common Position does not foresee any such provision.
Amendment 38 requests sale of tickets in an accessible form .
Amendments 43, 48, 55 and 98 on the titles and structure of the regulation are not being followed because the Common Position proposes a different structure (see structure of the regulation ).
Amendments 47 and 58 refuse or limit the right to advance payment in case of death or injury of the passenger.
Article 12 of the Common Position however confirms this right, proposed by the Commission, which is also granted to air passengers.
Amendment 66 requests to apply the legal consequences in relation to the delay of rail services also when the provision of confirmed assistance to a person with reduced mobility is delayed .
Amendment 69 requests that re-routing or continuation of services may involve more expensive services at the same original price paid for the ticket.
Amendment 75 requests that the railway undertaking certifies a delay endured by passengers.
Amendments 110, 111 and 112 on national enforcement bodies and on the publicity of information concerning these bodies are incorporated to a large extent in Article 26 and Annex II of the Common Position.
While the Commission had been flexible on this issue, the Common Position does not change the Commission proposal to pay compensation within 14 days after receipt of the complaint.
Part of amendment 138 requests an obligation on railway undertakings to carry bicycles.
Contrary to the European Parliament, Article 2, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Common Position confirm (for general issues and liability of railway undertakings) or reduce (for consequences due to delays, etc.) the scope proposed by the Commission.
Amendments 7 and 125 propose to oblige railway undertakings and station managers by this regulation to render rolling stock and stations accessible for persons with reduced mobility .
Amendment 12 and part of amendment 39 referring to public service contracts are not considered relevant.
Amendments 17 and 62 referring to season tickets are not considered relevant.
Amendment 19 aligns the definition to COTIF/CIV.
This amendment may be considered redundant: Article 3, paragraphs 11, 12, 13 and 14 of the Common Position clearly define international as well as domestic journeys and services, respectively , in a clear and concise manner without contradicting COTIF/CIV.
Amendment 26 proposes changes to the definition of “ persons with reduced mobility ”.
In the meantime a definition is given by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the rights of persons with reduced mobility when travelling by air (adopted on 8 June 2006, not yet published).
Amendment 31 requests that railway undertakings and tour operators (ticket vendors) are being held liable for inaccurate information .
Amendments 60, 118 and 119 are based on the request that passengers get surcharges refunded for service quality not obtained, other than delay of service.
Contrary to that Article 15 of the Common Position confirms that the ad hoc compensation refunding the ticket price in case of delay, missed connection due to a delay or cancellation, is distinct from compensation of consequential damage governed by Article 13 of the Common Position, which refers to the COTIF/CIV provisions on the subject matter.
Amendment 65 proposes to oblige railway undertakings to avoid by all means delays .
Amendment 74 restricts ad hoc assistance for passengers on trains blocked outside stations to situations not involving exceptional circumstances.
Amendment 84 requests a clarification in relation to the railway undertakings right to claim, where relevant, compensation from the infrastructure manager.
Amendments 101, 102, 107 and 121 propose the deletion of obligatory assessment of quality standards but introduce a rather heavy procedure involving the European Railway Agency.
Amendment 127 requests training measures to better assist persons with reduced mobility.
Amendment 128 makes adjustments to the duties of station managers in relation to contact points for persons with reduced mobility .
Article 21 of the Common Position confirms this duty of the station manager as proposed by the Commission in its original text, while adding a reference to other public bodies likely to share the responsibility. 4.4 Amendments rejected by the Commission and incorporated in full or in part in the common position Amendments 4, 14 and 37 request the weakening of the obligation the Commission proposed for railway undertakings to provide tickets, through-tickets and respective travel information throughout the EU rail network.
Article 8 of the Common Position leaves the choice of offer to the railway undertakings by requesting that tickets, through-tickets and reservations shall be sold to passengers in so far as available.
A European Computer Information and Reservation System (CIRS) for rail services shall further substantiate this demand (Article 9).
Article 7 and Annex II clarify the contents of the minimum information on own services to be offered to the passenger.
A European Computer Information and Reservation System (CIRS) for rail services shall further substantiate this demand (Article 9).
Article 8 of the Common Position gives a great flexibility to railway undertakings in order to choose the way best fitted for sales of tickets.
Article 21 of the Common Position simplifies this procedure and the conditions under which assistance is offered to a person with reduced mobility having notified need for assistance at the latest 48 hours in advance.
The Commission did not want to reduce the rights of persons with reduced mobility unnecessarily and was therefore against the proposed increase in the prior notification period from 24 to 48 hours.
