Proposal for a Council Decision on a Community position within the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee on the adoption of a Decision laying down detailed rules for the application of Decision No 1/95 of the EC-Turkey Association Council /* COM/2006/0259 final - ACC 2006/0092 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 1.6.2006 COM(2006) 259 final 2006/0092 (ACC) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on a Community position within the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee on the adoption of a Decision laying down detailed rules for the application of Decision No 1/95 of the EC-Turkey Association Council (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1) Context of the proposal - Grounds for and objectives of the proposal Decision No 1/2001 of the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee of 28 March 2001, lays down detailed rules for the application of Decision No 1/95 of the EC-Turkey Association Council.
Decision No 1/1999 of the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee of 28 May 1999 lays down procedures to facilitate the issue of movement certificates EUR.1 and the making out of invoice declarations under the provisions governing preferential trade between the European Union, Turkey and certain European countries.
Decision No 1/2000 of the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee of 25 July 2000, on the acceptance, as proof of Community or Turkish origin, of movement certificates EUR.1 or invoice declarations issued by certain countries that have signed a preferential agreement with the Community or Turkey.
Further to the outcome of the EC – Faroe Islands/Denmark Joint Committee of the 28 November 2003, it has been agreed to also include the Faroe Islands in the system of pan-Euro-Mediterranean cumulation of origin.
This new Decision of the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee ('Bridging-Legislation') will incorporate the provisions on supplier's declaration, currently laid down in Decision 1/1999 of the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee of 28 May 1999 (OJ L 204 of 4.8.1999, p. 43) and adapt them for the purpose of pan-Euro-Mediterranean cumulation. - Existing provisions in the area of the proposal Decision No 1/2001 of the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee of 28 March 2001, lays down detailed rules for the application of Decision No 1/95 of the EC-Turkey Association Council.
Decision No 1/1999 of the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee of 28 May 1999 lays down procedures to facilitate the issue of movement certificates EUR.1 and the making out of invoice declarations under the provisions governing preferential trade between the European Union, Turkey and certain European countries.
Decision No 1/2000 of the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee of 25 July 2000, on the acceptance, as proof of Community or Turkish origin, of movement certificates EUR.1 or invoice declarations issued by certain countries that have signed a preferential agreement with the Community or Turkey.
Community exclusive competence. - Proportionality principle The measure proposed is necessary and adequate for the proper implementation of the Customs Union between the EU and Turkey as well as of the pan-Euro-Mediterranean cumulation. - Choice of instruments Decision No 1/95 of the EC-Turkey Association Council of 22 December 1995 on implementing the final phase of the Customs Union shall be implemented through Decisions of the EC-Turkey Customs-Co-operation Committee 4) Budgetary implication No implication 5) Additional information - Simulation, pilot phase and transitory period Not relevant - Recasting Not relevant. 2006/0092 (ACC) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on a Community position within the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee on the adoption of a Decision laying down detailed rules for the application of Decision No 1/95 of the EC-Turkey Association Council (Text with EEA relevance) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 133 in conjunction with Article 300(2), second subparagraph thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Whereas: (1) The Customs Co-operation Committee in order to lay down the appropriate measures necessary to implement the provisions of the Customs Union referred to in Articles 3, 13 and 28 of Decision 1/95 adopted Decision No 1/2001, laying down detailed rules for the application of Decision No 1/95 of the EC-Turkey Association Council[2]. (2) It was recognised the need to amend Decision No 1/2001 in order to harmonise these rules with recent amendments to Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 of 2 July 1993 laying down provisions for the implementation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 establishing the Community Customs Code[3], regarding in particular the possible refusal of a calculation of the partial relief of duties under the outward processing procedure, based on the value-added method.
The Decision provides for the use by Community and Turkish exporters of supplier's declarations, stating the Community or Turkish originating status, according to the said rules, of the goods received from suppliers in the other part of the Customs Union and for the related methods of administrative co-operation. (5) Decision No 1/2000 of the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee of 25 July 2000, on the acceptance, as proof of Community or Turkish origin, of movement certificates EUR.1 or invoice declarations issued by certain countries that have signed a preferential agreement with the Community or Turkey[5], aims at ensuring that goods covered by the Customs Union can benefit from the provisions on free circulation laid down in the basic Decision, also when they are imported into one part of the customs union accompanied by a proof of origin issued in a country with which both the Community and Turkey have concluded preferential trade agreements, providing between them for a system of cumulation of origin, based on identical rules of origin and a prohibition of any drawback or suspension from customs duties on the goods concerned. (6) Both Decisions have been adopted to facilitate a joint application of the customs union and of the preferential trade arrangements between the Community or Turkey and certain countries.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President ANNEX Draft Decision No°1/2006 of the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee laying down detailed rules for the application of Decision 1/95 of the EC-Turkey Association Council THE CUSTOMS COOPERATION COMMITTEE, Having regard to the Agreement of 12 September 1963 establishing an Association between the European Economic Community and Turkey, Having regard to Decision No 1/95 of the EC-Turkey Association Council of 22 December 1995 on implementing the final phase of the Customs Union [6] and in particular Articles 3(6), 13(3) and 28(3) thereof, Whereas: (1) The Customs Co-operation Committee shall lay down the appropriate measures necessary to implement the provisions of the Customs Union referred to in Articles 3, 13 and 28 of Decision 1/95.
It has adopted for this purpose Decision No 1/2001, laying down detailed rules for the application of Decision No 1/95 of the EC-Turkey Association Council[7]. (2) There is a need to amend Decision No 1/2001 in order to harmonise these rules with recent amendments to Commission Regulation (EEC) No 2454/93 of 2 July 1993 laying down provisions for the implementation of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2913/92 establishing the Community Customs Code[8], regarding in particular the possible refusal of a calculation of the partial relief of duties under the outward processing procedure, based on the value-added method.
The Decision provides for the use by Community and Turkish exporters of supplier's declarations, stating the Community or Turkish originating status, according to the said rules, of the goods received from suppliers in the other part of the Customs Union and for the related methods of administrative co-operation. (5) Decision No 1/2000 of the EC-Turkey Customs Co-operation Committee of 25 July 2000, on the acceptance, as proof of Community or Turkish origin, of movement certificates EUR.1 or invoice declarations issued by certain countries that have signed a preferential agreement with the Community or Turkey[10], aims at ensuring that goods covered by the Customs Union can benefit from the provisions on free circulation laid down in the basic Decision, also when they are imported into one part of the customs union accompanied by a proof of origin issued in a country with which both the Community and Turkey have concluded preferential trade agreements, providing between them for a system of cumulation of origin, based on identical rules of origin and a prohibition of any drawback or suspension from customs duties on the goods concerned. (6) Both Decisions have been adopted to facilitate a joint application of the customs union and of the preferential trade arrangements between the Community or Turkey and certain countries.
It shall also give rise to the application of the commercial policy measures described in Article 12 of the basic Decision and to which the goods may be subject. 3.
CHAPTER 2 PROVISIONS CONCERNING ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION FOR THE MOVEMENT OF GOODS Article 5 Without prejudice to Articles 11 and 17, proof that the necessary conditions for implementation of the provisions on free circulation laid down in the basic Decision are met shall be provided by documentary evidence issued at the exporter's request by the customs authorities of Turkey or of a Member State.
The documentary evidence referred to in Article 5 shall be the A.TR.
Evidence that the conditions set out in paragraph 2 have been fulfilled shall be supplied to the customs authorities of the importing State by the production of: (a) a single transport document covering the passage through the third country; or (b) a certificate issued by the customs authorities of the third country: (i) giving an exact description of the products; (ii) stating the dates of unloading and reloading of the products and, where applicable, the names of the ships, or the other means of transport used; and (iii) certifying the conditions under which the products remained in the third country; or (c) failing these, any substantiating documents.
The customs authorities shall refuse the authorisation referred to in paragraph 2 to exporters who do not offer all the guarantees which they consider necessary.
In the cases referred to in paragraph 5(a), one of the following phrases shall be entered in box 8 “Remarks” of the A.TR.
movement certificate: 'ES "Procedimiento simplificado" CS "Zjednodušený postup" DA "Forenklet fremgangsmåde" DE "Vereinfachtes Verfahren" ET "Lihtsustatud tolliprotseduur" EL " Απλουστευµένη διαδικασία " EN "Simplified procedure" FR "Procédure simplifiée" IT "Procedura semplificata" LV "Vienkaršota procedura" LT "Supaprastinta procedura" HU "Egyszerűsített eljárás" MT "Procedura simplifikata" NL "Vereenvoudigde regeling" PL "Procedura uproszczona" PT "Procedimento simplificado" SL "Poenostavljen postopek" SK "Zjednodušený postup" FI "Yksinkertaistettu menettely" SV "Förenklat förfarande" TR "Basitleştirilmiş prosedür"' 7.
The completed certificate, bearing the phrase specified in paragraph 6 and signed by the approved exporter, shall be equivalent to a document certifying that the conditions specified in Article 5 of this Decision have been fulfilled.
Article 13 When goods are placed under the control of a customs office in one part of the customs union, it shall be possible to replace the original A.TR.
movement certificate by one or more A.TR.
The customs authorities may issue an A.TR.
These results must indicate clearly whether the documents are authentic and whether the goods concerned can be considered as in free circulation in the customs union and fulfil the other requirements of the basic Decision and this Decision. 6.
By derogation from Article 5, the provisions on free circulation laid down in the basic Decision also apply to goods imported in one part of the customs union if they are accompanied by a proof of Turkish or Community origin, established in a country, a group of countries or a territory under the provisions of preferential trade agreements, concluded by both the Community and Turkey with this country, group of countries or territory and providing for a system of cumulation of origin implying the application of identical rules of origin and of a prohibition of drawback of, or exemption from, customs duties. 2.
Article 18 Where disputes arise in relation to the verification procedures of Article 16 which cannot be settled between the customs authorities requesting a verification and the customs authorities responsible for carrying out this verification, or where they raise a question as to the interpretation of this Decision, they shall be submitted to the Customs Co-operation Committee.
Article 19 Penalties shall be imposed on any person who draws up, or causes to be drawn up, a document which contains incorrect information for the purpose of obtaining the treatment resulting from the provisions on free circulation laid down in the basic Decision.
Chapter 4Postal consignments ARTICLE 21 Postal consignments (including postal packages) shall benefit from the provisions on free circulation laid down in the basic Decision without being the subject of the certificate provided for in Chapter 2, provided there is no indication on the packing or on the accompanying documents that the goods contained therein do not comply with the conditions set out in the basic Decision.
Chapter 2Outward processing ARTICLE 23 For the purposes of this Chapter, “triangular traffic” shall mean the system under which the compensating products after outward processing are released for free circulation with partial or total relief from import duties in a part of the customs union other than that from which the goods were temporarily exported.
Article 24 Where compensating or replacement products are released for free circulation under the triangular traffic system, information sheet INF 2 shall be used in order to communicate information on temporary export goods in triangular traffic, in order to obtain partial or total relief for compensating or replacement products.
Information sheet INF 2 shall be made out, for the quantities of goods entered for the procedure, in an original and one copy on forms which conform to the specimen set out in Annex 71 of the Implementing Provisions of the Community Customs Code, when it is issued in the Community and to the specimen set out mutatis mutandis in the Turkish Customs Law on the basis of that Annex, when it is issued in Turkey.
The forms shall be completed in one of the official languages of the Community or in the Turkish language..
The office of entry shall endorse the original and the copy of the information sheet INF 2.
Where an analysis is required and the results will not be known until after the customs office has endorsed information sheet INF 2, the document containing the result of the analysis shall be given to the exporter in a sealed tamper-proof envelope.
Where the customs office issuing the information sheet INF 2 considers that additional information to that appearing on the information sheet is required, it shall enter such particulars.
The customs office which endorsed the information sheet INF 2 may be asked to carry out post-clearance verification of the authenticity of the sheet and the accuracy of the particulars which it contains. 3.
In the case of successive consignments, the requisite number of information sheets INF 2 may be made out for the quantity of goods or products entered for the arrangements.
The initial information sheet may also be replaced with further information sheets or, where only one information sheet is used, the customs office to which the sheet is endorsed may note on the original the quantities of goods or products.
The customs authorities may permit the use of recapitulative information sheets INF 2 for triangular traffic trade flows involving a large number of operations which cover the total quantity of imports/exports over a given period. 5.
In exceptional circumstances, the information sheet INF 2 may be issued retrospectively but not beyond the expiry of the period required for keeping documents.
Article 28 In the event of theft, loss or destruction of the information sheet INF 2, the operator may ask the customs office, which endorsed it for a duplicate to be issued.
The original and copies of the information sheet so issued shall bear one of the following indications: 'ES "DUPLICADO" CS "DUPLIKÁT" DA "DUPLIKAT" DE "DUPLIKAT" ET "DUPLIKAAT" EL "ΑΝΤΙΓΡΑΦΟ" EN "DUPLICATE" FR "DUPLICATA" IT "DUPLICATO" LV "DUBLIKĀTS" LT "DUBLIKATAS" HU "MÁSODLAT" MT "DUPLIKAT" NL "DUPLICAAT" PL "DUPLIKAT" PT "SEGUNDA VIA" SL "DVOJNIK" SK "DUPLIKÁT" FI "KAKSOISKAPPALE" SV "DUPLIKAT" TR "İKİNCİ NÜSHADİR" '.
Article 29 Partial relief from import duties by taking the cost of the processing operation as the basis of the value for duty shall be granted on request for compensating products which are to be released for free circulation.
CHAPTER 3 RETURNED GOODS ARTICLE 30 1.
Article 31 The relief from import duties provided for in Article 30 shall be granted only if goods are re-imported in the state in which they were exported.
Article 32 Articles 30 and 31 shall apply mutatis mutandis to compensating products originally exported or re-exported subsequent to an inward processing procedure.
Article 33 Returned goods shall be exempt from import duties even where they represent only a proportion of the goods previously exported from the other part of the customs union.
The same applies where the goods consist of parts or accessories belonging to machines, instruments, apparatus or other products previously exported from the other part of the customs union.
By derogation from Article 31, returned goods in one of the following situations shall be exempt from import duties: (a) goods which, after having been exported from the other part of the customs union, have received no treatment other than that necessary to maintain them in good condition or handling which alters their appearance only; (b) goods which, after having been exported from the other part of the customs union, received treatment other than that necessary to maintain them in good condition or handling other than that altering their appearance, but which proved to be defective or unsuitable for their intended use, provided that one of the following conditions are fulfilled: – such treatment or handling was applied to the goods solely with a view to repairing them or restoring them to good condition, – their unsuitability for their intended use became apparent only after such treatment or handling had commenced. 2.
Article 35 When completing the customs export formalities, the customs authorities shall, at the request of the person concerned, issue a document containing the information necessary for identification of the goods in the event of their being returned to the customs territory of one part of the customs union.
The following shall be accepted as returned goods: – goods for which the following documents are produced in support of the declaration for release for free circulation: (a) the copy of the export declaration returned to the exporter by the customs authorities, or a copy of such document certified true by the said authorities; or (b) the information sheet provided for in Article 37.
Nor shall it apply in cases where goods may be declared for release for free circulation orally or by any other act. 3.
Article 37 Information sheet INF 3 shall be made out in an original and two copies on forms which conform to the specimens set out in Annex 110 of the Implementing Provisions of the Community Customs Code, when it is issued in the Community and to the specimens set out mutatis mutandis in the Turkish Customs Law on the basis of that Annex, when it is issued in Turkey.
The forms shall be completed in one of the official languages of the Community or in the Turkish language.
Information sheet INF 3 shall be issued at the exporter's request by the customs authorities at the customs office of exportation at the time of completion of the export formalities for the goods concerned, if the exporter declares that it is probable that these goods will be returned via a customs office of the other part of the customs union. 2.
Where it is expected that the exported goods will be returned to the other part of the customs union or to both parts of the customs union through several customs offices other than the customs office of exportation, the exporter may ask for several information sheets INF 3 to be issued to cover the total quantity of the goods exported.
Similarly, the exporter may ask the customs authorities which issued an information sheet INF 3 to replace it by several information sheets INF 3 covering the total quantity of goods included in the information sheet INF 3 initially issued.
Article 40 The original and one copy of information sheet INF 3 shall be returned to the exporter for presentation at the customs office of re-importation.
Article 41 The customs office of re-importation shall record on the original and on the copy of information sheet INF 3 the quantity of returned goods exempted from import duties, retaining the original and sending the copy, bearing the reference number and the date of declaration for free circulation, to the customs authorities which issued it.
Article 42 In the event of theft, loss or destruction of the original information sheet INF 3, the person concerned may ask the customs authorities which issued it for a duplicate.
A duplicate so issued shall bear one of the following indications: 'ES "DUPLICADO" CS "DUPLIKÁT" DA "DUPLIKAT" DE "DUPLIKAT" ET "DUPLIKAAT" EL "ΑΝΤΙΓΡΑΦΟ" EN "DUPLICATE" FR "DUPLICATA" IT "DUPLICATO" LV "DUBLIKĀTS" LT "DUBLIKATAS" HU "MÁSODLAT" MT "DUPLIKAT" NL "DUPLICAAT" PL "DUPLIKAT" PT "SEGUNDA VIA" SL "DVOJNIK" SK "DUPLIKÁT" FI "KAKSOISKAPPALE" SV "DUPLIKAT" TR "İKİNCİ NÜSHADİR" '.
The customs authorities shall record on the copy of information sheet INF 3 in their possession that a duplicate has been issued.
Information sheet INF 3 may be used for the request and the transmission of the information referred to in paragraph 1.
Chapter 4establishment of proofs of preferential origin in parts of the customs union Article 44 This Chapter lays down rules intended to facilitate: (a) the issue of movement certificates EUR.1 or EUR-MED and the making-out of invoice declarations or invoice declarations EUR-MED under the provisions of preferential trade agreements, concluded by both the Community and Turkey with countries, groups of countries or territories and providing for a system of cumulation of origin implying the application of identical rules of origin and of a prohibition of drawback of, or exemption from, customs duties; (b) the administrative cooperation between the customs authorities of the Member States of the Community and of Turkey for that purpose.
Article 46 Except in the cases provided for in Article 47, the supplier shall provide a separate declaration for each consignment of goods.
The supplier's declaration shall be given in the form prescribed in Annex V or, for long-term suppliers' declarations, in that prescribed in Annex VI. 2.
Information certificate INF 4 shall be made out on forms which conform to the specimen set out in Annex V of Council Regulation (EC) No 1207/2001 of 11 June 2001 [13], when it is issued in the Community and to the specimen set out mutatis mutandis in the Turkish Customs Law on the basis of that Annex, when it is issued in Turkey.
The information certificate INF 4 shall be issued by the customs authorities of the State in which the supplier is established.
The said authorities shall have the right to call for any evidence and to carry out any inspection of the supplier's accounts or any other check that they consider necessary. 4.
The customs authorities of the State in which the supplier is established shall issue the information certificate INF 4 within three months of receipt of the application submitted to them by the suppliers, indicating whether or not the declaration given by the supplier was correct. 5.
When carrying out the verification, the customs authorities of the State in which the supplier is established may call for any evidence carry out any inspection of the producer's accounts or conduct any other verification considered appropriate. 4.
The customs authorities requesting the verification shall be informed of the results as soon as possible by means of the information certificate INF 4. 5.
TITLE IV FINAL PROVISIONS Article 52 Decisions No 1/1999, 1/2000 and 1/2001 are hereby repealed.
Done at Brussels, For the Customs Co-operation Committee The President ANNEXES ANNEX I [pic] [pic] ANNEX II Explanatory notes for the movement certificate I.
Enter the name of the country concerned. 9.
