Special Report No 6/2006 concerning the environmental aspects of the Commission's development cooperation, together with the Commission's replies Special Report No 6/2006 concerning the environmental aspects of the Commission's development cooperation, together with the Commission's replies (pursuant to Article 248(4), second subparagraph, EC) (2006/C 235/01) CONTENTS ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMINOLOGY I-VI SUMMARY 1-7 INTRODUCTION 1-3 Background 4-7 Audit scope and approach 8-27 COMMISSION STRATEGY FOR THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS OF ITS DEVELOPMENT AID 8 Introduction 9-13 Need for a clear and comprehensive environment strategy 14-27 Adequate management arrangements for implementing the Commission's environment mainstreaming strategy and assessing the environmental performance of its development aid are still to be made 15-17 Mechanism for overseeing the implementation of the environmental mainstreaming strategy 18-23 Building the Commission's capacity to implement the environmental mainstreaming strategy 24-27 Systems for assessing the environmental performance of the Commission's development aid 28-46 AN ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE COMMISSION'S ENVIRONMENTAL MAINSTREAMING 28 Introduction 29-35 Progress was made in 2005 in developing country environmental analysis for new Country Strategy Papers although its impact cannot yet be assessed 36-38 Little has been done to mainstream the environment into budgetary support programmes 39-46 Procedures for environmental mainstreaming at project level have not been sufficiently systematic 47-81 AN ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF ENVIRONMENT PROJECTS AND FACTORS INFLUENCING EFFECTIVENESS 47 Introduction 48-56 Assessment of project effectiveness 57-81 Analysis of factors affecting effectiveness of environment projects 58-63 Overambitious design of projects 64-67 Delays in project preparation and implementation 68-70 Limited progress in institutional capacity building 71-72 The need for greater focus on the sustainable use of natural resources by local communities 73-77 Insufficient impact of projects on policy and legal framework 78-81 Unrealistic approach to financial viability 82-101 CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 82-86 Conclusions 87-101 Recommendations 87-93 Establishing a comprehensive strategy for the environment and following up its implementation 94-97 Improving the effectiveness of environmental mainstreaming 98-101 Improving the effectiveness of environment projects ANNEX I — OECD Development Assistance Committee — project classification ANNEX II — Environment projects examined and an assessment of their effectiveness ANNEX III — Overview of project effectiveness The Commission's replies ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMINOLOGY ACP African, Caribbean and Pacific States signatory to the Cotonou Agreement ALA Asia and Latin America developing countries CEPs Country Environment Profile CSP Country Strategy Papers DFID British Department for International Development DG DEV Directorate-General for Development DG ENV Directorate-General for Environment DG Relex Directorate-General for External Relations DWNP Department of Wildlife and National Parks ECOFAC Ecosystèmes Forestiers d'Afrique Centrale EIA Environmental Impact Assessment Europeaid Europeaid Cooperation Office FAO Food and Agriculture Organisation GEF Global Environment Facility iQSG Interservice Quality Support Group KfW German Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau MDGs Millennium Development Goals MEAs Multilateral Environment Agreements MEDA Measures to accompany the economic and social reforms in the Mediterranean non-member countries NRPP Natural Resources Policy Programme OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation Development OECD DAC Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development OQSG Office Quality Support Group (OQSG) PEP Poverty and Environment Partnership PRSP Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers SEA Strategic Environmental Assessment UNDP United Nations Development Programme UNEP United Nations Environment Programme WSSD World Summit on Sustainable Development WWF World Wildlife Fund SUMMARY I.
More generally, the environment has come to figure as a key item on the international development agenda, and environmental sustainability is one of the Millennium Development Goals (see paragraphs 1 to 3).
As well as reviewing Commission systems in its headquarters and delegations, it also audited 65 environment projects (total value: 560 million euro) and 43 non-environment programmes and projects (total value: 1073 million euro) in 16 countries (see paragraphs 4 to 7).
While since 2001 there has been a strategy on the need to integrate the environment into development cooperation, the approach to financing programmes and projects in the environment and natural resources sector has not been clearly addressed.
The new development policy signed in December 2005 provides a good basis for establishing a comprehensive strategy (paragraphs 9 to 12).
As a result, planned measures have generally been implemented after some delay or not at all (paragraphs 15 to 17).
The environment integration manual, to be introduced in 2003, was still not completed at the end of 2005, although this manual was important both for defining mainstreaming procedures to be followed by Commission staff and as a key training input.
Training courses have not been compulsory for key officials, although this was foreseen, and have often been poorly attended (see paragraphs 18 to 23).
There is a need to further strengthen reporting, monitoring and evaluation systems on the environmental aspects of the Commission's development cooperation to enable its performance in this area to be better assessed (see paragraphs 24 to 28).
The Commission has made only limited progress since 2001 in mainstreaming the environment into its development cooperation.
The Country Strategy Papers (CSPs) drawn up by the Commission in conjunction with beneficiary countries covering the Commission's aid to beneficiary countries over the period 2001 to 2006 did not take sufficient account of environmental issues.
In preparing the new generation of CSPs (2007 to 2013), the Commission has been taking a much more systematic approach to analysing environmental issues in beneficiary countries through the establishment of Country Environment Profiles (CEPs) although it is too early to assess how far this analysis will influence the CSPs themselves (paragraphs 29 to 35).
Despite the increasing importance of budgetary support as a form of development aid, the Commission has done little to mainstream the environment into this area (paragraphs 36 to 38).
There is also a need to establish procedures to ensure the implementation of EIA recommendations (see paragraphs 39 to 46).
Moreover, the project approach has inherent difficulties in achieving significant impacts and assuring financial viability (paragraphs 47 to 56).
Key factors influencing project effectiveness have been overambitious project design, delays in project preparation and implementation, limited progress in building institutional capacity, difficulties in addressing the needs of local communities for development while meeting conservation objectives, projects' insufficient impact on the policy and legal framework, and the unrealistic goals set for financial sustainability after the end of project funding (see paragraphs 57 to 81).
INTRODUCTION Background 1.
The Commission's attention to mainstreaming the environment in the context of development should be seen not only in terms of an increased recognition by donors of the importance of this approach but also in the context of the wider European Union legal and policy framework.
Thus Article 6 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, as amended by the 1997 Treaty of Amsterdam, stipulates that: %quot%Environmental protection requirements must be integrated into the definition and implementation of Community policies and activities…, in particular with a view to promoting sustainable development%quot%.
In view of the environment's key role as one of the three pillars of sustainable development and its importance as one of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the European Court of Auditors carried out an audit in 2005 of the European Commission's management of the environmental aspects of its development cooperation with Asian and Latin American developing countries, southern Mediterranean countries and the African, Caribbean and Pacific group of States.
Area | Commitments 2003 to 2004 (EDF and general budget of the EU; million euro) | Commitments as % of total Commission Aid 2003 to 2004 | General environment protection | 279 | 1,8 % | Water supply and sanitation | 679 | 4,3 % | Forestry | 42 | 0,3 % | Fisheries | 70 | 0,4 % | Total | 1070 | 6,8 % | 6.
Work was carried out at the Commission's headquarters, notably at the Europeaid Cooperation Office (Europeaid), the Directorate-General for Development (DG DEV), the Directorate-General for External Relations (DG Relex) and also the Directorate-General for Environment (DG ENV), in order to identify and assess the systems established to manage the environmental aspects of development cooperation.
In addition, it examined 43 other development programmes and projects (total commitments: 1073 million euro), where support to the environment was not the primary objective, in order to assess how well environmental aspects had been integrated into these interventions. 7.
The audit sought to establish: (a) whether the Commission had a comprehensive overall strategy for the environmental aspects of its development cooperation which took into account both the financing of environment programmes and projects and mainstreaming the environment into other development programmes and projects; (b) whether the Commission had established the management systems which ensure the implementation and follow-up of this strategy and assess the environmental performance of its aid.
The development policy, in following an approach which focused very largely on mainstreaming the environment, did not sufficiently take into consideration the fact that existing regional cooperation frameworks with the ACP States [5], Asia and Latin America (ALA) [6] and the Mediterranean region (MEDA) [7] provided for the possibility of significant funding of programmes and projects in the environment and the wider natural resources sector.
Indeed, budget lines for technical and financial assistance to ALA and MEDA regions set aside 10 % of financial resources for environment and natural resources.
At the same time, although not referred to in the development policy, a specific regulation on forest conservation and management stipulated that a sum of 249 million euro would be allocated to this purpose over the period 2000 to 2006 [8]. 11.
Box 2 Examples of strategic issues relating to the financing of environment programmes and projects What are the Commission's objectives and priority areas for funding environment programmes and projects, taking into account its strengths and weaknesses and the role of other donors?
In proposing this new approach the Commission recognised that the previous policy had relied too heavily on mainstreaming to ensure the environmental aspects of the Commission's development cooperation were addressed [9]. 13.
The Commission's approach to building up its capacity has focused on training and support to existing staff on mainstreaming the environment.
Although preparation originally began in 1998, at the end of 2005 it was still not completed (see Box 3 for details).
In fact the training courses only began in November 2004 and have not been compulsory.
It was also planned that the training would use the new manual but this has not proved possible (see paragraph 21).
For the Delegations, the training budget allocated was only sufficient for courses to be held in 20 Delegations (attended by Delegation staff and staff from organisations in the beneficiary countries).
The coding system used by the World Bank tackles this issue [11].
Progress was made in 2005 in developing country environmental analysis for new Country Strategy Papers although its impact cannot yet be assessed 29.
The Commission drew up Country Strategy Papers (CSPs) for the first time in 2001 and 2002 for each of the countries and regions to which it gives development assistance in order to set out what form the Commission's assistance should take over the period 2006 to 2007.
A specific instrument available to the Commission for promoting the integration of the environment into its development cooperation is Regulation (EC) No 2493/2000, which has a budget of 93 million euro over the period 2000 to 2006 [15].
On the Commission side, it is of concern that only limited use was made in 2005 by officials responsible for CSP preparation of the opportunities for training in environmental mainstreaming (see Box 4).
Thus, approximately 25 % of EDF funding allocated to ACP countries under the current CSPs has been allocated to such support.
However, the Commission has done little to mainstream the environment into this newer form of aid although the Council stated in its conclusions of 31 May 2001 on the Commission's environmental integration strategy that: %quot%environmental considerations should be systematically incorporated into the preparation of all … structural adjustment programmes and sector-wide reform and support programmes%quot% [16]. 37.
A first step in the environmental appraisal of projects is to screen them in order to assess potential environmental risks and opportunities.
Box 6 Environmental screening in the Commission's delegation in Nicaragua The Commission's Regional Delegation in Nicaragua deals with six countries and has over 140 staff.
The audit found that no guidelines for environmental screening are used by the Delegation and no environmental screening leading to further detailed assessment had been carried out for projects and programmes in the 2002 to 2006 CSP.
The environment is, however, only one of a whole series of issues to be addressed by these fiches and the audit of 20 project identification fiches reviewed by the OQSG in 2005 found that environmental issues had not been adequately addressed in them: (a) although it was required to classify the project according to its environmental impact [19], in none of the 20 cases had this been done; (b) although it was required to explain how the environment was to be mainstreamed into the project design, in 16 cases this had not been done. 41.
The European Union has had EIA legislation for internal policies since 1985 [20].
Up to 35 % of ninth EDF financing under the current Country Strategy Papers (CSPs) is allocated for road projects alone.
A Commission evaluation in 2004 of %quot%EC interventions in the transport sector in third countries%quot% found that no EIA had been carried out for four of the fifteen projects evaluated.
Box 7 Environmental impact assessments for large infrastructure and mining projects In Tanzania, for the rehabilitation and upgrading of the Mwanza Border-Tinte and Isaka-Nzga Roads (eighth EDF, 85 million euro), what the Financing Proposal termed an EIA amounted to only one page in the feasibility study.
In Botswana, no EIA was carried out on a Sysmin project (eighth EDF, 30 million euro) which provided assistance to extend the life of the Selebi Phikwe copper/nickel mine without immediately addressing the serious risk of the collapse of tailings dam or the unacceptably high level of sulphur dioxide emissions from the smelter.
Box 8 Environmental impact assessments for other kinds of projects In the Pacific, at least four of the projects audited would have benefited from an EIA.
Box 9 The follow-up of environmental impact assessments In the case of the Northern Plains Irrigation project in Mauritius (7th EDF, 9 million euro), although a detailed EIA for the replacement of a pipeline was carried out and the special conditions of the Financing Agreement provided for %quot%a systematic monitoring of environmental impacts to ensure that mitigating measures proposed by the EIA are implemented%quot%, no evidence of this was found.
In addition to measures to mainstream the environment into development cooperation, examined in the previous section, the Commission has also sought to address environmental issues by financing programmes and projects in the environment sector.
Despite the fact that the sector was not a priority field in the 2000 development policy (see paragraph 9) and commitments in this area as a proportion of total aid funding has been relatively low (see Table), the Commission has remained active in this field and may become more so with the adoption of the new development policy where environment and natural resources will be a priority field (see paragraph 12).
Projects supported from this budget line were relatively small (typically 1,0 to 2,5 million euro) and generally implemented by NGOs following a call for project proposals from the Commission.
The size of these projects varied considerably, but on average it was in the order of 10 to 15 million euro.
Chart Audit assessment of project effectiveness +++++ TIFF +++++ Percentage1009080706050403020100YesNoYesPartialMostSomeFewHighMediumLowGoodLimitedProject relevantOutputs achievedResults achievedImpact levelSustainability prospects 51.
However, the increasingly systematic use from 2005 onwards by the Commission of Country Environment Profiles (see paragraph 33), which are intended to provide a full assessment of environmental issues in each beneficiary country, should enable it to better identify the highest priority projects. 52.
According to the Court's assessment in 63 % of projects outputs had been or were likely to be fully achieved.
In 37 % of cases outputs had been partially achieved, or were likely to be partially achieved within the project timeframe. 53.
In 58 % of projects most of the results had been achieved, in 21 % of projects some results had been achieved and in a further 21 % of cases few results had been achieved.
In 42 % of projects was the impact assessed as being, or likely to be, medium to high, while in 58 % of cases impact was assessed as low.
In 45 % of projects were the prospects for sustainability considered to be good, while in 55 % of cases they were considered to be limited.
The example in Box 10 below illustrates these different aspects of project effectiveness in relation to one of the most important projects funded by the Commission.
Box 10 An illustration of the assessment criteria — the case of the regional programme for the conservation and development of the forestry Ecosystems of Central Africa (ECOFAC) Since 1992, the Commission has played a leading role in initiating activities for the conservation and sustainable use of the forestry ecosystems of Central Africa, mainly through the Regional Programme for the Conservation and Development of the Forestry Ecosystems of Central Africa (ECOFAC) programme (sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth EDFs; 72,45 million euro).
On the other hand, the promotion of the natural and cultural heritage of these protected areas by developing tourism has been limited because of several factors (cost of air transport, Ebola virus epidemics, lack of success in accustoming gorillas to the presence of humans in the Lopé reserve in Gabon, lack of involvement of national authorities and lack of interest of private investors).
The programme was able to set up a Network of Protected Areas of Central Africa (RAPAC) together with the institutions and administration responsible for managing the protected area, such as the COMIFAC (Conférence Ministérielle des Forêts d’Afrique Centrale).
The typically smaller projects financed from the Environment and Forestry budget line are designed by the NGOs although the Commission is also responsible for their appraisal.
Since 2002 Europeaid has made significant efforts to improve project appraisal procedures through its Office Quality Support Group (OQSG).
However, in addition to these review procedures in Commission headquarters there is a need to ensure that sufficient resources are devoted to the field appraisal of projects by Commission staff teams which have sufficient environmental expertise and knowledge of local conditions and Commission procedures.
Box 11 An example of an overly ambitious project design The natural forest management project in China (16,9 million euro) seeks in a five-year timeframe to introduce a completely new approach to forestry management in China involving %quot%co-management%quot% between State forest villagers and enterprises.
The project covers 3 provinces in south western China (Sichian, Hunan, Hainan) and will involve interventions in 6 counties, 11 townships and 58 villages across these three provinces.
In addition to the core work on co-management, a poverty alleviation component to the project provides for at least 290 small public infrastructure projects in the villages.
Responsibility for these delays lay both on the Commission and beneficiary country authorities (or NGO) side. 65.
For two projects in Brazil, one in Guatemala and one in Morocco, project implementation was delayed because of the need to suspend the projects while financial irregularities were being investigated.
Box 12 Examples of delays reducing a project's relevance The Responsible Coffee Consumption and Production project in Nicaragua (1,2 million euro) was only approved two years after its submission.
The Promotion of Ecologically Sustainable, Socially Equitable, and Economically Viable Forest Management Through Implementation of Credible Certification Systems project in Indonesia (0,9 million euro) was also approved two years after its submission.
The Sustainable Development of the Cuiabá-Santarem Economic Corridor project in Brazil (1,5 million euro) was approved two years after its submission as well.
In Botswana, a major 14 million euro project, focusing largely on institution-building in the Department of Wildlife and National Parks (DWNP), was implemented without sufficient participation and commitment from the Ministry of Wildlife, Environment and Tourism, to which the DWNP reported (see Box 13).
Box 13 An example of problems affecting institution-building projects The eighth EDF Wildlife Conservation and Management Programme in Botswana (14 million euro) illustrates many of the problems faced in institution-building projects.
The development of tourism is a means of improving local as well as national income.
However, in Botswana, the eighth EDF Wildlife project did little to help develop tourism in the Makgadikgadi National Park even though an earlier, sixth EDF tourism study on Botswana had recommended such an approach.
Box 14 A project illustrating the importance of assessing the needs of local communities in environment projects The pilot project %quot%development of a model for managing fauna in the forests of Central Africa in north east Gabon%quot% (1,9 million euro) was designed to address the problem of commercial poaching in the forests of the Congo basin.
Incomplete legal frameworks, particularly in relation to the land rights of project beneficiaries in local communities have, for example, hindered forestry projects in Indonesia and China.
Box 15 An example of project impact and sustainability reduced by problems with policy and legal framework In Brazil, the Commission, through the Natural Resources Policy Programme (NRPP), finances the definition and implementation of an integrated environmental management model and its decentralisation from central Government to the state and municipal levels in five States of the Amazon (16,7 million euro).
The NRPP was the main project funded under the Rain Forest Pilot Programme (PPG7), aimed at reaching the overarching objective of controlling and reversing deforestation in the Amazon.
The State of Mato Grosso, where the model is best developed, was, however, the state with the worst deforestation rate in 2004.
Indeed, in both the Commission and in beneficiary countries there has been a tendency to consider funding available under the Environment and Forestry budget line as a reason for not allocating bilateral funds to the environment sector. 80.
In any case the prospects for financial viability without government support are very limited in most countries, and in many developing countries government budgets are insufficient to finance conservation measures.
Several cases of this were found during the audit which threatened to undermine the results the projects had achieved (see Box 16). 81.
Box 16 Economic activities threatening to undermine effectiveness of projects In Indonesia the Commission has supported the development of sustainable forest management in the Berau area of Kalimantan.
However, Berau Coal Company has a licence for 25 % of the area, which includes 16 of the 18 long-term research plots being funded.
In China, despite a general logging ban, in two (Hainan, Hunan) of the three provinces covered by the Natural Forestry project, deforestation continued.
Nevertheless, without a clear strategy to help make the new development policy's approach to the environment operational, its potential benefits are likely to be undermined. 83.
At project level, environmental mainstreaming has suffered from a lack of systematic procedures in the absence of a manual which clearly defines key procedures and makes compliance with them compulsory. 85.
The Commission should make a particular effort to better mainstream the environment into its direct budgetary support, in particular by ensuring that SEAs are carried out and by seeking opportunities to include environmental indicators. 96.
Specific procedures for ensuring the environmental screening of all projects should be established and these should be checked by environment focal points in Delegations and by the specialist environment staff in Europeaid. 97.
The Commission should give greater attention to helping local communities find sustainable ways of using natural resources. 101.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at its meeting of 15 June 2006.
For the Court of Auditors Hubert Weber President [1] When addressing these key questions, the audit took into account the environmental auditing guidelines of the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI). [2] The main reason for focusing on forestry is that the Commission has a special budget line for tropical and other forests (see paragraph 10).
While a special ACP-EU Water Facility was created in 2004, this is still at an early stage of implementation. [3] The other two pillars are economic well-being and social development.
The most widely used definition of sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs (1987 Bruntland Report on Environment and Development). [4] Article 177 of the EC Treaty states that sustainable development is an objective of development cooperation. [5] Article 32 of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement signed on 23 June 2000 (OJ L 317, 15.12.2000). [6] Article 5 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 443/92 of 25 February 1992 on financial and technical assistance to, and economic cooperation with, the developing countries in Asia and Latin America (OJ L 52, 27.2.1992, p. 1). [7] Annex II of Council Regulation (EC) No 1488/96 of 23 July 1996 on financial and technical measures to accompany (MEDA) the reform of economical and social structures in the framework of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership (OJ L 189, 30.7.1996, p. 1). [8] Regulation (EC) No 2494/2000 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 November 2000 on measures to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries (OJ L 288, 15.11.2000, p. 6). [9] The Commission Staff Working Paper %quot%Proposal for a Joint Declaration by the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission on the EU Development Policy%quot% of 13 July 2005 envisaged %quot%greater attention to the environmental dimension of sustainable development through its %quot%promotion%quot% from cross-cutting theme … to explicit objective of EU aid mirrored by detailed thematic priorities of EC aid%quot%. [10] The Commission did organise a more specific evaluation of the Environment and Tropical Forest budget line, as laid down in the related Regulations in 2004. [11] In 2002 the World Bank introduced a new two-dimensional coding system.
The rehabilitation of the Makokou research station (PSVAP 2) has enabled it to reopen.
In Central America, reduction of vulnerability and environment improvement is a priority area of cooperation in the 2002-2006 Regional Strategy Paper as the region is very vulnerable to natural disasters.
Regarding the three countries visited, sustainable management of natural resources, in particular related to water and land, is a priority area of cooperation in Honduras, whereas it is not a priority in Nicaragua and Guatemala.
Many of the activities completed are not sustainable without additional technical and financial assistance [2].
For the project AGIR, local populations have similarly accepted the concepts of the project and have included environmental activities in the communes' development plans for 2005 to 2009.
However, the results and sustainability of the completed Maison de l'Environnement project were very limited as it did not succeed in establishing long term partnerships to promote the environment in Fes and Mekhnés. 11.
A sewerage project in Mwanza has not reduced the pollution levels of water flowing into Lake Victoria to the standards required although the situation may improve when related projects are implemented. [1] This programme was created at the 1990 summit of the %quot%Group of Seven%quot% (G-7) industrialized countries, in the wake of growing concerns about rapid deforestation in the Amazon basin.
From November 2004 until the end of 2005 about 350 members of staff have been trained in HQ and Delegations.
The Commission has been systematically preparing Country Environment Profiles with the aim of better integrating the environment into the next generation of Country Strategy Papers (2007 to 2013).
However, the impact of these CEPs on the new CSPs depends ultimately on the priority given by the partner countries to environmental issues.
General budget support (GBS) entails a broad policy dialogue on partners’ development strategies, and focuses on poverty reduction, macro-economic stability, and improved public financial management according to the legal provisions and commitments (such as Article 61.2 of the Cotonou agreement).
In the case of sector budget support (SBS), sector specific environmental concerns can be taken into account through the sectoral policy dialogue as well as the programme design itself.
The Commission is taking the environment aspect into account in the current revision of its manuals on budget and sector policy support.
The environmental screening of projects can be improved further.
Most environmental interventions have attempted to reconcile conservation objectives and local development needs by supporting sustainable use of natural resources and other income-generating activities (such as eco-tourism), and to strengthen local administrations in charge of environmental protection.
The ongoing drive towards new aid delivery modalities different from the classical project approach (sector wide approaches, sector policies support programmes) is justified inter alia by a preoccupation for the long term sustainability of operations.
The Commission will review and update the 2001 Environment Integration Strategy, and make it more comprehensive, taking into account recent policy developments such as the new development policy, the sustainable development strategy, and the thematic programme for Environment and Sustainable Management of Natural Resources including Energy (ENRTP).
Specific regulations to promote environmental integration in developing countries (2493/2000) and to promote the conservation and sustainable management of forests in developing countries (2494/2000) provided for a financial framework of 93 million euro and 249 million euro respectively over the period 2000 to 2006. 15.-16.
The Commission has taken steps to organise its services in such a way as to compensate the problem of scarce resources as well as reviewing staff resources issues in the annual policy strategy.
The Helpdesk handled more than 160 requests for advice in 2005, mostly focusing on programming matters.
From November 2004 until the end of 2005 about 350 members of EC staff participated in environmental training courses at headquarters and Delegations. 23.
The Commission gave priority to carrying out a full evaluation of the environment and tropical forests regulations in 2003 to 2004, as foreseen in the legal basis of the two programmes.
The Commission has in the meantime reported on these %quot%Rio Policy markers%quot% for the years 2003 and 2004 to the DAC.
However, out of 60 countries reviewed in 2002, by the end of 2005 only 2 countries had no form of CEP whatsoever.
Nevertheless, progress in this field also depends on the priority given by the partner countries to these issues.
The possibility for officials of beneficiary countries to follow the training delivered at Delegations by the Environment Helpdesk (see paragraph 22) contributes to building capacity and raising awareness on environmental mainstreaming also in these countries (see paragraph 34).
General budget support (GBS) entails a broad policy dialogue on partners’ development strategies, and focuses on poverty reduction, macro-economic stability, and improved public financial management according to the legal provisions and commitments (such as Article 61.2 of the Cotonou agreement).
The environmental screening of projects can be improved further.
Most EC-supported environmental interventions have indeed attempted to reconcile conservation objectives and local development needs, by supporting sustainable use of natural resources by local communities and other income-generating activities (such as eco-tourism) to strengthen local administrations in charge of environmental protection.
The maximum duration of projects financed under the Environment and Forest budget line is now fixed at 60 months. 60.
The consequences of this rule will be felt for the first time this year as the Financial Regulation came into force on 1 January 2003.
In line with that, the new %quot%Practical Guide to Contract Procedures for EC External Actions%quot%, in force since February 2006, gives more weight than previously to the EC Delegations' views in the appraisal of the project proposals.
However, one should consider that the call for proposals of 2001 was one of the first calls launched by the Commission under thematic programmes in external aid.
The call for proposals procedures introduced in 2006, foresees that the time between the opening of a call for proposals and the preparation of a contract should not exceed one year. 66.
A first revision of procedures under the current regulation has already been carried out by EuropeAid and has entered into effect in February this year (see the new practical guide).
However, in order for capacity building and institution support work to be fully effective ownership and commitment on the part of recipient institutions are required. 69.
The Commission has constantly paid attention in project/programme design to the need to enhance local livelihoods as a crucial condition for the long term sustainability of conservation efforts and in line with overarching poverty reduction goals.
It is also expected that, following the devolution process, governments in beneficiary countries will be better informed of the results of the projects.
The conception of the PPG7 is complex from the very beginning.
From November 2004 until the end of 2005 about 350 members of staff have been trained in HQ and Delegations.
However, the impact of these CEPs on the new CSPs depends ultimately on the priority given by the partner countries to environmental issues.
General budget support (GBS) entails a broad policy dialogue on partners’ development strategies, and focuses on poverty reduction, macro-economic stability, and improved public financial management according to the legal provisions and commitments (such as Article 61.2 of the Cotonou agreement).
In the case of sector budget support (SBS), sector specific environmental concerns can be taken into account through the sectoral policy dialogue as well as the programme design itself.
The Commission is taking the environment aspect into account in the current revision of its manuals on budget and sector policy support. 85.
The ongoing drive towards new aid delivery modalities different from the classical project approach (sector wide approaches, sector policies support programmes) is justified inter alia by a preoccupation for the long term sustainability of operations. 86.
The environment integration manual is expected to be approved in 2006 and sent to relevant EC services in Brussels and to Delegations.
The Commission will address this matter in 2006. 92.
In line with that, the new %quot%Practical Guide to Contract Procedures for EC External Actions%quot%, in force since February 2006, gives more weight than previously to the EC Delegations' views in the appraisal of the project proposals. 99.
A first revision of procedures under the current regulation has already been carried out by EuropeAid and has entered into effect in February this year (see the new practical guide). 100.
