In December 2002 the Commission adopted the Implementing Rules ('IR') of the recast FR after extensive consultation of the institutions.
At the time of the adoption of the new FR in 2002, the Commission made a statement in the Council minutes in which it “undertakes to make a report by 1 January 2006 on the application of the provisions of the new FR and, in particular, on the discontinuation of centralised ex ante controls, and, if necessary, to submit appropriate proposals to the Council” .
b) The principle of budget accuracy should be expanded (Art. 5 FR) to underline that existing legal commitments must be covered by an adequate allocation of appropriations in the budget.
The existing scope of this rule is limited to grants subject to centralised management by the Commission services (Art. 3 IR).
d) With regard to the principle of annuality , more efficiency and transparency should be introduced to respond to the following needs: - The carry-over of non-differentiated appropriations should exceptionally be permitted in the case of expenditure on direct payments to farmers. - Commitment of expenditure in advance , from 15 December of year n-1, should be exceptionally authorised for crisis management aid and humanitarian aid as referred to in Art. 110 FR. - Restrictions on the maximum threshold for advance commitments against the current "EAGGF/Guarantee" (from 15 November of year n-1) to cover routine management expenditure (charged to the budget of the year n) should be removed (Art. 150(3) FR).
e) Regarding the principle of universality , two items should be added to the list of assigned revenue (Art.18): - The possibility for Member States to make ad hoc contributions for external relations programmes; - Proceeds from the sale of vehicles, equipment, installations, etc.
g) In relation to the principle of specification of the budget, the rules governing transfers of appropriations should be simplified and clarified where they have proven cumbersome or unclear: - “ Notification procedure " (Art. 22 and 23): the text does not say when the deadline for the decision of the budgetary authority is deemed to start running, so a correction is necessary. - For reasons of efficiency, the Commission should be allowed to decide autonomously on transfers from the reserve where no basic act exists for the action concerned when the budget is established but is adopted during the year (Art. 23(1) new paragraph (d)). - Rules on transfers of administrative appropriations should be adapted to the new Activity-Based Budgeting (ABB) structure. 5.2.
a) Enforced recovery should be assisted by ensuring (in Art. 72 FR) that the Community's claims also benefit from the instruments adopted under the Treaty provisions on judicial cooperation in civil law matters having cross-border implications (Art. 65 ECT).
Public procurement and contracts One of the main objectives, and achievements, of the FR adopted in 2002 was to transpose the EC Public Procurement Directives so that the Community institutions would apply the same standards as the Member States .
This category should therefore be added in Art. 110 FR.
It should also be made clear that the same costs can never be financed twice (Art. 111 FR).
Since there are strict rules on retrospective funding, this deadline could safely be fixed at six months (Art. 112 FR).
h) Certain restrictions on the eligibility of beneficiaries should be removed (Art. 114 FR) in order to allow for grants to physical persons and certain types of association without legal personality .
j) The case in which the implementation of an action needs to give a financial support to third parties has to be expressly provided for. 5.7.
Specific policy sectors in Part Two of the FR a) Title I: agriculture.
In addition: - Terminology needs to be adjusted to the existence of the new European Agricultural Guarantee Fund ( EAGF ). - Provisional commitments can be made later than the normal two-month deadline after receipt of the Member States' statements of expenditure in cases where a decision on a transfer of appropriations is expected. - Art. 153 FR concerning transfers is inaccurate: reference should be made only to the notification procedure in Art. 23.
Therefore the maximum threshold for advance commitments against the EAGF (from 15 November of year n-1) to cover routine management expenditure (charged to the budget of the year n) should be removed with regard to the last adopted agricultural budget.
The intention was for Article 22 of the Financial Regulation to apply to institutions other than the Commission since the Commission has its own regime.
Enforced recovery should be assisted by ensuring in Article 72 of the Financial Regulation that the Community's claims may also benefit from the instruments adopted under the EC Treaty provisions on judicial cooperation in civil law matters having cross-border implications, which notably means that an entitlement established by the courts in one jurisdiction would be recognised in the others under a simplified procedure.
Articles 93 and 94 of the Financial Regulation should provide for mandatory exclusion in the most serious cases, while allowing the possibility for the contracting authority, on the basis of a risk assessment, to add other cases of exclusion.
The same distinction should be made in Article 114 of the Financial Regulation, as regards grants.
The scope of grants needs to be clarified in Article 108 of the Financial Regulation, in particular as regards financing related to loan activities and share-holdings.
Clarification is required in Article 151 to the effect that provisional commitments may be made after the normal two-month deadline following receipt of the Member States' statements of expenditure in cases where a decision on a transfer of appropriations is expected.
Subject to Articles 5a, 18 and 74, interest yielded by the funds which are the property of the Communities shall be entered in the budget as miscellaneous revenue." (4) The following Article 5a is added in Chapter 1 of Title II of Part One: "Article 5a 1.
Such commitments may not exceed one quarter of the appropriations on the corresponding budget line for the last adopted budget." (7) In Article 16, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: "However, for the cash-flow purposes referred to in Article 61, the accounting officer and, in the case of imprest accounts, the imprest administrators, and, for the needs of the administrative management of the Commission’s External Service, the authorising officer responsible, shall be authorised to carry out operations in national currencies as laid down in the implementing rules." (8) In Article 18, paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (a) the following point (aa) is inserted: "(aa) financial contributions from Member States, other donor countries or international organisations to certain external aid projects or programmes financed by the Community and managed by the Commission on their behalf, pursuant to the relevant basic act;" (b) the following point (ea) is inserted: "(ea) proceeds from the sale of vehicles, equipment, installations, materials, and scientific and technical apparatus which are being replaced or scrapped;". (9) In Article 19(2), the first sentence is replaced by the following: “Acceptance of donations which involve a significant financial charge shall be subject to the authorisation of the European Parliament and the Council, both of which shall act on the matter within two months of the date of receipt of the request from the Commission.” (10) Article 22 is replaced by the following: “ Article 22 1.
Three weeks before making the transfers referred to in paragraph 1, the institutions shall inform the budgetary authority and the Commission of their intentions.
Those transfers shall be subject to the procedure laid down in Article 24. 4.
The Commission shall inform the budgetary authority three weeks before making the following: (a) transfers between articles within the chapter corresponding to administrative appropriations of the same title which exceed 10% of the appropriations of the year shown on the article from which the transfer is made; (b) transfers referred to in point (c) of paragraph 1.
The budgetary authority shall take decisions on these transfers within the time limits laid down in Article 24, which shall be deemed to begin on the date on which the budgetary authority was informed by the Commission of the intended transfer.”; (c) in paragraph 2, "paragraph 1(c)" is replaced by "paragraphs 1 and 1a". (12) In Article 26(2), the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: "Decisions on transfers to allow the utilisation of the reserve for emergency aid shall be taken by the budgetary authority on a proposal from the Commission.
Where the Commission implements the budget by joint management, certain implementation tasks shall be entrusted to international organisations, in accordance with the implementing rules, in the following cases: (a) wherever the Commission and the international organisation are bound by a long-term framework agreement laying down the administrative and financial arrangements for their cooperation; (b) wherever the Commission and the international organisation elaborate a joint project or programme; (c) where the funds of several donors are pooled and are not earmarked for specific items or categories of expenditure, that is to say, in the case of multi-donor actions.
No implementing tasks entrusted in this way may give rise to conflicts of interests.”; (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: (i) point (c) is replaced by the following: “(c) national or international public-sector bodies or bodies governed by private law with a public-service mission providing adequate financial guarantees and complying with the conditions provided for in the implementing rules.”; (ii) the following point (d) is added: “(d) persons entrusted with the implementation of specific actions pursuant to Title V of the TEU, and identified in the relevant basic act within the meaning of Article 49.”; (c) in paragraph 3, the second subparagraph is replaced by the following: “Such bodies or persons shall take appropriate measures to prevent irregularities and fraud and if necessary bring judicial proceedings to recover funds wrongly paid or incorrectly used.” (24) Articles 55 and 56 are replaced by the following: “Article 55 1.
It shall take the equivalence of control systems into account when it carries out controls using its own control systems. _________________ (*) OJ L 11, 16.1.2003, p. 1.” (25) In Article 57, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: "1.
The powers of authorising officer shall be delegated or subdelegated only to staff." (27) In Article 60, the first sentence of paragraph 7 is replaced by the following: "The authorising officer by delegation shall report to his/her institution on the performance of his/her duties in the form of an annual activity report together with financial and management information and a declaration of assurance certifying that the information contained in the report presents a true and fair view." (28) Article 61 is amended as follows: (a) the following paragraph 2a is inserted: "2a.
The final accounts drawn up under Article 129(2) and (3) shall be accompanied by a certificate established by the accounting officer, by which he declares that they were prepared in accordance with Title VII and with the accounting principles, rules and methods set out in annex to the financial statements."; (b) paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: "3.
He shall be responsible for their safekeeping." (29) In Article 62, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: “The accounting officer may, in the performance of his duties, delegate certain tasks to subordinate staff.” (30) Article 63 is replaced by the following: "Article 63 1.
The date for calculating the limitation period and the conditions for interrupting this period shall be laid down in the implementing rules." (36) In Article 75(2), “Article 49(2)” is replaced by “Article 49(2)(d)” (37) In Article 77(3), the third subparagraph is replaced by the following: “The amount of a budget commitment corresponding to a legal commitment for which no payment within the meaning of Article 81 has been made in a period of three years following the signing of the legal commitment shall be decommitted.” (38) In Article 87, the second paragraph is replaced by the following: “If the internal auditor is a member of staff, he/she shall assume responsibility as laid down in the Staff Regulations and spelt out in the implementing rules.” (39) Article 88 is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 1, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: "Public contracts are contracts for pecuniary interest concluded in writing between one or more economic operators and one or more contracting authorities within the meaning of Articles 104 and 167, in order to obtain, against payment of a price paid in whole or in part from the budget, the supply of movable or immovable assets, the execution of works or the provision of services."; (b) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: "2.
This Title does not relate to grants, without prejudice to Articles 93 to 96." (40) In Article 90(1), the second subparagraph is replaced by the following: “Contract notices shall be published in advance except in the cases referred to in Article 91(2) of this Regulation and for the service contracts covered by Annex IIB to Directive 2004/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council(**). _______________ (**) OJ L 134, 30.4.2004, p. 114.” (41) Article 91 is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: “1.
Procurement procedures shall take one of the following forms: (a) the open procedure; (b) the restricted procedure; (c) contests; (d) the negotiated procedure; (e) the competitive dialogue;” (b) in paragraph 2, the second subparagraph is deleted; (c) the following paragraph 4 is added: “4.
The implementing rules shall define the procurement procedure, referred to in paragraph 1, applicable to service contracts covered by Annex IIB to Directive 2004/18/EC and to contracts declared to be secret and shall include specific rules for the awarding of contracts to external experts to provide evaluation or technical assistance.” (42) Articles 93 and 94 are replaced by the following: “Article 93 1.
Subject to paragraph 5, candidates or tenderers who are in any of the following situations shall be excluded from participation in a procurement procedure: (a) they have been the subject of a judgment which has the force of res judicata for fraud, corruption, involvement in a criminal organisation, money laundering or any other illegal activity detrimental to the Communities' financial interests; (b) they are currently subject to an administrative penalty, referred to in Article 96. 2.
The penalties referred to in paragraph 1 shall be proportionate to the importance of the contract and the seriousness of the misconduct, and may consist in: (a) the exclusion of the candidate or tenderer or contractor concerned from the contracts and grants financed by the budget, for a maximum period of ten years; (b) the payment of financial penalties by the candidate or tenderer in the cases referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 or by the contractor or beneficiary in the case referred to in point (b) of paragraph 1, where the case is really serious and without exceeding the value of the contract in question." (45) In Article 97, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: "2.
Contracts may be awarded by the automatic award procedure, or by the best-value-for-money procedure or, in the case of contracts to external experts for evaluation or technical assistance, on the basis of the capability of the candidates." (46) Article 98 is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: "1.
The arrangements for submitting tenders or applications shall be such as to ensure that there is genuine competition and that the contents of tenders remain confidential until they are all opened simultaneously."; (b) paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: "4.
All applications or tenders declared by the opening board to satisfy the conditions laid down shall be evaluated, on the basis of the selection and award criteria laid down in the documents relating to the call for tenders, with a view to proposing to the contracting authority to whom the contract should be awarded or before proceeding with an electronic auction." (47) Article 103 is replaced by the following: "Article 103 Where the award procedure is vitiated by substantial errors or irregularities or by fraud, the institutions shall suspend the procedure and may take whatever measures are necessary, including the cancellation of the procedure.
Where such errors, irregularities or fraud are attributable to the contractor, the institutions may in addition refuse to make payments, may recover amounts already paid or may terminate all the contracts concluded with this contractor, in proportion to the seriousness of the errors, irregularities or fraud." (48) In Article 104, the following sentence is added: "They shall delegate, in accordance with Article 59, the necessary powers for the exercise of the function of contracting authority." (49) Article 105 is replaced by the following: "Article 105 Subject to Title IV of part two of this Regulation, Directive 2004/18/EC shall lay down the thresholds which determine: (a) the publication arrangements referred to in Article 90; (b) the choice of procedures referred to in Article 91(1); (c) the corresponding time limits." (50) Article 108 is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: "2.
The following shall not constitute grants within the meaning of this Title: (a) expenditure on the institutions' staff, (b) loans, loan guarantees, the public contracts referred to in Article 88 and aid paid as macro financial assistance and budgetary support; (c) equity investments on the basis of the private investor principle and shareholdings or equity participations in international financial institutions such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) or the European Investment Fund (EIF); (d) contributions paid by the Communities as subscriptions to bodies of which they are members; (e) expenditure implemented as part of shared, decentralised or joint management within the meaning of Article 53; (f) payments made to the delegate bodies of the Commission referred to in Articles 54 and 55 and the Community bodies referred to in Article 185; (g) repayment of travel and subsistence expenses incurred by persons invited or mandated by the institutions."; (b) the following paragraph 3 is added: “3.
The following shall be assimilated to grants and shall be governed, as appropriate, by this Title: (a) the benefit deriving from an interest subsidy on certain loans; (b) equity investments or participations other than those referred to in point (c) of paragraph 2.” (51) The title of Chapter 2 of Title VI of part one is replaced by the following: “Principles” (52) Article 109 is replaced by the following: “Article 109 1.
Grants may not have the purpose or effect of producing a profit. 3.
In any case, the same costs shall not be financed twice by the budget." (55) Article 112 is amended as follows: (a) in paragraph 1, the second subparagraph is replaced by the following: “In such cases, costs eligible for financing may not have been incurred prior to the date of submission of the grant application, save in duly substantiated exceptional cases as provided for in the basic act or in the case of expenditure necessary for the proper implementation of crisis management aid or humanitarian aid operations as provided for in the implementing rules.”; (b) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: "2.
The agreement on an operating grant may not be signed more than six months after the start of the beneficiary's budgetary year.
In any event, Articles 109 and 111 shall apply." (57) Article 114 is replaced by the following: “ Article 114 1.
Grant applications shall be submitted in writing. 2.
Each grant agreement shall provide expressly for the Commission and the Court of Auditors to exercise their powers of control, on documents and on the premises, over all contractors and subcontractors who have received Community funds." (60) Article 121 is amended as follows: (a) point (a) is replaced by the following: "(a) the financial statements of the institutions as set out in Article 126, those of the bodies referred to in Article 185 and of other bodies whose accounts need to be consolidated in accordance with Community accounting rules;" (b) point (d) is replaced by the following: "(d) the aggregated reports on implementation of the budget which present the information contained in the reports referred to in point (c)." (61) In Article 122, "Article 185" is replaced by "Article 121". (62) Article 128 is replaced by the following: "Article 128 The accounting officers of the other institutions and bodies referred to in Article 121 shall send to the Commission's accounting officer and to the Court of Auditors by 1 March of the following year at the latest their provisional accounts together with the report on budgetary and financial management during the year.
The Commission's accounting officer shall consolidate these provisional accounts with the Commission's provisional accounts and shall send to the Court of Auditors, by 31 March of the following year at the latest, the Commission's provisional accounts together with the provisional consolidated accounts.
The institutions other than the Commission, and each of the bodies referred to in Article 121, shall draw up their final accounts in accordance with Article 61 and send them to the Commission's accounting officer and the Court of Auditors by 1 July of the following year at the latest with a view to drawing up the final consolidated accounts."; (c) the following paragraph 2a is inserted: "2a.
The Commission's accounting officer shall prepare the final consolidated accounts on the basis of the information presented by the other institutions under paragraph 2.
As from 15 November, routine management expenditure for the EAGF may be committed in advance against the appropriations provided for the following financial year.
They may apply only to expenditure for which the principle is laid down in an existing basic act." (73) In Article 151(1), the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: "Expenditure effected by the authorities and bodies referred to in the rules relating to the EAGF shall, within two months following receipt of the statements sent in by Member States, be the subject of a commitment by chapter, article and item.
Save where payment has not yet been made by the Member States or where eligibility is in doubt, the amounts shall be charged as payments within the same two-month period." (74) Article 152 is replaced by the following: "Article 152 In budgetary accounting, expenditure shall be booked to the accounts for a financial year on the basis of the repayments made by the Commission to the Member States by 31 December of the year concerned at the latest, provided that the payment order has reached the accounting officer by 31 January of the following financial year at the latest." (75) In Article 153, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: "1.
Where the Commission may transfer appropriations pursuant to Article 23, it shall take its decision by 31 January of the following financial year at the latest and shall inform the budgetary authority three weeks before making the transfers referred to in point (a) of Article 23(1)." (76) Article 154 is replaced by the following: “Article 154 1.
Assigned revenue under this Title shall be assigned according to origin in accordance with Article 18(2). 2.
The result of decisions on clearance of accounts, as referred to in Article 30 of Council Regulation (EC) No [xxxx/xxxx](*****) [on the financing of the common agricultural policy] shall be entered in a single Article. _______________ (*****) OL […], […], p. […].” (77) The title of Title II of Part Two is replaced by the following: “TITLE II STRUCTURAL FUNDS, COHESION FUND, FISHERIES FUND, AND AGRICULTURAL FUND FOR RURAL DEVELOPMENT” (78) Article 155 is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: "1.
The commitment appropriations corresponding to the amount of the commitment decommitted as a result of total or partial non implementation of the projects relating to research for which they were earmarked may, exceptionally and in duly substantiated cases, be made available again where it is essential to carry out the programme originally planned unless the budget for the current financial year contains funds for this purpose. 2.
The internal auditor of the Commission shall exercise all responsibilities laid down in Title IV, chapter 8 of part one." (92) Article 175 is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 1 is deleted; (b) paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: "2.
The bodies referred to in Article 121 shall apply the accounting rules set out in Article 133 so that their accounts can be consolidated with the Commission's accounts." Article 2 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
The Commission's network of financial units (RUF) has produced a report on the management difficulties encountered following the introduction of the new FR and the IR.
The report, established by a group of officials representing the financial units of the Commission, contains almost 100 points having an impact on the daily management and provided valuable internal feedback to the Commission. 3.
The RUF considers that the implementing rules in this area are unnecessarily rigid and proposes amending a series of the IR provisions in order to provide a specific management environment for low-value contracts. 4.
In Article 47(1) FR the EP administration proposes converting grades A1, A2 and A3 into the grades in the new Staff Regulations (A16, A15, A14, A13) and making an exception to the rule on a single signature to allow imprest administrators to conclude legal commitments after the authorising officer concerned has signed the budgetary commitment.
Finally the administration proposes easing the management constraints in EP information offices for low-value contracts concerning information policy. 17.
Concerning Article 47(1) FR on the establishment plan , the Council administration notes the need to refer to the corresponding grades in the new Staff Regulations (A*16, A*15, A*14). 18.
The Council administration also suggests specifying that the limit of a quarter of the current appropriations (Articles 13 and 178(1) FR) does not apply to Article 178(2) FR relating to expenditure which must be paid in advance pursuant to legal or contractual provisions, for example rents, and may give rise to payments from 1 December onwards to be charged to the appropriations for the following financial year. 19.
The administration of the Court of Auditors seeks clarification of several provisions: Article 22 FR and Article 16 IR (transfer of appropriations), Article 178 FR and would find it useful to specify the time limit implied by the term "immediately" in Article 179(3) FR regarding notification of the intention to issue an opinion on building projects.
It made the experience that the thresholds in Article 129 of the IR regarding low-value contracts are too low and give rise to additional administrative procedures without a corresponding benefit in internal control.
The Court's "cellule marchés" made a number of further suggestions and notably that the Commission should register cases at the request of institutions which do not have a data base pursuant Article 95 FR because of the few contracts passed. 22.
It would like a common infrastructure to be set up for a central database (Article 95 FR).
Conclusions 25.
The simplification of rules and procedures should aim at enhancing efficiency for the operations of financial transactions carried out away from headquarters so as to facilitate the delivery of external aid to third countries. 29.
The forthcoming revision of the FR and its IR should complete the simplification of procedural and documentary requirements for low-value operations. [1] OJ C […], […], p. […]. [2] OJ C […], […], p. […]. [3] OJ C […], […], p. […]. [4] OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. [5] OJ L 134, 30.4.2004, p. 114.
Directive as amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 1874/2004 (OJ L 326, 29.10.2004, p. 17).
