A better environment for risk capital investment 4 3.
More debt finance for SMEs 7 4.
The EU contribution to SME financing 8 5.
Conclusions 11 1.
Further, the conclusions of the spring 2006 European Council emphasised that a fully integrated financial market and sufficient access to finance are crucial for the growth of small and medium sized enterprises.
This improvement is needed despite the fact that the features of a world class environment for SME finance can already be found in many Member States.
Such easier access to financing through stock markets could provide opportunities for the flotation of firms seeking to broaden their capital base on competitive terms.
The Commission has launched inquiries in the financial services sector, examining whether competition is working in these markets.
Guarantees can also be countercyclical, helping to maintain banks’ lending volumes in a downturn.
The Commission will identify good practices in the use of hybrid instruments.
The Commission invites the Member States to consider the possibilities for a more neutral taxation of the different forms of financing.
The CIP will support the take-up of environmental technologies, in particular through co-investment in risk capital funds that provide equity for firms investing in eco-innovation.
From its own reserve, the EIB will notably provide a risk capital mandate of one billion euros to the EIF between 2007 and 2013.
To enhance pre-seed and seed financing, the Commission will also promote cooperation between Commission-financed activities like Europe INNOVA and PRO-INNO Europe and networks such as the European Business Angels Network (EBAN) .
As the company got off the ground, it received venture capital funding in 1999 through a prominent venture capital fund with backing from Community funds.
The Member States are invited to implement such investment readiness programmes, in cooperation with local organizations such as networks of investors and advisors with expertise that could be used more widely.
The policies outlined in this Communication offer a solid basis for this improvement, leading to more jobs and growth.
