Proposal for a Council Decision on the application of certain guidelines in the field of officially supported export credits /* COM/2006/0456 final - ACC 2006/0167 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 12.9.2006 COM(2006) 456 final/2 2006/0167 (ACC) CORRIGENDUM Absence de l’acronyme.Annule et remplace la page de couverture et la première page de l’acte du document COM(2006) 456 final, du 10.8.2006.
Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the application of certain guidelines in the field of officially supported export credits (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM CONTEXT OF THE PROPOSAL | 110 | Grounds for and objectives of the proposal The Community is a Participant in the Arrangement on Guidelines for Officially Supported Export Credits ("the Arrangement") concluded in the framework of the OECD.
The current version of the Arrangement applicable in the Community is the Decision (2001/76/EC) of 22 December 2000, which was amended by Council Decision of 22 July 2002 with respect of export credits for ships (2002/634/EC).
The revised text came into effect at the beginning of December 2005 and is now the prevailing text applicable for officially supported export credits.
The Commission therefore requests the Council to adopt a new decision approving the revised Arrangement text to ensure its application in Community law. | 120 | General context The main objective of the Arrangement on guidelines for officially supported export credits is to regulate governments' role in export credits, so that exports reflect quality and prices rather than the most favourable officially supported terms, and hence to establish equal conditions of competition among exporters.
The Arrangement has helped to prevent distortions of competition linked with officially supported export credits.
Decision 2001/76/EC should therefore be replaced by this Decision with the consolidated and revised text of the Arrangement in its Annex, Decisions 2001/77/EC and 2002/634/EC should be repealed. | 140 | Consistency with the other policies and objectives of the Union The proposal is of a very technical nature and deals only with finance/insurance rules applicable to officially supported export credits covered by OECD Arrangement.
It is coherent with the Union's policies and objectives and has no direct impact on fundamental rights. | CONSULTATION OF INTERESTED PARTIES AND IMPACT ASSESSMENT | Consultation of interested parties | 219 | Consultation with interested parties and negotiations have already taken place during the negotiations that led to the adoption of this new version of the Arrangement. | Collection and use of expertise | 221 | Scientific/expertise domains concerned finance/insurance/international trade | 222 | Methodology used Negotiation | 223 | Main organisations/experts consulted OECD | 2249 | Summary of advice received and used The existence of potentially serious risks with irreversible consequences has not been mentionned. | 225 | Not relevant.
The EC text reflects exactly the consensus reached by experts at the OECD level. | 226 | Means used to make the expert advice publicly available The full text of the Arrangement is available on the OECD Website dedicated to export credits : http://webdomino1.oecd.org/olis/2005doc.nsf/Linkto/td-pg(2005)38-final | 230 | Impact assessment Not relevant (very limited impact as the changes are minor compared with the previous version. | LEGAL ELEMENTS OF THE PROPOSAL | 305 | Summary of the proposed action The Commission requests the Council to adopt the draft decision approving the revised Arrangement text and ensuring its application in Community law.
The instrument that has been used so far to implement the Arrangement in Community law is a Council Decision. | BUDGETARY IMPLICATION | 409 | The proposal has no implication for the Community budget. | ADDITIONAL INFORMATION | 510 | Simplification | 511 | The proposal provides for simplification of legislation. | 512 | The proposed Council decision updates and replaces two previous ones. | 520 | Repeal of existing legislation The adoption of the proposal will lead to the repeal of existing legislation. | E-5478 | 1. 2006/0167 (ACC) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the application of certain guidelines in the field of officially supported export credits THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 133 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Whereas: (1) The Community is party to the Arrangement on Guidelines for Officially Supported Export Credits concluded within the OECD, hereinafter referred to as ’the Arrangement’. (2) By virtue of Council Decision 2001/76/EC of 22 December 2000 replacing the Decision of 4 April 1978 on the application of certain guidelines in the field of officially supported export credits[1] and of Council Decision 2001/77/EC of 22 December 2000 on the application of principles of a framework agreement on project finance in the field of officially supported export credits[2], the guidelines contained in the Arrangement and the specific rules for project finance apply in the Community. (3) The participants in the Arrangement decided to amend and rationalise the Arrangement.
Article 2 Decisions 2001/76/EC and 2001/77/EC are hereby repealed.
Article 3 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President ANNEX ARRANGEMENT ON GUIDELINES FOR OFFICIALLY SUPPORTED EXPORT CREDITS TABLE OF CONTENTS CHAPTER I: GENERAL PROVISIONS 12 1.
SCOPE OF APPLICATION 12 6.
SECTOR UNDERSTANDINGS 13 7.
PROJECT FINANCE 13 8.
MONITORING 14 CHAPTER II: FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR EXPORT CREDITS 15 10.
DOWN PAYMENT, MAXIMUM OFFICIAL SUPPORT AND LOCAL COSTS 15 11.
CLASSIFICATION OF COUNTRIES FOR MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERMS 16 12.
MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERMS 16 13.
REPAYMENT TERMS FOR NON-NUCLEAR POWER PLANT 17 14.
REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND PAYMENT OF INTEREST 17 15.
VALIDITY PERIOD FOR EXPORT CREDITS 19 17.
ACTION TO AVOID OR MINIMISE LOSSES 19 18.
MINIMUM FIXED INTEREST RATES UNDER OFFICIAL FINANCING SUPPORT 19 20.
VALIDITY OF CIRRs 20 22.
APPLICATION OF CIRRs 20 23.
PREMIUM FOR CREDIT RISK 21 24.
MINIMUM PREMIUM RATES FOR COUNTRY AND SOVEREIGN CREDIT RISK 21 25.
CLASSIFICATION OF MULTILATERAL AND REGIONAL INSTITUTIONS 24 27.
EXCLUSION OF SELECTED COUNTRY RISK ELEMENTS AND COUNTRY RISK MITIGATION TECHNIQUES 25 29.
ASSOCIATED FINANCING 28 33.
CALCULATION OF CONCESSIONALITY LEVEL OF TIED AID 31 38.
VALIDITY PERIOD FOR TIED AID 33 39.
NOTIFICATIONS 34 41.
PRIOR NOTIFICATION 36 47.
PROMPT NOTIFICATION 37 SECTION 4: CONSULTATION PROCEDURES FOR TIED AID 37 48.
PURPOSE OF CONSULTATIONS 37 49.
OUTCOME OF CONSULTATIONS 38 SECTION 5: INFORMATION EXCHANGE FOR EXPORT CREDITS AND TRADE-RELATED AID 38 51.
CONTACT POINTS 38 52.
FACE-TO-FACE CONSULTATIONS 39 55.
DISAGREEMENT ON COMMON LINES 41 59.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF COMMON LINE 41 60.
COMMUNICATION OF MINIMUM INTEREST RATES 42 62.
b) The Arrangement seeks to foster a level playing field for official support, as defined in Article 5 a), in order to encourage competition among exporters based on quality and price of goods and services exported rather than on the most favourable officially supported financial terms and conditions. 2.
STATUS The Arrangement, developed within the OECD framework, initially came into effect in April 1978 and is of indefinite duration.
a) Official support may be provided in different forms: 1) Export credit guarantee or insurance (pure cover). 2) Official financing support: - direct credit/financing and refinancing, or - interest rate support. 3) Any combination of the above.
b) The Arrangement shall apply to tied aid; the procedures set out in Chapter IV shall also apply to trade-related untied aid.
c) The Arrangement does not apply to exports of Military Equipment and Agricultural Commodities.
Where a Sector Understanding does not include a corresponding provision to that of the Arrangement, a Participant to the Sector Understanding shall apply the provision of the Arrangement. 7.
PROJECT FINANCE a) The Participants may apply the terms and conditions set out in Annex X to the export of goods and/or services for transactions that meet the criteria set out in Appendix 1 of Annex X.
The withdrawal takes effect 180 calendar days after receipt of the notification by the Secretariat. 9.
CHAPTER II: FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR EXPORT CREDITS Financial terms and conditions for export credits encompass all the provisions set out in this Chapter which shall be read in conjunction one with the other.
c) Except as provided for in paragraphs b) and d), the Participants shall not provide official support in excess of 85 per cent of the export contract value, including third country supply but excluding local costs.
d) The Participants may provide official support for local costs, provided that: 1) The total combined official support provided pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) shall not exceed 100 per cent of the export contract value.
All other countries are in Category II.
The country shall be classified according to the estimate unless the Participants decide to act otherwise. 3) If a country is reclassified in accordance with Article 11 a), the reclassification will take effect two weeks after the conclusions drawn from the above-mentioned data from the World Bank have been communicated to all Participants by the Secretariat. 4) In cases where the World Bank revises figures, such revisions shall be disregarded in relation to the Arrangement.
MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERMS Without prejudice to Article 13, the maximum repayment term varies according to the classification of the country of destination determined by the criteria in Article 11.
a) For Category I countries, the maximum repayment term is five years , with the possibility of agreeing up to eight-and-a-half years when the procedures for prior notification set out in Article 45 are followed.
b) For Category II countries, the maximum repayment term is ten years.
c) In the event of a contract involving more than one country of destination the Participants should seek to establish a Common Line in accordance with the procedures in Articles 55 to 60 to reach agreement on appropriate terms. 13.
If a Participant intends to support a repayment term longer than that provided for in Article 12, the Participant shall give prior notification in accordance with the procedure in Article 45.
REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND PAYMENT OF INTEREST a) The principal sum of an export credit shall be repaid in equal instalments.
c) For export credits provided in support of lease transactions, equal repayments of principal and interest combined may be applied in lieu of equal repayments of principal as set out in paragraph a).
d) On an exceptional and duly justified basis, export credits may be provided on terms other than those set out in a) through c) above.
e) Interest due after the starting point of credit shall not be capitalised 15.
INTEREST RATES, PREMIUM RATES AND OTHER FEES a) Interest excludes: 1) any payment by way of premium or other charge for insuring or guaranteeing supplier credits or financial credits; 2) any payment by way of banking fees or commissions relating to the export credit other than annual or semi-annual bank charges that are payable throughout the repayment period; and 3) withholding taxes imposed by the importing country.
VALIDITY PERIOD FOR EXPORT CREDITS Financial terms and conditions for an individual export credit or line of credit, other than the validity period for Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRRs) set out in Article 21, shall not be fixed for a period exceeding six months prior to final commitment. 17.
Financial terms and conditions provided in accordance with this Article are considered to be in conformity with the provisions of Chapter I, II and, when applicable, Annexes I, II, III, IV and X. 19.
MINIMUM FIXED INTEREST RATES UNDER OFFICIAL FINANCING SUPPORT a) The Participants providing official financing support for fixed rate loans shall apply the relevant Commercial Interest Reference Rates (CIRRs) as minimum interest rates.
CIRRs are interest rates established according to the following principles: 1) CIRRs should represent final commercial lending interest rates in the domestic market of the currency concerned; 2) CIRRs should closely correspond to the rate for first-class domestic borrowers; 3) CIRRs should be based on the funding cost of fixed interest-rate finance; 4) CIRRs should not distort domestic competitive conditions; and 5) CIRRs should closely correspond to a rate available to first-class foreign borrowers.
A margin of 20 basis points shall be added to the CIRR if the terms and conditions of the official financing support are fixed before the contract date. 22.
b) In the event of a voluntary, early repayment of a loan of or any portion thereof, the borrower shall compensate the government institution providing official financing support for all costs and losses incurred as a result of such early repayment, including the cost to the government institution of replacing the part of the fixed rate cash inflow interrupted by the early repayment. 23.
d) The “highest risk” countries in Category 7 shall, in principle, be subject to premium rates in excess of the MPRs established for that Category; these premium rates shall be determined by the Participant providing official support.
e) In calculating the MPR for a transaction, the applicable country risk classification to be applied shall be the classification of the buyer's country, unless: - security in the form of an irrevocable, unconditional, on-demand, legally valid and enforceable guarantee of the total debt repayment obligation for the entire duration of the credit is provided by an entity, creditworthy in relation to the size of the guaranteed debt, in a third country, in which case the applicable Country Risk Classification may be that of the country in which the guarantor is located; or - a Multilateral or Regional Institution as set out in Article 26 is acting either as borrower or guarantor for the transaction, in which case the applicable Country Risk Classification may be that of the specific Multilateral or Regional Institution involved.
f) The criteria and conditions relating to the application of a country risk classification according to the situations described in the first and second tirets of Article 24 e) are set out in Annex VII.
i) The Participant applying the MPR in the case referred to in the first tiret of paragraph e) above that leads to a premium rate below the MPR applicable to the buyer’s country shall give prior notification according to Article 44 a).
The Participant applying the MPR in the case referred to in the second tiret of Article 24 e) or in Article 24 g) shall give prior notification in accordance with Article 45 a). 25.
MPRs have been established for Categories 1 through 7, but not for Category 0, as the level of country risk is considered to be negligible for countries in this Category.
c) High Income OECD Countries, as defined by the World Bank on an annual basis according to per capita GNI, are classified in Category 0. - For the purposes of the MPRs, any OECD country classified in Category 0 by virtue of its High Income status shall remain classified in Category 0 until it falls below the High Income GNI threshold for two consecutive years, at which time the country's classification should be reviewed according to Article 25 d) to f). - Any OECD country above the High Income threshold for two consecutive years shall be classified, by definition, in Category 0.
Such classification shall take effect immediately after the Secretariat has communicated a country's status as determined by the World Bank. - Other countries deemed to be of a similar risk level may also be classified in Category 0.
When a country is re-classified in a lower or higher Country Risk Category, the Participants shall, no later than five working days after the re-classification has been communicated by the Secretariat, charge premium rates at or above the MPRs associated with the new Country Risk Category.
The MEF is determined as follows: a) With respect to the exclusion of selected country credit risk elements from official export credit cover: - In situations where only the first three country credit risk elements, as set forth in Article 25 a), are excluded in their totality from cover, a MEF of 0.5 may be applied. - In situations where only the fourth and fifth country credit risk elements, as set forth in Article 25 a), are excluded in their totality from cover, a MEF of 0.2 may be applied.
b) With respect to the following country risk mitigation techniques, the applicable MPR as well as the criteria and conditions under which the MEF may be applied are set out in Annex VIII: - Offshore Future Flow Structure Combined with Offshore Escrow Account - Offshore Hard Security - Offshore Asset-Based Security - Offshore Asset-Secured and Asset-Based Financing - Co-financing with International Financial Institutions (IFIs) - Local Currency Financing - Third Country Insurance or Conditional Guarantee - Debtor Representing a Better Risk Than the Sovereign c) The application of more than one of the country risk mitigation techniques described in Article 28 b) shall not have a direct cumulative impact on the applicable MEF.
d) The Participant applying the MPR in the cases referred to in Article 28 a) to c) shall give prior notification according to Article 44 a).
e) The list of country risk mitigation techniques in Article 28 b) is not intended to be a closed list; in accordance with Article 66, the Participants shall monitor and review the body of experience with the use of these techniques including the applicable criteria, conditions, circumstances and MEFs set forth in Annex VIII. 29.
CHAPTER III: PROVISIONS FOR TIED AID 30.
The main characteristics are that they all feature : - a concessional component that is linked in law or in fact to the non-concessional component; - either a single part or all of the financing package that is, in effect, tied aid; and - concessional funds those are available only if the linked non-concessional component is accepted by the recipient.
b) Association or linkage “in fact” is determined by such factors as: - the existence of informal understandings between the recipient and the donor authorities; - the intention by the donor to facilitate the acceptability of a financing package through the use of ODA; - the effective tying of the whole financing package to procurement in the donor country; - the tying status of ODA and the means of tendering for or contracting of each financing transaction; or - any other practice, identified by the DAC or the Participants in which a de facto liaison exists between two or more financing components.
The country shall be classified according to the estimate unless the Participants decide to act otherwise. 3) If a country’s eligibility for tied aid does change in accordance with Article 33 a), the reclassification shall take effect two weeks after the conclusions drawn from the above mentioned World Bank data have been communicated to all Participants by the Secretariat.
Nevertheless, the classification of a country may be changed by way of a Common Line, in accordance with the appropriate procedures in Articles 55 to 60, and the Participants would favourably consider a change due to errors and omissions in the figures subsequently recognised in the same calendar year as the figures that were first distributed by the Secretariat. 5) Notwithstanding the classifications of countries ineligible or eligible to receive tied aid, the Participants should avoid providing any tied aid credit, other than outright grants, food and humanitarian aid as well as aid designed to mitigate the effects of nuclear or major industrial accidents or to prevent their occurrence, for Belarus, Bulgaria, Romania, the Russian Federation and Ukraine.
MINIMUM CONCESSIONALITY LEVEL The Participants shall not provide tied aid that has a concessionality level of less than 35 per cent, or 50 per cent if the beneficiary country is a Least Developed Country (LDC), except for the cases set out below, which are also exempt from the notification procedures set out in Article 47 a): a) Technical assistance: tied aid where the official development aid component consists solely of technical co-operation that is less than either 3 per cent of the total value of the transaction or one million Special Drawing Rights (SDRs), whichever is lower; and b) Small projects: capital projects of less than one million SDRs that are funded entirely by development assistance grants. 36.
EXEMPTIONS FROM COUNTRY OR PROJECT ELIGIBILITY FOR TIED AID a) The provisions of Articles 33 and 34 do not apply to tied aid where the concessionality level is 80 per cent or more except for tied aid that forms part of an associated financing package, described in Article 32.
b) The provisions of Article 34 do not apply to tied aid with a value of less than two million SDRs except for tied aid that forms part of an associated financing package, described in Article 32.
d) Notwithstanding Articles 33 and 34, a Participant may, exceptionally, provide support by one of the following means: - the Common Line procedure as defined in Annex XI and described in Articles 55 to 60; or - justification on aid grounds through support by a substantial body of the Participants as described in Articles 48 and 49; or - a letter to the OECD Secretary-General, in accordance with the procedures in Article 50, which the Participants expect will be unusual and infrequent. 37.
c) For the purpose of calculating the overall concessionality level of an associated financing package, the concessionality levels of the following credits, funds and payments are considered to be zero: - export credits that are in conformity with the Arrangement; - other funds at or near market rates; - other official funds with a concessionality level of less than the minimum permitted under Article 35 except in cases of matching; and - down payment from the purchaser.
e) Local costs and third country procurement shall be included in the calculation of concessionality level only if they are financed by the donor country.
g) The discount rate for a given aid loan is the rate in effect at the time of notification.
In the case of individual transactions, including those notified under an aid protocol, an aid credit line or similar agreement, the validity period shall commence at the date of notification of the commitment in accordance with Article 46 or 47, as appropriate.
c) Renewal of such protocols and credit lines is possible only on terms which are in accordance with the provisions of Articles 33 and 34 of the Arrangement following: - reclassification of countries; and - a change in the provisions of the Arrangement.
CHAPTER IV: PROCEDURES SECTION 1: COMMON PROCEDURES FOR EXPORT CREDITS AND TRADE-RELATED AID 40.
INFORMATION ON OFFICIAL SUPPORT a) As soon as a Participant commits the official support which it has notified in accordance with the procedures in Articles 44 to 47, it shall inform all other Participants accordingly by including the notification reference number on the relevant Creditor Reporting System (CRS) Form 1C.
b) In an exchange of information in accordance with Articles 52 to 54, a Participant shall inform the other Participants of the credit terms and conditions that it envisages supporting for a particular transaction and may request similar information from the other Participants. 42.
PROCEDURES FOR MATCHING a) Before matching financial terms and conditions assumed to be offered by a Participant or a non-Participant pursuant to Articles 18 and 39, a Participant shall make every reasonable effort, including as appropriate by use of the face-to-face consultations described in Article 54, to verify that these terms and conditions are officially supported and shall comply with the following: 1) The Participant shall notify all other Participants of the terms and conditions it intends to support following the same notification procedures required for the matched terms and conditions.
In the case of matching a non-Participant, the matching Participant shall follow the same notification procedures that would have been required had the matched terms been offered by a Participant. 2) Notwithstanding 1) above, if the applicable notification procedure would require the matching Participant to withhold its commitment beyond the final bid closing date, then the matching Participant shall give notice of its intention to match as early as possible. 3) If the initiating Participant moderates or withdraws its intention to support the notified terms and conditions, it shall immediately inform all other Participants accordingly.
b) A Participant intending to offer identical financial terms and conditions to those notified according to Articles 44 and 45 may do so once the waiting period stipulated therein has expired.
SPECIAL CONSULTATIONS a) A Participant that has reasonable grounds to believe that financial terms and conditions offered by another Participant (the initiating Participant) are more generous than those provided for in the Arrangement shall inform the Secretariat; the Secretariat shall immediately make available such information.
SECTION 2: PROCEDURES FOR EXPORT CREDITS 44.
PRIOR NOTIFICATION WITH DISCUSSION a) A Participant shall notify all other Participants at least ten calendar days before issuing any commitment if the Minimum Premium Rate applied has been determined according to the first tiret of Article 24 e) or Article 28 in accordance with Annex V of the Arrangement.
If the applicable MPR after risk mitigation/exclusion is less than or equal to 75 per cent of the MPR which would result from the application of the buyer country's country risk classification without any risk mitigation or exclusion, the notifying Participant shall notify all other Participants at least 20 calendar days before issuing any commitment.
b) A Participant shall inform all other Participants of its final decision following a discussion to facilitate the review of the body of experience in Accordance with Article 66.
PRIOR NOTIFICATION WITHOUT DISCUSSION a) A Participant shall notify all other Participants at least ten calendar days before issuing any commitment in accordance with Annex V of the Arrangement if it intends: 1) To support a repayment term of more than five but not exceeding eight-and-a-half years to a Category I Country. 2) To provide support for a non-nuclear power plant with a repayment term longer than the relevant maximum in Article 12, but not exceeding 12 years as stipulated in Article 13 a). 3) To provide support according to Article 14 d). 4) To apply a premium rate in accordance with the second tiret of Article 24 e). 5) To apply a premium rate in accordance with Article 24 g).
SECTION 3: PROCEDURES FOR TRADE-RELATED AID 46.
PRIOR NOTIFICATION a) A Participant shall give prior notification if it intends to provide official support for: - Trade-related untied aid with a value of two million SDRs or more, and a concessionality level of less than 80 per cent; - Trade-related untied aid with a value of less than two million SDRs and a grant element (as defined by the DAC) of less than 50 per cent; - Trade-related tied aid with a value of two million SDRs or more and a concessionality level of less than 80 per cent; or - Trade-related tied aid with a value of less than two million SDRs and a concessionality level of less than 50 per cent, except for the cases set out in Article 35 a) and b).
c) If the initiating Participant moderates or withdraws its intention to support the notified terms and conditions, it shall immediately inform all other Participants accordingly.
d) The provision of this Article shall apply to tied aid that forms part of an associated financing package, as described in Article 32. 47.
b) A Participant shall also promptly notify all other Participants when an aid protocol, credit line or similar agreement is signed.
SECTION 4: CONSULTATION PROCEDURES FOR TIED AID 48.
Neither the donor nor any other Participant shall make a tied aid commitment until ten working days after this notification to Participants has been issued.
SECTION 5: INFORMATION EXCHANGE FOR EXPORT CREDITS AND TRADE-RELATED AID 51.
SCOPE OF ENQUIRIES a) A Participant may ask another Participant about the attitude it takes with respect to a third country, an institution in a third country or a particular method of doing business.
A proposal for a Common Line shall be sent to all Participants and, where tied aid is involved, all DAC contact points by the Secretariat.
However, the Secretariat may orally reveal the identity of the initiator to a Participant or DAC member on demand.
c) A Common Line proposal put forward in accordance with Article 33 b) 4 shall be addressed to the Secretariat and copied to other Participants.
d) The Secretariat shall make publicly available the agreed Common Lines. 56.
d) A Common Line which has not been accepted may be reconsidered using the procedures in Articles 55 and 56.
VALIDITY OF COMMON LINES a) A Common Line, once agreed, shall be valid for a period of two years from its effective date, unless the Secretariat is informed that it is no longer of interest, and that this is accepted by all Participants.
Accordingly, the Secretariat, inter alia , shall: - Add new Common Lines when these have been accepted by the Participants. - Update the expiry date when a Participant requests an extension. - Delete Common Lines which have expired. - Issue, on a quarterly basis, a list of Common Lines due to expire in the following quarter.
SECTION 6: OPERATIONAL PROVISIONS FOR THE COMMUNICATION OF MINIMUM INTEREST RATES (CIRRs) 61.
COMMUNICATION OF MINIMUM INTEREST RATES a) CIRRs for currencies that are determined according to the provisions of Article 20 shall be sent by means of instant communication at least monthly to the Secretariat for circulation to all Participants.
SECTION 7: REVIEWS 64.
b) Any conversion of a ship.
Ship conversion means any conversion of sea-going vessels of more than 1 000 gt on condition that conversion operations entail radical alterations to the cargo plan, the hull or the propulsion system.
c) 1) Although hovercraft-type vessels are not included in the Sector Understanding, Participants are allowed to grant export credits for hovercraft vessels on equivalent conditions to those prevailing in the Sector Understanding.
CHAPTER II: PROVISIONS FOR EXPORT CREDITS AND TIED AID 3.
CASH PAYMENT The Participants shall require a minimum cash payment of 20 per cent of the contract price by delivery. 5.
REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL The principal sum of an export credit shall be repaid in equal installments at regular intervals of normally six months and a maximum of 12 months. 6.
MINIMUM PREMIUM The provisions of the Arrangement in relation to minimum premium benchmarks shall not be applied until such provisions have been further reviewed by the Participants to this Sector Understanding. 7.
CHAPTER III: PROCEDURES 8.
REVIEW a) The Sector Understanding shall be reviewed annually or upon request by any Participant within the context of the OECD Working Party on Shipbuilding, and a report made to the Participants to the Arrangement.
d) Upon entry into force of the "Agreement Respecting Normal Competitive Conditions in the Commercial Shipbuilding and Repair Industry" this Sector Understanding shall cease to apply for those Participants who are legally required to apply the 1994 Understanding on Export Credits for Ships [C/WP6(94)6].
The Common Line procedures set out in Articles 55 to 60 of the Arrangement provide the possibility to restrict or extend repayment terms. 2.
REVIEW The Participants shall review the provisions of the Sector Understanding regularly.
CHAPTER II: PROVISIONS FOR EXPORT CREDITS AND TIED AID 3.
REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND PAYMENT OF INTEREST a) The principal sum of an export credit shall be repaid in equal instalments.
c) For export credits provided in support of lease transactions, equal repayments of principal and interest combined may be applied in lieu of equal repayments of principal as set out in paragraph a). 5.
MINIMUM INTEREST RATES a) A Participant providing official financing support through direct financing, refinancing or interest rate support shall apply minimum interest rates; the Participant shall apply the relevant Special Commercial Interest Reference Rate (SCIRR).
b) Where official financing support is provided for equipment for the partial supply of nuclear power plant for which the supplier has no responsibility for commissioning, the minimum interest rate shall be the SCIRR in accordance with Article 6 of this Sector Understanding.
For those currencies which have more than one CIRR rate, in accordance with the first tiret of Article 20 a) of the Arrangement, the CIRR for the longest term shall be used for constructing the SCIRR. 7.
Official financing support at rates other than SCIRRs for both local costs and capitalisation of interest accruing before the starting point taken together shall not cover an amount exceeding 15 per cent of the export value. 8.
OFFICIAL SUPPORT FOR NUCLEAR FUEL a) The maximum repayment term for the initial fuel load shall not exceed four years from delivery.
A Participant providing official financing support for the initial fuel load shall apply minimum interest rates; the Participant shall apply the relevant CIRR.
A Participant providing official financing support for the subsequent reload of nuclear fuel shall apply minimum interest rates; the Participant shall apply the relevant CIRR.
e) The Participants shall not provide free nuclear fuel or services. 9.
CHAPTER III: PROCEDURES 10.
ANNEX III: SECTOR UNDERSTANDING ON EXPORT CREDITS FOR CIVIL AIRCRAFT PART 1: NEW LARGE AIRCRAFT AND ENGINES FOR SUCH AIRCRAFT CHAPTER I: SCOPE 1.
FORM AND SCOPE OF APPLICATION a) Part 1 of the Sector Understanding, which complements the Arrangement, sets out the special guidelines which apply to officially supported export credits relating to the sale or lease of new large civil aircraft, listed in Appendix I, and the engines installed in such aircraft.
b) The terms of Chapter I also apply to engines and spare parts when contemplated as part of the original aircraft order, subject to the provisions of Article 33 of Part 3 of this Sector Understanding.
CHAPTER II: PROVISIONS FOR EXPORT CREDITS AND AID 3.
DOWN PAYMENT a) The Participants shall require a minimum down payment of 15 per cent of the total price of the aircraft, which includes the price of the airframe, any installed engines plus the spare engines and spare parts to the extent referred to in Article 33 of Part 3 of this Sector Understanding.
MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERM The maximum repayment term is 12 years. 5.
b) A Participant intending to support a repayment of principal on different terms than those set out in paragraph a) shall comply with the following: 1) No single repayment or series of repayments within a six-month period shall exceed 25 per cent of the principal sum repayable during the repayment term. 2) The Participant shall give prior notification. 7.
b) Interest shall be payable not less frequently than every six months and with the first payment to be made no later than six months after the starting point of credit.
c) A Participant intending to support a payment of interest on different terms than those set in paragraph a) and b) shall give prior notification. 8.
MINIMUM INTEREST RATES a) The Participants providing official financing support, which shall not exceed 85 per cent of the total price of the aircraft referred to in sub-paragraph a) of Article 3 of this Sector Understanding, shall apply minimum interest rates up to a maximum of 62.5 per cent of the total price of the aircraft as follows: - on repayment terms up to and including ten years - TB10 + 120 basis points; - on repayment terms of over ten to 12 years - TB10 + 175 basis points; - where TB10 means the ten-year government bond yield for the relevant currency (except the Euro) at the constant maturity averaged over the previous two calendar weeks.
c) Subject to the 85 per cent threshold specified in sub-paragraph a) above: 1) The Participants may additionally provide official financing support in a manner comparable with that provided by the Private Export Funding Corporation (PEFCO).
Any Participant matching such financing offered by another Participant shall match it in all of its terms and conditions other than the validity period of offers of commitment as set out in Article 8 of this Sector Understanding. 2) These rates as notified shall be applied by all Participants as long as the 24-month disbursement interest rate does not exceed 225 basis points above TB10.
INTEREST RATE ADJUSTMENTS The minimum interest rates set out in Article 8 of this Sector Understanding shall be reviewed every two weeks.
VALIDITY PERIOD FOR EXPORT CREDITS/INTEREST RATE OFFERS The duration of minimum interest rate offers set in accordance with Article 8 of this Sector Understanding shall not exceed three months. 11.
DETERMINATION OF INTEREST RATE OFFERS AND SELECTION OF INTEREST RATES a) The Participants may provide official financing support in accordance with Articles 8 and 9 of this Sector Understanding at an interest rate applying on the date an interest rate offer is made for the relevant aircraft, provided that the offer is accepted within its validity period in accordance with Article 10 of this Sector Understanding.
Any Participant providing such support shall notify other Participants of the amount, term, currency and pattern of repayments and interest rates. 13.
LEASES The Participants may, subject to the other terms of Part 1 of this Sector Understanding, provide support for a financial lease on the same basis as a contract of sale. 17.
CHAPTER III: PROCEDURES 18.
The consultation shall be held within ten days, but otherwise follow the procedures set out in Article 54 of the Arrangement. 19.
REVIEW The Participants shall review the procedures and provisions of this Sector Understanding regularly to bring them closer to market conditions.
FORM AND SCOPE OF APPLICATION Part 2 of this Sector Understanding, which complements the Arrangement, sets out the special guidelines which apply to officially supported export credits for the sale or lease of new aircraft not covered by Part 1 of this Sector Understanding.
It does not apply to hovercraft or to flight simulators which are subject to the terms of the Arrangement. 21.
CHAPTER V: PROVISIONS FOR EXPORT CREDITS AND AID 23.
MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERM The maximum repayment term varies according to the aircraft categorisation which shall be determined by the criteria set out in Article 22 of this Sector Understanding.
a) For category A aircraft the maximum repayment term is ten years.
b) For category B aircraft the maximum repayment term is seven years.
c) For category C aircraft the maximum repayment term is five years. 24.
b) A Participant intending to support a repayment of principal on different terms than those set out in paragraph a) shall comply with the following: 1) No single repayment or series of repayments within a six-month period shall exceed 25 per cent of the principal sum repayable during the repayment term. 2) The Participant shall give prior notification. 25.
b) Interest shall be payable not less frequently than every six months and with the first payment to be made no later than six months after the starting point of credit.
c) A Participant intending to support a payment of interest on different terms than those set in paragraph a) and b) shall give prior notification.
MINIMUM INTEREST RATES The Participants providing official financing support shall apply minimum interest rates; the Participants shall apply the relevant CIRR set out in Article 20 of the Arrangement. 2 7.
CHAPTER VI: PROCEDURES 29.
The procedures for prior notification, matching and information exchange set out in the Arrangement shall apply to this Part of the Sector Understanding.
The consultation shall be held within ten days, but otherwise follow the procedures set out in Article 54 of the Arrangement. 30.
REVIEW The Participants shall review the procedures and provisions of this Sector Understanding regularly in order to bring them closer to market conditions.
FORM AND SCOPE OF APPLICATION Part 3 of the Sector Understanding, which complements the Arrangement, sets out the special guidelines which apply to officially supported export credits relating to the sale or lease of used aircraft; and of spare engines, spare parts, maintenance and service contracts in conjunction with both new and used aircraft.
The relevant provisions of Parts 1 and 2 of this Sector Understanding apply except as follows. 32.
a) Age of Aircraft (years) | Normal Maximum Repayment Terms | Large Aircraft | Category A | Category B | Category C | 1 | 10 | 8 | 6 | 5 | 2 | 9 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 3 | 8 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 4 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 5 – 10 | 6 | 6 | 5 | 4 | Over 10 | 5 | 5 | 4 | 3 | These terms shall be reviewed if the maximum repayment term for new aircraft is changed.
b) The Participants shall apply the provisions set out in Articles 24 and 25 of this Sector Understanding.
c) The Participants providing official financing support shall apply minimum interest rates; the Participants shall apply the relevant CIRR set out in Article 20 of the Arrangement. 33.
c) Notwithstanding sub-paragraph b) above for new spare engines for large aircraft, the Participants may exceed the maximum repayment term of five years by up to three years - where the transaction has a minimum contract value of more than USD 20 million, or - includes a minimum of four new spare engines.
CHAPTER VIII: PROCEDURES 35.
The consultation shall be held within ten days, but otherwise follow the procedures set out in Article 54 of the Arrangement. 3 6.
REVIEW The Participants shall review the procedures and provisions of this Sector Understanding regularly in order to bring them closer to market conditions.
LARGE CIVIL AIRCRAFT Manufacturer | Designation | Airbus | A 300 | Airbus | A 310 | Airbus | A 318 | Airbus | A 319 | Airbus | A 320 | Airbus | A 321 | Airbus | A 330 | Airbus | A 340 | Boeing | B 737 | Boeing | B 747 | Boeing | B 757 | Boeing | B 767 | Boeing | B 777 | Boeing | B 707, 727 | British Aerospace | RJ70 | British Aerospace | RJ85 | British Aerospace | RJ100 | British Aerospace | RJ115 | British Aerospace | BAe146 | Fairchild Dornier | 728 Jet | Fairchild Dornier | 928 Jet | Fokker | F 70 | Fokker | F 100 | Lockheed | L-100 | McDonnell Douglas | MD-80 series | McDonnell Douglas | MD-90 series | McDonnell Douglas | MD-11 | McDonnell Douglas | DC-10 | McDonnell Douglas | DC-9 | Lockheed | L-1011 | Ramaero | 1.11-495 | CATEGORY A AIRCRAFT Turbine-powered aircraft - including helicopters ( e.g.
CHAPTER II: FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR EXPORT CREDITS 2.
MAXIMUM REPAYMENT TERMS The maximum repayment term, irrespective of the country classification as set out in Article 11 of the Arrangement, is 15 years. 3.
REPAYMENT OF PRINCIPAL AND PAYMENT OF INTEREST a) The principal sum of an export credit shall be repaid in equal instalments.
c) For export credits provided in support of lease transactions, equal repayments of principal and interest combined may be applied in lieu of equal repayments of principal as set out in paragraph a). 4.
For those currencies which have more than one CIRR rate, in accordance with the first tiret of Article 20 a) of the Arrangement, the CIRR for the longest term shall be used for constructing the SCIRR.
CHAPTER III: PROCEDURES 6.
PRIOR NOTIFICATION WITHOUT DISCUSSION A Participant shall notify all other Participants at least ten calendar days before issuing any commitment covered by the scope of this Sector Understanding in accordance with Annex V of the Arrangement.
CHAPTER IV: REVIEW 7.
TRIAL PERIOD AND MONITORING a) The financial terms and conditions set out in this Sector Understanding shall apply for a Trial Period of two years, i.e.
Reference number 5.
Reference number of notification being matched (if relevant) 10.
Description of support being matched (if relevant) b) Buyer/Borrower/Guarantor Information 11.
Buyer/borrower Country 12.
Buyer/borrower Name 13.
Buyer/borrower Location 14.
Buyer/borrower Status 15.
Guarantor Country (if relevant) 16.
Guarantor Name (if relevant) 17.
Guarantor Location (if relevant) 18.
Guarantor Status (if relevant) c) Information on Goods and/or Services Being Exported and the Project 19.
Description of the project (if relevant) 21.
Location of the project (if relevant) 22.
Tender closing date (if relevant) 23.
Value of contract(s) supported, either the actual value (for all lines of credit and project finance transactions or for any individual transaction on a voluntary basis) or according to the following scale in millions of SDRs: Category | From | To | I: | 0 | 1 | II: | 1 | 2 | III: | 2 | 3 | IV: | 3 | 5 | V: | 5 | 7 | VI: | 7 | 10 | VII: | 10 | 20 | VIII: | 20 | 40 | IX: | 40 | 80 | X: | 80 | 120 | XI: | 120 | 160 | XII: | 160 | 200 | XIII: | 200 | 240 | XIV: | 240 | 280 | XV: | 280 | * | * Indicate the number of SDR 40 million multiples in excess of SDR 280 million, e.g.
Currency of credit 28.
Length of the repayment period 32.
Interest rate base 33.
Repayment profile 2.
Repayment frequency 3.
Weighted average life of the repayment period 6.
Country risk classification of the buyer/borrower country or multilateral/regional institution 2.
Percentage of cover for country risk 4.
MPR based on the country risk classification of the buyer/borrower country absent any third country guarantee, involvement of a multilateral/regional institution and/or risk mitigation/exclusion 6.
Applicable MPR 7.
Actual premium rate charged (expressed in MPR format as a percentage of the principal) c) Arrangement, Article 24 e) first tiret 1.
Full explanation of what country credit risks have either been externalised/removed or limited/excluded in the individual transaction, as well as an explanation of how such externalisation/removal or limitation/exclusion of the country credit risks justify the MEF applied.
Restrictions on use of credit lines f) Annex II, Article 10 1.
Repayment profile 2.
Repayment frequency 3.
Any other relevant information (including references to related cases) g) Annex IV, Article 6 1.
Enhanced project description 4.
Percentage of cover for commercial risk prior to the starting point of credit 7.
Percentage of cover for political risk after the starting point of credit 9.
Percentage of cover for commercial risk after the starting point of credit 10 Length of the construction period (if applicable) 11.
Weighted average life of the repayment period 13.
Repayment profile 14.
Repayment frequency 15.
ANNEX VI: CALCULATION OF THE MINIMUM PREMIUM RATES The formula for calculating the applicable MPR for an export credit is: MPR = ( (a * HOR )+b) * (PC/0.95) * QPF * PCF * (1-MEF) * BRF where: - a and b are coefficients associated with the applicable Country Risk Category - HOR is the horizon of risk - PC is the percentage of cover - QPF is the quality of product factor - PCF is the percentage of cover factor - MEF is the country risk mitigation/exclusion factor - BRF is the buyer risk cover factor The values for coefficients a and b are obtained from the following table: Country Risk Category | |0 |1 |2 |3 |4 |5 |6 |7 | | percentage of cover coefficient |n/a |0.00000 |0.00337 |0.00489 |0.01639 |0.03657 |0.05878 |0.08598 | |The Country Risk Mitigation/Exclusion Factor (MEF) is determined as follows: For export credits with no country risk mitigation, MEF = 0 For export credits with country risk mitigation, the MEF is determined according to the criteria set out in Annex VIII.
principal and interest), the applicable Country Risk Classification may be that of the multilateral or regional institution when the following criteria are met: - The guarantee covers the entire duration of the credit. - The guarantee is irrevocable, unconditional and available on-demand. - The guarantee is for the five country credit risks on the buyer/borrower country. - The guarantor is legally committed for the total amount of the credit. - The repayments are made directly to the creditor.
Case 3: Multilateral or Regional Institution as the Borrower When a classified multilateral or regional institution is the borrower, the applicable Country Risk Classification may be that of the multilateral or regional institution.
Such institutions shall be classified in Country Risk Categories 0 through 7 on a case-by-case basis according to an assessment of the risk of each on its own merits and in consideration of whether: - the institution has statutory and financial independence; - all of the institution's assets are immune from nationalisation or confiscation; - the institution has full freedom of transfer and conversion of funds; - the institution is not subject to government intervention in the country where it is located; - the institution has tax immunity; and - there is an obligation of all its Member countries to supply additional capital to meet the institution's obligations.
SPECIFIC APPLICATION 1.
Specific Case 2: The maximum applicable MEF is 0.30 if all of the following additional criteria are met: - Either the LLCR averages at least 1.75:1, or there is at least nine months of debt service pre-funding in escrow, which shall be replenished after each call on the pre-funded amount. 2.
Applicable MEF The specific MEF to be applied shall: - Reflect the degree of potential externalisation subject, inter alia , to the continuing value of the assets, as well as the possible uncertainties with regard to the realisation of the security; - Be determined case-by-case to reflect, inter alia , on a basis, the value of the security provided in relation to the principal value of the credit and the applicable country risk classification of the country in which the security is located.
The value of cash security shall be taken at no more than 80 per cent and the value of stocks or bonds shall be taken at no more than 35 per cent of its prudential valuation. 3.
The difference between the MPR resulting from the application of this technique and the MPR which would apply absent mitigation shall be no greater than 15 per cent of the difference between the MPR which would apply absent risk mitigation and the MPR which would result from the application of the country risk classification of the country in which the asset is located.
Criteria: - The assets are typically directly related to the transaction. - The assets are identifiable and mobile or portable and can be physically as well as legally repossessed/seized by the creditor, its agent or nominee outside the country of the buyer/borrower or lessee. - The security is irrevocable and unconditional for the entire duration of the credit. - The assets have a prudently-assessed projected market value which corresponds throughout the repayment period to the amount of the outstanding debt. - The security is registered offshore in an acceptable jurisdiction - The assets can be freely sold and offer opportunities for their use outside the country of the buyer/borrower or lessee. - The proceeds can be converted into the currency of the credit or in any other hard currency. - In the event of realisation of the security, the proceeds are paid directly to the creditor.
In the case where the security (which should cover both Principal and Interest) is limited in amount on a uniform basis for the entire duration of the credit and for: (1) not less than 10 per cent of the Principal amount plus the related Interest, or (2) five million SDRs Principal plus the related Interest if the transaction exceeds 50 million SDRs, the MEF shall be calculated on a basis reflecting the amount of the security in comparison with the guaranteed Principal/the Principal amount of the credit. 5.
Debtor Representing a Better Risk than the Sovereign The use of techniques 7 and 8 of this Annex is subject to further discussions among the Participants.
They are essentially contained in the: - DAC Principles for Project Appraisal, 1988; - DAC Guiding Principles for Associated Financing and Tied and Partially Untied Official Development Assistance, 1987; and - Good Procurement Practices for Official Development Assistance, 1986.
CHAPTER II: FINANCIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS 2.
CHAPTER III: PROCEDURES 5.
ADDITIONAL CRITERIA FOR PROJECT FINANCE TRANSACTIONS IN HIGH INCOME OECD COUNTRIES THE TRANSACTION INVOLVES/IS CHARACTERISED BY: a) Participation in a loan syndication with private financial institutions that do not benefit from Official Export Credit Support, whereby: 1) The Participant is a minority partner with pari passu status throughout the life of the loan and; 2) Official export credit support provided by the Participants comprises less than 50 per cent of the syndication.
In the case of a contract for the supply of services where the supplier has responsibility for commissioning, the latest starting point is commissioning. 3) Capital goods and project services - machinery or equipment of high value intended to be used in an industrial process or for productive or commercial use: - In the case of a contract for the sale of capital goods consisting of individual items usable in themselves, the latest starting point is the actual date when the buyer takes physical possession of the goods, or the weighted mean date when the buyer takes physical possession of the goods. - In the case of a contract for the sale of capital equipment for complete plant or factories where the supplier has no responsibility for commissioning, the latest starting point is the date at which the buyer is to take physical possession of the entire equipment (excluding spare parts) supplied under the contract. - If the exporter has responsibility for commissioning, the latest starting point is at commissioning. - For services, the latest starting point of credit is the date of the submission of the invoices to the client or acceptance of service by the client.
Decision as last amended by the Act of Accession of 2003. [2] OJ L 32, 2.2.2001, p. 55. [3] OJ L 206, 3.8.2002, p. 16. [4] As defined in Article 5 of the OECD Convention. [5] Based on the annual review by the World Bank of its country classification, a per capita Gross National Income (GNI) threshold will be used for the purpose of classification of country category; such threshold is available on the OECD website (www.oecd.org/ech/xcred). [6] For administrative purposes, some countries that do not generally receive officially supported export credits may not be classified. [7] The Private Market Indicators are: sovereign bonds, read-across method, forfeit market and syndicated loan. [8] Based on the annual review by the World Bank of its country classification, a per capita Gross National Income (GNI) threshold will be used for the purpose of tied aid eligibility; such threshold is available on the OECD website (www.oecd.org/ech/xcred). [9] For the purpose of Article 33 b) 5), the de-commissioning of nuclear power plant can be regarded as humanitarian aid.In case of nuclear or major industrial accident that causes serious transfrontier pollution, any affected Participant may provide tied aid to eliminate or mitigate its effects.
