INTRODUCTION On 26 October 2004, the Council adopted Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 establishing a European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (FRONTEX)[1].
In order to ensure that the officers of border guards of other Member States are used in the most efficient way, the proposal also defines the tasks which these officers should perform during operational activities in another Member State.
Furthermore, the Rapid Border Intervention Teams can only be deployed to a Member State at its request.
If, for instance, in Member State A guest officers participating in a joint operation coordinated by the Agency cannot control persons at the border crossing points, but must remain observers, whereas in the neighbouring Member State B the same guest officers participating in the same kind of joint operation can do such controls, then the output of the two joint operations will be very different, both in terms of cost-efficiency and the promotion of cooperation at European level between the national border guards of Member States.
to stamp travel documents, in accordance with Article 10 of the Community Code, both at entry and exit; 6.
to participate in patrols on foot and in means of transport in the external border area of the host Member State; 9.
THE CHOICE OF THE LEGAL BASIS Articles 62(2)(a) and 66 of the Treaty establishing the European Community is the legal basis of this Regulation whose immediate objective is to further enhance the efficiency of operational cooperation between Member States on control of persons at the external borders and to promote solidarity between Member States and the Community in this field. 6.
Given that this Regulation builds upon the Schengen acquis under the provisions of Title IV, Part Three of the Treaty establishing the European Community, Denmark should, in accordance with Article 5 of the said Protocol, decide within a period of six months after the Council has adopted this Regulation whether it will implement it in its national law or not. (15) This Regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis in which the United Kingdom does not take part, in accordance with Council Decision 2000/365/EC of 29 May 2000[15] concerning the request of the United Kingdom to take part in some of the provisions of the Schengen acquis.
The United Kingdom is therefore not taking part in its adoption and is not bound by it or subject to iuts application. (16) This Regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the Schengen acquis in which Ireland does not take part, in accordance with Council Decision 2002/192/EC of 28 February 2002[16] concerning Ireland's request to take part in some of the provisions of the Schengen acquis.
Article 2 Definitions For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (1) “the Agency” means the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union for deployment of the Rapid Border Intervention Teams; (2) "joint operations" means joint operations as referred to in Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004; (3) "pilot projects" means pilot projects as referred to in Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004; (4) "guest officers" means officers of border guard services of other Member States participating in joint operations and pilot projects [on the territory of a Member State]; (5) "members of the team(s)" means officers of border guard services of Member States serving with the Rapid Border Intervention Teams; (6) "requesting Member State" means a Member State which requests the Agency to deploy the Rapid Border Intervention Teams in its territory; (7) "host Member State" means a Member State on the territory of which a joint operation, a pilot project or the deployment of the Rapid Border Intervention Teams takes place; (8) “home Member State” means the Member State in which the guest officer or member of the team is a national border guard.
Article 3 Composition and deployment of Rapid Border Intervention Teams 1.
The composition of the Rapid Border Intervention Teams shall be determined by the Agency in accordance with Article 8b of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004.
The teams shall be deployed by the Agency in accordance with Article 8f of that Regulation. 2.
Upon request, Member States shall make the officers referred to in paragraph 2 available to the Agency for the purpose of participating in: the following activities 10.
training courses and exercises in accordance with the schedule included in the Agency's annual programme of work; 11.
The costs relating to the activities referred to in paragraph 3 shall be met by the Agency in accordance with Article 8d of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004.
Article 4 Rights and obligations of members of the teams 1.
Officers whose names have been provided to the Agency pursuant to Article 3(2) of this Regulation shall participate in basic and additional training relevant for their tasks as well as the regular exercises provided by the Agency in accordance with Article 8c of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004. 3.
Officers shall receive a daily subsistence allowance for the duration of their participation in training courses and exercises organised by the Agency, and periods of deployment as members of the teams in accordance with Article 8d of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004.
Article 5 Deployment of the Rapid Border Intervention Teams 1.
Article 6 Tasks of guest officers and members of the teams 1.
When carrying out the tasks referred to in Articles 7 and 8, guest officers and members of the teams shall comply with Community law and the national law of the host Member State.
Guest officers and members of the teams shall be authorised to wear their own uniform while performing the tasks referred to in Articles 7 and 8.
Guest officers and members of the teams authorized to carry service weapons in their Home Member State may carry such weapons while performing the tasks referred to in Articles 7 and 8 only with the consent of the host Member State and in accordance with its national law.
Article 7 Border checks 1.
Guest officers and members of the teams participating in border checks activities, within the meaning of Article 7 of Regulation (EC) No 562/2006 shall perform the following tasks in the host Member State: 12.
stamping travel documents, in accordance with Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 562/2006, both at entry and exit; 17.
searching means of transport and objects in the possession of the persons crossing the border, in accordance with the national law of the host Member State. 2.
Decisions to refuse entry in accordance with Article 13 of Regulation (EC) No 562/2006 shall be taken by guest officers and members of the teams only after consultation with, and subject to the agreement of, a commanding officer of the national border guard of the host Member State.
The host Member State shall issue a document to guest officers and members of the teams for the purpose of identifying them and as proof of the holder's rights to carry out the tasks referred to in Articles 7 and 8.
the tasks the guest officer/member of the team may carry out pursuant to Articles 7 and 8; 26.
Article 10 Civil liability regarding guest officers and members of the teams 1.
Article 11 Criminal liability regarding guest officers and members of the teams During joint operations, pilot projects or deployment of Rapid Border Intervention Teams, guest officers and members of the teams shall be regarded as officials of the host Member State with respect to offences committed against them or by them.
Article 8d Costs 1.
When deciding on the request of a Member State for deployment of the Rapid Border Intervention Teams in accordance with Article 8a, the Executive Director shall take into account the findings of the Agency's risk analyses as well as any other relevant information provided by the requesting Member State or another Member State.
If the Executive Director decides to deploy one or more Rapid Border Intervention Teams an operational plan shall immediately be drawn up by the Agency and the requesting Member State in accordance with Article 8g. 4.
Article 8g Operational plan 1.
the composition of the Rapid Border Intervention Team(s); 35.
Article 8 h Liaison officer 1.
In discharging his duties, the liaison officer shall only take instructions from the Agency." (4) Article 10 is deleted.
Article 13 This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
BUDGET LINES 3.1.
Budget lines (operational lines and related technical and administrative assistance lines (ex- B..A lines)) including headings: 18 02 03 01: Administrative expenditure (Titles 1 and 2) 18 02 03 02: Operational expenditure (Title 3) 3.2.
Budgetary characteristics : Budget line | Type of expenditure | New | EFTA contribution | Contributions from applicant countries | Heading in financial perspective | 18 02 03 01 | Non-comp | Diff | NO | NO | NO | No 3A | 18 02 03 02 | Non-comp | Diff | NO | NO | NO | No 3A | 4.
SUMMARY OF RESOURCES 4.1.
Financial Resources 4.1.1.
Indicative contribution: 2,06 % (2006 figures). 4.1.2.
CHARACTERISTICS AND OBJECTIVES 5.1.
Need to be met in the short or long term The main objective of this proposed Regulation is to improve the operational co-operation between the Member States at the external borders of the EU by adding another task to the list of tasks already being carried out by the Agency in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) 2007/2004 of 26 October 2004.
Method of Implementation (indicative) ( Centralised Management ( directly by the Commission ( indirectly by delegation to: ( executive Agencies ( bodies set up by the Communities as referred to in art. 185 of the Financial Regulation ( national public-sector bodies/bodies with public-service mission ( Shared or decentralised management ( with Member states ( with Third countries ( Joint management with international organisations (please specify) Relevant comments: The activity will be implemented by the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (FRONTEX), established by the Council Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 of 26 October 2004. 6.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION 6.1.
The Court of Auditors will examine the accounts in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty and publish an annual report on the Agency’s activities. 8.
DETAILS OF RESOURCES 8.1.
Other Administrative expenditure included in reference amount ((18 02 03 01 – Expenditure on administrative management) EUR million (to 3 decimal places) Budget line (number and heading) | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | 2012 | 2013 | TOTAL | Other technical and administrative assistance | - intra muros | - extra muros | Total Technical and administrative assistance | 8.2.5.
