Thus the "reviewing" exercise will simplify the legal framework, as the common visa policy will henceforth be governed by the four legal instruments listed below: - Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (legal basis: TEC 62(2)(b)(i); - Council Regulation (EC) No 1683/95 of 29 May 1995 laying down the uniform format for visas (legal basis: TEC 62(2)(b)(iii); - Council Regulation (EC) No 333/2002 of 18 February 2002 on a uniform format for forms for affixing the visa issued by Member States to persons holding travel documents not recognised by the Member State drawing up the form (legal basis: TEC 62(2)(b)(iii); - the present Regulation establishing a Code on Visas (legal basis: TEC 62(2)(a), (b)(ii) and (iv) and 62(3)).
It is recalled that due to the difference in legal basis, and the "variable geometry" linked to the legal basis, the maintenance of four separate instruments is necessary.130 - Existing provisions in the area of the proposal - Council Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 of 15 March 2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement; - Council Regulation (EC) No 1683/95 of 29 May 1995 laying down the uniform format for visas; - the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 on the gradual abolition of checks at common borders (in particular articles 9-18, which lay down common and uniform principles in that field); - Council Regulation No 415/2003 of 27 February 2003 on the issue of visas at the border, including the issue of such visas to seamen in transit; - the Common Consular Instructions on visas for the diplomatic missions and consular posts (CCI) which set out detailed rules for implementing these principles and bring together nearly all provisions related to the issuance of short-stay visas; - Council Regulation (EC) No 1091/2001 of 28 May 2001 on the freedom of movement with a long-stay visa; - Decisions of the Schengen Executive Committee (SCH/Com-ex (93) 21, SCH/Com-ex (93) 24, SCH/Com-ex (94) 25, SCH/Com-ex (98) 12 and SCH/Com-ex (98) 57; - Joint Action 96/197/JHA of 4 March 1996 adopted by the Council on the basis of Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union sets out arrangements for airport transit visas. 140 - Consistency with the other policies and objectives of the Union In the review and amendment of current rules on the issuance of visas, account has been taken of the recently adopted Schengen Borders Code in order to ensure coherence in legislation.
Annulment and revocation of the validity of a visa Currently the rules on annulment and revocation of the validity of an issued visa are contained in SCH/Com-ex (93) 24 and in the CCI, Annex 14, section 2.
Despite the existence of two SCH/Com-ex decisions on the exchange of statistics ((94) 25 and (98) 12) useful and comparative data on the number of visas issued and refused do not exist currently. 2.
On the other hand, the introduction of biometric identifiers as a requirement for applying for a visa will have a considerable impact on the practical aspects of receiving applications.
As the VIS should become operational already 2007, the Commission has chosen to update the CCI in a separate legal proposal, which sets the standards for the biometric identifiers to be collected and provides for a series of options for the practical organisation of Member States' diplomatic missions and consular posts for the enrolment of visa applicants as well as for a legal framework for Member States' cooperation with external service providers.
The provisions for the cooperation with commercial intermediaries, such as travel agencies and tour operators, have been strengthened, in order to take account of this new situation (see below). 3.
This new organisation of LCC also takes into account the Community institutional framework. 4.
All provisions concerning the issuance of LTV visas have been integrated into one article, and the requirement to inform other Member States of the issuance of LTV visas has been restricted to those cases where the reason for issuing a visa with limited territorial validity is the negative response from a Member State within the procedure for prior consultation or when a visa is issued to a third-country national who does not meet the entry conditions laid down in the Schengen Borders Code. - Travel Medical Insurance (TMI) Council Decision 2004/17/EC as regards the inclusion of the requirement to be in possession of a travel medical insurance as one of the mandatory supporting documents for the grant of a uniform visa entered into force on 1 June 2004.
The Agreement with Switzerland, signed on 26 October 2004, provides for the provisional application of certain provisions upon signature, in particular the participation of Switzerland in the Mixed Committee dealing with the development of the Schengen acquis. 7) CONSEQUENCES FOR THE NEW MEMBER STATES OF THE TWO-STAGE PROCEDURE FOR IMPLEMENTING INSTRUMENTS BUILDING ON THE SCHENGEN ACQUIS Article 3(1) of the Act of Accession states that the provisions of the Schengen acquis and the acts building upon it or otherwise related to it, listed in Annex I to the Act, will be binding on and applicable in the new Member States from the date of accession[7].
The Schengen provisions on visa policy (Articles 9 to 17 of the Schengen Convention and their implementing decisions, in particular the Common Consular Instructions, except for its annexes 1, 7, 8 and 15) are not listed in the Annex.
Paragraph 2 establishes that the regulation applies to third country nationals subject to this requirement in accordance with Council Regulation (EC) No 539/2001.
Given the legal basis of the present proposal, it is not possible to cover the decisions of the Schengen Executive Committee SCH/Com-ex (98) 56 and (99)14 setting out the provisions for the compilation of the Manual of travel documents entitling the holder to cross the external borders and which may be endorsed with a visa.
However, Annex 6 to the CCI has been repealed in order to exclude honorary consuls from being involved in the processing of visa applications.
Article 5: Member State responsible for processing the visa application These provisions have been carried over from the CCI and set out the criteria for determining which diplomatic mission or consular post is responsible for processing a visa application.
Article 7: Arrangements on representation Most of the content of this article has been taken from the CCI.
Paragraph 5 establishes that within the framework of representation arrangements, it is the central authorities of the representing Member State that must consult other Member States’ central authorities (for third countries listed in Annex II).
The content of this Article corresponds to the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Common Consular Instructions on visas for diplomatic missions and consular posts in relation to the introduction of biometrics including provisions on the organisation of the reception and processing of visa applications presented by the Commission on 31 May 2006 [COM(2006) 269].
Article 13: The application form Paragraph 1 has been taken over from the CCI, but with the addition of requiring accompanying persons included in the passport of the applicant to fill in individual application forms.
Article 15: Travel medical insurance (TMI) This article has been taken over from the CCI, but the provisions have been amended to clarify a number of loopholes and ambiguities in the original Decision and account has been taken both of the guidelines for the application of this measure drawn up in 2004 and of the evaluation of the application of the measure carried out on the basis of a questionnaire circulated to Member States diplomatic missions and consular posts in 2005.
Paragraph 7 has been added to avoid penalising a third country national holding a travel document not recognised by a Member State, and who have been issued a visa with limited territorial validity, is obliged to pay a second handling fee, because he/she has to apply for a second visa in order to travel to a Member State whose territory is not covered by the first visa.
Paragraph 8 introduces an urgency fee: the handling fee is doubled for applications lodged at a very late stage without justification.
Article 17: Stamp indicating that an application has been lodged The requirement of Member States’ diplomatic missions and consular posts to stamp applicants’ travel document when an application has been lodged has been taken over from the CCI.
Paragraph 7 has been taken over form the CCI, and can be summarised to “in case of doubt, do not issue a visa”.
It should be noted that the current Annex 13 to the CCI, giving practical examples of filled in visa stickers will be updated and be part of the “Instructions on the practical application of the Visa Code” to accompany the final version of the Code on Visa.
The harmonised forms shall also be used when visa applications are refused at the border (cf.
Article 25: Filling in the visa sticker This article has been taken over from the CCI and additional provisions are set out in Annex X.
In accordance with Article 18 of the Schengen Convention, national long stay visas, "D" visas, allow the holder, provided the additional conditions listed in that Article are fulfilled, to transit through the territories of other Member States in order to reach the territory of the Member State which issued the "D" visa.
Chapter IV: Modifying the period of validity of an issued visa Article 28: Extension The SCH/Com-ex (93) 21 decision on the extension of the validity of a visa is not covered by the CCI, and is herewith taken on board in the Regulation and more detailed provisions are introduced.
Paragraph 6 establishes that extension shall only take the form of a uniform stamp set out in Annex XI.
Article 29: Annulment The provisions of Article 28, 29 and 30 of the Regulation are currently “hidden” in Annex 14 to the CCI which mainly reproduces the content of the SCH/Com-ex decision (93) 24 .
Paragraph 1 establishes two cases where an issued visa may be revoked: (a) in case the holder requests that the visa be revoked or (b) if the competent authorities judges that the holder no longer fulfils the entry conditions after he/she has entered the territory of the Member States.
Chapter V: Visas issued at the external borders Article 32: Visas issued at the external borders Articles 32 and 33 take on board the content of Council Regulation (EC) No 415/2003 while dividing it in to two articles to separate the general provisions on the issuance of visas at the border from the particular issues related to seafarers in transit.
TITLE III: Administrative management and organisation Article 34: Organisation of visa sections This article has mainly been taken over from the CCI, Part VII.
Articles 37, 38 and 39: Forms of cooperation in relation to the reception and processing of visa applications The purpose of these articles is to provide for a legal framework for the Member States to choose among a number of organisational options in order to be able to collect biometric data from visa applicants.
Article 38 set out specific rules to be respected, if Member States decide to cooperate with external service providers.
Article 39 deals with certain organisational aspects in particular in order to ensure transparency on the forms of cooperation chosen.
Paragraph 2 lists the various aspects to be verified before accreditation is granted.
Article 41: Information of the general public It is essential that applicants are well informed primarily of the criteria and procedures for applying for a visa.
Paragraph 4 states that clear information must be given about issuance times and about the requirement of prior consultation for nationals of certain third countries or specific categories of these nationals.
Article 44: Amendments to the annexes This article provides that Annexes III, IV, V, VI, VIII, IX, X and XI to the Regulation are to be amended in accordance with the committee procedure referred to in Article 46(2).
The reason for proposing the use of a committee procedure is that the Annexes contain measures implementing the general rules on the receipt and processing of the visa application laid down by Title II of this Regulation.
Also the Committee should be able to prepare the implementing measures and therefore, also Article 44 should apply from the date of entry into force.
Annexes Annexes have been listed in “order of appearance” in the Regulation.
Provisions of the Common Consular Instructions not taken over Provisions of the Common Consular Instructions not taken over | Ground(s) | Part I, Point 2.1.4 Group visas | For reasons of security and given the fact that all individual visa applicants must submit individual application forms and all first time applicants must provide biometric identifiers upon submission, group visas are not longer acceptable. | Part I, 2.2 Long-stay visas | The Community Code on visa does not cover the issuance of visas for stays exceeding 3 months (Article 1(1)) and long stay visas concurrently valid as uniform short stay visas have been abolished. | Part IV Legal basis | This part merely reproduces provisions of the Schengen Convention (Articles 5, 11(2), 14(1), 15 and 16 and is redundant | Part V, 2.3 Procedure to be followed in cases of prior consultation with the central authorities of the other Contracting Parties | This part mainly contains guidelines of a practical rather than a legal nature | ANNEXES | Annex 1 Joint list of third countries whose citizens are required to have a visa by Member States bound by Regulation (EC) No 539/2001*, as amended by Regulation (EC) No 2414/2001** and Regulation (EC) No 453/2003***.
The subjects are linked to SCH/Com-ex (98) 57 which should be brought into the Community legislative framework. | Annex 12 Fees to be charged in EURO corresponding to the administrative costs of processing the visa application | Since a flat rate for the handling fee to be charged for the processing of applications for all types of visa was introduced in 2003, there is not need for reproducing the table.
The three “rules” set out in the Annex have been integrated into the body of the Regulation (Article 16). | Annex 13 Filling in visa stickers | This Annex reproduces examples of filled in visa stickers.
They may decide that visa applications from nationals of specific third countries or applications for a particular type of visa must be submitted directly at a permanent consular post or diplomatic mission of the State that is the applicant’s main destination. (5) Local consular cooperation is crucial for the harmonised application of the common visa policy and for proper assessment of migratory risk.
Thus nationals from a common list of third countries should be required to hold airport transit visas, while putting an end to the possibility for Member States to require this type of visa from nationals of additional third countries. (7) When a Member State hosts the Olympic Games and the Paralympic Games, a particular scheme facilitating the issuance of visas to members of the Olympic Family should apply. (8) Bilateral agreements concluded between the Community and third-countries aiming at facilitating the processing of applications for short-stay visas may derogate from the provisions set out in this Regulation. (9) The reception arrangements for applicants should be made with due respect for human dignity.
TITLE II: Receipt and processing of visa applications Chapter I Authorities taking part in the processing of visa applications Article 3 Authorities competent for processing visa applications 1.
By way of derogation from paragraph 1, applications may be lodged by third country nationals, legally present in a third-country different from their country of residence in that third-country.
The diplomatic mission or consular post responsible for processing an application for a short-stay visa shall be : (a) the diplomatic mission or consular post of the Member State in whose territory the sole or main destination of the visit is located, or (b) if the Member State of main destination cannot be determined, the diplomatic mission or consular post of the Member State whose external border the applicant intends to cross in order to enter into the territory of the Member States.
When a visa with multiple entries is applied for, the Member State of usual destination shall be responsible for processing the application.
Such visas shall be issued only in the applicant’s country of residence. 2.
The diplomatic mission or consular post responsible for processing an application for a transit visa shall be : (a) in the case of transit through only one Member State, the diplomatic mission or consular post of the Member State concerned, or (b) in the case of transit through several Member States, the diplomatic mission or consular post of the Member State whose external border the applicant intends tocross to start the transit. 3.
The diplomatic mission or consular post responsible for processing an application for an airport transit visa shall be : (a) in the case of a single airport transit, the diplomatic mission or consular post of the Member States on whose territory the transit airport is situated, or (b) in the case of double or multiple airport transit, the diplomatic mission or consular post of the Member State on whose territory the first transit airport is situated.
Article 7 Arrangements on representation 1.
Such bilateral arrangements may stipulate that visa applications from certain categories of third country nationals are to be transmitted by the representing Member State to the authorities of the represented Member State for prior consultation, as provided for in Article 9(3). 2.
The reception and transmission of files and data to the represented consular post shall be carried out respecting the relevant data protection and security rules. 3.
The diplomatic mission or consular post of the representing Member State shall, when acting on behalf of another Member State, comply with all the rules on the processing of applications for short stay visas, transit visas and airport transit visas set out in this Regulation and the issuing times set out in Article 20(1) shall apply. 6.
Article 8 Prior consultation of the Member States’ own central authorities 1.
A Member State may require its diplomatic missions or consular posts to consult its central authorities before issuing visas to nationals of certain third countries or specific categories of such nationals.
The third countries in respect of whose nationals or specific categories of nationals such consultation is required shall be as set out in Annex I. 2.
Article 9 Prior consultation and information of central authorities of other Member States 1.
A Member State may require the central authorities of other Member States to consult its central authorities before issuing visas to nationals of specific third countries or specific categories of such nationals.
The third countries in respect of whose nationals or specific categories of nationals such consultation is required shall be as set out in Annex II. 2.
The third countries for whose nationals such information is required are marked by (*) in Annexe II. 4.
Prior consultation and information shall be carried out in accordance with Article 14 (2) of the VIS Regulation n°…. 5.
If a Member State represents another Member State pursuant to Article 7(1), the central authorities of the representing Member State shall carry out the consultation provided for in paragraph 1 and/or the information provided for in paragraph 3.
Chapter II The application Article 10 Practical modalities for submission of the application 1.
The appointment shall take place within two weeks. 3.
Article 11 Capturing of biometric data 1.
Article 12 Submission of a visa application 1.
Member States’ diplomatic missions and consular posts may under local consular cooperation arrangements agree that this proof is to be presented only when the visa is issued. 3.
Article 14 Supporting documents 1.
A non-exhaustive list of supporting documents which the diplomatic mission or consular post may request from the visa applicant in order to verify the fulfilment of the conditions set out in Article 12(1)(c) and (d), is set out in Annex IV. 3.
Article 15 Travel medical insurance 1.
The need for further exemptions may be assessed within local consular cooperation. 7.
This exemption may concern particular professional groups already covered by travel medical insurance as a result of their professional activities. 8.
When lodging a visa application, applicants shall pay a handling fee of 60 EUR, corresponding to the administrative costs of processing the visa application.
If the handling fee is charged in the national currency of the third country where the application is made, Member States’ diplomatic missions and consular posts shall apply the Euro foreign exchange reference rate established by the European Central Bank.
Until 1 January 2008, nationals of third countries in respect of which the Council has given the Commission a mandate to negotiate a visa facilitation agreement by 1 January 2007 shall pay a handling fee of 35 Euro. 7.
When the holder of an LTV issued in accordance with Article 21(1)(c) needs to travel – within the period of validity of that visa - to a Member State not included in the territorial validity of the LTV, no handling fee shall be charged for the processing of the second visa application. 8.
Article 17 Stamp indicating that an application has been lodged 1.
The stamp shall be placed on the first available page that contains no entries or stamps in the travel document, when the diplomatic mission or consular post receives the application. 2.
Chapter III Examination and processing of visa applications Article 18 Examination of the application 1.
In respect of each visa application the VIS shall be consulted in accordance with Articles 5 and 13 of the VIS Regulation. 4.
If the applicant is a national of a third country listed in Annexes I or II, the central authorities of the Member State(s) concerned shall be consulted in accordance with Article 14(1) and (2) of the VIS Regulation. 6.
Article 19 Inadmissibility 1.
In the cases referred to in paragraph 1, the diplomatic mission or consular post shall replace the status information in the VIS, as referred to in Article 8(2) of the VIS Regulation. 3.
Article 20 Decision on the visa application 1.
Article 21 Visa with Limited Territorial Validity 1.
A visa with limited territorial validity (LTV) shall be issued exceptionally in the following cases: (a) when a diplomatic mission or consular post considers it necessary, on humanitarian grounds, for reasons of national interest or because of international obligations, to derogate from the principle that the entry conditions laid down in Article 5(1) of the Schengen Borders Code, must be fulfilled; (b) when a diplomatic mission or consular post considers it necessary, on humanitarian grounds, for reasons of national interest or because of international obligations, to issue a visa, although the prior consultation procedure has given rise to objections on the part of the consulted Member State or if prior consultation has not been carried out for reasons of urgency (on humanitarian grounds, reasons of national interest or because of international obligations); (c) when a diplomatic mission or consular post for urgent reasons, justified by the applicant, issues a new visa for a stay during the same six-month period to an applicant who, over this six-month period, has already used a visa allowing for a stay of three months.
Article 22 Airport transit visas 1.
Article 23 Refusal of a visa 1.
Without prejudice to Article 21(1), a visa shall be refused if the applicant: (a) presents a false, counterfeited or forged travel document; (b) does not prove that he has sufficient means of subsistence for the whole duration of the stay, and for return to his country of origin or departure, or that he is in a position to acquire such means lawfully; (c) does not provide sufficient evidence justifying the purpose and duration of the stay; (d) does not provide proof of holding adequate travel medical insurance, where applicable; (e) has already stayed for three months during a six-month period on the territory of the Member States; (f) is a person for whom an alert has been issued in the SIS or in a national register for the purposes of refusing entry; (g) is considered to be a threat to public order, internal security, public health or the international relations of the European Union or its Member States. 2.
The decision stating the precise reasons for the refusal shall be given by means of the standard form set out in Annex IX.
If cases referred to in Article 7(6), the diplomatic mission or consular post of the representing Member State shall inform the applicant of the decision taken by the represented Member State. 5.
Article 24 Rights flowing from an issued visa Mere possession of a short stay visa or a transit visa does not confer automatic right of entry.
Article 25 Filling in the visa sticker 1.
When filling in the visa sticker, Member States’ diplomatic missions and consular posts shall insert the mandatory entries set out in Annex X and fill in the machine readable zone, as provided for in ICAO document 9303, Part 1n 6th edition (June 2006). 2.
If an error is detected after the relevant data have been introduced into the VIS in accordance with Article 8 of the VIS Regulation, the error shall be corrected in accordance with Article 21(1) of the VIS Regulation.
Article 27 Affixing visa stickers 1.
The printed visa sticker containing the data provided for in Article 25 and Annex X shall be affixed to the first page of the passport that contains no entries or stamps - other than the stamp indicating that an application has been lodged.
Chapter IV Modifying the period of validity of an issued visa Article 28 Extension 1.
The competent authority shall also affix its seal. 7.
Information on extended visas shall be entered into the VIS in accordance with Article 12 of the VIS Regulation.
Article 29 Annulment 1.
A visa may be annulled : (a) by the issuing diplomatic mission or consular post in order to prevent the holder from entering the territory of the Member States, if it becomes evident after the visa has been issued that the holder does not fulfil the conditions justifying the issue of the visa. (b) by border control authorities in conformity with the provisions of Article 13(1) and Annex V, Part A, (2) of the Schengen Borders Code. 2.
Information on annulled visas shall be entered into the VIS, in accordance with Article 11 of the VIS Regulation. 3.
Article 30 Revocation of a visa 1.
A visa may be revoked in the following cases: (a) by the issuing diplomatic mission or consular post at the request of the holder in which case a stamp must be affixed to the visa sticker indicating that the visa has been revoked at the request of the holder. (b) by the competent authorities after the holder has entered the territory of the Member States, if the holder no longer fulfils the entry conditions as set out in Article 5(1) of the Schengen Borders Code. 2.
Information on revoked visas shall be entered into the VIS in accordance with Article 11 of the VIS Regulation. 3.
Article 31 Shortening the length of duration of stay authorised by a visa 1.
Information on the shortening of the duration of stay authorised by a visa shall be entered into the VIS, in accordance with Article 11 of the VIS Regulation.
Chapter V Visas issued at the external borders Article 32 Visas issued at the external borders 1.
Where the conditions laid down in Article 5(1) of the Schengen Borders Code are not fulfilled, the authorities responsible for issuing the visa at the border may issue a visa with limited territorial validity for the territory of the issuing Member State only, in accordance with Article 21(1)(a). 5.
However, a visa with limited territorial validity only for the territory of the visa issuing Member State, may be issued at the border for such persons in exceptional cases, in accordance with Article 21(1)(b). 6.
The provisions on justification and notification of refusals and possibilities of appeal set out in Article 23 and Annex IX shall apply.
Article 33 Visas issued to seafarers in transit at the border 1.
This Article shall apply without prejudice to Article 32(3), (4) and (5).
TITLE III: Administrative management and organisation Article 34 Organisation of visa sections 1.
Article 35 Resources for processing visa applications and monitoring of diplomatic missions and consular posts 1.
Article 36 Conduct of staff processing visa applications 1.
Article 37 Forms of cooperation in relation to the reception of visa applications 1.
In such a case, the Member State(s) concerned shall remain liable for compliance with data protection rules for the processing of visa applications.
Article 38 Co-operation with external service providers 1.
Cooperation with external service providers shall take the following form: (a) the external service provider acts as a call-centre providing general information on the requirements for applying for a visa and in charge of the appointment system; and/or, (b) the external service provider provides general information on the requirements for applying for a visa, collects applications, supporting documents and biometric data from visa applicants and collects the handling fee (as provided for in Article 16) and transmits completed files and data to the diplomatic mission or consular post of the Member State competent for the processing of the application. 2.
The Member State(s) concerned shall conclude a contract with the external service provider in accordance with Article 17 of Directive 95/46/EC.
In addition to the obligations set out in Article 17 of Directive 95/46/EC, the contract shall also contain provisions which: (a) define the exact responsibilities of the service provider; (b) require the service provider to act under the instructions of the responsible Member States and to process the data only for the purposes of processing of personal data of visa applications on behalf of the responsible Member States in compliance with Directive 95/46; (c) require the service provider to provide the applicants with the information required under the VIS Regulation; (d) provide for access by consular staff to the premises of the service provider at all times; (e) require the service provider to observe rules of confidentiality (including the protection of the data collected in relation to visa applications; (f) contain a suspension and termination clause. 6.
The total amount of fees charged by the external service provider for processing the visa application shall not exceed the fee set out in Article 16. 8.
Article 39 Organisational aspects 1.
Article 40 Submission of visa applications by commercial intermediaries 1.
Article 41 Information of the general public 1.
The representing Member State and the represented Member State shall inform the general public about arrangements on representation as provided in Article 7 three months before such arrangements enter into force.
The general public as well as the host country’s authorities shall be informed that the stamp as provided for by Article 17 has no legal implications. 4.
If regarding one or more of the points (a) to (d), the assessment within the local consular cooperation confirms the need for a local harmonised approach, measures on such a harmonised approach shall be adopted pursuant to the procedure provided by Article 46(2). 2.
Representatives of diplomatic missions or consular posts of Member States not applying the community acquis in relation to visas, or of third countries, may, on an ad hoc bases, be invited to participate in meetings for the exchange of information on specific issues relating to the issuance of visa. 7.
TITLE V: Final provisions Article 43 Exceptional arrangements Member Stats hosting the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games shall apply the specific procedures and conditions facilitating the issuance of visa set out in Annex XIII.
Article 44 Amendments to the Annexes 24.
Annexes III, IV, V, VI, VIII, IX, X and XI shall be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 46(2). 25.
Without prejudice to Article 47(2) the changes of Annexes I and II shall be decided in accordance with the procedure set out in Article 46(2).
Article 45 Instructions on the practical application of the Visa Code Operational instructions establishing the harmonised practices and procedures to be followed by Member States’ diplomatic posts and consular missions when processing visa applications shall be drawn up in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 46(2).
Article 46 Committee 1.
The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be three months. 3.
Article 47 Notification 1.
Member States shall notify the Commission of: (a) Situations of representation referred to in Article 7; (b) the list of third countries for which information procedures referred to in Article 9(3) are required; (c) the additional national entries in the “comments” section of the visa sticker as referred to in Article 25(2); (d) authorities competent for extending visas, referred to in Article 28(3); (e) the situations of cooperation referred to in Article 37; (f) statistics on all types of visas issued every six months (1st March and 1st September of each calendar year) using the uniform table for exchanging statistics.
Article 48 Repeals 1.
Articles 9 to 17 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 are replaced. 2.
Article 49 Entry into force This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Articles 46 and 47 shall apply from the date of entry into force.
Done at Brussels, For the European Parliament For the Council The President The President ANNEX I: LIST OF THIRD COUNTRIES FOR WHICH PRIOR CONSULTATION OF MEMBER STATES' OWN CENTRAL AUTHORITES IS REQUESTED, PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 8 OF THE COMMUNITY CODE ON VISAS Within the framework of agreements on representation the central authorities of the representing Member State shall consult the authorities of the represented Member State, pursuant to Article 9(2) of the Community Code on Visas.
ANNEX V: HARMONISED FORM FOR PROOF OF ACCOMMODATION AND/OR BEARING OF COSTS [pic] [pic] ANNEX VI: UNIFORM FORMAT OF STAMP INDICATING THAT AN APPLICATION FOR A VISA HAS BEEN LODGED …[25] visa …[26] R/ …[27] xx/xx/xxxx[28] …….[29] Example : C visa FR R/ IT 22/04/2006 Consulat de France Djibouti | ANNEX VII: COMMON LIST OF THIRD COUNTRIES, LISTED IN REGULATION (EC) No 539/2001, ANNEX I, WHOSE NATIONALS ARE REQUIRED TO BE IN POSSESSION OF AN AIRPORT TRANSIT VISA WHEN PASSING THROUGH THE INTERNATIONAL TRANSIT AREA OF AIRPORTS SITUATED IN THE TERRITORY OF THE MEMBER STATES AFGHANISTAN BANGLADESH CONGO (Democratic Republic) ERITREA ETHIOPIA GHANA IRAN IRAQ NIGERIA PAKISTAN SOMALIA SRI LANKA ANNEX VIII: LIST OF THE RESIDENCE PERMITS ENTITLING THEIR HOLDERS TO TRANSIT THROUGH THE AIRPORTS OF MEMBER STATES WITHOUT REQUIRING AN AIRPORT TRANSIT VISA ANDORRA: - Tarjeta provisional de estancia y de trabajo (provisional residence and work permit) (white).
The date from which the visa holder may enter the territory for which the visa is valid is written as below, following the word "FROM": - the day is written using two digits, the first of which is a zero if the day in question is a single digit. - horizontal dash. - the month is written using two digits, the first of which is a zero if the month in question is a single digit. - horizontal dash. - the year is written using two digits, which correspond with the last two digits of the year. - For example: 05-12-07 = 5 December 2007.
The minimum resolution requirements shall be: – 300 pixels per inch (ppi), uncompressed, for scanning, – 720 dots per inch (dpi) for colour printing of photos.
Machine-readable zone This section is made up of two lines of 36 characters (OCR B-10 cpi).
ANNEX XI: UNIFORM FORMAT FOR THE STAMP FOR EXTENDING THE DURATION OF STAY AUTHORISED BY A VISA VISA n° | 7.3.06[31] | 15.3.06[32] | 30[33] | 35[34] | Ausländeramt[35] | 20.2.06[36] | ANNEX XII Part 1: OPERATIONAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR ISSUING VISAS AT THE BORDER TO SEAMEN IN TRANSIT WHO ARE SUBJECT TO VISA REQUIREMENTS The objective of these operational instructions is to provide rules for the exchange of information between the competent authorities of the Member States applying the Community acquis with respect to seamen in transit subject to visa requirements.
The shipping company or its agent shall sign a guarantee in respect of those seamen; - the said competent authorities shall verify as soon as possible whether the information provided by the shipping company or its agent is correct and examine whether the other conditions for entry into the Member State territory have been satisfied.
Furthermore, in such cases the seaman's travel document referred to above shall be stamped with a Member State entry or exit stamp and given to the seaman concerned. (b) entry into the Member States' territory via a land or sea border situated in another Member State - the procedure is the same as that for entry via a Member State airport except that the competent authorities at the border post via which the seaman concerned enters the Member State territory shall be informed.
Leaving service from a vessel that has entered a Member State port (a) exit from the Member States' territory via an airport situated in another Member State - the shipping company or its agent shall inform the competent authorities at the said Member State port of the entry of seamen subject to visa requirements who are due to leave their service and exit from the Member States' territory via a Member State airport.
The shipping company or its agent shall sign a guarantee in respect of those seamen; - the competent authorities shall verify as soon as possible whether the information provided by the shipping company or its agent is correct and examine whether the other conditions for entry into the Member States' territory have been satisfied.
Transferring from a vessel that entered a Member State port to a vessel that will sail from a port situated in another Member State - the shipping company or its agent shall inform the competent authorities at the said Member State port of the entry of seamen subject to visa requirements who are due to leave their service and exit from the Member States' territory via another Member State port.
The shipping company or its agent shall sign a guarantee in respect of those seamen; - the competent authorities shall verify as soon as possible whether the information provided by the shipping company or its agent is correct and examine whether the other conditions for entry into the Member States' territory have been satisfied.
Nationality | D.
Place of birth | B.
Date of birth | (3) | A.
Passport number | B.
Date of issue | C.
Date of issue | C.
Name of vessel | B.
Date of arrival of vessel | B.
Date of departure of vessel | B.
Date of transit This is the date on which the seaman signs off at a port in the Member States' territory and heads towards another port also situated in the Member States' territory.
Date of departure This is the date on which the seaman signs off at a port in the Member States' territory to transfer to another vessel at a port situated outside the Member States' territory or the date on which the seaman signs off at a port in the Member States' territory to return to his home (outside the Member States' territory).
Collective applications for visas for the persons concerned shall be forwarded at the same time as applications for the issue of an Olympic accreditation card to the Organising Committee of the [ year ] Olympic and Paralympic Games in accordance with the procedure established by it. 3.
A single visa application per person shall be filed for persons taking part in the [ year ] Olympic and/or Paralympic Games. 4.
Arti cle 7 Waiver of fees The processing of visa applications and the issue of visas shall not give rise to any fees being charged by the services responsible for issuing visas.
Chapter III GENERAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS Article 8 Cancellation of a visa Where the list of persons put forward as participants in the [ year ] Olympic and/or Paralympic Games is amended before the Games begin, the responsible organisations shall inform without any delay the Organising Committee of the [ year ] Olympic and Paralympic Games thereof so that the accreditation cards of the persons removed from the list may be revoked.
They shall immediately inform the authorities responsible for border checks thereof, and the latter shall without delay forward that information to the competent authorities of the other Member States.
Paragraph 2 shall apply to members of the Olympic family who are third-country nationals, whether or not they are subject to the visa requirement under Regulation (EC) No 539/2001.
Definitions and types of visas (p.10) CCI: Part IV “Legal basis” CSA: Articles 11(2), 14(1), 15, 16 | Article 2(5) Airport transit visa | Joint Action 96/197/JHA (L 63/1996), CCI 2.1.1 | Article 2(6), (7) and (8) Recognised travel document Visa sticker Separate sheet for affixing a visa | Regulation 333/2002, Article 1 (1) | Title II Receipt and processing of the visa application Chapter I Authorities taking part in the processing of visa applications | Article 3 Authorities competent for processing visa applications | CCI, II 1.1(a) (b) %amp% II. 4.
Annex 6=deleted CSA, Art. 12(1)(2) | Article 4 Territorial competence | CCI, II, 1.1 %amp% 3 | Provision of this Regulation | Provision of the Schengen Convention (CSA), Common Consular Instruction (CCI) or of the Schengen Executive Committee (SCH/Com-ex) replaced | Article 5 Criteria for determining the Member State responsible for processing the visa application | CCI, II 1.1(a) (b) %amp% II. 4.
