They will ensure the coherent application throughout the EU of the revised framework for international convergence of capital measurement and capital standards for internationally active banks [4] (hereinafter "Basel II") agreed in June 2004 by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) and endorsed by the central bank governors and heads of bank supervisory authorities in the Group of Ten countries.
In the same vein, in its comments on the third consultative document, the ECB suggested that in order to implement Basel II the technical annexes to the proposed directives should be adopted directly as Level 2 measures, and, where compatible with necessary flexibility in terms of national implementation, via Community regulations. 8.
In the ECB's view, the implementation of Basel II offered a unique opportunity to revise EU capital requirements along these lines, which has not been seized.
The ECB acknowledges that pursuant to Article 150(1) of the proposed banking directive, the Commission will have the power to adopt, in accordance with the "comitology" procedure referred to in Article 151 of the proposed banking directive, "adjustment[s] of the provisions in Annexes V to XII in order to take account of developments on financial markets in particular new financial products, or in accounting standards or requirements set out in Community legislation". 9.
However, in line with the agreement to extend the Lamfalussy process from the securities sector to all other financial sectors [8], it would have been preferable to have limited the proposed directives to cover framework principles reflecting the basic political choices and substantive matters in the field of capital adequacy for credit institutions and investment firms and to have brought the technical provisions on capital adequacy together in one directly applicable Level 2 regulation.
Articles 68 to 73 of the proposed banking directive contain options to waive capital requirements at various levels within groups.
The coordinating role provided for in Article 129(1), together with the provisions on information sharing laid down in Article 130(2) and Article 132, will streamline relations between supervisory authorities and between supervisory authorities and banks, thereby increasing efficiency by facilitating the decision-making process and reducing the overall cost of supervision.
The potential benefits of Article 129(2) also depend on how the powers of competent national supervisors to impose supervisory measures on local subsidiaries under the second pillar of Basel II (the supervisory review process) interact with group-wide approval decisions.
The respective powers of supervisory authorities to rectify shortcomings in a group's approach, which arise after approval has been granted, and to withdraw an approval, should therefore be addressed in the proposed banking directive. 19.
However, it recommends inserting a provision into the proposed banking directive which requires an assessment and, if necessary, a revision of Article 129 three years after transposition of the directive in order to take into account how Article 129 is being applied in practice and whether it is achieving its ends. 20.
Timing and transitional provisions 21.
Moreover, the ECB considers that attention should be given to the far-reaching nature of the reform and the residual uncertainty about its influence on the level of capital in the EU financial system as a whole (even if this uncertainty has been reduced as far as possible by quantitative impact studies).
For this reason, the ECB fully supports the introduction of the transitional requirements in Article 152 of the proposed banking directive, which limit the impact on credit institutions' minimum capital requirements over the first three years after transposition of the directive. 23.
The ECB intends to contribute to this monitoring process. 26.
The ECB suggests explaining this need in recital 59 to the proposed banking directive.
SPECIFIC REMARKS Definition of central banks 28.
The ECB sees a need to clarify its status regarding the exemption of central banks from the proposed banking directive.
Solo consolidation 29.
Article 70 of the proposed banking directive gives the competent authorities the possibility to allow, on a case-by-case basis and subject to certain conditions, parent credit institutions in a particular Member State to incorporate subsidiaries located in the EU into the calculations required by Article 68(1) of the proposed banking directive.
The ECB notes that Article 70 of the proposed banking directive does not question the application of individual capital requirements to EU subsidiaries incorporated into the parent credit institution's individual capital requirements.
It would be beneficial to clarify that Article 70 is without prejudice to the requirements imposed by Article 68 on the subsidiaries concerned.
Article 80(7) of the proposed banking directive allows the competent authorities, under certain conditions, to exempt lending by a credit institution to its parent undertaking, to its subsidiary or to other subsidiaries of the same parent undertaking from capital requirements for credit risk [16].
The ECB further notes that such an exemption is not available under Basel II [17] and could, in certain banking systems, affect the level playing field at national level.
First, the ECB sees scope for further specification of the requirement of "independence" in Section 1.2 of Part 2 of Annex VI to the proposed banking directive.
These issues are widely recognised as key policy concerns and are acknowledged in the International Organization of Securities Commission (IOSCO) Statement of Principles Regarding the Activities of Credit Rating Agencies of 25 September 2003 [18]. 35.
In this context, the ECB would support rewording this section in accordance with Basel II, to ensure that credibility derives both from market acceptance and sound methodology. 36.
The ECB considers that the Mapping Process (set out in Annex 2 to Basel II) under which, inter alia, national authorities map credit risk assessments into the available risk weights is very important, and CEBS should therefore encourage convergence in this field.
The ECB notes that, in contrast to Basel II, the proposed banking directive allows permanent partial use of the IRB Approach for material exposures and in significant business units, under the various circumstances listed in Article 89(1)(a), (b) and (d) to (g) of the proposed banking directive.
The ECB recommends that the Commission should review whether the application of Article 89 of the proposed banking directive has been effective in achieving its purpose three years after transposition of the directive.
The ECB considers that the very general wording of Articles 123 and 124 of the proposed banking directive, which reflects the second pillar, may wrongly imply that the three pillars are not of equal importance. 41.
From the ECB's perspective, as there is no definition in the proposed banking directive of the concept of "internal capital" (which is used in Article 123 of the directive), supervisors' and credit institutions' understanding of what internal capital means will need to converge as industry practice evolves.
Finally, the ECB notes that a number of Member States currently fix, under specific circumstances, the minimum capital ratio above the 8 % threshold stipulated in Article 75 of the proposed banking directive.
The ECB welcomes Article 130(1) of the proposed banking directive, which is particularly important as it establishes the obligation for the supervisor on a consolidated basis to notify the authorities mentioned in Article 49(a) and Article 50 of the proposed directive when an emergency situation arises which could potentially jeopardise the stability of the financial system. 45.
In this context, the ECB welcomes the fact that Article 130(1) follows a recommendation of the Economic and Financial Committee's report on financial crisis management [21] by imposing an obligation to inform these authorities in a timely manner in a crisis situation.
The ECB also understands that the reference in Article 130(1) to the authorities mentioned in Article 50 [22] is intended to ensure that members of the governments of Member States responsible for financial services are alerted of the existence of an emergency situation as soon as possible.
The MoU also provides for the establishment of logistical infrastructure to support enhanced cross-border cooperation between authorities [23]. 48.
Moreover, the ECB notes that certain initiatives have already been launched to further develop the crisis management arrangements under Article 130 of the proposed banking directive.
Consistency with Basel II in the context of operational risk 49.
The ECB welcomes the fact that the changes to paragraph 3 of Part 1 and paragraph 5 of Part 2 of Annex X to the directive set out in the Council's general approach would align the directive with Basel II in relation to this issue. 51.
Second, the proposed calculation of capital requirements under the Standardised Approach places EU credit institutions at a disadvantage vis-à-vis third country credit institutions under Basel II.
Third, the requirements in Part 4 of Annex X to the proposed banking directive deviate from Basel II in that in principle they allow unlimited permanent partial use of AMAs.
Finally, the transitional provisions incorporated in Article 155 of the proposed banking directive allow for a relevant indicator of 15 % to be applied to the "trading and sales" business line until 31 December 2012, in cases where this business line constitutes at least 50 % of the total relevant indicators.
In addition, the management of legal risk would have to be consistent with the management of operational risk as a whole.
However, in the light of paragraph 14 of Section 1.2 of Part 3 of Annex X to the proposed banking directive, the ECB understands that losses due to a legal defect in credit risk mitigation techniques will not be subject to an operational risk charge if they are treated as credit risk for calculating the minimum capital requirements.
Article 20 of the proposed capital adequacy directive gives the competent authorities the discretion to exempt certain investment firms from capital requirements for operational risk.
However, recital 22 to the proposed directive stresses that "Operational risk is a significant risk faced by institutions requiring coverage by own funds".
The Commission included this discretion on the basis of a study published in July 2004 [24], and the discretion was designed to alleviate the impact of operational risk charges on the overall requirements imposed on investment firms.
Done at Frankfurt am Main, 17 February 2005.
The President of the ECB Jean-Claude Trichet [1] COM(2004) 486 final, Volumes I and II and Annexes techniques. [2] OJ L 126, 26.5.2000, p. 1 (hereinafter the "Consolidated Banking Directive").
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2004/69/EC (OJ L 125, 28.4.2004, p. 44). [3] OJ L 141, 11.6.1993, p. 1 (hereinafter the "Capital Adequacy Directive").
Where appropriate, reference is made to the Council's general approach. [7] ECB Opinion CON/2004/7 of 20 February 2004 at the request of the Council of the European Union on a proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directives 73/239/EEC, 85/611/EEC, 91/675/EEC, 93/6/EEC and 94/19/EC and Directives 2000/12/EC, 2002/83/EC and 2002/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, in order to establish a new financial services committee organisational structure (OJ C 58, 6.3.2004, p. 23). [8] See page 12 of the press release of the 2580th ECOFIN Council Meeting held in Brussels on 11 May 2004; available on the Council's website. [9] An indicator of the increasing relevance of cross-border activities is the growing share of non-domestic branches and subsidiaries in total banking sector assets, which was more than 20 % in 2003.
The Foundation IRB Approach is an IRB Approach as described in Articles 84 to 89 of the proposed banking directive, but where a credit institution does not make use of own estimates of losses given default (LGDs) and/or conversion factors pursuant to Article 84(4). [15] Solo consolidation is an element of the proposed banking directive which is not addressed in Basel II.
Basel II does not permit a waiver of such capital requirements. [18] Available on IOSCO's website. [19] "CESR's technical advice to the European Commission on possible measures concerning credit rating agencies — Consultation Paper", 30 November 2004; available on CESR's website. [20] "To help address potential concerns about the cyclicality of the IRB approaches, the Committee agreed that meaningfully conservative credit risk stress testing by banks should be a requirement under the IRB approaches as a means of ensuring that banks hold a sufficient capital buffer under Pillar Two of the new Accord", BCBS press release, 10 July 2002; available on the BIS's website. [21] Economic and Financial Committee, "Report on financial crisis management" of 17 April 2001, Economic Paper No 156, July 2001; available on the Commission's website. [22] Article 50 of the proposed banking directive, recasting part of Article 30(9) of the Consolidated Banking Directive, permits Member States to authorise the disclosure of confidential prudential information to "departments of their central government administrations responsible for legislation on the supervision of credit institutions, financial institutions, investment services and insurance companies and to inspectors acting on behalf of those departments". [23] See ECB press release of 10 March 2003; available on the ECB's website. [24] European Commission, "Review of the Capital Requirements for EU Investment Firms — 2004 Quantitative Impact Study — Main Conclusions", undated; available on the Commission's website. --------------------------------------------------
