The 2005 SGP reform confirmed the fundamental rules and principles of the Treaty and re-established the consensus among the 25 Member States for sound fiscal policies.
The revised SGP notably gives greater attention to debt developments and the implementation of structural policies that enhance growth potential and long-term sustainability of government finances in line with the Lisbon strategy for growth and jobs.
It foresees that, when a deficit exceeds 3 % of GDP, the Commission should always prepare a report providing an overall assessment of the economic and budgetary situation in the Member State concerned.
The revised SGP remains a rules-based system The revised SGP specifies that deficits in excess of 3 % of GDP which are not temporary or which do not remain close to the reference value should be considered as excessive.
Member States with a deficit only slightly above 3 % and growth projected at close to or above potential have been given a short deadline.
This helps focusing on measures that contribute to sound public finances and budgetary sustainability in the long term and ensures that excessive deficits are corrected in a permanent way.
It has been assessed whether debt levels above 60 % of GDP have been decreasing at a sufficient speed and approaching the reference value at an appropriate pace.
Rather, differentiated medium-term objectives are set for each Member State, taking into account country-specific economic and budgetary circumstances, so as to provide a sufficient safety margin with respect to the 3 % of GDP reference value, and to ensure the achievement and the maintenance of prudent debt levels over time.
In particular, Member States of the euro area or participating in ERM-II should pursue an annual structural adjustment of 0.5 % of GDP as a benchmark.
Country-specific medium-term budgetary objectives reflect economic fundamentals and national strategies… In the 2005 round of updated Stability and Convergence Programmes, different medium-term budgetary objectives were set for individual Member States.
Countries with a relatively high risk to fiscal sustainability (high debt, low potential growth) have medium-term budgetary objectives of balance or a small surplus.
Member States with low debt and high potential growth prospects aim for a deficit of up to 1 % of GDP, allowing room for budgetary manoeuvre, while stabilising the debt at prudent values.
This provides evidence that objectives that better reflect country-specific economic realities in an enlarged EU of 25 Member States are better accepted as anchors for fiscal policy-making at national level. …but planned fiscal efforts to achieve the objectives are not always sufficiently ambitious and fall short of the 0.5 % benchmark in 2006 The 2005 updates of Stability and Convergence Programmes confirmed the intentions of those Member States that have not yet achieved their medium-term budgetary objective to make progress towards it.
The budgetary plans of Member States which have not yet reached the medium-term objective (but not in EDP) for the years 2007 and 2008 are in line with the benchmark structural adjustment of 0.5 % of GDP of the new SGP.
Such measures represent less than 0.1 % of the EU GDP in 2006 and are negligible in 2007 and 2008.
The nominal deficit in the EU was reduced to 2.3 % of GDP, down from 2.6 % of GDP in 2004.
The debt ratio would drop to marginally below 63 % of GDP in 2007.
