Proposal for a Council Regulation laying down conservation and enforcement measures applicable in the Regulatory Area of the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organisation /* COM/2006/0609 final - CNS 2006/0200 */ Brussels, 23.10.2006 COM(2006) 609 final 2006/0200 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION laying down conservation and enforcement measures applicable in the Regulatory Area of the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM CONTEXT OF THE PROPOSAL | 110 | Grounds for and objectives of the proposal This proposal seeks to update the Community rules transposing conservation and Enforcement Measures adopted by Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organisation (NAFO). | 120 | General context The Northwest Fisheries Organisation (NAFO) seeks to ensure the conservation and rational management of the fishery resources in the Area defined by the NAFO Convention.
Article 2 Scope 1.
The provisions in chapters II-V of this Regulation applies to all commercial fishing activities conducted by Community fishing vessels in the NAFO Regulatory Area. 2.
Article 3 Definitions For the purposes of this Regulation (1) “Fishing vessel” means any vessel which is or has been engaged in fishing activities, including fish processing vessels and vessels engaged in transhipment or any other activity in preparation for or related to fishing, including experimental or exploratory fishing. (2) “Research vessel” means any permanent research vessel or vessel normally engaged in fishing activities or fisheries support activity employed or chartered for fishery research, which has been duly notified. (3) “Fishing activities” means fishing, fish processing operations, the transhipment of fish or fish products, and any other activity in preparation for or related to fishing in the NAFO Regulatory Area. (4) “Inspector” means an inspector of the fishery control services of the NAFO Contracting Parties assigned to the Joint Inspection and Surveillance Scheme of NAFO. (5) “Fishing trip” means the time beginning when the vessels enters the NAFO Regulatory Area and ending when the vessel leaves the Regulatory Area and all catch on board from the Regulatory Area is unloaded or transhipped. (6) "Non-Contracting party vessel" means a vessel which has been sighted or by other means identified and reported as having engaged in fishing activities in the NAFO Regulatory Area and (a) which flies the flag of a State which is not a Contracting party to the NAFO Convention; or (b) for which there are reasonable grounds for suspecting it to be without nationality. (7) “IUU fishing” means illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing activities in the NAFO Regulatory Area. (8) “IUU vessel” means any non-Contracting Party vessel engaged in illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing activities in the NAFO Regulatory Area. (9) “IUU list” means the list containing the particulars of vessels which have been found by NAFO to have engaged in IUU fishing. (10) NAFO Regulatory Area means the Area defined in Article I of the Convention on Future Multilateral Co-operation in the Northwest Atlantic fisheries (NAFO Convention). (11) “SubArea” means a subArea as defined in Annex III to the NAFO Convention. (12) “Division” means a division as defined in Annex III to the NAFO Convention. (13) “Others” quota” means a quota which Community vessels share with vessels flying the flag of other Contracting Parties of NAFO. (14) “NAFO Scheme" means the Joint Inspection and Surveillance Scheme adopted by the NAFO. (15) “Conservation and Enforcement Measures of NAFO” means Conservation and Enforcement Measures adopted by the Fisheries Commission and the General Council of NAFO. (16) “Fishing logbook” means the logbook referred to in Regulation (EEC) No 2807/83, in which fishing operations and catches are recorded. (17) “Production logbook” means the logbook in which the fish in product form is recorded. (18) “Capacity plan” means the drawing or description indicating the storage capacity in cubic meters of all holds and other storage places on board a fishing vessel. (19) “Stowage plan” means the drawing that shows the location where the fish is stowed in the holds or other storage places on board a fishing vessel.
By-catches of the species for which no quotas have been fixed by the Community for a part of the NAFO Regulatory Area and taken in that part when fishing directly for any species may not exceed for each species 2 500 kg or 10 % by weight of the total catch retained on board, whichever is the greater.
Whenever the total amounts of species subject to by-catch limits in any future haul exceed those limits, vessels shall again immediately move a minimum of five nautical miles away from the previous haul position and shall not return to the Area for at least 48 hours. 4.
In the event that total by-catches of all species in any haul exceed 5 % by weight in Division 3M and 2.5 % in Division 3L, vessels fishing for shrimp ( Pandalus borealis ), shall immediately move a minimum of 5 nautical miles from the position of the previous haul. 5.
Article 5 Mesh Sizes The use of trawl net having in any section thereof net meshes of dimensions less than 130 mm shall be prohibited for direct ed fishing of the groundfish species referred to in Annex I.
Article 6 Carrying of nets 1.
When fishing directly for one or more of the species listed in Annex I, vessels may not carry nets with a mesh size smaller than that laid down in Article 5. 2.
Article 7 Attachments to nets 1.
The use of top-side chafers shall be limited to those mentioned in Annex V. 4.
Vessels fishing for shrimp in Division 3L shall also be equipped with toggle chains of a minimum 72 cm in length as described in Annex VI.
Article 8 Minimum size of fish 1.
Article 9 Special provisions for shrimp fishery in Division 3L Fishing for shrimp in Division 3L shall take place in depths greater than 200 meters and shall be limited to one vessel per Member State at any one time.
Article 10 Special requirements for data collection 1.
Data to be collected in accordance with paragraph 1 should be collected on a set by set basis and should, to the extent possible, include: a) Species composition in numbers and weight; b) Length frequencies; c) Otoliths; d) Set location, latitudes and longitudes; e) Fishing gear; f) Depth fished; g) Time of day; h) Duration of set; i) Tow opened (for mobile gear); j) Other biological sampling such as maturity where possible. 3.
The data collected in accordance with paragraph 1 shall be reported to the competent authorities of member States for onward transmission to NAFO Secretariat as soon as possible after the end of each fishing trip.
Article 12 List of vessels 1.
The list referred to in paragraph 2 shall contain the following information: (a) the internal number of the vessel, as defined in Annex I to Commission Regulation (EC) NO 26/2004 of 30 December 2003 on the Community fishing fleet register[?]; (b) international radio call sign; (c) vessel charterer, where applicable; (d) vessel type. 4.
For vessels temporarily flying the flag of a Member State (bare boat charter), the information forwarded shall furthermore include: (a) date from which the vessel has been authorised to fly the flag of the Member State; (b) date from which the vessel has been authorised by the Member State to engage in fishing in the NAFO Regulatory Area; (c) name of the State where the vessel is registered or has been previously registered and the date as from which it ceased flying the flag of that State; (d) name of the vessel; (e) official registration number of the vessel assigned by the competent national authorities; (f) home port of the vessel after the transfer ; (g) name of owner or charterer of the vessel; (h) a declaration that the master has been provided with a copy of the regulations in force in the NAFO Regulatory Area; (i) the principal species which can be fished by the vessel in the NAFO Regulatory Area; (j) the sub-Areas where the vessel may be expected to fish.
Article 13 Chartering of Community vessels 1.
Article 14 Monitoring of fishing effort 1.
Member States shall, no later than 31 December each year, report to the Commission on the implementation of their fishing plans.
Article 15 Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) 1.
Article 16 Transhipments Community vessels shall not engage in transhipment operations in the NAFO Regulatory Area unless they have received prior authorisation to do so from their competent authorities.
Article 17 Fishing and Production logbooks and stowage plan 1.
In addition to complying with Articles 6, 8, 11 and 12 of Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93, masters of vessels shall enter in the fishing logbook the information listed in Annex IV. 2.
The masters of a Community vessel shall, in respect of catches of the species referred to in Article 15(1) of Regulation (EEC) N° 2847/93, keep: (a) a production logbook stating their cumulative production by species on board in product weight stated in kilograms; (b) a stowage plan that shows the location of the different species in the holds. 3.
Article 19 Reporting of catches 1.
Each Member State shall, upon receipt, forward catch reports by computer transmission to the NAFO Secretariat via the Commission. 4.
The Member States shall record the data contained in the catch reports in the database referred to in Article 19(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93. 5.
The detailed rules for the format and the specifications for the transmissions referred to in paragraph 2 are laid down in Annex VII.
Article 20 Global reporting of catches and fishing effort 1.
Each Member State shall, in computer readable form, before the 15th of each month, notify the Commission of (a) the quantities of stocks specified in Annex II landed; (b) the number of fishing days used for fishing shrimp in Division 3M during the preceding month and (c) any information received in accordance with Articles 11 and 12 of Regulation (EEC) No 2847/93. 2.
The Commission shall compile the data referred to in paragraph 1 for all Member States and forward those data to the NAFO Secretariat within 30 days of the end of the calendar month in which the catches were made.
SECTION 2 OBSERVERS Article 21 Assignment of observers 1.
Article 22 Main task of observers 1.
Article 23 Recording Observers shall: (a) complete a daily log of the vessels' fishing activities in accordance with the format presented in Annex VIII ; (b) record the gear, mesh size and attachments utilized by the master.
Article 25 Other specific tasks Observers shall: (a) verify the position of the vessel when engaged in fishing activity; (b) supervise transhipments, if any, from vessels subject to a chartering arrangement pursuant to Article 12; (c) monitor the functioning of automatic remote position recording facilities if on board and used by the vessel observed; (d) carry out scientific work and sampling if so requested by the NAFO Fisheries Commission or by the appropriate authorities of the Flag State of the vessel observed.
Article 26 Observer’s Reports 1.
Observers shall present a report, to the Commission and the competent authorities of the Member State which assigned them, within 20 days following the termination of each fishing trip.
Article 29 Costs All costs arising from the operation of observers under this Section shall be borne by the Member States.
Article 30 Follow up 1.
The competent authorities of the Member States receiving the report of the observer in accordance with Article 25 shall evaluate the contents and conclusions of that report. 2.
Chapter I V Inspection and surveillance at sea section 1general provisions Article 31 General rules for inspection and surveillance 1.
SECTION 2 SURVEILLANCE PROCEDURE Article 34 Surveillance procedure 1.
Member States shall by 15 February each year report to the Commission on the action taken with regard to Surveillance reports involving their vessels during the previous year.
Article 36 Boarding 1.
Article 37 On board activities 1.
Where an infringement is detected, inspectors may remain on board for the period necessary to complete their duties as referred to in Article 40 and in Article 43.
Inspectors shall be guided by the conversion factors used by the master of the vessel. 5.
Inspectors shall summarise from logbook records, for the current fishing trip, the vessel’s catch in the NAFO Regulatory Area by species and by division and shall record this summary in point 14 of the inspection report. 3.
In the case of a difference between the recorded catches and the estimates of the inspector, the inspector may re-check calculations, procedures, the relevant documentation and the catch onboard the vessel.
Any such differences shall be noted in point 18 of the inspection report.
Article 39 Obligations of the masters of the fishing vessel during inspection The master of a Community fishing vessel which is being boarded and inspected shall: (a) facilitate safe and effective boarding in accordance with good seamanship when given the appropriate signal in the International Code of Signals by a vessel or helicopter carrying an inspector; (b) provide a boarding ladder which is in conformity with recommendations concerning pilot ladders adopted by the International Maritime Organisation; (c) cooperate with and assist in the inspection of the fishing vessel conducted in accordance with the procedures laid down in this Regulation; he shall ensure the safety of inspectors and shall not obstruct, intimidate or interfere with the inspectors in the performance of their duties; (d) permit the inspectors to communicate with the authorities of the flag State and the inspecting State; (e) provide access to Areas, decks, rooms of the vessel, processed or unprocessed catches, nets and other gear, equipment, registration documents, drawings or descriptions of fish rooms, production logbooks and stowage plans and any other relevant documents as well as give such assistance as is possible and reasonable to ascertain that stowage conforms to the stowage plans; (f) facilitate safe disembarkation by inspectors.
Article 40 Transmission of Inspection reports 1.
Article 42 Follow-up in the case of infringements 1.
section 5Serious infringements Article 43 List of serious infringements 1.
The following infringements shall be considered serious: a) Fishing on an "Others" quota without prior notification to the Executive Secretary of NAFO, or more than seven working days after the notification by the Executive Secretary of NAFO that fishing under an "Others" quota for that stock or species was closed; b) directed fishing for a stock which is subject to a moratorium or for which fishing is prohibited; c) directed fishing for stocks or species after the date on which the Flag State of the inspected vessel has notified the Executive Secretary that its vessels will cease directed fishery for those stocks or species; d) fishing in a closed Area or with gear prohibited in a specific Area; e) mesh size violations; f) fishing without a valid authorisation issued by the flag Contracting Party; g) mis-recording of catches; h) interference with the satellite monitoring system; i) catch communication violations; j) preventing inspectors or observers from carrying out their duties.
Article 44 Inspector activities 1.
Where inspectors cite a vessel for having committed a serious infringement as listed in Article 42, they shall promptly notify the flag State, their own authorities, the Commission and the NAFO Secretariat thereof. 2.
Inspectors may remain on board a fishing vessel for the period necessary to obtain the relevant information concerning the infringement.
Article 45 Inspection by an inspector authorised by the flag Member State 1.
After being notified by another Contracting Party of a serious infringement committed by a Community vessel, the flag Member State in co-operation with the Commission shall ensure that the vessel is inspected within 72 hours by a duly authorised inspector. 3.
Article 46 Re-routing 1.
SECTION 6 REPORTS Article 48 Treatment of inspection reports 1.
Article 49 Reports on infringements 1.
Article 50 Reporting on inspection and surveillance activities 1.
Each Member State shall report to the Commission by 15 February each year for the previous calendar year on: (a) the number of inspections it has carried out under the NAFO Scheme specifying the number of inspections on the vessels of each Contracting Party and, where an infringement has been committed, the date and location of the inspection of the vessel concerned and the nature of the suspected infringement; (b) the number of air hours flown on NAFO surveillance, the number of sightings and the number of surveillance reports that have been drawn up together with the follow-up action that has been taken on these surveillance reports. 2.
Chapter V Inspections in port Article 5 1 Inspection in port 1.
Article 52 Port inspection reports 1.
The Commission shall promptly forward the report to the NAFO Secretariat and, upon request, to the Flag State of the vessel.
Chapter VI Non Contracting Party Activities Article 53 IUU activities carried out by Non-Contracting Party vessels 1.
Article 54 Information on non-Contracting Party vessels 1.
The Commission shall transmit all information immediately to the NAFO Secretariat. 3.
Article 56 Inspection at sea Inspectors shall, if appropriate, request permission to board a non-Contracting Party vessel which has been sighted or by other means identified engaging in fishing activities in the Regulatory Area of NAFO.
Article 57 Inspection in port 1.
The vessel may not land or tranship any catch until this inspection has been completed. 2.
Article 58 Measures in respect of Non-Contracting party vessels 1 Member States shall take all necessary measures in accordance with national and Community law, in order that (a) no license or special fishing permit is issued to vessels appearing in the IUU list to fish in waters under their sovereignty or jurisdiction; (b) their flag is not granted to vessels appearing on the IUU list; (c) vessels appearing on the IUU list are not authorised to land, tranship, refuel or re-supply, except for reasons of force majeure, or engage in fishing operations or in any other activity in preparation for or related to fishing in their ports or waters under their sovereignty or jurisdiction; (d) importers, transporters and other sectors concerned are encouraged to refrain from negotiating with and from transhipping fish caught by vessels appearing on the IUU list; (e) all information regarding the vessels appearing on the IUU list is collected and exchanged with other Contracting Parties, Non-Contracting Parties and other Regional fisheries Organisations for the purpose of detecting, and preventing the use of false import/export certificates regarding fish from such vessels. 2.
Chapter VII Final Provisions Article 59 Procedures for amendments The provisions in this Regulation may be amended to apply NAFO conservation measures which become obligatory for the Community, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 30(2) of Regulation (EC) No 2371/2002.
Article 60 Repeal Regulations (EC) No 1262/00, (EC) No 3069/95, (EC) No 3680/93, (EEC) No 189/92, (EEC) No 1956/88 and (EEC) No 2868/88 are hereby repealed.
Article 61 This Regulation shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Items 1 through 8 and item 18 of the Report are to be highlighted with red ink. 30.
The size of every page, after removal from the packet, should be 355.5 mm (14") in length by 216 mm (8 1/2") in width.
