European Parliament resolution on Tibet, the case of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche P6_TA(2004)0067 Tibet (case of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche) European Parliament resolution on Tibet, the case of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche The European Parliament, - having regard to its earlier resolutions on Tibet and the human rights situation in China, and its resolutions on human rights in the world, - having regard to its resolution of 19 December 2002 [1] on the cases of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche and Lobsang Dhondup, - having regard to Rule 115(5) of its Rules of Procedure, A.
whereas on 2 December 2002 the Kardze (Ganzi) Intermediate People's Court in the Kardze Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture of Sichuan Province sentenced Tenzin Delek Rinpoche, an influential Buddhist lama, to death, suspended for two years, and whereas his attendant, Lobsang Dhondup, was executed on 26 January 2003, in both cases for alleged political offences, B.
whereas both had been arrested in early April 2002 following a bombing incident in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan Province, on 3 April 2002, C.
whereas Tenzin Delek Rinpoche was charged with "causing explosions" and "inciting separatism" and his guilt has not been proven, D.
seriously concerned at the fact that the period of suspension of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche's execution will expire on 2 December 2004, F.
whereas, at the request of the then European Council, the Council is currently re-examining the embargo on arms sales to China, which was decided and implemented in 1989, G.
Reiterates its call for the abolition of the death penalty, calls for an immediate moratorium on capital punishment in China and urges the Chinese authorities to immediately commute the death sentence handed down to Tenzin Delek Rinpoche; 2.
Strongly condemns the execution of Lobsang Dhondup on 26 January 2003; 3.
Calls on the Chief Prosecutor of the Sichuan Provincial People's Procuratorate and the Governor of the Sichuan Provincial People's Government to do their utmost to prevent the execution of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche; 4.
Calls on the Commission and the Council to express their concerns about Tenzin Delek Rinpoche's case during the forthcoming EU/China Summit; 7.
Welcomes the release of Ngawang Sangdrol and Jigme Sangpo, Tibet's longest-serving prisoners of conscience, and urges the Chinese authorities to continue with prisoner releases; 9.
Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the UN Secretary- General, the Chinese Government, the Governor of Sichuan Province and the Chief Prosecutor of the Sichuan Provincal People's Procuratorate. [1] OJ C 31 E, 5.2.2004, p. 264. --------------------------------------------------
