List of residence permits referred to in Article%nbsp%2(15) of Regulation (EC) No%nbsp%562/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15%nbsp%March 2006 establishing a Community Code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (Schengen Borders Code) List of residence permits referred to in Article 2(15) of Regulation (EC) No 562/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006 establishing a Community Code on the rules governing the movement of persons across borders (Schengen Borders Code) (2006/C 247/01) BELGIUM - Carte d'identité d'étranger Identiteitskaart voor vreemdelingen Personalausweis für Ausländer Identity card for aliens - Certificat d'inscription au registre des étrangers Bewijs van inschrijving in het vreemdelingenregister Bescheinigung der Eintragung im Ausländer-register Certificate of inscription in the aliens' register Certificato d'iscrizione nel registro degli stranieri - Special residence permits issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: - Carte d'identité diplomatique Diplomatieke identiteitskaart Diplomatischer Personalausweis (Diplomatic identity card) - Carte d'identité consulaire Consulaire identiteitskaart Konsularer Personalausweis Consular identity card - Carte d'identité spéciale — couleur bleue Bijzondere identiteitskaart — blauw Besonderer Personalausweis — blau Special identity card — blue in colour - Carte d'identité spéciale — couleur rouge Bijzondere identiteitskaart — rood Besonderer Personalausweis — rot Special identity card — red in colour - Pièce d'identité pour enfant d'étranger privilégié (Certificat d'identité pour les enfants âgés de moins de cinq ans des étrangers privilégiés titulaires d'une carte d'identité diplomatique, d'une carte d'identité consulaire, d'une carte d'identité spéciale — couleur bleue ou d'une carte d'identité spéciale — couleur rouge) Identiteitsbewijs voor een kind van een bevoorrecht vreemdeling (Identiteitsbewijs voor kinderen, die de leeftijd van vijf jaar nog niet hebben bereikt, van een bevoorrecht vreemdeling dewelke houder is van een diplomatieke identiteitskaart, consulaire identiteitskaart, bijzondere identiteitskaart — blauw of bijzondere identiteitskaart — rood) Identitätsdokument für ein Kind eines bevorrechtigten Ausländers (Identitätsnachweis für Kinder unter fünf Jahren, für privilegierte Ausländer, die Inhaber eines diplomatischen Personalausweises, eines konsularischen Personalausweises, eines besonderen Personalausweises — blau — oder eines besonderen Personalausweises — rot — sind) Identity document for children of privileged foreigners (Identity card for children, under the age of five, of aliens who are holders of diplomatic identity cards, consular identity cards, blue special identity cards or red special identity cards) - Certificat, d'identité pour enfant âgé de moins de 12 ans (Certificat d'identité avec photographie délivré par une administration communale belge à un enfant de moins de douze ans) Bewijs, van identiteit voor een kind van minder dan 12 jaar (Door een Belgisch gemeentebestuur aan een kind beneden de 12 jaar afgegeven identiteitsbewijs met foto) Ausweis für ein Kind unter 12 Jahren (Von einer belgischen Gemeindeverwaltung einem Kind unter dem 12.
Lebensjahr ausgestellter Personalausweis mit Lichtbild) (Certificate of identity with photograph issued by Belgian communes to children under 12) - Liste des personnes participant à un voyage scolaire à l'intérieur de l'Union européenne Reizigerslijst voor schoolreizen binnen de Europese Unie Liste der Reisenden für Schülerreisen innerhalb der Europäischen Union List of persons participating in a school trip within the European Union CZECH REPUBLIC - Povolení k pobytu (štítek v pasu) (Residence permit) (sticker in a passport) - Průkaz o povolení pobytu pro cizince (zelené provedení) (Residence permit certificate for an alien) (green booklet) - Průkaz o povolení pobytu pro státního příslušníka členského státu Evropských společenství (fialové provedení) (Residence permit certificate for a citizen of a Member State of the European Communities) (violet booklet) - Cestovní doklad — Úmluva z 28. července 1951) vydávaný azylantům (modré provedení) (Travel Document — Convention of 28 July 1951) (blue booklet) - Průkaz o povolení k trvalému pobytu občana EU (dark violet booklet) (Residence permit certificate for EU citizen) - Průkaz o povolení k trvalému pobytu rodinní příslušníci občana EU (dark green booklet) (Residence permit certificate for EU citizen family members) DENMARK Residence cards EF/EØ — opholdskort (EU/EEA residence card) (title on card) - Kort A.
Tidsbegrænset EF/EØS-opholdsbevis (anvendes til EF/EØS-statsborgere) (Card A.
Temporary EU/EEA residence permit used for EU/EEA nationals) - Kort B.
Tidsubegrænset EP/EØS-opholdsbevis (anvendes til EF/EØS-statsborgere) (Card B.
EU/EEA residence permit of unlimited duration used for EU/EEA nationals) - Kort K.
Tidsbegrænset opholdstilladelse til tredjelandsstatsborgere, der meddeles opholdstilladelse efter ER/EØS-reglerne) (Card K.
Temporary residence permit for nationals of third countries who have been granted a residence permit under EU/EEA rules) - Kort L.
Tidsubegrænset opholdstilladelse til tredjelandsstatsborgere, der meddeles opholdstilladelse efter ER/EØS-reglerne) (Card L.
Tidsbegrænset opholdstilladelse til udlændinge, der er fritaget for arbejdstilladelse (Card C.
Temporary residence permit for aliens who are not required to have a work permit) - Kort D.
Tidsubegrænset opholdstilladelse til udlændinge, der er fritaget for arbejdstilladelse (Card D.
Residence permit of unlimited duration for aliens who are not required to have a work permit) - Kort E.
Tidsbegrænset opholdstilladelse til udlændinge, der ikke har ret til arbejde (Card E.
Temporary residence permit for aliens who do not have the right to work) - Kort F.
Tidsbegrænset opholdstilladelse til flygtninge — er fritaget for arbejdstilladelse (Card F.
Temporary residence permit for refugees — not required to have a work permit) - Kort G.
Tidsbegrænset opholdstilladelse til EF/EØS — stats borgere, som har andet opholdsgrundlag end efter EF-reglerne — er fritaget for arbejdstilladelse (Card G.
Temporary residence permit for EU/EEA nationals who have a basis for residence other than that deriving from EU rules — not required to have a work permit) - Kort H.
Tidsubegrænset opholdstilladelse til EF/EØS — stats borgere, som har andet opholdsgrundlag end efter EF-reglerne — er fritaget for arbejdstilladelse (Card H.
Residence permit of unlimited duration for EU/EEA nationals who have a basis for residence other than that deriving from EU rules — not required to have a work permit) - Kort J.
Tidsbegrænset opholds- og arbejdstilladelse til udlændinge (Card J.
Temporary residence and work permit for aliens) Since 14 September 1998 Denmark has issued new residence pemits in credit card format.
These cards are made of laminated paper, measure approximately 9 cm x 13 cm and bear a pattern of the Danish coat of arms in white.
Stickers to be affixed to passports, bearing the following wording: - Sticker B.
Temporary residence permit for aliens who do not have the right to work) - Sticker C.
Temporary residence and work permit) - Sticker D.
Accompanying relatives (residence permit for children who are included in their parents' passport) - Sticker H.
Temporary residence permit for aliens who are not required to have a work permit) Stickers issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: - Sticker E — Diplomatisk visering (Sticker E — diplomatic visa) — issued to diplomats and the members of their family who appear on the diplomatic lists, and to staff of equivalent rank at the international organisations in Denmark.
Valid for residence and for multiple entry for as long as the person concerned is on the diplomatic lists in Copenhagen) - Sticker F — Opholdstilladelse (Sticker F — residence permit) — issued to seconded technical or administrative staff and members of their family and to domestic servants of diplomats on secondment from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the State of origin with a service passport.
Valid for residence and multiple entry for the duration of the mission. - Sticker S (i kombination med sticker E eller F) (Sticker S (in combination with Sticker E or F) Residence permit for accompanying close relatives, where they are included in the passport.
Nor is an "Aussetzung der Abschiebung (Duldung)" (deferral of expulsion (exceptional leave to remain)) or an "Aufenthaltsgestattung für Asylbewerber" (temporary residence permit for asylum seekers) valid for entry without a visa.
Passes for members of diplomatic missions The attendant privileges are shown on the back of the each pass. - Passes issued to diplomats and their family members: Marked "D" on the back: - diplomatic passes for foreign diplomats: - Diplomatenausweis (pass for diplomats) (1999 to 31 July 2003), - Protokollausweis für Diplomaten (protocol pass for diplomats) (since 1 August 2003); - diplomatic passes for family members engaging in gainful private employment: - Diplomatenausweis "A" (A pass for diplomats) (1999 to 31 July 2003) - Protokollausweis für Diplomaten "A" (A protocol pass for diplomats) (since 1 August 2003); - diplomatic passes for diplomats who are German nationals or permanently resident in Germany - Diplomatenausweis Art. 38 WÜD (pass for diplomats under Article 38 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations) (1999 to 31 July 2003), - Protokollausweis für Diplomaten Art. 38 I WÜD (protocol pass for diplomats under Article 38(1) of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations) (since 1 August 2003), - Passes issued to administrative or technical staff and their family members: Marked "VB" on the back: - protocol pass for foreign administrative or technical staff: - Protokollausweis für Verwaltungspersonal (protocol pass for administrative staff) (since 1999) - protocol pass for administrative or technical staff family members engaging in gainful private employment: - Protokollausweis für Verwaltungspersonal "A" (protocol pass for administrative staff) (since 1 August 2003) - protocol pass for administrative or technical staff who are German nationals or permanently resident in Germany: - Protokollausweis für Mitglieder VB Art. 38 2 WÜD (protocol pass for administrative staff under Article 38(2) of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations) (since 1 August 2003) - Passes issued to service staff and their family members: Marked "DP" on the back: - Protokollausweis für dienstliches Hauspersonal (protocol pass for service staff) (since 1999) - Passes issued to local staff and their family members: Marked "OK" on the back: - Protokollausweis für Ortskräfte (protocol pass for local staff) (since 1999) - Passes issued to private domestic staff: Marked "PP" on the back: - Protokollausweis für privates Hauspersonal (protocol pass for private domestic staff) (since 1999) III.
Special passes - Passes issued to members of international organisations and their family members: Marked "IO" on the back: - Sonderausweis "IO" (IO special pass) (since 1999) Note: heads of international organisations and their family members are issued a pass marked "D"; private domestic staff of international organisations' staff are issued a pass marked "PP". - Passes issued to household members under section 27(1)(5) of the Residence Regulations: Marked "S" on the back: - Sonderausweis "S" (S special pass) (since 1 January 2005) V.
It is valid for between one year and an indefinite period). 3. Άδεια παραμονής αλλοδαπού (χρώμα λευκό) [2] (Alien's residence permit) (white) (This document was issued to aliens married to Greek nationals.
The card is also issued to their spouses, regardless of nationality, and to their children, provided there is official documentation to prove their family ties). 7. Ειδικό δελτίο ταυτότητας ομογενούς (χρώμα ροζ) [4] (Special identity card for aliens of Greek descent) (pink) (This document is issued to aliens of Greek descent from the former USSR.
Adult aliens should be in possession of the following documents: - Carte de séjour temporaire comportant une mention particulière qui varie selon le motif du séjour autorisé (A temporary residence permit containing particular details which will vary in accordance with the grounds for the authorised stay) - Carte de résident (Resident's card) - Certificat de résidence d'Algérien comportant une mention particulière qui varie selon le motif du séjour autorisé (1 an, 10 ans) (Algerian residence certificate containing a particular reference depending on grounds for the authorised stay) (1 year, 10 years) - Certificat de résidence d'Algérien portant la mention "membre d'un organisme officiel" (2 ans) (Algerian residence certificate bearing the words member of an official organisation) (2 years) - Carte de séjour des Communautés européennes (1 an, 5 ans, 10 ans) (European Communities residence permit) (1 year, 5 years, 10 years) - Carte de séjour de l'Espace Economique Européen (European Economic Area residence permit) - Cartes officielles valant de titre de séjour, délivrées par le Ministère des Affaires Etrangères (Official permits with the same status as residence permits issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) a.
Titres de séjour spéciaux (special residence permits) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CMD/A délivrée aux Chefs de Mission diplomatique (special residence permit marked "CMD/A" issued to heads of diplomatic missions) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CMD/M délivrée aux Chefs de Mission d'Organisation Internationale (special residence permit marked "CMD/M" issued to heads of mission of international organisations) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CMD/D délivrée aux Chefs d'une délégation permanente auprès d'une Organisation Internationale (special residence permit marked "CMD/D" issued to heads of permanent delegations to international organisations) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CD/A délivrée aux agents du Corps Diplomatique (special residence permit marked "CD/A" issued to diplomatic officials) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CD/M délivrée aux Hauts Fonctionnaires d'une organisation Internationale (special residence permit marked "CD/M" issued to senior officials of an international organisation) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CD/D délivrée aux assimilés diplomatiques membres d'une délégation permanente auprès d'une Organisation Internationale (special residence permit marked "CD/D" issued to officials comparable to diplomatic officials who are members of permanent delegations to international organisations) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention CC/C délivrée aux Fonctionnaires Consulaires (special residence permit marked "CC/C" issued to consular officials) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention AT/A délivrée au personnel Administratif ou Technique d'une Ambassade (special residence permit marked "AT/A" issued to administrative or technical staff of an Embassy) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention AT/C délivrée au personnel Administratif ou Technique d'un Consulat (special residence permit marked "AT/C" issued to administrative or technical staff of a Consulate) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention AT/M délivrée au personnel Administratif ou Technique d'une Organisation Internationale (special residence permit marked "AT/M" issued to administrative or technical staff οf an international organisation) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention AT/D délivrée au personnel Administratif ou Technique d'une Délégation auprès d'une Organisation Internationale (special residence permit marked "AT/D" issued to administrative or technical staff of a delegation to an international organisation) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention SE/A délivrée au personnel de Service d'une Ambassade (special residence permit marked "SE/A" issued to service staff of an Embassy) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention SE/C délivrée au personnel de Service d'un Consulat (special residence permit marked "SE/C" issued to service staff of a Consulate) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention SE/M délivrée au personnel de Service d'une Organisation Internationale (special residence permit marked "SE/M" issued to service staff of an international organisation) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention SE/D délivrée au personnel de Service d'une Délégation auprès d'une Organisation Internationale (special residence permit marked "SE/D" issued to service staff of a delegation to an international organisation) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention PP/A délivrée au Personnel Privé d'un diplomate (special residence permit marked "PP/A" issued to private staff of a diplomat) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention PP/C délivrée au Personnel Privé d'un Fonctionnaire consulaire (special residence permit marked "PP/C" issued to private staff of a consular official) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention PP/M délivrée au Personnel Privé d'un membre d'une Organisation Internationale (special residence permit marked "PP/M" issued to private staff of a member of an international organisation) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention PP/D délivrée au Personnel Privé d'un membre d'une Délégation permanente auprès d'une Organisation Internationale (special residence permit marked "PP/D" issued to private staff of a member of a permanent delegation at an international organisation) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention EM/A délivrée aux Enseignants ou Militaires à statut spécial attachés auprès d'une Ambassade (special residence permit marked "EM/A" issued to teachers or military staff with special status attached to an Embassy) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention EM/C délivrée aux Enseignants ou Militaires à statut spécial attachés auprès d'un Consulat (special residence permit marked "EM/C" issued to teachers or military staff with special status attached to a Consulate) - Titre de séjour spécial portant la mention EF/M délivrée aux Fonctionnaires internationaux domiciliés à l'étranger (special residence permit marked "EF/M" issued to international officials domiciled abroad) b.
Monegasque permits - la carte de séjour de résident temporaire de Monaco (temporary resident's permit); - la carte de séjour de résident ordinaire de Monaco (ordinary resident's permit); - la carte de séjour de résident privilégié de Monaco (privileged resident's permit); - la carte de séjour de conjoint de ressortissant monégasque (residence permit for the spouse of a person of Monegasque nationality). 2.
Aliens who are minors should be in possession of the following documents: - Document de circulation pour étrangers mineurs (Travel document for alien minors) - Titre d'identité républicain (French Republic identity document) - Visa de retour (sans condition de nationalité et sans présentation du titre de séjour, auquel ne sont pas soumis les enfants mineurs) (Return visas) (alien minors are not subject to nationality conditions or to production of residence permits) - Passeport diplomatique/de service/ordinaire des enfants mineurs des titulaires d'une carte spéciale du Ministère des Affaires étrangères revêtu d'un visa de circulation (Diplomatic/service/ordinary passports for minors who are children of holders of a Special Pass issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs containing a travel visa) 3.
ITALY - Carta di soggiorno (validità illimitata) (Residence permit) (unlimited validity) - Permesso di soggiorno con esclusione delle sotto elencate tipologie: (Residence permit with the exception of the following:) 1.
Permesso di soggiorno provvisorio per richiesta asilo politico ai sensi della Convenzione di Dublino (Provisional residence permit for political asylum seekers pursuant to the Dublin Convention) 2.
Permesso di soggiorno per cure mediche (Residence permit for medical purposes) 3.
Leidimas laikinai gyventi Lietuvos Respublikoje (Temporary residence permit in the Republic of Lithuania — card) 2.
Leidimas nuolat gyventi Lietuvos Respublikoje (Permanent residence permit in the Republic of Lithuania — card) 3.
Europos Bendrijų valstybės narės piliečio leidimas gyventi (Residence permit for a national of a Member State of the EU — card) 4.
Europos Bendrijų valstybės narės piliečio leidimas gyventi nuolat (Permanent residence permit for a national of a Member State of the EU — card) 5.
Asmens grįžimo pažymėjimas (Repatriation certificate, only to return to the Republic of Lithuania — booklet, yellow-green) 6.
As a general rule, valid for residence only together with "D" category visa (exceptions in some bilateral treaties). 7.
Humanitárius tartózkodási engedély (Humanitarian residence permit) (card form) — accompanied by a national passport 2.
Tartózkodási engedély (Residence permit (card form) — accompanied by a national passport 3.
Tartózkodási engedély (Residence permit (sticker form) — affixed to a national passport 4.
Bevándoroltak részére kiadott személyazonosító igazolvány (Identity card issued for immigrants) — accompanied by a national passport which indicates issue of the immigration permit 5.
Letelepedési engedély (Permanent residence permit) — accompanied by a national passport which indicates issue of the authorisation for permanent residence 6.
Letelepedettek részére kiadott tartózkodási engedély (Residence permit issued for permanently residing people) (sticker form) — affixed to a national passport 7.
Diáklista (List of persons participating in a school trip within the EU) 8.
Igazolvány diplomáciai képviselők és családtagjaik részére (Special certificate for diplomats and their family members) (diplomat's identity card) — together with a D visa issued by the MFA, if necessary 9.
Igazolvány konzuli képviselet tagjai és családtagjaik részére (Special certificate for members of consular posts and their family members) (consular identity card) — together with a D visa issued by the MFA, if necessary 10.
Igazolvány képviselet igazgatási és műszaki személyzete és családtagjaik részére (Special certificate for the members of the administrative and technical staff of diplomatic missions and their family members) — together with a D visa issued by the MFA, if necessary 11.
Igazolvány képviselet kisegítő személyzete, háztartási alkalmazottak és családtagjaik részére (Special certificate for the service staff of the diplomatic missions, private servants and their family members) — together with a D visa issued by the MFA, if necessary THE NETHERLANDS 1.
The following types of aliens document: I (Regulier bepaalde tijd) (Regular — fixed-term) II (Regulier onbepaalde tijd) (Regular — indefinite) III (Asiel bepaalde tijd) (Asylum — fixed-term) IV (Asiel onbepaalde tijd) (Asylum — indefinite) EU/EER (Gemeenschapsonderdanen) (EU nationals) 2.
Visum voor terugkeer (Return visa) 4.
List of persons participating in a school trip within the European Union.
Karta stałego pobytu (Permanent residence card, XS series, issued before 30 June 2001) A permanent residence card for an alien who has obtained a permanent residence permit.
The last card of this edition is valid until 29 June 2011. 3.
Special accreditation cards issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: - Legitymacja dyplomatyczna (Diplomatic card) Issued to accredited ambassadors and members of diplomatic staff of the missions - Legitymacja konsularna (zielona) (Consular card — green) Issued to heads of consular posts and members of consular staff - Legitymacja konsularna (żółta) (Consular card — yellow) Issued to honorary consuls - Legitymacja służbowa (Service card) Issued to members of the administrative, technical and service staff of the missions - Zaświadczenie (Certificate) Issued to other categories of aliens than mentioned above in point 3, who are authorised to profit from diplomatic and consular immunity on the grounds of acts, agreements or international customs. 4.
PORTUGAL - Cartão de Identidade (emitido pelo Ministério dos Negócios Estrangeiros) (Identity card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) Corpo Consular, Chefe de Missão (Consular corps, Head of mission) - Cartão de Identidade (emitido pelo Ministério dos Negócios Estrangeiros) (Identity card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) Corpo Consular, Funcionário de Missão (Consular corps, mission official) - Cartão de Identidade (emitido pelo Ministério dos Negócios Estrangeiros) (Identity card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) Pessoal Auxiliar de Missão Estrangeira (Auxiliary staff working in a foreign mission) - Cartão de Identidade (emitido pelo Ministério dos Negócios Estrangeiros) (Identity card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) Funcionário Admnistrativo de Missão Estrangeira (Administrative officer working in a foreign mission) - Cartão de Identidade (emitido pelo Ministério dos Negócios Estrangeiros) (Identity card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) Corpo Diplomático, Chefe de Missão (Diplomatic Corps, Head of mission) - Cartão de Identidade (emitido pelo Ministério dos Negócios Estrangeiros) (Identity card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) Corpo Diplomático, Funcionário de Missão (Diplomatic Corps, mission official) - Título de Residência (Residence permit) - Autorização de Residência Temporária (Temporary residence authorisation) - Autorizaçåo de Residência Permanente (Permanent residence authorisation) - Autorização de Residência Vitalícia (Residence authorisation valid for life) - Cartão de Identidade de Refugiado (Refugee identity card) - Autorização de Residência por razões humanitárias (Residence authorisation on humanitarian grounds) - Cartão de Residência de nacional de um Estado-membro da Comunidade Europeia (Residence permit of a national of an EC Member State) - Cartão de Residência Temporária (Temporary residence permit) - Cartão de Residência (Residence permit) - Autorização de Permanência (Permit of stay) SLOVAKIA - Povolenie na pobyt — vo forme nálepky (nalepená v cestovnom doklade cudzinca) (Residence permit in the form of the sticker) (sticker in a travel document of alien) - Povolenie na pobyt — vo forme identifikačnej karty (polykarbonátová karta) (Residence permit in the form of ID card) (polycarbonate card) - Povolenie na pobyt — vo forme identifikačnej karty, v ktorom je uvedený názov "osoba s dlhodobým pobytom — ES" (je vydávaný cudzincom, ktorých pobyt na území SR zodpovedá dlhodobému pobytu cudzinca v Európskom hospodárskom priestore) (Residence permit in the form of ID card — bearing the wording — person with long-term residence — ES.
This document is issued to person whose residence within the territory of Slovak republic is equal to long-term residence in European Economic Area) - Povolenie na pobyt — vo forme identifikačnej karty, v ktorom je uvedený názov "rodinný príslušník občana Európskeho hospodárskeho priestoru" (od 1. 5. 2006 bude vydávaný cudzincovi tretej krajiny, ktorý je zároveň rodinným príslušníkom občana Európskeho hospodárskeho priestoru) (Residence permit in the form of ID card — bearing the wording — family member of citizen of European Economic Area.
Fixed-term residence permits are issued for a residence of temporary nature (temporary residence permit) or of continuous nature (continuous residence permit). - Pysyvä oleskelulupa Permanent residence permit in the form of a sticker bearing the letter P. - Jatkuva oleskelulupa Continuous residence permit in the form of a sticker bearing the letter A. - Tilapäinen oleskelulupa Temporary residence permit in the form of a sticker bearing the letter B. - Other permits: - Oleskelulupa uppehållstillstånd Residence permit in the form of a card issued to nationals of the Member States of the EU or the EEA and to members of their families - Henkilökortti A, B, C and D Identity card issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to diplomatic, administrative and technical staff, including members of their families - Oleskelulupa diplomaattileimaus tai olekelulupa virkaleimaus Residence permit in the form of a sticker issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, bearing the indication "diplomatic" (diplomaattileimaus) or "service" (virkaleimaus) - List of persons participating in a school trip within the European Union SWEDEN - Permanent residence permit in the form of a sticker bearing the words "Sverige Permanent uppehållstillstånd.
Dalarleyfi vegna atvinnuþátttöku sem er grundvöllur búsetuleyfis, (Permits to stay on account of employment, forming a basis for the issue of a residence permit) c.
Dvalarleyfi vegna vistráðningar, (Permits to stay on account of au pair engagement) h.
gr. útlendingalaga. (Residence permits according to Section 15 of the Act on Foreigners) NORWAY - Oppholdstillatelse (Residence permit) - Arbeidstillatelse (Work permit) - Bosettingstillatelse (Settlement permit/Permanent work and residence permit) Residence permits issued before 25 March 2000 are distinguished by the presence of stamps (not stickers) in the bearers' travel documents.
These cards are always laminated. - Identitetskort for diplomater (Identity card for diplomats — red) - Identitetskort for hjelpepersonale ved diplomatisk stasjon (Identity card for auxiliary staff — brown) - Identitetskort for administrativt og teknisk personale ved diplomatisk stasjon (Identity card for administrative and technical staff — blue) - Identitetskort for utsendte konsuler (Identity card for consuls — green) - Residence/visa sticker issued to holders of diplomatic, service and official passports who are subject to the visa requirement and staff of foreign missions who hold a national passport. [1] This document ceased to be issued on 1.7.2003. [2] This document remains valid until its expiry date.
