Proposal for a Council Regulation concerning the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the United Republic of Tanzania on fishing in Tanzania%rsquo%s fishing zone /* COM/2005/0693 final - CNS 2005/0276 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 23.12.2005 COM(2005) 693 final 2005/0276 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION concerning the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the United Republic of Tanzania on fishing in Tanzania’s fishing zone (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM In 1990 the European Economic Community and the United Republic of Tanzania had initialled a tuna Agreement which has never been implemented because of internal Tanzanian constitutional/political problems.
It grants fishing possibilities for 39 tuna seiners, and 31 surface longliners.
The financial contribution is fixed at € 600 000 per year and covers a catch weight in the Tanzania’s fishing zone of 8 000 tons of catches per year.
In this sense, the following new elements, in respect to a “classical” access agreement, have been introduced: i) exclusive clause prohibiting any private licence or other arrangement by EC shipowners, ii) mutual agreement between the Tanzanian authorities and the European Commission on the measures to be financed after submission of a detailed programming, iii) obligation for the Community fleet operating in the Tanzania’s fishing zone to embark at least 30 local seamen and to apply the social clause, iv) fishing outside 12 miles from the coast, v) collection of by-catches and ban of by-catch dumping, vi) sanctions for non-compliance with the Protocol and the relevant Tanzanian legislation.
The Commission proposes on this basis that the Council adopt by Regulation the Agreement. 2005/0276 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION concerning the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the United Republic of Tanzania on fishing in Tanzania’s fishing zone THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 37 in conjunction with Article 300 (2) and the first subparagraph of Article 300 (3) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[2], Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament[3] Whereas: 1.
Article2 The fishing opportunities fixed in the Protocol to the Agreement shall be allocated among the Member States as follows: - Tuna seiners: France 16 licences; Spain 22 licences; Italy 1 licence. - Surface long-liners: Spain 27 licences; Portugal 4 licences.
Article 3 The Member States whose vessels fish under this Agreement shall notify the Commission of the quantities of each stock caught within the Tanzania’s fishing zone in accordance with Commission Regulation (EC) No 500/2001[4].
Article 4 The President of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the persons empowered to sign the Agreement in order to bind the Community.
Article 5 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
However this period can in no case exceed a year form the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 4.
Tanzania shall permit fishing by Community vessels in Tanzania’s fishing zone in accordance with this Agreement. 2.
The Community shall undertake all necessary steps to ensure that Community vessels observe the provisions of this Agreement and the laws relating to fishing in Tanzania’s fishing zone consistent with the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and other rules of international law. 2.
Fishing activities by Community vessels in Tanzania’s fishing zone under the present Agreement shall be subject to possession of a valid fishing licence. 2.
Article 5 The Parties undertake to co-ordinate action, either directly or within international organisations, to ensure the management and conservation of the living resources in the Indian Ocean, particularly in respect of highly migratory species, and to facilitate the relevant scientific research.
Article 7 In return for the fishing opportunities accorded under Article 2, the Community shall make payments to Tanzania in accordance with the provisions of the Protocol, without prejudice to the financing for which Tanzania is eligible under the ACP-EEC Convention.
The parties shall consult at least 30 days in advance regarding the date and agenda for meetings of the Joint Committee. 3.
Should the Tanzanian authorities decide, as a result of developments in the state of stocks, to take conservation measures which affect the activities of Community vessels, consultations shall be held between the Parties in the framework of the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9, in order to adapt the Annex and Protocol attached to this Agreement. 2.
Article 11 Nothing in this Agreement shall affect or prejudice in any manner the view of either Party with respect to any matter relating to The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
Article 12 This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of the United Republic of Tanzania.
Article 13 The Annex and the Protocol attached to this Agreement form an integral part of the Agreement and, unless otherwise specified, a reference to the Agreement shall also constitute a reference to them.
Article 15 This Agreement shall enter into force on the date on which the Parties notify each other of the completion of the procedures necessary for this purpose, and in any case not before the 1st January 2005.
Article 16 This Agreement shall be drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovak, Slovene, Spanish and Swedish languages, each of these texts being equally authentic.
Pursuant to Article 2 of the Agreement, and for a period of three years from the date of its entry into force, the following fishing opportunities shall be accorded: - for tuna seiners: 39 licences; - for surface longliners fishing for tuna and other migratory species: 31 licences; 2.
The payments provided for in Article 7 of the Agreement for the period set out in Article 1 (1) is fixed at EUR 600,000 per year (comprising EUR 210,000 as financial compensation and EUR 390,000 for the measures referred to in Article 3 of this Protocol). 2.
These payments shall cover the catches of 8,000 tonnes for tuna and other migratory species fished per year in the Tanzania’s fishing zone.
The financial compensation shall be paid into an account opened at a financial institution or other body designated by Tanzanian authorities, in the name of the Public Treasury, not later than 1st January of each year (the first payment to be done not later than 31 May 2005) and its use shall be of the sole competence of Tanzania.
The measures set out below shall be financed to the amount of EUR 390,000 per year, broken down as follows: a) EUR 200,000 for surveillance and control of fishing activities in Tanzania’s fishing zone; b) EUR 75,000 for institutional support to the administrative department responsible for fisheries; c) EUR 115,000 for the development of local small scale fisheries.
All the amounts provided for in paragraph 2 shall be paid into account Nº 012105002942 at the anniversary date of entry into force of this Protocol (the first payment to be done not later than two months after the entry into force of this Protocol). 4.
The annual report shall be examined within the Joint Committee provided for in Article 9 of the Agreement.
Article 4 If the Community fails to make the payments provided for in Articles 2 and 3, Tanzania may suspend the application of this Protocol.
Article 5 This Protocol shall enter into force on the date of entry into force of the Agreement.
The application has to be made not later than 30 November of each year for vessels wishing to fish for the following calendar year.
By derogation to paragraph 1.1, ship-owners may request a fishing licence at any time, during the calendar year 30 days before the beginning of the fishing activities of the vessel concerned.
The application shall be made on the forms provided for that purpose by the Tanzanian authorities, a specimen of which is at appendix 1. 6.
Licences shall be issued following advance payment to Tanzania of a lump sum of EUR 2,300 a year for each tuna seiner, equivalent to the fees for 92 tonnes of tuna caught within Tanzania’s fishing zone per year and a lump sum of EUR 1,300 a year for each surface longliner equivalent to the fees for 52 tonnes of tuna and other migratory species caught within Tanzania’s fishing zone per year. - The validity of the licences granted to Community vessels under Article 4 of the Agreement shall be extended by a period equal to that during which fishing activities were suspended, for reasons mentioned in Article 8 of the Agreement. - Statement of catches and statement of fees - Vessels authorised to fish in Tanzania’s fishing zone under this Agreement shall notify their catch statistics to the Tanzanian authorities, with a copy for the Delegation of the European Commission in Tanzania, in accordance with the following procedure: Tuna seiners and surface longliners shall complete a form corresponding to the specimen given in Appendix 2 for each period spent fishing in Tanzania’s fishing zone.
The forms shall be sent to the competent authorities referred to above not later than 31 March of the following year of the validity of the licence.
The final statement of the fees due for the fishing year in respect of each vessel shall be drawn up not later than 30 June of the following year of the validity of the licence by the European Commission.
This final statement shall be drawn up on the basis of the catch statements made by the ship-owners (a specimen of which is at Appendix 2), confirmed by the scientific institutes responsible for verification of the catch figures in Member States, such as IRD (Office for Research and Development in France), IEO (Spanish Oceanographic Institute in Spain), INIAP (Instituto Nacional de Investigaçao Agricola y de Pesca in Portugal).
Any additional payment due shall be paid by the ship-owners within 30 days into an account specified by the Tanzanian authorities.
Communications Vessels shall notify the Tanzanian authorities of their intention to enter or leave Tanzania’s fishing zone at least three (3) hours in advance.
The radio call sign, frequency and working hours of the radio station as well as the relevant fax number shall be communicated to the European Commission before the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 11.
The ship-owner shall, via his agent, make a payment of EUR 12 to the Tanzanian government for each day spent by an observer on board a Community vessel in the Tanzania’s fishing zone.
If a vessel with a Tanzanian observer on board leaves Tanzania’s fishing zone, every step shall be taken to ensure that the observer disembarks at the nearest port from which she/he shall be transported back to Tanzania as soon as possible, at the ship-owner’s expense.
observe the fishing activities of the vessel, 15.
must take all appropriate steps to ensure that the conditions under which he is taken on board and his presence on board do not interrupt or hamper fishing activities, 22.
Signing-on of seamen 25.
At least 30 Tanzanian seamen shall be employed by the Community fleet for the duration of the fishing campaign in the Tanzania’s fishing zone. 26.
Fishing zones Community vessels fishing within the framework of this Agreement, shall have access to all of Tanzania’s fishing zone beyond 12 nautical miles from the coast. 30.
The captain of the Community vessel shall propose to the Tanzanian authorities a venue date and time slot for transferring the by-catches, which should be fit for human consumption.
Infringements 33.
The Delegation of the European Commission in Tanzania shall be notified within 72 hours of any alleged infringement by a vessel holding a valid licence granted under this Agreement together with a brief report of the circumstances. 35.
Transmission of information The Tanzanian authorities shall inform the Delegation of the European Commission in Tanzania and the flag State concerned, within 48 hours of the boarding of any fishing vessel flying the flag of a Member State of the Community in the Tanzanian fishing zone and shall transmit a brief report of the circumstances and reasons leading to such boarding.
Actual weight at the time of unloading should be recorded. | 3 - Fishing area refers to the position of the boat.
Be sure to record N/S and E/W.. | 5 - All information reported herein will be kept strictly confidential. | LEGISLATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENT This document is intended to accompany and complement the Explanatory Memorandum.
XX 01 02 Reference should be made to Point 8.2.1, if applicable Other administrative expenditure not included in reference amount EUR | XX 01 02 11 02 – Meetings %amp% Conferences | 1,500 | 1,500 | 1,500 | - | - | - | 4,500 | XX 01 02 11 03 – Committees[18] | XX 01 02 11 04 – Studies %amp% consultations | XX 01 02 11 05 - Information systems | 2 Total Other Management Expenditure (XX 01 02 11) | 3 Other expenditure of an administrative nature (specify including reference to budget line) | Total Administrative expenditure, other than human resources and associated costs (NOT included in reference amount) | 11,500 | 11,500 | 11,500 | - | - | - | 34,500 | Calculation - Other administrative expenditure not included in reference amount [1] Document n° 15243/02 PECHE 224, referred to document COM(2002) 637 final. [2] OJ C […] […] p. […] [3] Opinion delivered on (not yet published in the Official Journal). [4] OJ L 73, 15.3.2001, p. 8. [5] Differentiated appropriations [6] Non-differentiated appropriations hereafter referred to as NDA [7] Expenditure that does not fall under Chapter 11 01 of the Title 11 concerned. [8] Expenditure within article 11 01 04 of Title 11. [9] Expenditure within chapter 11 01 other than articles 11 01 04. [10] See points 19 and 24 of the Interinstitutional agreement. [11] Additional columns should be added if necessary i.e.
