Article 5 The relevant competent authority shall inform the competent authorities of the other Member States and the Commission of any authorisation granted under Articles 3 and 4.
Without prejudice to the applicable rules concerning reporting, confidentiality and professional secrecy and to the provisions of Article 284 of the Treaty, natural and legal persons, entities and bodies shall: (a) supply immediately any information which would facilitate compliance with this Regulation, such as accounts and amounts frozen in accordance with Article 2, to the competent authorities of the Member States listed in Annex II where they are resident or located, and shall transmit such information, directly or through these competent authorities, to the Commission; (b) cooperate with the competent authorities listed in Annex II in any verification of this information. 2.
Article 8 The freezing of funds and economic resources or the refusal to make funds or economic resources available, carried out in good faith on the basis that such action is in accordance with this Regulation, shall not give rise to liability of any kind on the part of the natural or legal person or entity implementing it, or its directors or employees, unless it is proved that the funds and economic resources were frozen as result of negligence.
Article 9 The Commission and Member States shall immediately inform each other of the measures taken under this Regulation and shall supply each other with any other relevant information at their disposal in connection with this Regulation, in particular information in respect of violation and enforcement problems and judgments handed down by national courts.
Article 10 The Commission shall be empowered to: (a) amend Annex I on the basis of determinations made by either the United Nations Security Council or the Sanctions Committee; and (b) amend Annex II on the basis of information supplied by Member States.
Article 11 The Member States shall lay down the rules on sanctions applicable to infringements of the provisions of this Regulation and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
Article 12 This Regulation shall apply: (a) within the territory of the Community, including its airspace; (b) on board any aircraft or any vessel under the jurisdiction of a Member State; (c) to any person inside or outside the territory of the Community who is a national of a Member State; (d) to any legal person, group or entity which is incorporated or constituted under the law of a Member State; (e) to any legal person, group or entity doing business within the Community.
Article 13 This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President ANNEX I List of natural and legal persons, bodies or entities referred to in Article 2 ANNEX II List of competent authorities referred to in Articles 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 (to be completed by the Member States) BELGIUM CZECH REPUBLIC DENMARK GERMANY ESTONIA GREECE SPAIN FRANCE IRELAND ITALY CYPRUS LATVIA LITHUANIA LUXEMBOURG HUNGARY MALTA NETHERLANDS AUSTRIA POLAND PORTUGAL SLOVENIA SLOVAKIA FINLAND SWEDEN UNITED KINGDOM EUROPEAN COMMUNITY Commission of the European Communities Directorate-General for External Relations Directorate CFSP Unit A.2: Legal and institutional matters for external relations - Sanctions CHAR 12/163 B - 1049 Bruxelles/Brussel Tel. (32-2) 295 81 48, 296 25 56 Fax (32-2) 296 75 63 [1] OJ L [2] OJ C , , p. . [3] OJ C , , p. .
