Common Position (EC) No 35/2005 of 14 November 2005 adopted by the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, with a view to the adoption of a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on a Community Air Traffic Controller Licence Common Position (EC) No 35/2005 adopted by the Council on 14 November 2005 with a view to the adoption of Directive 2005/…/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of … on a Community Air Traffic Controller Licence (2005/C 316 E/01) (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 80(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee [1], After consulting the Committee of the Regions, Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty [2], Whereas: (1) Implementation of the Single European Sky legislation requires the establishment of more detailed legislation, in particular concerning the licensing of air traffic controllers, in order to ensure the highest standards of responsibility and competence, to improve the availability of air traffic controllers and to promote the mutual recognition of licences, as envisaged in Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 550/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2004 on the provision of air navigation services in the single European sky (the service provision Regulation) [3], while pursuing the objective of an overall improvement in air traffic safety and competence of personnel. (2) The introduction of a Community licence is a means of recognising the specific role which air traffic controllers play in the safe provision of air traffic control.
The European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation (Eurocontrol) set up by the International Convention of 13 December 1960 relating to Cooperation for the Safety of Air Navigation has adopted Eurocontrol Safety Regulatory Requirements.
Therefore, the Sectoral Dialogue Committee set up under Commission Decision 98/500/EC of 20 May 1998 on the establishment of Sectoral Dialogue Committees promoting the dialogue between the social partners at European level [5] has been consulted and should be consulted on further implementing measures taken by the Commission. (18) Member States should lay down rules on the penalties applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
Those penalties should be effective, proportionate and dissuasive. (19) The measures necessary for the implementation of this Directive should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission [6]. (20) A two-year transposition period is considered sufficient for establishing a Community licensing framework and assimilating within that framework the licences of current licence holders, in accordance with the provisions concerning the conditions for maintaining ratings and keeping endorsements valid, as the requirements laid down in those provisions are in line with existing international obligations.
This Directive shall apply to: - student air traffic controllers, and - air traffic controllers exercising their functions under the responsibility of air navigation service providers which offer their services primarily to aircraft movements of general air traffic. 3.
Subject to Articles 1(2) and 13 of Regulation (EC) No 549/2004, in cases where regular and planned air traffic control services are provided to general air traffic under the responsibility of air navigation service providers which offer their services primarily to aircraft movements other than general air traffic, Member States shall ensure that the level of safety and quality of the services to general air traffic is at least equivalent to the level resulting from the application of the provisions of this Directive.
Article 3 National supervisory authorities 1.
Member States shall nominate or establish a body or bodies as their national supervisory authority in order to assume the tasks assigned to such authority under this Directive. 2.
Article 4 Licensing principles 1.
The licence shall include the items set out in Annex I. 7.
Article 5 Conditions for obtaining a licence 1.
Student air traffic controller licences shall be granted to applicants who: (a) are at least 18 years old and are holders of at least a secondary education diploma or a diploma granting access to university or equivalent.
If this evaluation demonstrates that an applicant has experience and education which gives him/her a reasonable prospect of completing air traffic controller training, this shall be regarded as sufficient; (b) have successfully completed approved initial training relevant to the rating, and rating endorsement if applicable, as set out in Part A of Annex II; (c) hold a valid medical certificate; and (d) have demonstrated an adequate level of linguistic proficiency in accordance with the requirements set out in Annex III.
Article 7 Rating endorsements 1.
Without prejudice to paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, Member States may, in exceptional cases which only arise due to particular characteristics of the air traffic in the airspace under their responsibility, develop national endorsements.
Article 8 Language endorsements 1.
Member States may impose local language requirements when deemed necessary for reasons of safety. 3.
The level required in application of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be level 4 of the language proficiency rating scale set out in Annex III. 4.
Notwithstanding paragraph 3, Member States may require level 5 of the language proficiency rating scale set out in Annex III in application of paragraphs 1 and/or 2 where the operational circumstances of the particular rating or endorsement warrant a higher level for imperative reasons of safety.
Article 9 Instructor endorsements The instructor endorsement shall indicate that the holder of the licence is competent to provide training and supervision at a working position for areas covered by a valid rating.
Article 10 Unit endorsements The unit endorsement shall indicate that the licence holder is competent to provide air traffic control services for a particular sector, group of sectors or working positions under the responsibility of an air traffic services unit.
Article 11 Conditions for maintaining ratings and keeping endorsements valid 1.
The validity of such endorsements shall be extended for the following 12 months if the air navigation service provider demonstrates that: (a) the applicant has been exercising the privileges of the licence for a minimum number of hours, as indicated in the approved unit competence scheme, throughout the previous 12 months; (b) the applicant's competence has been assessed in accordance with Part C of Annex II; and (c) the applicant holds a valid medical certificate.
The holder of a rating or rating endorsement who has not been providing air traffic control services associated with that rating or rating endorsement for any period of four consecutive years may only commence unit training in that rating or rating endorsement after appropriate assessment as to whether he/she continues to satisfy the conditions of that rating or rating endorsement, and after satisfying any training requirements that result from this assessment. 4.
The language proficiency of the applicant shall be formally evaluated at regular intervals, except in the case of applicants who have demonstrated proficiency level 6.
This interval shall be no longer than three years for applicants who demonstrate proficiency level 4 and no longer than six years for applicants who demonstrate proficiency level 5. 5.
Article 12 Medical certificates 1.
The issuing of medical certificates shall be consistent with the provisions of Annex I to the Chicago Convention on International Civil Aviation and the Requirements for European Class 3 Medical Certification of Air Traffic Controllers laid down by Eurocontrol. 3.
Article 13 Certification of training providers 1.
Article 14 Guarantee of compliance with competence standards 1.
National supervisory authorities may decide to delegate in full or in part the auditing functions and inspections mentioned in paragraph 5 of this Article to recognised organisations in accordance with Article 3 of Regulation (EC) No 550/2004. 7.
Member States shall submit to the Commission a report on the application of this Directive by … [8] and at three-yearly intervals thereafter.
Article 15 Mutual recognition of air traffic controller licences 1.
However, a Member State may decide only to recognise licences of holders who have reached the minimum age limit of 21 as envisaged in Article 5(2)(a). 2.
In cases where a licence holder exercises the privileges of the licence in a Member State other than that in which the licence was issued, the licence holder shall have the right to exchange his or her licence for a licence issued in the Member State where the privileges are exercised, without additional conditions being imposed. 3.
Article 16 Adaptation to technical or scientific progress In the light of technical or scientific progress, the Commission may adopt, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 17(2), amendments to the ratings in Article 6, the rating endorsements in Article 7, the provisions on medical certificates in Article 12(3) and the Annexes.
Article 17 Committee 1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Single Sky Committee instituted by Article 5 of Regulation (EC) No 549/2004. 2.
Article 18 Penalties The Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
Article 19 Transitional arrangements Article 5(2)(a) and (b) shall not apply to holders of air traffic controller licences issued by Member States before … [9].
Article 20 Transposition Member States shall bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive by … [9] at the latest, with the exception of Article 8, for which the deadline shall be … [10].
Article 21 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the 20th day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 22 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, … For the European Parliament The President … For the Council The President … [1] Opinion delivered on 9 March 2005 (not yet published in the Official Journal). [2] Opinion of the European Parliament of 8 March 2005 (not yet published in the Official Journal), Council Common Position of 14 November 2005 and Position of the European Parliament of … (not yet published in the Official Journal). [3] OJ L 96, 31.3.2004, p. 10. [4] OJ L 96, 31.3.2004, p. 1. [5] OJ L 225, 12.8.1998, p. 27.
Decision as amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [6] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [7] OJ C 321, 31.12.2003, p. 1. [8] Five years following the date of entry into force of this Directive. [9] Two years following the date of entry into force of this Directive. [10] Four years following the date of entry into force of this Directive. -------------------------------------------------- ANNEX I SPECIFICATIONS FOR LICENCES Licences issued by a Member State in accordance with this Directive must conform to the following specifications: 1.
The duration of unit training will be determined in the unit training plan.
The duration of the continuation training will be decided in accordance with the functional needs of the air traffic controllers working in the unit, in particular in the light of changes or planned changes in procedures or equipment, or in the light of the overall safety management requirements.
Uses appropriate discourse markers and connectors spontaneously. | Comprehension is consistently accurate in nearly all contexts and includes comprehension of linguistic and cultural subtleties. | Interacts with ease in nearly all situations.
Is sensitive to verbal and non-verbal cues, and responds to them appropriately. | Extended 5 | Pronunciation, stress, rhythm and intonation, though influenced by the first language or regional variation, rarely interfere with ease of understanding. | Basic grammatical structures and sentence patterns are consistently well controlled.
Complex structures are attempted but with errors which sometimes interfere with meaning. | Vocabulary range and accuracy are sufficient to communicate effectively on common, concrete, and work-related topics.
Manages the speaker/listener relationship effectively. | Operational 4 | Pronunciation, stress, rhythm and intonation are influenced by the first language or regional variation but only sometimes interfere with ease of understanding. | Basic grammatical structures and sentence patterns are used creatively and are usually well controlled.
Deals adequately with apparent misunderstandings by checking, confirming, or clarifying. | Language proficiency rating scale: Pre-Operational, Elementary and Pre-Elementary Levels Level | Pronunciation Uses a dialect and/or accent intelligible to the aeronautical community. | Structure Relevant grammatical structures and sentence patterns are determined by language functions appropriate to the task. | Vocabulary | Fluency | Comprehension | Interactions | Pre-operational 3 | Pronunciation, stress, rhythm and intonation are influenced by the first language or regional variation and frequently interfere with ease of understanding. | Basic grammatical structures and sentence patterns associated with predictable situations are not always well controlled.
Compliance with the requirements referred to in Article 13 must be demonstrated by evidence that training providers are adequately staffed and equipped and operate in an environment suitable for the provision of the training necessary to obtain or maintain student air traffic controller licences and air traffic controller licences.
INTRODUCTION The Commission adopted its proposal on 12 July 2004.
The European Parliament adopted its opinion in first reading at its plenary session of 7 to 10 March 2005.
Social questions (Recitals 9 and 17) The recitals were used to clarify, in response to concerns from the European Parliament, that the Directive would not impact upon existing national provisions governing the employment relationship between controllers and employers, and that further implementing measures would involve consultation of the social partners at European level. 3.
In addition a licence holder working in a Member State other than the one which issued his/her licence, has the right to exchange the licence for one issued by the country in which he/she is working. 5.
Deletion of unnecessary provisions on accounting standards for training providers The provisions of Article 11 of the Commission proposal on accounting management for training providers were considered excessive and unnecessary by both Council and Parliament, and do not feature in the common position text.
The Committee of the Regions was also consulted by the Council on 22/09/04. [2] Only amendments 11, 12, 19 and 21 are not accommodated.
Amendment 2 is addressed by means of a Commission statement made at the occasion of the adoption of the common position. [3] Official Journal C 148, 28.5.1999, p. 1. --------------------------------------------------
