At its 410th plenary session of 30 June and 1 July 2004 (meeting of 30 June), the Committee adopted the following opinion by 141 votes in favour, with nine abstentions: This opinion supplements earlier Committee opinions on energy and research policy.
Fusion power plant: the way ahead 5.
Post wrote: "However, the technical problems to be solved seem great indeed.
When made aware of these, some physicists would not hesitate to pronounce the problem impossible of solution." [21] 3.3 Among the many possible approaches put forward at the time were proposals for magnetic confinement, which have now emerged as the most promising means of achieving the required conditions.
During this project's experimental phase not only were the required plasma temperatures achieved for the first time, but in the 1990s, using the deuterium-tritium fusion process, it proved possible to release significant amounts of fusion energy (some 20 megajoules per experiment) in a controlled manner.
These results draw on experience and extrapolation from all the experiments conducted to date, starting with JET, the flagship not only of the European but of the worldwide fusion programme. 3.12 ITER's linear dimensions will thus be around twice those of JET (mean diameter of the plasma ring: 12 meters, combustion chamber volume: around 1000 m3).
Brussels, 30 June 2004.
The President of the European Economic and Social Committee Roger Briesch [1] Energy is not consumed, but merely converted and, in the process, used.
With the stocks currently known to be available, it would be possible to meet current total world energy requirements ten times over for many thousands of years. [34] For comparison: a brown-coal power plant with the same output emits around 1000 t of CO2. [35] Excluding initial requirements on set-up which can be obtained, for example, from heavy water moderated fission reactors (Canada). [36] Near Aix-en-Provence, north-east of Marseilles, France. [37] In northern Japan. [38] or energy release/time [39] "…enhancing the development of the fusion option." [40] Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament — Researchers in the European Research Area: one profession, multiple careers. [41] China, Japan and (South) Korea. --------------------------------------------------
