The Convention has been ratified by the Community on 17 February 2005 and became binding upon it as a Party 90 days later.
Considering that the concept of “public authority” as defined in the Convention overall is a broad one, this would not only include the Community institutions named in Article 7 of the EC Treaty, but, as a rule, all bodies established by, or on the basis of, the EC Treaty and performing public functions.
Finally, the proposal makes provision for a review procedure concerning acts and omissions of Community institutions in relation to Community law relating to the environment. 3- COMMENTS ON THE COMMON POSITION 3.1 General comments In the EP Plenary, the Commission accepted in full, in part or in principle 8 of the 40 amendments proposed by the European Parliament in its first reading.
Amendment 17 is incorporated in the common position slightly reworded as a new paragraph 2 to Article 1, introducing the concept of Article 3(2) of the Aarhus Convention, according to which administrations should assist the public regarding access to information, participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters.
Amendments 21 and 46, and 22, relating to the provisions on public participation were rejected by the Commission, as unduly entering into details of administrative procedure.
They are however in principle and in part incorporated in the common position with the reformulated Article 9 (Article 8 in the Commission proposal).
Amendments 33, 35 and 58 concerning criteria for recognition of qualified entities were rejected by the Commission.
Some elements of those amendments have been taken on board by the common position’s Article 11 which deals with “criteria for entitlement at Community level”.
Furthermore, as compared to the Commission proposal, the common position no longer requires the non-governmental organisation to “have its annual statement of accounts certified by a registered auditor.” 3.2.3 Parliamentary amendments rejected by the Commission and the Council and not incorporated in the common position Amendment 1 was already covered by the formulation of Recital 7.
Amendment 4 concerning a new Recital 20 a) aiming to exclude organisations “that may not have genuine environmental protection objectives” was rejected by the Commission and is not taken over in the common position.
Amendment 16 was rejected by the Commission as containing a number of requirements relating to the active dissemination of environmental information which go beyond the requirements of the Aarhus Convention.
Amendment 19 was rejected by the Commission as being in substance already provided for by the proposal.
The common position neither incorporates this amendment.
Amendments 30, 42, 47, 48, 49, 50, 52 and 53 relating to requests for review by individual members of the public were rejected by the Commission and are neither incorporated in the common position.
The part of amendment 43 accepted by the Commission, to add “in accordance with national law” in the definition of “the public” is not taken over in the common position.
The part of amendment 18 accepted by the Commission, qualifying “as promptly as possible” for informing the applicant when information is not held by Community institutions and bodies as “or, at the latest, within 15 working days” has not been taken over by the common position (now Article 7).
The Commission therefore supports the common position adopted by qualified majority on 18 July 2005.
