He also announced the likely launch of a democracy development plan in 2007, though at the same time implicitly ruling out direct elections and universal suffrage for the 2009 Chief Executive and Legislative Assembly elections.
Both legislative proposals were passed in principle and are expected to be enacted before summer 2006.
The 2005 elections were characterised by the addition of two more directly-elected seats in the legislature, in accordance with the provisions of the SAR’s Basic Law.
On 25 September, Macao’s voters turned out in record numbers to elect 12 legislators to complete the 29-strong Legislative Assembly (LA).
However, although announcing that a democracy development plan is likely to be launched in 2007, he implicitly ruled out direct elections and universal suffrage for both the Chief Executive and Legislative Assembly elections in 2009.
The Chief Executive, referring to the national security legislation under Article 23 of the Basic Law, said that the law is still being drafted.
Gross revenue from all gaming activities in 2005 totalled 45.8 billion patacas[1](€4.6 billion), of which 98% were contributed by 17 casinos.
TRADE ISSUES CEPA III The Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement (CEPA) between Mainland China and Macao entered its third phase in 2005.
A framework agreement (CEPA I) which sets out a platform for on-going discussion on trade liberalisation between the two places was concluded in 2003, and a supplementary protocol (CEPA II) was signed in 2004.
Taking the agreed rules of origin of 91 products under the Mainland Customs Tariff codes negotiated in 2005, a total of 600 Macao products enjoy tariff free treatment starting from 1 January 2006.
For trade in services, further relaxation in market access in 10 of the total 26 service sectors was introduced.
Offshore tax regime revised From 14 June 2005, the Macao SAR Government has amended its offshore company tax regime to cool down its overheating economy.
The offshore regime was introduced by the former Macao Government in 1999 to help develop Macao into an offshore commercial centre.
The scope of the approved offshore activities has been reduced from the original 20 sectors to eight sectors, which mainly involve technical support activities.
The Hong Kong SAR Government has welcomed the change.
Macao-Zhuhai Cross-boundary Industrial park The Cross-boundary Industrial Zone located in between Macao and Zhuhai was endorsed by the State Council of the People’s Republic of China Central Government in late 2003 and was acclaimed as an innovative experiment in regional cooperation within the Pearl River Delta.
The zone is divided into the Zhuhai Park and the Macao Park, managed respectively by the Zhuhai municipal government and the Macao Industrial Park Development Co.
The Macao Government hopes that the industrial park will attract higher-end industries into the SAR.
On 2 June, the 11th EC-Macao Joint Committee took place in Brussels.
The EC encouraged Macao to participate in EC worldwide programmes such as the Erasmus Mundus Higher Education programme, building on Macao’s role as a bridge builder between Europe and Asia.
