Broadcasting Decree […] Art. 4 § 1 After consulting the CSA, the Government may adopt a list of events which it considers to be of major importance for the public of the French Community.
Art. 4 § 3 A television broadcasting service is considered to be "free-access" if it broadcasts in the French language and can be received by 90 % of households with television reception equipment located in the French-speaking region or the bilingual Brussels-Capital region.
Article 2 A television broadcaster service in the French Community intending to exercise the exclusive broadcasting rights it holds to an event of major importance must broadcast it on a free-access television service in accordance with the Annex to this Order.
Article 4 This Order does not create any broadcasting obligation for the head of RTBF or the television broadcasting services of the French Community.
Article 5 The Minister for Audiovisual is responsible for the implementation of this Order.
Brussels, 8 June 2004.
Belgian Football Cup Final (men), live and in full; 3.
Football World Cup Finals (men), live and in full; 5.
Champion's League, matches involving Belgian clubs, live and in full; 7.
UEFA Cup, matches involving Belgian clubs, live and in full; 8.
Liège-Bastogne-Liège, live and with excerpts; 10.
Amstel Gold Race, live and with excerpts; 11.
Tour of Flanders, live and with excerpts; 12.
Paris-Roubaix, live and with excerpts; 13.
Milan-San Remo, live and with excerpts; 14.
Belgian Road Cycling Championships, professional (men), live and with excerpts; 15.
World Road Cycling Championships, professional (men), live and with excerpts; 16.
Ivo Van Damme Memorial, live and in full; 17.
The following Grand Slam tennis tournaments: Roland Garros and Wimbledon, quarter finals, semi finals and finals involving a Belgian player, live and in full; 19.
The Davis Cup and the Fed Cup, quarter finals, semi finals and finals involving the Belgian team, live and in full; 20.
World Athletics Championships, where Belgian athletes are taking part, live and in full; To be annexed to the order of 8 June 2004.
The Minister for Audiovisual O.
Chastel FLEMISH COMMUNITY 1.
Decree of 25 January 1995 Art. 76 § 1 The Flemish Government shall draw up a list of events considered to be of major importance for the public and which, for this reason, may not be broadcast on an exclusive basis so that a large part of the public of the Flemish Community cannot watch them live or deferred on free-access television.
Art. 76 § 2 Television broadcasting undertakings of or recognised by the Flemish Community may not exercise the exclusive rights thus gained such that a large part of the public of another Member State of the European Community cannot without payment watch the events designated by that Member State wholly or partially live or, where necessary or appropriate for objective reasons of general interest, wholly or partially deferred, as determined by that Member State. 2.
Art. 2 The exclusive rights over the events mentioned in Article 1 § 1 may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent a large part of the population from following these events on free-access television.
A large part of the population of the Flemish Community is considered to be able to follow an event of major importance to society on free-access television when the event is broadcast by a television station transmitting in the Dutch language and can be received by at least 90 % of the population without any payment in excess of the television distribution subscription price.
Art. 3 § 1 Television stations which do not satisfy the requirements of Article 2 and which acquire exclusive transmission rights in the Dutch-speaking region and the bilingual Brussels-Capital region for the events mentioned in Article 1 § 1 may not exercise these rights unless they can guarantee, on the basis of contracts concluded, that a large part of the population will not be prevented from following these events on free-access television as provided for in Articles 1 § 2 and 2.
Art. 4 The Flemish Minister with responsibility for media policy shall be responsible for the implementation of this Order.
Brussels, 28 May 2004.
Somers The Flemish Minister for Housing, Media and Sport M.
Belgian Football Cup Final (men) Flemish Community: live and in full French Community: live and in full 3.
Football World Cup Finals (men) Flemish Community: live and in full French Community: live and in full 5.
European Football Championship, final round (men) Flemish Community: live and in full French Community: live and in full 6.
UEFA Cup, matches involving Belgian clubs Flemish Community: live and in full French Community: live and in full 8.
Liège-Bastogne-Liège Flemish Community: live and with excerpts French Community: live and with excerpts 10.
Amstel Gold Race Flemish Community: live and with excerpts French Community: live and with excerpts 11.
Paris-Roubaix Flemish Community: live and with excerpts French Community: live and with excerpts 13.
Milan-San Remo Flemish Community: live and with excerpts French Community: live and with excerpts 14.
Belgian Road Cycling Championships, professional (men) Flemish Community: live and with excerpts French Community: live and with excerpts 15.
World Road Cycling Championships, professional (men) Flemish Community: live and with excerpts French Community: live and with excerpts 16.
Ivo Van Damme Memorial Flemish Community: live and in full French Community: live and in full 17.
The following Grand Slam tennis tournaments: Roland Garros and Wimbledon, quarter finals, semi finals and finals involving a Belgian player Flemish Community: live and in full French Community: live and in full 19.
The Davis Cup and the Fed Cup, quarter finals, semi finals and finals involving the Belgian team Flemish Community: live and in full French Community: live and in full 20.
La Flèche wallonne (live and with excerpts ). 2.
Winter Olympic Games (live and with excerpts). 3.
World Athletics Championships, where Belgian athletes are taking part, live and in full.
The Belgian and World Cyclo-cross Championships, men, professional: live and in full. 5.
The following Grand Slam tennis tournaments: Australian Open and US Open, quarter finals, semi finals and finals involving a Belgian player, live and in full. --------------------------------------------------
