Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the &amp;lsquo;Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions &amp;mdash; LeaderSHIP 2015 &amp;mdash; Defining the Future of the European Shipbuilding and Repair Industry &amp;mdash; Competitiveness through Excellence&amp;rsquo; (COM(2003) 717 final) Opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee on the "Communication from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions — LeaderSHIP 2015 — Defining the Future of the European Shipbuilding and Repair Industry — Competitiveness through Excellence" (COM(2003) 717 final) (2004/C 302/01) On 21 November 2003, in accordance with Article 262 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Commission decided to consult the European Economic and Social Committee on the abovementioned proposal.
At its 410th plenary session of 30 June and 1 July 2004 (meeting of 30 June), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 109 votes to three with one abstention. 1.
Since 2000 the market share for new orders (in compensated gross tonnes – cgt) has dropped by two thirds, from 19 % in 2000 to 6.5 % in 2003 [2].
European shipbuilders benefited from this demand surge and have been able to almost double the order intake in 2003 compared to 2002.
The authorised ceiling for operating aid was gradually reduced from 28 % of the contract value in 1987 to 9 % in 1992 and finally completely eliminated from 2000. 2.2.2 In 1989 on an initiative of the USA, negotiations were started in the OECD context with the objective of putting in place a new international discipline for all government support to shipbuilding.
These negotiations were successfully concluded in 1994 and the Final Act of the Agreement Respecting Normal Competitive Conditions in the Commercial Shipbuilding and Repair Industry was signed by the European Communities, Finland, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Norway, Sweden and the United States.
LeaderSHIP 2015 did in fact address the key elements of the Lisbon strategy. 3.2.4 An overall-strategy had to be elaborated, based on elements of the existing approach but the new element being the invitation of the Commission to industry to formulate an integrated plan.
In October 2002, CESA presented LeaderSHIP 2015, a Roadmap for the Future of the European Shipbuilding and Ship-Repair Industry. 3.2.5 For the European shipbuilders, the objective is to improve leadership in selected market segments by strengthening competitiveness through innovation and selective R&amp;D, greater customer focus, production optimisation and the improvement of the industry structure.
According to the industry, objectives in which the EU should be directly involved include the promotion of advanced financing and guarantee schemes, higher safety and environmental standards in relation to new high quality vessel orders and the maintenance and enhancement of the protection of European intellectual property. 3.2.6 A European approach to naval defence needs implies a common policy on procurement of defence materials. 3.2.7 Macro trends up to 2015 in this sector imply in particular developments in relation to multi-modal transport, inland waterways and short sea shipping, reinforcement of innovation and R&amp;D, EU enlargement, environmental and health regulations and a progress towards a Common Defence Policy.
The Group included seven European Commissioners, two prominent Members of the European Parliament, the CEOs of the 10 major Shipyards, the Chairman of the marine equipment industry association and the General Secretary of the European Metalworkers Federation. 3.3.2 The Advisory Group published its report LeaderSHIP 2015 in October 2003 [3].
A consolidation process with special incentives should be facilitated, based on the concept of "aid for consolidation". 3.4 Commission Communication 3.4.1 With its Communication on LeaderSHIP 2015 [4] the Commission transposes the work of the High Level Advisory Group into formal Community policy.
With respect to consolidation among naval shipyards, it is worthwhile to note that privately owned yards point to the structural differences between European yards, claiming that "private ownership is a pre-requisite to succeed in any consolidation effort [5]"; - the Commission will cooperate with industry in exploiting the existing instruments for Intellectual Property Rights Protection and in setting up appropriate knowledge data bases; - the Commission will cooperate with industry through an active social dialogue on new skill requirements, exchange of staff on all levels, special training courses and the support for a vital and sustainable shipbuilding industry; - since a consolidation process is needed in commercial and naval shipbuilding, and ship repair, which are primarily the responsibility of industry and of the Member States, the Commission is ready to facilitate the process, respecting competition rules. 3.5 Council Conclusions November 2003 3.5.1 On 27 November 2003 the Competitiveness Council has discussed the Commission Communication on LeaderSHIP 2015 in the wider context of industrial policy [6].
The Council emphasises continuing initiatives in this respect. 3.5.5 As regards LeaderSHIP 2015 the Council recommends particular efforts of industry and of public authorities relating to: - EU state-aid rules on investment in innovation; - encouragement of research, development and innovation; - protection of intellectual property rights by Member States and industry; - facilitating a consolidation process among European producers; - encouraging approaches designed to bring about greater cooperation between naval and shipbuilding resources in Europe; - addressing new skill requirements, in the context of a social dialogue within the sector. 3.5.6 The Council wants to be informed regularly on the results of LeaderSHIP and on the implementation of its recommendations. 4.
Applicable Community rules must be fully respected. 4.9 LeaderSHIP 2015 can only be successful, if action is undertaken simultaneously by all participating partners (industrial partners, the Commission and, in some cases, the Member States) on all chapters, each player acting in areas for which he is responsible. 5.
In addition to the Conclusions of the Council the EESC is strongly in favour of a yearly progress report by the Commission to the Competitiveness Council. 5.2 LeaderSHIP 2015 starts with the objective of a world-wide level playing field.
This fund can contribute to creating an effective level playing field in the EU itself. 5.7 The EESC welcomes the agreement between industry and the Commission on the kind of environmental requirements and policies which are necessary in the sector.
Brussels, 30 June 2004.
