Proposal for a Decision of the Council and the representatives of the governments of the Member States of the European Union, meeting within the council On the conclusion of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Kingdom of Morocco, on the other hand /* COM/2006/0145 final - CNS 2006/0048 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 30.3.2006 COM(2006) 145 final 2006/0048 (CNS) Proposal for a DECISION OF THE COUNCIL AND THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, MEETING WITHIN THE COUNCIL On the signature and provisional application of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Kingdom of Morocco, on the other hand Proposal for a DECISION OF THE COUNCIL AND THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, MEETING WITHIN THE COUNCIL On the conclusion of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Kingdom of Morocco, on the other hand (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM CONTEXT OF THE PROPOSAL | 110 | Grounds for and objectives of the proposal The Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Community and the Kingdom of Morocco has been negotiated under a mandate received from the Council in December 2004. | 120 | General context Based on the negotiating directives of the mandate, the text of the Morocco agreement was agreed ad referendum at the final negotiating round on 14 December 2005 and initialled by Vice-president Barrot and Mr.
Ghellab, Minister for equipment and transport of Morocco, on the occasion of the first Euromed conference of Transport Ministers held in Marrakech on 15 December 2005.
This would result in an unrestricted commercial environment where operators are free to take commercial decisions, and where they operate under the highest standards in the areas of aviation safety, aviation security, environmental and consumer protection. | 310 | Legal basis Article 80(2), in conjunction with the first sentence of the first subparagraph of Article 300(2) and Article 300(4) thereof | 320 | Subsidiarity principle The subsidiarity principle applies insofar as the proposal does not fall under the exclusive competence of the Community. | The objectives of the proposal cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States for the following reason(s). | 321 | The Euro-Mediterranean agreement in the field of aviation between the Community and the Kingdom of Morocco is not merely an agreement to open markets between the two parties but also includes an extensive alignment of aviation legislation with key parts of the Community rules and regulations, including on safety, economic regulation and in particular competition laws, air traffic management and consumer protection.
Finally, this agreement provides a concrete example of what can be achieved within the Euro-Mediterranean partnership | Community action will better achieve the objectives of the proposal for the following reason(s). | 324 | The agreement allows for the simultaneous extension of its terms to the 25 Member States, applying the same rules without discrimination and benefiting all Community air-carriers regardless of their nationality.
These carriers can now operate freely from any point in the European Union to any point in Morocco. | 325 | Market opportunities will also increase: with a Moroccan population of around 31 million and an EU population of 450 million, current annual growth of air traffic is already around 7%.
Article 2 (Provisional application) Pending its entry into force, the Agreement shall be applied on a provisional basis by the Community and by the Member States from the date of signature.
Article 3 (Joint Committee) 1.
The Community and the Member States shall be represented in the Joint Committee established under Article 21 of the Agreement by representatives of the Commission and of the Member States. 2.
The position to be taken by the Community and the Member States within the Joint Committee as regards the amendment of the Annexes of the Agreement, any matters falling within Article 6 or 7 of the Agreement or any other matter of exclusive Community competence shall be established by the Commission.
Article 4 (Arbitration) 1.
The Commission shall represent the Community and the Member States in arbitration proceedings under Article 22 of the Agreement. 2.
Any other appropriate action to be taken under Article 22 of the Agreement on matters of exclusive competence of the Community shall be decided by the Commission, with the assistance of a Special Committee of representatives of the Member States appointed by the Council.
Article 5 (Safeguard measures) 1.
A decision to take safeguard measures pursuant to Article 23 of the Agreement shall be taken, on its own initiative or upon a request from a Member State, by the Commission, which shall be assisted by a special Committee of representatives of the Member States appointed by the Council. 2.
The Commission shall take a decision on such request within one month or, in cases of urgency, within 10 working days, and inform the Council and the Member States of its decision.
Any Member State may refer the decision of the Commission to the Council within 10 working days of its notification.
Article 6 (Traffic rights) 1.
Member States shall inform in advance the Commission of any decision that they intend to adopt under Articles 3 or 4 of the Agreement. 2.
If the Commission determines at any time that a decision which a Member State has adopted, or intends to adopt, under Articles 3 or 4 of the Agreement is incompatible with the Agreement it shall address a decision to that Member State requiring it to take appropriate action in order to comply with the Agreement.
Any Member State may refer the decision of the Commission to the Council within 10 working days from its notification.
Article 7 (Safety) Member States shall inform the Commission immediately of any requests or notifications made or received by them under Article 13 of the Agreement.
Article 8 (Security) Member States shall inform the Commission immediately of any requests or notifications made or received by them under Article 14 of the Agreement.
Upon completion of its internal procedures for entry into force of the Agreement, each Member State shall transmit to the Secretariat of the Council the diplomatic note provided for in Article 29 of the Agreement. 3.
The president of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the person empowered to deliver to the Kingdom of Morocco the diplomatic notes provided in Article 29 of the Agreement on behalf of the Community and of the Member States.] [based on Article 25 of the agreement with the US, which the Legal Service suggests to insert in Article 29] Article 2 (Joint Committee) 1.
The Community and the Member States shall be represented in the Joint Committee established under Article 21 of the Agreement by representatives of the Commission and of the Member States. 2.
The position to be taken by the Community and the Member States within the Joint Committee as regards the amendment of the Annexes of the Agreement, any matters falling within Article 6 or 7 of the Agreement or any other matter of exclusive Community competence shall be established by the Commission.
Article 3 (Arbitration) 1.
The Commission shall represent the Community and the Member States in arbitration proceedings under Article 22 of the Agreement. 2.
Any other appropriate action to be taken under Article 22 of the Agreement on matters of exclusive competence of the Community shall be decided by the Commission, with the assistance of a Special Committee of representatives of the Member States appointed by the Council.
Article 4 (Safeguard measures) 1.
A decision to take safeguard measures pursuant to Article 23 of the Agreement shall be taken, on its own initiative or upon a request from a Member State, by the Commission, which shall be assisted by a special Committee of representatives of the Member States appointed by the Council. 2.
The Commission shall take a decision on such request within one month or, in cases of urgency, within 10 working days, and inform the Council and the Member States of its decision.
Any Member State may refer the decision of the Commission to the Council within 10 working days of its notification.
Article 5 (Traffic rights) 1.
Member States shall inform in advance the Commission of any decision that they intend to adopt under Articles 3 or 4 of the Agreement. 2.
If the Commission determines at any time that a decision which a Member State has adopted, or intends to adopt, under Articles 3 or 4 of the Agreement is incompatible with the Agreement it shall address a decision to that Member State requiring it to take appropriate action in order to comply with the Agreement.
Any Member State may refer the decision of the Commission to the Council within 10 working days from its notification.
Article 6 (Safety) Member States shall inform the Commission immediately of any requests or notifications made or received by them under Article 13 of the Agreement.
Article 7 (Security) Member States shall inform the Commission immediately of any requests or notifications made or received by them under Article 14 of the Agreement.
TITLE I Economic Provisions Article 2 Traffic Rights 1.
Article 4 bis Investment The majority ownership or the effective control of an air carrier of Morocco by a Member State or their nationals, or of an air carrier of the European Community by Morocco or its nationals, is subject to a preliminary decision of the Joint Committee established by this Agreement.
Article 6 Competition Within the scope of this Agreement, the provisions of Chapter II (“Competition and other Economic Provisions”) of Title IV of the Association Agreement shall apply, except where more specific rules are contained in this Agreement.
Article 7 Subsidies 1.
Article 8 Commercial Opportunities 1.
Article 9 Customs Duties and Changes 1.
Article 10 User Charges 1.
Article 11 Pricing Prices for air transport services operated pursuant to this Agreement shall be established freely and shall not be subject to approval, but they may be required to be filed for information purposes only.
TITLE II Regulatory Cooperation Article 13 Aviation Safety 1.
Where measures taken in application of paragraph 4 are not discontinued even though the basis for taking them has ceased to exist, either Party may refer the matter to the Joint Committee. 7.
Article 14 Aviation Security 1.
The assurance of safety for civil aircraft, their passengers and crew being a fundamental pre-condition for the operation of international air services, the Parties reaffirm that their obligations to each other to provide for the security of civil aviation against acts of unlawful interference (and in particular their obligations under the Chicago Convention, the Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft, signed at Tokyo on 14 September 1963, the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft, signed at The Hague on 16 December 1970, the Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation, signed at Montreal on 23 September 1971 and the Protocol for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence at Airports Serving International Civil Aviation, signed at Montreal on 24 February 1988 and the Convention on the marking of plastic explosives for purpose of detection signed at Montreal on 1 March 1991, in so far as both contracting Parts are parties to these conventions as well as all other conventions and protocols relating to civil aviation safety of which both Parties are members). 2.
Without prejudice to Article 4 (Revocation of Authorisations) of this Agreement, failure to reach a satisfactory agreement within fifteen (15) days from the date of such request will constitute grounds to withhold, revoke, limit or impose conditions on the operating authorization or technical permission of the air carriers of both Parties. 8.
Article 15 Air Traffic Management 1.
TITLE III Institutional Provisions Article 20 Interpr etation and Enforcement 1.
Article 21 The Joint Committee 1.
They will be put into effect by the Parties in accordance with their own rules. 3.
If the Joint Committee cannot solve the issue within two months of its referral, the requesting Party may take appropriate temporary safeguard measures under Article 23. 8.
Without prejudice to paragraph 2, if the Joint Committee does not take a decision on an issue which has been referred to it within six months of the date of referral, the Parties may take appropriate temporary safeguard measures under Article 23. 10.
Article 22 Dispute Resolution and Arbitration 1.
Article 23 Safeguard measures 1.
Article 24 Geographic Extension of the Agreement The Parties, although recognising the bilateral nature of this Agreement, note that it lies within the scope of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership envisaged in the declaration of Barcelona of November 28, 1995.
Article 25 Relationship to Other Agreements 1.
Article 26 Amendments 1.
The Joint Committee may, upon the proposal of one Party and in accordance with this Article, decide to modify the Annexes of this Agreement. 3.
The Joint Committee: a) adopts a decision revising Annex 6 of this Agreement so as to integrate therein, if necessary on a basis of reciprocity, the new legislation or amendment in question; b) adopts a decision to the effect that the new legislation or amendment in question shall be regarded as in accordance with this Agreement; or c) decides any other measures, to be adopted within a reasonable period of time, to safeguard the proper functioning of this Agreement.
Article 27 Termination 1.
Article 29 Entry into Force This Agreement shall be applied provisionally from the date of signature and shall enter into force after both Parties have enacted the necessary internal procedures required for entry into force.
This Annex is subject to the transitional provisions contained in Annex 4 of this Agreement. 2.
Each Party grants to the air carriers of the other Party the rights to operate air services on the routes specified hereunder: a) for air carriers of the European Community: Points in the European Community – one or more points in Morocco – points beyond, b) for air carriers of Morocco: Points in Morocco – one or more points in the European Community, 3.
Air carriers of Morocco are authorised to exercise the traffic rights in Article 2 of this Agreement between more than one point located in the territory of the Community provided that these services originate or terminate in the territory of Morocco.
Air carriers of the Community are authorised to exercise the traffic rights in Article 2 of this Agreement between Morocco and points located beyond, provided that these services originate or terminate in the territory of the Community and that, in relation to passenger services, these points are located in the countries of the European Neighbourhood policy.
ANNEXE 3 Procedures for operating authorisations and technical permissions: competent authorities 1.
Kingdom of Morocco Civil Aviation Directorate Ministry of Equipment and Transport ANNEXE 4 Transitional Provisions 1.
The implementation and application by the Moroccan Party of all the provisions of the Community legislation relating to air transport indicated in Annex 6 shall be the subject of an evaluation under the responsibility of the European Community which should be validated by the Joint Committee.
Until the moment of the adoption of this decision, the agreed services and specified routes in Annex 1, shall not include the right for air carriers of the European Community to uplift traffic in Morocco and discharge traffic on points beyond and vice versa and, the right for Moroccan air carriers to uplift traffic at a point in the European Community to be discharged in another point of the European Community and vice versa.
ANNEXE 5 List of other States referred to in Article 3 and 4 of this Agreement 1.
AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT No. 93/65 Council Directive 93/65 of 19 July 1993 on the definition and the use of compatible technical and operating specifications for the procurement of air traffic management equipment and systems as amended by - Commission Directive 97/15 of 25 March 1997 adopting Eurocontrol standards and amending Council Directive 93/65 on the definition and use of compatible technical specifications for the procurement of air - traffic - management and systems, as amended by Commission Regulation 2082/2000 of 6 September 2000 adopting Eurocontrol standards and amending Directive 97/15, adopting Eurocontrol standards and amending Council Directive 93/65, as amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 980/2002 of 4 June 2002 amending Regulation (EC) No 2082/2000, adopting Eurocontrol standards Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 9, Annexes I and II Reference to Council Directive 93/65 shall be deleted as of 20 October 2005.
OTHER LEGISLATION No. 91/670 Council Directive No. 91/670 of 16 December 1991 on mutual acceptance of personnel licences for the exercise of functions in civil aviation Applicable provisions: Articles 1 to 8 and Annex
