In general, the economic literature mentions that fraud accounts for approximately 2 to 2.5% of GDP.
In its Communication "The Contribution of Taxation and Customs Policies to the Lisbon Strategy" of 25 October 2005, the Commission called for closer cooperation and the co-ordination of efforts at Community level in order to render the Member States’ fight against fiscal fraud more effective.
VAT fraud affects the financial interests of the European Community within the meaning of Article 280 of the EC Treaty[3].
In its report of 22 May 2000[7], the ad hoc group on tax fraud carried out a complete analysis of fraud systems and made several recommendations aimed at strengthening the mechanisms for administrative cooperation between Member States.
In addition, the Commission presented in 2004 its Communication “Preventing and Combating Corporate and Financial Malpractice”[8], which also emphasised the need to improve administrative cooperation, proposing initiatives to promote collaboration both between fiscal authorities within the European Union and with those in third countries.
In addition, the Council’s ad hoc group on tax fraud has identified the absence of a Community administrative culture as an obstacle to the fight against fraud.
It is useful to recall that Article 10 of the EC Treaty obliges Member States to take all appropriate measures, whether general or particular, to ensure fulfilment of the obligations arising from Community acts, which include administrative cooperation, and that Article 280 obliges Member States to co-ordinate their actions in order to protect the financial interests of the Community. 3.2.
Although the scope of Article 26 of the OECD model convention has been extended to VAT, the situation is unsatisfactory, especially as the cooperation mechanism is still bilateral.
Any such examination should remain within the parameters laid down by the Court of Justice, which, in its judgment of 11 May 2006[10], raised the general question of the proportionality and legal certainty of measures intended to combat fraud.
