The last Protocol annexed to the Agreement setting out, for the period from 3 August 2002 to 2 August 2004, the fishing opportunities for demersal, pelagic and tuna species and the financial contribution provided for by the Agreement[3], has not been renewed.
The new legislative framework adopted by Angola in October 2004 stipulates that the fishing activities subject to an Agreement between the Community and Angola shall be carried out in conformity with Angola's laws and regulations concerning fisheries.
The Community should give notice of the denouncement to Angola by 31 October 2007, in order that the denunciation takes effect on 1 February 2008.
So far, these vessels have benefited from an aid scheme for a six month tie-up which started in August 2004.
Article 2 The President of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the persons empowered to notify the Government of the Republic of Angola of the denunciation of the Fisheries Agreement referred to in Article 1.
Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on the seventh day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
NAME OF THE PROPOSAL: Proposal for a Council Regulation denouncing the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Government of the People’s Republic of Angola on fisheries off Angola and derogating from Regulation (EC) 2792/1999. 2.
EUR million (to one decimal place) Prior to action [Year n-1] | Situation following action | Total number of human resources | - 0.8 | - 0.8 | - 0.8 | 5.
Such waivers are fully justified because the 2002 reform of the CFP removed public aid to export and joint ventures thus eliminating the risk of double funding which had motivated these obligations in the first place 5.2 Value-added of Community involvement and coherence of the proposal with other financial instruments and possible synergy Fisheries are an area falling under the exclusive competence of the Community.
X Centralised Management X Directly by the Commission ٱ Indirectly by delegation to: ٱ Executive Agencies ٱ Bodies set up by the Communities as referred to in art. 185 of the Financial Regulation ٱ National public-sector bodies/bodies with public-service mission ٱ Shared or decentralised management ٱ With Member states ٱ With Third countries ٱ Joint management with international organisations (please specify) Relevant comments: 6.
DETAILS OF RESOURCES 8.1 Objectives of the proposal in terms of their financial cost Commitment appropriations in EUR million (to 3 decimal places) (Headings of Objectives, actions and outputs should be provided) | Type of output | Av.
