Proposal for a Council Decision on a Community Position concerning the rules of procedure of the Joint Committee referred to in the Interim Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Albania /* COM/2006/0766 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 1.12.2006 COM(2006) 766 final Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on a Community Position concerning the rules of procedure of the Joint Committee referred to in the Interim Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Albania (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM The Interim Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Albania, concluded to allow the early entry into force of the trade and trade-related provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, will enter into force on 1 December 2006.
Article 2 Meetings The Joint Committee shall meet regularly once a year in Brussels and Tirana alternately.
Article 3 Delegations Prior to each meeting, the Chairman shall be informed of the intended composition of the delegation of each Party.
Article 4 Secretariat An official of the European Commission and an official of the Republic of Albania shall act jointly as Secretaries of the Joint Committee.
Article 6 Agenda of the meetings 1.
The Chairman may, in agreement with the two Parties, shorten the time limits specified in paragraph 1 in order to take account of the requirements of a particular case.
Article 7 Minutes Draft minutes of each Joint Committee meeting shall be drawn up by the Party hosting the meeting.
Article 8 Deliberations The Joint Committee shall take its decisions and formulate its recommendations by mutual agreement between the Parties.
The decisions and recommendations of the Joint Committee within the meaning of Article 43 of the Interim Agreement shall be entitled respectively "Decision" and "Recommendation" and followed by a serial number, by the date of their adoption and by a description of their subject.
The decisions and recommendations of the Joint Committee shall be signed by the Chairman and authenticated by the two Secretaries.
The decisions taken by the Joint Committee shall be published by the Parties in their respective official publications.
Article 9 Languages The official languages of the Joint Committee shall be the official languages of the two Parties.
Unless otherwise decided, the Joint Committee shall base its deliberations on documentation prepared in these languages.
Article 11 Working Parties The working parties set up to assist the Joint Committee in carrying out its duties are listed in the Annex to this Decision together with their respective terms of reference.
Publicity Unless otherwise decided, the meetings of the working parties shall not be public. 7.
Working Party on Transport, Environment, Energy, and Regional Development Done at, For the Joint Committee The Chairman [1] OJ L 343, 25.11.1992. [2] OJ L 239, 1.9.2006.
