Chapter 1 defines the concept of cabotage and describes the problem.
Chapter 2 gives an overview of the current cabotage position in the Community based on a description of the economic and legal aspects of these transport operations as well as the problems encountered, particularly at the level of controls by the Member States.
Chapter 3 provides legal guidelines drawn up on the basis of the case law of the Court of Justice, while taking account of the national regulations in this sector, as applied by the Member States.
The conclusions follow in Chapter 4.
According to Eurostat, [3] for hauliers in the smaller Member States, which have limited home markets or nearby foreign transport markets, cabotage transport can, however, be of considerable importance: in 2002 it represented 22 % of the total road transport performance of Luxembourg hauliers, 4 % of that of Belgian and 3 % of that of Irish hauliers.
In absolute terms, the Benelux hauliers continue to be the most active on the cabotage market, 55 % of the total cabotage performance in 2002 being to the account of these three countries alone.
The German hauliers, with a market share of almost 15 %, are also very active.
France and Germany are the two preferred Member States in which to undertake cabotage transport, with each accounting for 31 % and 28 % of the total cabotage respectively.
The United Kingdom, with 13 % of the total, is the third most "cabotaged" country.
The geographically peripheral countries of the EU have a share of well under 1 %. 2.2.
The legal aspects 2.2.1.
The legal framework — Regulation No 3118/93 Under Article 1 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 3118/93, any road haulage carrier operating for hire or reward who is a holder of the Community authorisation provided for in Regulation (EEC) No 881/92 is entitled, under the conditions laid down in this Regulation, to operate on a temporary basis national road haulage services for hire or reward in another Member State, without having a registered office or other establishment therein.
The Andreas Hoves judgment [6] This case is supposed to determine whether a transport company having its head office in Luxembourg and carrying out cabotage operations in Germany is liable, in that country, to pay motor vehicle tax in respect of heavy goods vehicles registered in Luxembourg.
The national regulations In December 2003 the Commission convened a meeting of national experts to examine the difficulties encountered over recent years regarding the application of the "temporary" character inherent in cabotage operations.
By circular dated 8 December 1998, Greece adopted a time limit for cabotage operations by the other Member States which was set at a maximum of two months per year (based on the period of validity of the former cabotage authorisations).
Following representations by the competent Commission departments, this circular was replaced by another dated 19 April 2000.
By Ministerial Decree of 29 April 2004, Italy recently restricted cabotage operations by Community undertakings in Italy to 15 days per month, including not more than five consecutive days at any one time.
In reality, the temporary character of the service provision needs to be assessed differently when a haulier carries out cabotage operations over two periods (service frequency criterion) of 20 days (criterion for the duration of each service provided) during the same year, or when the haulier carries out cabotage operations over 12 periods of 20 days within the same year.
Regulation No 3118/93 provided for a gradual liberalisation of the cabotage services up to 1 July 1998.
Lorry No 1 leaves the territory of the "cabotaged" country after 20 days and does not come back to that territory until after a further 20 days have elapsed.
Over the period during which lorry No 1 is no longer on the territory of the "cabotaged" country, it is the company's lorry No 2 that carries out (with the same driver) cabotage operations for 20 days.
