At its 427th plenary session, held on 17 and 18 May 2006 (meeting of 17 May), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion with 85 votes in favour and five abstentions. 1.
Conclusions and recommendations 1.1 The EESC welcomes the Commission's Biomass Action Plan, which, in its view, makes a key contribution towards achieving sustainable development in Europe. 1.2 The analysis of the current expansion of the use of biomass and the potential of this material provides an initial overview of the scope for using biomass and the existing obstacles to its use in the various energy sectors. 1.3 Bringing about an increase in the share of overall renewable energy represented by biomass is a key prerequisite for enabling the EU to achieve its goal of having renewable energy comprise 12 % of overall energy consumption by 2010.
The EU should set a binding target of having at least 25 % of final energy consumption met by energy produced from renewable sources by 2020. 1.6 The EESC has some criticisms to make in respect of the Commission's planned report on the use of biofuels and calls for stronger measures to be adopted in this field.
This is the only way to enable the embryonic European production industry to have the opportunity to develop. 1.12 The use of biomass in the production of materials should also be discussed in a European action plan. 1.13 The Commission and the Member States are called upon to amend the Sixth Directive [2] on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes with a view to authorising Member States to apply a reduced rate of value-added tax on materials and services in connection with the use of heating and cooling systems powered by renewable energy. 1.14 The EESC calls upon the EU Member States and the Commission to ensure that a minimum share of the resources of the EU Structural Funds is set aside for investment in the use of biomass and other renewable sources of energy.
The share of funding set aside for investment in this field should increase and amount to 10 % of Structural Funds resources — as an average figure for the Member States — by the end of the planning period in 2013. 1.15 The EESC also believes that the decoupling of direct payments, as part of the latest reform of the CAP, provides a key prerequisite for stepping up energy plant cultivation.
Explanatory statement 2.1 The development of renewable sources of energy continues to top the energy policy agendas of both the EU and its Member States because of the following considerations: security of supply; the EU's increasing dependency on imports of oil and natural gas; rising oil prices; and the obligations to cut greenhouse gas emissions. 2.2 The goals set out in the Directive on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources and those set out in the Directive on the use of biofuels, will not be achieved unless more far-reaching measures are taken.
The EU will also fail to realise its overall goal of doubling the market share of renewable energy to 12 % if it persists with a %quot%business as usual%quot% scenario.
A major reason for this is that a large part of the energy required to meet this target would have to be produced from biomass and the development of this market is lagging behind expectations. 2.3 The market share of all forms of renewable energy remains at a persistently low level; the share of renewable energy in the overall energy mix of the EU is likely to be only 9 % to 10 % by 2010, rather than the target figure of 12 %, unless appropriate measures are taken.
With regard to the use of biofuels in transport, a number of preliminary measures have to be taken prior to the introduction of obligations under which oil companies would have to add a given percentage of biofuels to their conventional fuels. 2.8 In its action plan, the Commission announces that it will present a report in 2006 on a possible revision of the biofuels Directive; in this report the Commission will examine the implementation of this Directive in this EU Member States.
Between 250000 and 300000 jobs would also be created — mostly in rural areas — and the EU's dependence on imported energy would be reduced from 48 % to 42 %. 2.11 Assuming the price of a barrel of crude oil to be $54, the Commission estimates that the directly measurable cost of the projected increase in biomass use would be EUR 9 billion per year — EUR 6 billion for biofuels and EUR 3 billion for biomass used in electricity generation.
The EESC welcomes the Biomass Action Plan and notes that, in setting a number of additional intermediate objectives, such as a 15 % overall share for renewable energy and an 8 % overall share for biogen fuels by 2015, the Spring Summit of Heads of State and Government signalled that an ambitious policy for the use of renewable sources of energy is to continue to be pursued.
Electricity generation accounts for some 20 % of the EU's energy requirements. 3.10 The EESC endorses the conclusion, set out in the abovementioned Commission Communication, to the effect that it is too early at present to bring about complete harmonisation of aid models for promoting electricity from renewable energy sources.
The EESC endorses the observations made in the Action Plan on the building of new district heating systems — and the safeguarding of existing systems — using biomass to produce heat and, in particular, heat and power. 3.15 The EESC welcomes the points made by the Commission in the Biomass Action Plan with regard to the existing and future emission standards (and the Directive on particulate matter) in connection with the use of biomass.
Specific comments 4.1 Although fuels account for only 20 % of Europe's energy needs, they derive, almost exclusively, from imports of fossil-based raw materials.
In the EESC's view, the Action Plan should adopt a more differentiated approach in this context and thus attach greater importance also to the use of biomass for the production of heating. 4.5 The EESC expects that the Council and the Commission will give high priority, also in the context of the allocation and distribution of resources from the Structural Funds in the Member States, to expanding investment in renewable energy sources and, in particular, biomass.
A mandatory minimum share of Structural Funds resources allocated to the EU Member States should be earmarked for this type of investment.
By the end of the current planning period in 2013, the share of Structural Funds resources set aside for investment in this field should amount to 10 %, as an average figure for the EU Member States. 4.5.1 In the context of the allocation of funding under the second pillar (rural development) of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), renewable energy is mentioned in the strategic planning section, which deserves overall endorsement.
Particularly in view of the very limited financial resources and in the light of the potential of rural areas, steps should be taken to ensure that, in the case of this funding, too, by the end of the planning period in 2013, a minimum average share, for the EU Member States as a whole, of 10 % is set aside for investment in renewable energy. 4.6 The EESC draws attention to the statements made in the Biomass Action Plan with regard to the impact of decoupling on the cultivation of regrowing raw materials.
Brussels, 17 May 2006.
The president of the European Economic and Social Committee Anne-Marie Sigmund [1] Directive 2004/8/EC on the promotion of cogeneration based on a useful heat demand in the internal energy market - OJ L 52 of 21.2.2004. [2] Council Directive 77/388/EEC of 17.5.1977 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes – Common system of value added tax: uniform basis of assessment. [3] Communication of 7.12.2005, COM(2005) 627 final. [4] Directive 2001/77/EC of 27.9.2001 on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources in the internal electricity market. [5] See NAT/288, point 3.2.4.2. [6] See NAT/288, point 3.7. --------------------------------------------------
