Report from the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the Implementation of Council Directive 98/49/EC of 29 June 1998 on safeguarding the supplementary pension rights of employed and self-employed persons moving within the Community {SEC(2006) 82} /* COM/2006/0022 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 26.01.2006 COM(2006) 22 final REPORT FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL, THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT, THE EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMITTEE AND THE COMMITTEE OF THE REGIONS on the Implementation of Council Directive 98/49/EC of 29 June 1998 on safeguarding the supplementary pension rights of employed and self-employed persons moving within the Community{SEC(2006) 82} Table of Content I.
CONCLUSION AND DEVELOPMENT 9 I.
The content of the report reflects the situation in the Member States in September 2005.
The Table 1 "Material scope" in the Annex 1 in the Commission Staff Working Document annexed to the Report on the Implementation of Council Directive 98/49/EC of 29 June 1998 on safeguarding the supplementary pension rights of employed and self-employed persons moving within the Community, provides a brief overview of supplementary pension provision in the Member States falling under the scope of the present Directive.
By laying down this principle Article 4 ensures as minimum standard equal treatment of domestic and cross-border cases as far as the preservation of already acquired rights is concerned.
Guarantee of cross-border payments According to Article 5 of the Directive, Member States shall ensure that benefits under supplementary pension schemes are paid to members and former members, as well as to others holding entitlement under such schemes, in all Member States, net of any taxes and transaction charges which may be applicable.
Cross-border membership of posted workers Article 6 concerns the posted workers within the meaning of Regulation 1408/71/EEC.
Equally, it may result in difficulties if the new scheme is not compatible with the former scheme.
a) Adopted Measures to permit the payment of contributions by and on behalf of posted workers, Article 6 (1) Certain Member States reported that there was no need to adopt specific measures allowing continuation of payment of contributions during the posting.
The Dutch law, for example, stipulates that where, during a posting in the Netherlands, the payment of contributions is continued in another Member State, the employee posted in the Netherlands and his employer are exempt from the obligation to pay contributions in the Netherlands.
Luxembourg, Malta and Portugal have adopted nearly the same provision.
Information provided to scheme members According to Article 7 of the Directive, Member States shall take measures to ensure that employers, trustees or others responsible for the management of supplementary pension schemes provide mobile workers with adequate information on their pension rights and on the options open to them when moving to another Member State.
Such information shall at least correspond to information given to scheme members in respect of whom contributions cease to be made but who remain within the same Member State.
It is therefore natural that persons intending to work in another Member State want to have a clear idea what the consequences for their acquired pension rights are before taking a final decision.
The rights laid down in Article 6 not only serve to increase legal certainty, but also provide a simple procedure for allowing a member to continue to build up his supplementary pension entitlements during his period of posting.
The Commission consulted the social partners at two occasions, lastly in September 2003 (SEC(2003)916).
It was officially established by Commission's Decision C (2001) 1775 of 9 July 2001.
Replies were received from the following stakeholder organisations: AIM, EAPSPI and EFRP.
