At its 421st plenary session, held on 26 and 27 October 2005 (meeting of 27 October 2005), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 75 votes in favour, 12 against and 10 abstentions.
Such a framework should give an intelligent basis for comparing consumer assurance schemes with other policy instruments aiming to achieve similar goals and provide EU institutions and Member States with a pointer towards policy coherence and a practical tool for assessing the investment of resources. 7.
The EESC will encourage through further practical work: - practically facilitating a stakeholder dialogue in 2006 to produce a common ethical trade assurance framework for impact assessment/quality; - practically facilitating a stakeholder dialogue in 2006 to prepare the EU participation in the work of ISO 26000; - a consumer awareness programme, from early years, through mainstream education and extending into lifelong learning, on the capacity of consumers to influence social and environmental dynamics through informed purchasing. 1.
Fair trade in particular has long been of concern to the EESC commencing with its opinion in 1996 [2].
In 2003 world trade flows between nations exceeded $9.1 trillion — some 25 % of global GDP — and have grown at an average rate in excess of 6 % per annum for more than 20 years [4].
The European Commission adopted new guidelines for the promotion of CSR in July 2002 and will shortly publish a "Strategy for the promotion and development of CSR in the European Union". 1.6 This particular area has been covered in depth by the recent EESC own-initiative opinion "Information and measurement instruments for corporate social responsibility (CSR) in a globalised economy" [6]. 1.7 The present opinion provides a complementary approach and uses a common basis.
Common examples are Fairtrade, Organic, Marine and Forest Stewardship, Eco-label, Child Labour.
The relevance of "ethical trade" to the EU 3.1 European citizens benefit from a protective and supportive social net which is financed by tax levels that run, on average, at 40 % of GDP.
Without this knowledge, market distortions occur in which social and environmental costs are not effectively allocated or borne. 3.8 Nevertheless, it is recognised that consumers in all 25 Member States have a wide and differing range of concerns and priorities.
The Committee again stresses the non-statutory nature of ethical assurance schemes which allows take-up to be matched with consumer priorities. 4. "Ethical trade" initiatives in Europe 4.1 There are several schemes (examples in 2.6) that offer assurance to consumers in Europe and internationally through enhancing company reputation, site inspection and certification or specific product labelling.
This gives rise to a number of potential problems. 5.2 The arrangements that need to be put in place to offer assurance may be disproportionate to the "real" impact on the goals — for example auditing may be costly, the administrative changes required for transparency may be costly and complex. 5.3 More seriously, the assurance requirements may actually have a negative impact on the goals of the scheme — for example a focus on what can be measured and audited can distort priorities; audit requirements and costs may exclude producers with the greatest need for improvement. 5.4 Further, in many cases, the understanding and hence priorities of consumers may be limited and result in distortions in the scheme — for example, consumers will in general prioritise a "clean" supply chain (no child labour, no pesticide residues) rather than effective progress on the ground (improved wages and availability of schools, better environmental management). 5.5 This in itself may lead companies to select new suppliers that already meet good standards, instead of engaging in longer term improvement in their existing supply chain, which may have no net benefit in terms of the broader goals. 5.6 Finally, a scheme without some independent scrutiny might be making assurance claims that exaggerate or over-simplify the impact of the scheme (or even make false claims!) which will in the short term undermine the goals and in the longer term undermine consumer trust in assurance schemes as a whole. 5.7 In systems that are funded by a few major donors these issues can be addressed through good management, but a system that is funded to a major extent by part of the premium on individual consumer purchasing choices does not necessarily have the proper management processes in place and consumers themselves are not in a position to judge the quality or cost-effectiveness of a consumer assurance scheme. 5.8 A common criticism of consumer assurance schemes is that, because they are to a greater or lesser extent dependent on consumer attitudes, and the level of consumer understanding of the problem is limited, there is a tendency for such schemes to offer a simpler and more complete assurance than is justified by the reality.
d) Scheme standards or terms Do the standards set and monitored by the scheme express the goals? - Are the standards defied in a process in which stakeholders (including those in developing countries) can participate? - Is there a credible mechanism by which the adoption of the standards will contribute to the achievement of the goals? - Are the scheme terms or standards open to the public?
It is proposed that a managed, active dialogue between stakeholders on the issues of "ethical trade" and consumer assurance schemes is formally established as a follow-up to this opinion under the auspices of the EESC. 6.3 Such a dialogue would seek to establish: - the elements essential to a coordinated policy on social and environmental consumer assurance scheme issues, - the action required to embed such a policy in the EU, - how to encourage such policy consideration in Member States. 7.
It is recommended that such support is focused on those that both offer consumer assurance and are able to objectively demonstrate that they are also contributing to tangible improvements in socioeconomic and environmental conditions in communities affected by the supply chains involved.
This research should involve, apart from consumer organisations, the participation of a variety of environmental and social labelling and other schemes and engage with stakeholders throughout the supply chain to ensure wide applicability, and to facilitate the development of coherent quality tools within the sector. 7.4 The questions offered in section 5 can form a useful starting point for a more comprehensive evaluation framework.
As a result of this consultation, the opportunity arises for the EESC to stimulate work on five new initiatives: - A continuing dialogue between key stakeholders, including consumer associations, across the EU (and globally where appropriate) on reaching policy coherence in "ethical trade" and consumer assurance schemes.
DG Development has already signalled interest in making available critical, evaluating data about "ethical trade" schemes to assist producers and exporters to access the European market [10]. - The development, through a wider and more detailed consultation with stakeholders in Member States and globally, of a common "ethical trade" assurance framework for impact assessment and measures of quality.
For the purposes of the opinion consumer assurance schemes are defined as … A system that allows and encourages consumers to play a part in ethical trade by purchasing goods and services that are produced in a way to achieve specific social or environmental outcomes, benefiting specific communities or society as a whole.
