Adoption of the changeover plans 4 3.2.
Contents of the changeover plans 5 3.3.
Consumer protection 6 3.6.
Supply of euro banknotes and coins 6 3.7.
THE PREPARATIONS AT COMMUNITY LEVEL 7 4.1.
Preparing the Community legal framework 7 4.2.
Information and communication policy at Community level 8 5.
General attitude towards the euro 10 5.3.
Main lessons from the survey 10 6.
In its first report on practical preparations (COM (2004)748 of 10 November 2004), the Commission committed itself to report on a regular basis, and at least once a year or whenever justified by specific developments, on the state of these preparations.
Estonia, Lithuania and Slovenia aspire to adopt the euro on 1 January 2007, less than three years after they joined the European Union on 1 May 2004.
All three countries joined ERM-II on 28 June 2004.
Practical preparations in all these countries have been initiated.
The Czech Republic and Hungary aspire to join the euro area in 2010.
Just a few years after having joined the EU on 1 May 2004, the first recently acceded Member States are already aspiring to join the twelve countries currently forming part to the euro area.
If current plans materialise, the euro area will enlarge with nine more countries in four successive steps between 2007 and 2010.
Its population will enlarge from 309 million people to 345 million, and its aggregate GDP will increase by around 3.7 %.
the first report on practical preparations issued last year).
Annex 2 provides a synoptic view of the state of preparation with respect to the main elements of the changeover. 3.1.
Adoption of the changeover plans All seven Member States aspiring to adopt the euro between 2007 and 2009 have established the institution or changeover board in charge of preparing and co-ordinating the national changeover.
Four countries (Estonia, Lithuania, Slovenia and Slovakia) have adopted national changeover plans.
The state of preparations is quite uneven between countries.
Estonia and Lithuania adopted the first versions of their national changeover plans in August and September 2005, respectively.
Practical preparations in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland are in a very preliminary stage.
Preparations in Sweden are stalled in practice since the negative outcome of the referendum of 14 September 2003. 3.2.
The cash changeover constitutes the most visible part of a country’s changeover to the euro.
In addition, most countries favour a short period of dual circulation (usually two weeks).
The central bank will in most countries exchange the national currency into euro without any cost or time limit. 3.4.
Future entrants should properly anticipate this problem. 3.5.
The four plans mentioned above provide for mandatory dual price displays for a certain duration, not only in shops but often also on related items (bank statements, product catalogues, etc.).
The process for the selection of the national side has been completed in three countries (Estonia, Lithuania and Slovenia: see Annex 3), is being finalised in Latvia and has been launched in Cyprus and Slovakia. 3.7.
In countries intending to introduce the euro in 2007 or 2008, there is thus little time left to prepare and implement a fully-fledged communication campaign.
The countries expecting to form part of the euro area as from 1 January 2007 (Estonia, Lithuania and Slovenia) drafted their communication strategies in mid-2005.
The campaigns are scheduled to start in the last quarter of 2005 and continue till June 2007.
Cyprus and Malta are still in a preparatory stage, while Latvia should start preparations as soon as possible.
It was amended in June 2000 in order to allow Greece to join the euro area in 2001.
On 2 August 2005, the Commission adopted a proposal for a amending this Regulation (COM (2005)357), in order to prepare and adjust the legal framework for all countries adopting the euro in the future.
The Commission proposal contains three types of transition scenarios, and each Member State concerned would be able to choose the most appropriate one for its specific situation: (i) a “Madrid-style” scenario including a transitional period comparable to the one which was applied in the first-wave countries.
Under this scenario, there is a transitional period between the adoption of the euro as the national currency and euro banknotes and coins becoming legal tender.
All technical and design work should be completed in time for new euro-area entrants to strike and issue their euro coins with the new common side already from 2007.
Information and communication policy at Community level The Commission Communication on the implementation of an information and communication strategy on the euro and Economic and Monetary Union (COM (2004)552) provides the framework for communication activities at Community level.
The strategy includes: - partnerships between the Commission and the Member States; - twinning programmes; - networking, information relays and other natural partners; - conferences and seminars; - opinion polls; - external information activities; - publications and other information products.
The Commission expects to sign partnerships in the last quarter of 2005 with Estonia, Slovenia and Lithuania.
Most of those polled (58%) are unaware that the adoption of the euro is a mandatory step for their country, and do not know how many countries are already in the euro area.
As in 2004, a majority of the citizens (86%) wish to be informed sooner rather than later.
Citizens in these Member States have a preference for information campaigns based on TV spots (73%) or newspaper advertisements (73%), followed by radio spots (64%) and leaflets and brochures (64%).
The gap between citizens declaring themselves to be happy that the euro will replace their national currency (37%) and those who say that they are unhappy about it (53%) has increased from 5 points in 2004 to 16 points in 2005.
Nevertheless, the fear of being cheated or having to pay abusive prices during the changeover has increased slightly in one year (from 71% to 75%) and 48% of people continue to believe that the introduction of the euro will increase inflation while only 24% believe that the euro will help to maintain price stability. 5.3.
Support for the euro in the Member States now forming part of the euro area increased markedly after the launch of major information campaigns.
The citizens in the newly acceded Member States need more information on the euro and they would like to be prepared well in advance of the changeover.
Four countries have adopted the first version of their national changeover plan and three of them have adopted their communication strategies.
