Recommendation 2 Recital (4) Text of the Commission proposal | CoR amendment | In order to achieve the fullest protection possible for maritime and port industries, port security measures should be introduced.
Recommendation 4 Recital (8) Text of the Commission proposal | CoR amendment | Member States should ensure that responsibilities in port security are clearly recognised by all parties involved.
Recommendation 6 Article 2(2) Text of the Commission proposal | CoR amendment | The measures laid down in this directive shall apply to any port located in the territory of a Member State in which one or more port facilities are situated which are covered by Regulation (EC) No. 725/2004. | The measures laid down in this directive shall apply to any portsuch ports located in the territory of a Member State in which one or more port facilities are situated which are covered by Regulation (EC) No. 725/2004 and which the Member State considers requires enhanced port security. | Reason The amendment is a consequence of the amendment to Recital 4.
Recommendation 9 Article 5(3) Text of the Commission proposal | CoR amendment | Member States may appoint a 'competent authority for maritime security' under Regulation (EC) No. 725/2004 as port security authority. | Member States may appoint aA "competent authority for maritime security"may be appointed as port security authority under Regulation (EC) No. 725/2004as port security authority | Reason In accordance with the subsidiarity principle, it should be possible for the regional and local level to appoint the port security authority.
Recommendation 10 Article 9(1) Text of the Commission proposal | CoR amendment | A port security officer shall be designated for each port.
Recommendation 11 Article 10(1) Text of the Commission proposal | CoR amendment | Member States shall ensure that port security committees are established to provide practical advice in the ports covered by this directive, unless the specificity of a port renders such committees superfluous. | Member States shall ensure thatmay, where necessary, establish port security committees are established to provide practical advice in the ports covered by this directive, unless the specificity of a port renders such committees superfluous. | Reason It is unlikely that all ports covered by the directive will need a security committee.
Recommendation 12 Article 14(2) Text of the Commission proposal | CoR amendment | Six months after the date referred to in Article 19, the Commission, in co-operation with the focal points referred to in Article 13, shall start a series of inspections, including inspections of a suitable sample of ports, to monitor the application by Member States of this directive.
The Commission shall in good time before inspections inform the Member States concerned of the inspections.The Member State concerned shall submit to such inspections and shall ensure that bodies or persons concerned also submit to those inspections. | The officials mandated by the Commission to conduct such inspections in accordance with paragraph 2 shall exercise their powers upon production of an authorisation in writing issued by the Commission and specifying the subject-matter, the purpose of the inspection and the date on which it is to begin.
The report and the answers shall be communicated to the Committee referred to in Article 16. | Reason The amendment is a consequence of amendments to Articles 14(2), 14(3) and Recital 9.
Recommendation 15 Article 17(2) Text of the Commission proposal | CoR amendment | Any personnel carrying out security inspections, or handling confidential information related to this directive, must have an appropriate level of security vetting by the Member State of which the personnel concerned has the nationality. | Any personnel carrying out security inspections, or handling confidential information related to this directive, must have an appropriate level of security vetting by the Member State of which the personnel concerned has the nationality. | Reason The amendment is a consequence of amendments to Articles 14(2), 14(3), 14(4) and Recital 9.
Recommendation 16 Text of the Commission proposal | CoR amendment | | The Committee proposes that security representatives from individual ports chosen by Member States should be invited to exchange experience at least once a year. | Reason The proposals and arguments put forward by the CoR in its reasons for amendments to the directive make it clear that the coordination of security measures extending beyond the port/ship interface is a matter which should as far as possible be dealt with by individual Member States.
Brussels, 30 September 2004.
The President of the Committee of the Regions Peter Straub --------------------------------------------------
