Common Position (EC) No 16/2006 of 24 July 2006 adopted by the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, with a view to adopting a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market Common Position (EC) No 16/2006 adopted by the Council on 24 July 2006 with a view to adopting Directive 2006/…/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of … on services in the internal market (2006/C 967 E/01) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular the first and third sentence of Article 47(2) and Article 55 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee [1], Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions [2], Acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 251 of the Treaty [3], Whereas: (1) The European Community is seeking to forge ever closer links between the States and peoples of Europe and to ensure economic and social progress.
The barriers affect a wide variety of service activities across all stages of the provider's activity and have a number of common features, including the fact that they often arise from administrative burdens, the legal uncertainty associated with cross-border activity and the lack of mutual trust between Member States. (4) Since services constitute the engine of economic growth and account for 70 % of GDP and employment in most Member States, this fragmentation of the internal market has a negative impact on the entire European economy, in particular on the competitiveness of SMEs and the movement of workers, and prevents consumers from gaining access to a greater variety of competitively priced services.
The European Parliament and the Council have emphasised that the removal of legal barriers to the establishment of a genuine internal market is a matter of priority for achieving the goal set by the European Council in Lisbon of 23 and 24 March 2000 of improving employment and social cohesion and achieving sustainable economic growth so as to make the European Union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010, with more and better jobs.
Providers should be able to choose between those two freedoms, depending on their strategy for growth in each Member State. (6) Those barriers cannot be removed solely by relying on direct application of Articles 43 and 49 of the Treaty, since, on the one hand, addressing them on a case-by-case basis through infringement procedures against the Member States concerned would, especially following enlargement, be extremely complicated for national and Community institutions, and, on the other hand, the lifting of many barriers requires prior coordination of national legal schemes, including the setting up of administrative cooperation.
This Directive also takes into account other general interest objectives, including the protection of the environment, public security and public health as well as the need to comply with labour law. (8) It is appropriate that the provisions of this Directive concerning the freedom of establishment and the free movement of services should apply only to the extent that the activities in question are open to competition, so that they do not oblige Member States either to liberalise services of general economic interest or to privatise public entities which provide such services or to abolish existing monopolies for other activities or certain distribution services. (9) This Directive applies only to requirements which affect the access to, or the exercise of, a service activity.
This Directive does not affect Member State laws prohibiting discrimination on grounds of nationality or on grounds such as those set out in Article 13 of the Treaty. (12) This Directive aims at creating a legal framework to ensure the freedom of establishment and the free movement of services between the Member States and does not harmonise or prejudice criminal law.
This Directive does not affect Member States' social security legislation. (15) This Directive respects the exercise of fundamental rights applicable in the Member States and as recognised in the Charter of fundamental Rights of the European Union and the accompanying explanations, reconciling them with the fundamental freedoms laid down in Articles 43 and 49 of the Treaty.
Services of general interest are not covered by the definition in Article 50 of the Treaty and therefore do not fall within the scope of this Directive.
However, certain services of general economic interest, such as those that may exist in the field of transport, are excluded from the scope of this Directive and certain other services of general economic interest, for example, those that may exist in the area of postal services, are the subject of a derogation from the provision on the freedom to provide services set out in this Directive.
This Directive does not deal with the funding of services of general economic interest and does not apply to systems of aids granted by Member States, in particular in the social field, in accordance with Community rules on competition.
Consequently, this exclusion should cover all financial services such as banking, credit, insurance, including reinsurance, occupational or personal pensions, securities, investment funds, payments and investment advice, including the services listed in Annex I to Directive 2006/48/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 2006 relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions [4]. (19) In view of the adoption in 2002 of a package of legislative instruments relating to electronic communications networks and services, as well as to associated resources and services, which has established a regulatory framework facilitating access to those activities within the internal market, notably through the elimination of most individual authorisation schemes, it is necessary to exclude issues dealt with by those instruments from the scope of this Directive. (20) The exclusion from the scope of this Directive as regards matters of electronic communications services as covered by Directives 2002/19/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on access to, and interconnection of, electronic communications networks and associated facilities (Access Directive) [5], 2002/20/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services (Authorisation Directive) [6], 2002/21/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services (Framework Directive) [7], 2002/22/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 March 2002 on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks and services (Universal Service Directive) [8] and 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector (Directive on privacy and electronic communications) [9] should apply not only to questions specifically dealt with in these Directives but also to matters for which the Directives explicitly leave to Member States the possibility of adopting certain measures at national level. (21) Transport services, including urban transport, taxis and ambulances as well as port services, should be excluded from the scope of this Directive. (22) The exclusion of healthcare from the scope of this Directive should cover healthcare and pharmaceutical services provided by health professionals to patients to assess, maintain or restore their state of health where those activities are reserved to a regulated health profession in the Member State in which the services are provided. (23) This Directive does not affect the reimbursement of healthcare provided in a Member State other than that in which the recipient of the care is resident.
It is important to address this issue in another Community legal instrument in order to achieve greater legal certainty and clarity to the extent that this issue is not already addressed in Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of 14 June 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community [10]. (24) Audiovisual services, whatever their mode of transmission, including within cinemas, should also be excluded from the scope of this Directive.
Furthermore, this Directive should not apply to aids granted by Member States in the audiovisual sector which are covered by Community rules on competition. (25) Gambling activities, including lottery and betting transactions, should be excluded from the scope of this Directive in view of the specific nature of these activities, which entail implementation by Member States of policies relating to public policy and consumer protection. (26) This Directive is without prejudice to the application of Article 45 of the Treaty. (27) This Directive should not cover those social services in the areas of housing, childcare and support to families and persons in need which are provided by the State at national, regional or local level by providers mandated by the State or by charities recognised as such by the State with the objective of ensuring support for those who are permanently or temporarily in a particular state of need because of their insufficient family income or total or partial lack of independence and for those who risk being marginalised.
These services are essential in order to guarantee the fundamental right to human dignity and integrity and are a manifestation of the principles of social cohesion and solidarity and should not be affected by this Directive. (28) This Directive does not deal with the funding of, or the system of aids linked to, social services.
Therefore, none of the measures applicable under that Directive in the Member State where the service is provided is affected by the provision on the freedom to provide services. (32) This Directive is consistent with Community legislation on consumer protection, such as Directive 2005/29/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2005 concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market (the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive) [12] and Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 October 2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws (the Regulation on consumer protection cooperation) [13]. (33) The services covered by this Directive concern a wide variety of ever-changing activities, including business services such as management consultancy, certification and testing; facilities management, including office maintenance; advertising; recruitment services; and the services of commercial agents.
These activities are, therefore, not covered by the definition of service in Article 50 of the Treaty and do not therefore fall within the scope of this Directive. (35) Non-profit making amateur sporting activities are of considerable social importance.
Thus, they might not constitute economic activities within the meaning of Community law and should fall outside the scope of this Directive. (36) The concept of "provider" should cover any natural person who is a national of a Member State or any legal person engaged in a service activity in a Member State, in exercise either of the freedom of establishment or of the free movement of services.
On the other hand, the concept of a provider should not cover the case of branches in a Member State of companies from third countries because, under Article 48 of the Treaty, the freedom of establishment and free movement of services may benefit only companies constituted in accordance with the laws of a Member State and having their registered office, central administration or principal place of business within the Community.
Authorisation may be granted not only by a formal decision but also by an implicit decision arising, for example, from the silence of the competent authority or from the fact that the interested party must await acknowledgement of receipt of a declaration in order to commence the activity in question or for the latter to become lawful. (40) The concept of "overriding reasons relating to the public interest" to which reference is made in certain provisions of this Directive has been developed by the Court of Justice in its case law in relation to Articles 43 and 49 of the Treaty and may continue to evolve.
Other measures adopted at national level to meet that objective could involve reduction of the number of procedures and formalities applicable to service activities and the restriction of such procedures and formalities to those which are essential in order to achieve a general interest objective and which do not duplicate each other in terms of content or purpose. (47) With the aim of administrative simplification, general formal requirements, such as presentation of original documents, certified copies or a certified translation, should not be imposed, except where objectively justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest, such as the protection of workers, public health, the protection of the environment or the protection of consumers.
It is also necessary to ensure that an authorisation as a general rule permits access to, or exercise of, a service activity throughout the national territory, unless a new authorisation for each establishment, for example for each new hypermarket, or an authorisation that is restricted to a specific part of the national territory is objectively justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest. (48) In order to further simplify administrative procedures, it is appropriate to ensure that each provider has a single point through which he can complete all procedures and formalities (hereinafter referred to as "points of single contact").
The number of points of single contact per Member State may vary according to regional or local competencies or according to the activities concerned.
The creation of points of single contact should not interfere with the allocation of functions among competent authorities within each national system.
Points of single contact may be set up not only by administrative authorities but also by chambers of commerce or crafts, or by the professional organisations or private bodies to which a Member State decides to entrust that function.
Any information given should be provided in a clear and unambiguous manner. (51) The information provided to providers and recipients of services should include, in particular, information on procedures and formalities, contact details of the competent authorities, conditions for access to public registers and data bases and information concerning available remedies and the contact details of associations and organisations from which providers or recipients can obtain practical assistance.
The fact that it must be possible to complete those procedures and formalities at a distance means, in particular, that Member States must ensure that they may be completed across borders.
That means, in particular, that authorisation schemes should be permissible only where an a posteriori inspection would not be effective because of the impossibility of ascertaining the defects of the services concerned a posteriori, due account being taken of the risks and dangers which could arise in the absence of a prior inspection.
However, the provision to that effect made by this Directive cannot be relied upon in order to justify authorisation schemes which are prohibited by other Community instruments such as Directive 1999/93/EC of the European Parliament and the Council of 13 December 1999 on a Community framework for electronic signatures [17], or Directive 2000/31/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2000 on certain legal aspects of information society services, in particular electronic commerce, in the internal market (Directive on electronic commerce) [18].
This reporting obligation concerns only the existence of authorisation schemes and not the criteria and conditions for the granting of an authorisation. (59) The authorisation should as a general rule enable the provider to have access to the service activity, or to exercise that activity, throughout the national territory, unless a territorial limit is justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest.
This provision should not affect regional or local competences for the granting of authorisations within the Member States. (60) This Directive, and in particular the provisions concerning authorisation schemes and the territorial scope of an authorisation, should not interfere with the division of regional or local competences within the Member States, including regional and local self-government and the use of official languages. (61) The provision relating to the non-duplication of conditions for the granting of an authorisation should not prevent Member States from applying their own conditions as specified in the authorisation scheme.
Thus, access to a service activity or the exercise thereof in a Member State, either as a principal or secondary activity, should not be made subject to criteria such as place of establishment, residence, domicile or principal provision of the service activity.
However, these criteria should not include requirements according to which a provider or one of his employees or a representative must be present during the exercise of the activity when this is justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest.
The prohibition of economic tests as a prerequisite for the grant of authorisation should cover economic tests as such, but not requirements which are objectively justified by overriding reasons relating to the public interest, such as the protection of the urban environment, social policy or public health.
The prohibition should not affect the exercise of the powers of the authorities responsible for applying competition law. (67) With respect to financial guarantees or insurance, the prohibition of requirements should concern only the obligation that the requested financial guarantees or insurance must be obtained from a financial institution established in the Member State concerned. (68) With respect to pre-registration, the prohibition of requirements should concern only the obligation that the provider, prior to the establishment, be pre-registered for a given period in a register held in the Member State concerned. (69) In order to coordinate the modernisation of national rules and regulations in a manner consistent with the requirements of the internal market, it is necessary to evaluate certain non-discriminatory national requirements which, by their very nature, could severely restrict or even prevent access to an activity or the exercise thereof under the freedom of establishment.
In particular, such requirements could be fully justified when they pursue social policy objectives. (70) For the purposes of this Directive, and without prejudice to Article 16 of the Treaty, services may be considered to be services of general economic interest only if they are provided in application of a special task in the public interest entrusted to the provider by the Member State concerned.
For example, with regard to the obligation to take a specific legal form in order to exercise certain services in the social field, the Court of Justice has already recognised that it may be justified to subject the provider to a requirement to be non-profit making. (72) Services of a general economic interest are entrusted with important tasks relating to social and territorial cohesion.
If necessary the Commission, in cooperation with the Member States, could assist them to design a common method. (75) The fact that this Directive specifies a number of requirements to be abolished or evaluated by the Member States during the transposition period is without prejudice to any infringement proceedings against a Member State for failure to fulfil its obligations under Articles 43 or 49 of the Treaty. (76) This Directive does not concern the application of Articles 28 to 30 of the Treaty relating to the free movement of goods.
It is indispensable to provide that the provision on the freedom to provide services does not prevent the Member State where the service is provided from imposing, in compliance with the principles set out in Article 16(1)(a) to (c), its specific requirements for reasons of public policy or public security or for the protection of public health or the environment. (79) The Court of Justice has consistently held that Member States retain the right to take measures in order to prevent providers from abusively taking advantage of the internal market principles.
In addition, any restriction of the free movement of services should be permitted, by way of exception, only if it is consistent with fundamental rights which form an integral part of the general principles of law enshrined in the Community legal order. (84) The derogation from the provision on the freedom to provide services concerning postal services should cover both activities reserved to the universal service provider and other postal services. (85) The derogation from the provision on the freedom to provide services relating to the judicial recovery of debts and the reference to a possible future harmonisation instrument should concern only the access to and the exercise of activities which consist, notably, in bringing actions before a court relating to the recovery of debts. (86) This Directive should not affect terms and conditions of employment which, pursuant to Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services [19], apply to workers posted to provide a service in the territory of another Member State.
Any activity which a person performs outside a relationship of subordination must be classified as an activity pursued in a self-employed capacity for the purposes of Articles 43 and 49 of the Treaty. (88) The provision on the freedom to provide services should not apply in cases where, in conformity with Community law, an activity is reserved in a Member State to a particular profession, for example requirements which reserve the provision of legal advice to lawyers. (89) The derogation from the provision on the freedom to provide services concerning matters relating to the registration of vehicles leased in a Member State other than that in which they are used follows from the case law of the Court of Justice, which has recognised that a Member State may impose such an obligation, in accordance with proportionate conditions, in the case of vehicles used on its territory.
This does not concern general authorisation schemes which also apply to the use of a service supplied by a provider established in the same Member State. (93) The concept of financial assistance provided for the use of a particular service should not apply to systems of aids granted by Member States, in particular in the social field or in the cultural sector, which are covered by Community rules on competition, nor to general financial assistance not linked to the use of a particular service, for example grants or loans to students. (94) In accordance with the Treaty rules on the free movement of services, discrimination on grounds of the nationality of the recipient or national or local residence is prohibited.
However, the prohibition of discriminatory requirements should not preclude the reservation of advantages, especially as regards tariffs, to certain recipients, if such reservation is based on legitimate and objective criteria. (95) The principle of non-discrimination within the internal market means that access by a recipient, and especially by a consumer, to a service on offer to the public may not be denied or restricted by application of a criterion, included in general conditions made available to the public, relating to the recipient's nationality or place of residence.
They should not in any way prevent Member States from applying, in conformity with this Directive and other Community law, additional or different quality requirements. (98) Any operator providing services involving a direct and particular health, safety or financial risk for the recipient or a third person should, in principle, be covered by appropriate professional liability insurance, or by another form of guarantee which is equivalent or comparable, which means, in particular, that such an operator should as a general rule have adequate insurance cover for services provided in one or more Member States other than the Member State of establishment. (99) The insurance or guarantee should be appropriate to the nature and extent of the risk.
As regards the content and methods of commercial communication, it is necessary to encourage professionals to draw up, in accordance with Community law, codes of conduct at Community level. (101) It is necessary and in the interest of recipients, in particular consumers, to ensure that it is possible for providers to offer multidisciplinary services and that restrictions in this regard be limited to what is necessary to ensure the impartiality, independence and integrity of the regulated professions.
This does not affect restrictions or prohibitions on carrying out particular activities which aim at ensuring independence in cases in which a Member State entrusts a provider with a particular task, notably in the area of urban development, nor should it affect the application of competition rules. (102) In order to increase transparency and promote assessments based on comparable criteria with regard to the quality of the services offered and supplied to recipients, it is important that information on the meaning of quality labels and other distinctive marks relating to these services be easily accessible.
Where appropriate, the Commission may, in accordance with the procedures laid down in Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 June 1998 laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations and of rules on Information Society services [20], issue a mandate for the drawing up of specific European standards. (103) In order to solve potential problems with compliance with judicial decisions, it is appropriate to provide that Member States recognise equivalent guarantees lodged with institutions or bodies such as banks, insurance providers or other financial services providers established in another Member State. (104) The development of a network of Member States' consumer protection authorities, which is the subject of Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004, complements the cooperation provided for in this Directive.
The liaison points designated by Member States should be required to facilitate this process only in the event of difficulties being encountered, for instance if assistance is required to identify the relevant competent authority. (108) Certain obligations of mutual assistance should apply to all matters covered by this Directive, including those relating to cases where a provider establishes in another Member State.
Other obligations of mutual assistance should apply only in cases of cross-border provision of services, where the provision on the freedom to provide services applies.
Cross-border provision of services should include cases where services are provided at a distance and where the recipient travels to the Member State of establishment of the provider in order to receive services. (109) In cases where a provider moves temporarily to a Member State other than the Member State of establishment, it is necessary to provide for mutual assistance between those two Member States so that the former can carry out checks, inspections and enquiries at the request of the Member State of establishment or carry out such checks on its own initiative if these are merely factual checks. (110) It should not be possible for Member States to circumvent the rules laid down in this Directive, including the provision on the freedom to provide services, by conducting checks, inspections or investigations which are discriminatory or disproportionate. (111) The provisions of this Directive concerning exchange of information regarding the good repute of providers should not pre-empt initiatives in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, in particular on the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities of the Member States and on criminal records. (112) Cooperation between Member States requires a well-functioning electronic information system in order to allow competent authorities easily to identify their relevant interlocutors in other Member States and to communicate in an efficient way. (113) It is necessary to provide that the Member States, in cooperation with the Commission, are to encourage interested parties to draw up codes of conduct at Community level, aimed, in particular, at promoting the quality of services and taking into account the specific nature of each profession.
They should be compatible with legally binding rules governing professional ethics and conduct in the Member States. (114) Member States should encourage the setting up of codes of conduct, in particular, by professional bodies, organisations and associations at Community level.
They do not preclude Member States, in accordance with Community law, from taking more stringent measures in law or national professional bodies from providing for greater protection in their national codes of conduct. (116) Since the objectives of this Directive, namely the elimination of barriers to the freedom of establishment for providers in the Member States and to the free provision of services between Member States, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale of the action, be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
This Directive does not affect the freedom of Member States to define, in conformity with Community law, what they consider to be services of general economic interest, how those services should be organised and financed, in compliance with the State aid rules, and what specific obligations they should be subject to. 4.
This Directive does not affect measures taken at Community level or at national level, in conformity with Community law, to protect or promote cultural or linguistic diversity or media pluralism. 5.
However, Member States may not restrict the freedom to provide services by applying criminal law provisions which specifically regulate or affect access to or exercise of a service activity in circumvention of the rules laid down in this Directive. 6.
This Directive does not affect labour law, that is any legal or contractual provision concerning employment conditions, working conditions, including health and safety at work and the relationship between employers and workers, which Member States apply in accordance with national law which respects Community law.
Equally, this Directive does not affect the social security legislation of the Member States. 7.
Article 2 Scope 1.
This Directive shall apply to services supplied by providers established in a Member State. 2.
This Directive shall not apply to the following activities: (a) non-economic services of general interest; (b) financial services, such as banking, credit, insurance and re-insurance, occupational or personal pensions, securities, investment funds, payment and investment advice, including the services listed in Annex I to Directive 2006/48/EC; (c) electronic communications services and networks, and associated facilities and services, with respect to matters covered by Directives 2002/19/EC, 2002/20/EC, 2002/21/EC, 2002/22/EC and 2002/58/EC; (d) services in the field of transport, including port services, falling within the scope of Title V of the Treaty; (e) services of temporary work agencies; (f) healthcare services whether or not they are provided via healthcare facilities, and regardless of the ways in which they are organised and financed at national level or whether they are public or private; (g) audiovisual services, including cinematographic services, whatever their mode of production, distribution and transmission, and radio broadcasting; (h) gambling activities which involve wagering a stake with pecuniary value in games of chance, including lotteries, gambling in casinos and betting transactions; (i) activities which are connected with the exercise of official authority as set out in Article 45 of the Treaty; (j) social services relating to social housing, childcare and support of families and persons permanently or temporarily in need which are provided by the State, by providers mandated by the State or by charities recognised as such by the State; (k) private security services; (l) services provided by notaries and bailiffs, who are appointed by an official act of government. 3.
Article 3 Relationship with other provisions of Community law 1.
This Directive does not concern rules of private international law, in particular rules governing the law applicable to contractual and non contractual obligations, including those which guarantee that consumers benefit from the protection granted to them by the consumer protection rules laid down in the consumer legislation in force in their Member State. 3.
CHAPTER II ADMINISTRATIVE SIMPLIFICATION Article 5 Simplification of procedures 1.
Paragraph 3 shall not apply to the documents referred to in Article 7(2) and 50 of Directive 2005/36/EC, in Articles 45(3), 46, 49 and 50 of Directive 2004/18/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on the coordination of procedures for the award of public works contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts [24], in Article 3(2) of Directive 98/5/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 1998 to facilitate practice of the profession of lawyer on a permanent basis in a Member State other than that in which the qualification was obtained [25], in the First Council Directive 68/151/EEC of 9 March 1968 on coordination of safeguards which, for the protection of the interests of members and others, are required by Member States of companies within the meaning of the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Treaty, with a view to making such safeguards equivalent throughout the Community [26] and in the Eleventh Council Directive 89/666/EEC of 21 December 1989 concerning disclosure requirements in respect of branches opened in a Member State by certain types of company governed by the law of another State [27].
Article 6 Points of single contact 1.
Member States shall ensure that it is possible for providers to complete the following procedures and formalities through points of single contact: (a) all procedures and formalities needed for access to his service activities, in particular, all declarations, notifications or applications necessary for authorisation from the competent authorities, including applications for inclusion in a register, a roll or a database, or for registration with a professional body or association; (b) any applications for authorisation needed to exercise his service activities. 2.
Article 7 Right to information 1.
Member States shall ensure that the following information is easily accessible to providers and recipients through the points of single contact: (a) requirements applicable to providers established in their territory, in particular those requirements concerning the procedures and formalities to be completed in order to access and to exercise service activities; (b) the contact details of the competent authorities enabling the latter to be contacted directly, including the details of those authorities responsible for matters concerning the exercise of service activities; (c) the means of, and conditions for, accessing public registers and databases on providers and services; (d) the means of redress which are generally available in the event of dispute between the competent authorities and the provider or the recipient, or between a provider and a recipient or between providers; (e) the contact details of the associations or organisations, other than the competent authorities, from which providers or recipients may obtain practical assistance. 2.
Member States shall ensure that it is possible for providers and recipients to receive, at their request, assistance from the competent authorities, consisting in information on the way in which the requirements referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 are generally interpreted and applied.
The information shall be provided in plain and intelligible language. 3.
Member States shall ensure that the information and assistance referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 are provided in a clear and unambiguous manner, that they are easily accessible at a distance and by electronic means and that they are kept up to date. 4.
Member States shall ensure that the points of single contact and the competent authorities respond as quickly as possible to any request for information or assistance as referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 and, in cases where the request is faulty or unfounded, inform the applicant accordingly without delay. 5.
Article 8 Procedures by electronic means 1.
The Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2), adopt detailed rules for the implementation of paragraph 1 of this Article with a view to facilitating the interoperability of information systems and use of procedures by electronic means between Member States, taking into account common standards developed at Community level.
CHAPTER III FREEDOM OF ESTABLISHMENT FOR PROVIDERS SECTION 1 Authorisations Article 9 Authorisation schemes 1.
Member States shall not make access to a service activity or the exercise thereof subject to an authorisation scheme unless the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the authorisation scheme does not discriminate against the provider in question; (b) the need for an authorisation scheme is justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest; (c) the objective pursued cannot be attained by means of a less restrictive measure, in particular because an a posteriori inspection would take place too late to be genuinely effective. 2.
In the report referred to in Article 39(1), Member States shall identify their authorisation schemes and give reasons showing their compatibility with paragraph 1 of this Article. 3.
Article 10 Conditions for the granting of authorisation 1.
The criteria referred to in paragraph 1 shall be: (a) non-discriminatory; (b) justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest; (c) proportionate to that public interest objective; (d) clear and unambiguous; (e) objective; (f) made public in advance; (g) transparent and accessible. 3.
The authorisation shall enable the provider to have access to the service activity, or to exercise that activity, throughout the national territory, including by means of setting up agencies, subsidiaries, branches or offices, except where an authorisation for each individual establishment or a limitation of the authorisation to a certain part of the territory is justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest. 5.
Except in the case of the granting of an authorisation, any decision from the competent authorities, including refusal or withdrawal of an authorisation, shall be fully reasoned and shall be open to challenge before the courts or other instances of appeal. 7.
Article 11 Duration of authorisation 1.
Paragraph 1 shall not concern the maximum period before the end of which the provider must actually commence his activity after receiving authorisation. 3.
Article 12 Selection from among several candidates 1.
Subject to paragraph 1 and to Articles 9 and 10, Member States may take into account, in establishing the rules for the selection procedure, considerations of public health, social policy objectives, the health and safety of employees or self-employed persons, the protection of the environment, the preservation of cultural heritage and other overriding reasons relating to the public interest, in conformity with Community law.
Article 13 Authorisation procedures 1.
Authorisation procedures and formalities shall provide applicants with a guarantee that their application will be processed as quickly as possible and, in any event, within a reasonable period which is fixed and made public in advance.
SECTION 2 Requirements prohibited or subject to evaluation Article 14 Prohibited requirements Member States shall not make access to, or the exercise of, a service activity in their territory subject to compliance with any of the following: 1) discriminatory requirements based directly or indirectly on nationality or, in the case of companies, the location of the registered office, including in particular: (a) nationality requirements for the provider, his staff, persons holding the share capital or members of the provider's management or supervisory bodies; (b) a requirement that the provider, his staff, persons holding the share capital or members of the provider's management or supervisory bodies be resident within the territory; 2) a prohibition on having an establishment in more than one Member State or on being entered in the registers or enrolled with professional bodies or associations of more than one Member State; 3) restrictions on the freedom of a provider to choose between a principal or a secondary establishment, in particular an obligation on the provider to have its principal establishment in their territory, or restrictions on the freedom to choose between establishment in the form of an agency, branch or subsidiary; 4) conditions of reciprocity with the Member State in which the provider already has an establishment, save in the case of conditions of reciprocity provided for in Community instruments concerning energy; 5) the case-by-case application of an economic test making the granting of authorisation subject to proof of the existence of an economic need or market demand, an assessment of the potential or current economic effects of the activity or an assessment of the appropriateness of the activity in relation to the economic planning objectives set by the competent authority; this prohibition shall not concern planning requirements which do not pursue economic aims but serve overriding reasons relating to the public interest; 6) the direct or indirect involvement of competing operators, including within consultative bodies, in the granting of authorisations or in the adoption of other decisions of the competent authorities, with the exception of professional bodies and associations or other organisations acting as the competent authority; this prohibition shall not concern the consultation of organisations, such as chambers of commerce or social partners, on matters other than individual applications for authorisation, or a consultation of the public at large; 7) an obligation to provide or participate in a financial guarantee or to take out insurance from a provider or body established in their territory.
This shall not affect the possibility for Member States to require insurance or financial guarantees as such, nor shall it affect requirements relating to the participation in a collective compensation fund, for instance for members of professional bodies or organisations; 8) an obligation to have been pre-registered, for a given period, in the registers held in their territory or to have previously exercised the activity for a given period in their territory.
Article 15 Requirements to be evaluated 1.
Member States shall examine whether, under their legal system, any of the requirements listed in paragraph 2 are imposed and shall ensure that any such requirements are compatible with the conditions laid down in paragraph 3.
Member States shall examine whether their legal system makes access to a service activity or the exercise of it subject to compliance with any of the following non-discriminatory requirements: (a) quantitative or territorial restrictions, in particular in the form of limits fixed according to population or of a minimum geographical distance between providers; (b) an obligation on a provider to take a specific legal form; (c) requirements which relate to the shareholding of a company; (d) requirements, other than those concerning matters covered by Directive 2005/36/EC or provided for in other Community instruments, which reserve access to the service activity in question to particular providers by virtue of the specific nature of the activity; (e) a ban on having more than one establishment in the territory of the same State; (f) requirements fixing a minimum number of employees; (g) fixed minimum and/or maximum tariffs with which the provider must comply; (h) an obligation on the provider to supply other specific services jointly with his service. 3.
Member States shall verify that the requirements referred to in paragraph 2 satisfy the following conditions: (a) non-discrimination: requirements must be neither directly nor indirectly discriminatory according to nationality nor, with regard to companies, according to the location of the registered office; (b) necessity: requirements must be justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest; (c) proportionality: requirements must be suitable for securing the attainment of the objective pursued; they must not go beyond what is necessary to attain that objective and it must not be possible to replace those requirements with other, less restrictive measures which attain the same result. 4.
Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall apply to legislation in the field of services of general economic interest only insofar as the application of these paragraphs does not obstruct the performance, in law or in fact, of the particular task assigned to them. 5.
Within a period of 3 months from the date of receipt of the notification, the Commission shall examine the compatibility of any new requirements with Community law and, where appropriate, shall adopt a decision requesting the Member State in question to refrain from adopting them or to abolish them.
The notification of a draft national law in accordance with Directive 98/34/EC shall fulfil the obligation of notification provided for in this Directive.
CHAPTER IV FREE MOVEMENT OF SERVICES SECTION 1 Freedom to provide services and related derogations Article 16 Freedom to provide services 1.
Member States may not restrict the freedom to provide services in the case of a provider established in another Member State by imposing any of the following requirements: (a) an obligation on the provider to have an establishment in their territory; (b) an obligation on the provider to obtain an authorisation from their competent authorities including entry in a register or registration with a professional body or association in their territory, except where provided for in this Directive or other instruments of Community law; (c) a ban on the provider setting up a certain form or type of infrastructure in their territory, including an office or chambers, which the provider needs in order to supply the services in question; (d) the application of specific contractual arrangements between the provider and the recipient which prevent or restrict service provision by the self-employed; (e) an obligation on the provider to possess an identity document issued by its competent authorities specific to the exercise of a service activity; (f) requirements, except for those necessary for health and safety at work, which affect the use of equipment and material which are an integral part of the service provided; (g) restrictions on the freedom to provide the services referred to in Article 19. 3.
Nor shall that Member State be prevented from applying, in accordance with Community law, its rules on employment conditions, including those laid down in collective agreements. 4.
Article 17 Additional derogations from the freedom to provide services Article 16 shall not apply to: 1) Services of general economic interest which are provided in another Member State, inter alia: (a) in the postal sector, services covered by Directive 97/67/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 December 1997 on common rules for the development of the internal market of Community postal services and the improvement of quality of service [30]; (b) in the electricity sector, services covered by Directive 2003/54/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2003 concerning common rules for the internal market in electricity [31]; (c) in the gas sector, services covered by Directive 2003/55/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2003 concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas [32]; (d) water distribution and supply services and waste water services; (e) treatment of waste; 2) matters covered by Directive 96/71/EC; 3) matters covered by Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data [33]; 4) matters covered by Council Directive 77/249/EEC of 22 March 1977 to facilitate the effective exercise by lawyers of freedom to provide services [34]; 5) the activity of judicial recovery of debts; 6) matters covered by Title II of Directive 2005/36/EC, as well as requirements in the Member State where the service is provided which reserve an activity to a particular profession; 7) matters covered by Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71; 8) as regards administrative formalities concerning the free movement of persons and their residence, matters covered by the provisions of Directive 2004/38/EC that lay down administrative formalities of the competent authorities of the Member State where the service is provided with which beneficiaries must comply; 9) as regards third country nationals who move to another Member State in the context of the provision of a service, the possibility for Member States to require visa or residence permits for third country nationals who are not covered by the mutual recognition regime provided for in Article 21 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 on the gradual abolition of checks at the common borders [35] or the possibility to oblige third country nationals to report to the competent authorities of the Member State in which the service is provided on or after their entry; 10) as regards the shipment of waste, matters covered by Council Regulation (EEC) No 259/93 of 1 February 1993 on the supervision and control of shipments of waste within, into and out of the European Community [36]; 11) copyright, neighbouring rights and rights covered by Council Directive 87/54/EEC of 16 December 1986 on the legal protection of topographies of semiconductor products [37] and by Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 1996 on the legal protection of databases [38], as well as industrial property rights; 12) acts requiring by law the involvement of a notary; 13) matters covered by Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on statutory audit of annual accounts and consolidated accounts [39]; 14) the registration of vehicles leased in another Member State; 15) provisions regarding contractual and non-contractual obligations, including the form of contracts, determined pursuant to the rules of private international law.
Article 18 Case-by-case derogations 1.
The measures provided for in paragraph 1 may be taken only if the mutual assistance procedure laid down in Article 35 is complied with and the following conditions are fulfilled: (a) the national provisions in accordance with which the measure is taken have not been subject to Community harmonisation in the field of the safety of services; (b) the measures provide for a higher level of protection of the recipient than would be the case in a measure taken by the Member State of establishment in accordance with its national provisions; (c) the Member State of establishment has not taken any measures or has taken measures which are insufficient as compared with those referred to in Article 35(2); (d) the measures are proportionate. 3.
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be without prejudice to provisions, laid down in Community instruments, which guarantee the freedom to provide services or which allow derogations therefrom.
Article 21 Assistance for recipients 1.
Member States shall ensure that recipients can obtain, in their Member State of residence, the following information: (a) general information on the requirements applicable in other Member States relating to access to, and exercise of, service activities, in particular those relating to consumer protection; (b) general information on the means of redress available in the case of a dispute between a provider and a recipient; (c) the contact details of associations or organisations, including the centres of the European Consumer Centres Network, from which providers or recipients may obtain practical assistance.
Member States may confer responsibility for the task referred to in paragraph 1 on points of single contact or on any other body, such as the centres of the European Consumer Centres Network, consumer associations or Euro Info Centres.
The Commission shall transmit them to all Member States. 3.
In fulfilment of the requirements set out in paragraphs 1 and 2, the body approached by the recipient shall, if necessary, contact the relevant body for the Member State concerned.
Together with the Commission, Member States shall put in place practical arrangements necessary for the implementation of paragraph 1. 4.
The Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2), adopt measures for the implementation of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this Article, specifying the technical mechanisms for the exchange of information between the bodies of the various Member States and, in particular, the interoperability of information systems, taking into account common standards.
CHAPTER V QUALITY OF SERVICES Article 22 Information on providers and their services 1.
Member States shall ensure that the information referred to in paragraph 1, according to the provider's preference: (a) is supplied by the provider on his own initiative; (b) is easily accessible to the recipient at the place where the service is provided or the contract concluded; (c) can be easily accessed by the recipient electronically by means of an address supplied by the provider; (d) appears in any information documents supplied to the recipient by the provider which set out a detailed description of the service he provides. 3.
That information shall be included in any information document in which providers give a detailed description of their services; (d) any codes of conduct to which the provider is subject and the address at which these codes may be consulted by electronic means, specifying the language version available; (e) where a provider is subject to a code of conduct, or member of a trade association or professional body which provides for recourse to a non-judicial means of dispute settlement, information in this respect.
The provider shall specify how to access detailed information on the characteristics of, and conditions for, the use of non-judicial means of dispute settlement. 4.
The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2), specify the content of the information provided for in paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article according to the specific nature of certain activities and may specify the practical means of implementing paragraph 2 of this Article.
Article 23 Professional liability insurance and guarantees 1.
Member States may ensure that providers whose services present a direct and particular risk to the health or safety of the recipient or a third person, or to the financial security of the recipient, subscribe to professional liability insurance appropriate to the nature and extent of the risk, or provide a guarantee or similar arrangement which is equivalent or essentially comparable as regards its purpose. 2.
When a Member State requires a provider established in its territory to subscribe to professional liability insurance or to provide another guarantee, that Member State shall accept as sufficient evidence attestations of such insurance cover issued by credit institutions and insurers established in other Member States. 3.
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not affect professional insurance or guarantee arrangements provided for in other Community instruments. 4.
For the implementation of paragraph 1, the Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2), establish a list of services which exhibit the characteristics referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and establish common criteria for defining, for the purposes of the insurance or guarantees referred to in that paragraph, what is appropriate to the nature and extent of the risk. 5.
Article 24 Commercial communications by the regulated professions 1.
Member States shall ensure that commercial communications by the regulated professions comply with professional rules, in conformity with Community law, which relate, in particular, to the independence, dignity and integrity of the profession, as well as to professional secrecy, in a manner consistent with the specific nature of each profession.
Article 25 Multidisciplinary activities 1.
However, the following providers may be made subject to such requirements: (a) the regulated professions, in so far as is justified in order to guarantee compliance with the rules governing professional ethics and conduct, which vary according to the specific nature of each profession, and is necessary in order to ensure their independence and impartiality; (b) providers of certification, accreditation, technical monitoring, test or trial services, in so far as is justified in order to ensure their independence and impartiality. 2.
In the report referred to in Article 39(1), Member States shall indicate which providers are subject to the requirements laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article, the content of those requirements and the reasons for which they consider them to be justified.
Article 26 Policy on quality of services 1.
Member States shall, in cooperation with the Commission, take accompanying measures to encourage providers to take action on a voluntary basis in order to ensure the quality of service provision, in particular through use of one of the following methods: (a) certification or assessment of their activities by independent or accredited bodies; (b) drawing up their own quality charter or participation in quality charters or labels drawn up by professional bodies at Community level. 2.
Member States shall ensure that information on the significance of certain labels and the criteria for applying labels and other quality marks relating to services can be easily accessed by providers and recipients. 3.
Member States shall, in cooperation with the Commission, take accompanying measures to encourage professional bodies, as well as chambers of commerce and craft associations and consumer associations, in their territory to cooperate at Community level in order to promote the quality of service provision, especially by making it easier to assess the competence of a provider. 4.
Article 27 Settlement of disputes 1.
Member States shall take the general measures necessary to ensure that providers respond to the complaints referred to in the first subparagraph in the shortest possible time and make their best efforts to find a satisfactory solution. 2.
Member States shall take the general measures necessary to ensure that providers are obliged to demonstrate compliance with the obligations laid down in this Directive as to the provision of information and to demonstrate that the information is accurate. 3.
Where a financial guarantee is required for compliance with a judicial decision, Member States shall recognise equivalent guarantees lodged with a credit institution or insurer established in another Member State.
Member States shall take the general measures necessary to ensure that providers who are subject to a code of conduct, or are members of a trade association or professional body, which provides for recourse to a non-judicial means of dispute settlement inform the recipient thereof and mention that fact in any document which presents their services in detail, specifying how to access detailed information on the characteristics of, and conditions for, the use of such a mechanism.
CHAPTER VI ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION Article 28 Mutual assistance — general obligations 1.
Member States shall give each other mutual assistance, and shall put in place measures for effective cooperation with one another, in order to ensure the supervision of providers and the services they provide. 2.
Member States shall supply the information requested by other Member States or the Commission by electronic means and within the shortest possible period of time. 7.
Where necessary, the Commission shall take appropriate steps, including proceedings provided for in Article 226 of the Treaty, in order to ensure that the Member States concerned comply with their obligation of mutual assistance.
Article 29 Mutual assistance — general obligations for the Member State of establishment 1.
The competent authorities can decide on the most appropriate measures to be taken in each individual case in order to meet the request by another Member State. 3.
Upon gaining actual knowledge of any conduct or specific acts by a provider established in its territory which provides services in other Member States, that, to its knowledge, could cause serious damage to the health or safety of persons or to the environment, the Member State of establishment shall inform all other Member States and the Commission within the shortest possible period of time.
Article 30 Supervision by the Member State of establishment in the event of the temporary movement of a provider to another Member State 1.
The obligation laid down in paragraph 1 shall not entail a duty on the part of the Member State of establishment to carry out factual checks and controls in the territory of the Member State where the service is provided.
Article 31 Supervision by the Member State where the service is provided in the event of the temporary movement of the provider 1.
With respect to national requirements which may be imposed pursuant to Articles 16 or 17, the Member State where the service is provided is responsible for the supervision of the activity of the provider in its territory.
The competent authorities may decide on the most appropriate measures to be taken in each individual case in order to meet the request by the Member State of establishment. 4.
Article 32 Alert mechanism 1.
Where a Member State becomes aware of serious specific acts or circumstances relating to a service activity that could cause serious damage to the health or safety of persons or to the environment in its territory or in the territory of other Member States, that Member State shall inform the Member State of establishment, the other Member States concerned and the Commission within the shortest possible period of time. 2.
The Commission shall promote and take part in the operation of a European network of Member States' authorities in order to implement paragraph 1. 3.
The Commission shall adopt and regularly update, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2), detailed rules concerning the management of the network referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article.
Article 33 Information on the good repute of providers 1.
Member States shall, at the request of a competent authority in another Member State, supply information, in conformity with their national law, on disciplinary or administrative actions or criminal sanctions and decisions concerning insolvency or bankruptcy involving fraud taken by their competent authorities in respect of the provider which are directly relevant to the provider's competence or professional reliability.
A request made pursuant to the first subparagraph must be duly substantiated, in particular as regards the reasons for the request for information. 2.
Sanctions and actions referred to in paragraph 1 shall only be communicated if a final decision has been taken.
Implementation of paragraphs 1 and 2 must comply with rules on the provision of personal data and with rights guaranteed to persons found guilty or penalised in the Member States concerned, including by professional bodies.
Article 34 Accompanying measures 1.
The Commission, in cooperation with Member States, shall establish an electronic system for the exchange of information between Member States, taking into account existing information systems. 2.
Article 35 Mutual assistance in the event of case-by-case derogations 1.
Where a Member State intends to take a measure pursuant to Article 18, the procedure laid down in paragraphs 2 to 6 of this Article shall apply without prejudice to court proceedings, including preliminary proceedings and acts carried out in the framework of a criminal investigation. 2.
The Member State referred to in paragraph 1 shall ask the Member State of establishment to take measures with regard to the provider, supplying all relevant information on the service in question and the circumstances of the case.
It shall inform the requesting Member State within the shortest possible period of time of the measures taken or envisaged or, as the case may be, the reasons why it has not taken any measures. 3.
Following communication by the Member State of establishment as provided for in the second subparagraph of paragraph 2, the requesting Member State shall notify the Commission and the Member State of establishment of its intention to take measures, stating the following: (a) the reasons why it believes the measures taken or envisaged by the Member State of establishment are inadequate; (b) the reasons why it believes the measures it intends to take fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 18. 4.
Without prejudice to the possibility for the requesting Member State to take the measures in question upon expiry of the period specified in paragraph 4, the Commission shall, within the shortest possible period of time, examine the compatibility with Community law of the measures notified.
In the case of urgency, a Member State which intends to take a measure may derogate from paragraphs 2, 3 and 4.
In such cases, the measures shall be notified within the shortest possible period of time to the Commission and the Member State of establishment, stating the reasons for which the Member State considers that there is urgency.
Article 36 Implementing measures In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 40(2), the Commission shall adopt the implementing measures necessary for the implementation of this Chapter, specifying the time-limits provided for in Articles 28 and 35 and the practical arrangements for the exchange of information by electronic means between Member States, and in particular the interoperability provisions for information systems.
CHAPTER VII CONVERGENCE PROGRAMME Article 37 Codes of conduct at Community level 1.
Member States shall, in cooperation with the Commission, take accompanying measures to encourage the drawing up at Community level, particularly by professional bodies, organisations and associations, of codes of conduct aimed at facilitating the provision of services or the establishment of a provider in another Member State, in conformity with Community law. 2.
Member States shall ensure that the codes of conduct referred to in paragraph 1 are accessible at a distance, by electronic means.
Article 38 Additional harmonisation The Commission shall assess, by … [43], the possibility of presenting proposals for harmonisation instruments on the following subjects: (a) access to the activity of judicial recovery of debts; (b) private security services and transport of cash and valuables.
Article 39 Mutual evaluation 1.
The Commission shall forward the reports provided for in paragraph 1 to the Member States, which shall submit their observations on each of the reports within six months of receipt.
The period laid down in Article 5(6) of Decision 1999/468/EC shall be set at three months. 3.
Article 41 Review clause The Commission, by … [45], and every three years thereafter, shall present to the European Parliament and to the Council a comprehensive report on the application of this Directive.
This report shall, in accordance with Article 16(4), address in particular the application of Article 16.
CHAPTER VIII FINAL PROVISIONS Article 44 Transposition 1.
Article 45 Entry into force This Directive shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 46 Addressees This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Directive as amended by Directive 2006/24/EC (OJ L 105, 13.4.2006, p. 54). [10] OJ L 149, 5.7.1971, p. 2.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 629/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 114, 27.4.2006, p. 1). [11] OJ L 255, 30.9.2005, p. 22. [12] OJ L 149, 11.6.2005, p. 22. [13] OJ L 364, 9.12.2004, p. 1.
Regulation as amended by Directive 2005/29/EC. [14] OJ L 16, 23.1.2004, p. 44. [15] OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 1. [16] OJ L 158, 30.4.2004, p. 77. [17] OJ L 13, 19.1.2000, p. 12. [18] OJ L 178, 17.7.2000, p. 1. [19] OJ L 18, 21.1.1997, p. 1. [20] OJ L 204, 21.7.1998, p. 37.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [21] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [22] OJ C 321, 31.12.2003, p. 1. [23] OJ L 298, 17.10.1989, p. 23.
Directive as amended by Directive 97/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 202, 30.7.1997, p. 60). [24] OJ L 134, 30.4.2004, p. 114.
Directive as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 2083/2005 (OJ L 333, 20.12.2005, p. 28). [25] OJ L 77, 14.3.1998, p. 36.
Directive as amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [26] OJ L 65, 14.3.1968, p. 8.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2003/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 221, 4.9.2003, p. 13). [27] OJ L 395, 30.12.1989, p. 36. [28] Date of entry into force of this Directive. [29] Five years after the entry into force of this Directive. [30] OJ L 15, 21.1.1998, p. 14.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). [31] OJ L 176, 15.7.2003, p. 37.
Directive as amended by Council Directive 2004/85/EC (OJ L 236, 7.7.2004, p. 10). [32] OJ L 176, 15.7.2003, p. 57. [33] OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003. [34] OJ L 78, 26.3.1977, p. 17.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [35] OJ L 239, 22.9.2000, p. 19.
Convention as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1160/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 191, 22.7.2005, p. 18). [36] OJ L 30, 6.2.1993, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 2557/2001 (OJ L 349, 31.12.2001, p. 1). [37] OJ L 24, 27.1.1987, p. 36. [38] OJ L 77, 27.3.1996, p. 20. [39] OJ L 157, 9.6.2006, p. 87. [40] OJ L 145, 13.6.1977, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2006/18/EC (OJ L 51, 22.2.2006, p. 12). [41] OJ L 228, 16.8.1973, p. 3.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2005/68/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 323, 9.12.2005, p. 1). [42] OJ L 345, 19.12.2002, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2005/68/EC. [43] Four years after the entry into force of this Directive. [44] Three years after the entry into force of this Directive. [45] Five years after the date of entry into force of this Directive. [46] OJ L 166, 11.6.1998, p. 51.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2005/29/EC. [47] Three years after the entry into force of this Directive. -------------------------------------------------- STATEMENT OF THE COUNCIL'S REASONS I.
The Commission adopted its original proposal [1] on 13 January 2004 with the aim to provide a legal framework that would eliminate the obstacles to the freedom of establishment for service providers and the free movement of services between the Member States, giving both providers and recipients of services the legal certainty they need in order to exercise these two fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Treaty.
The Committee of the Regions delivered its Opinion on 30 September 2004 [2]. 3.
The European Economic and Social Committee delivered its Opinion on 10 February 2005 [3]. 4.
The European Parliament adopted its Opinion at first reading on 16 February 2006. 5.
The Commission adopted its amended proposal on 4 April 2006.
On 29 May 2006, the Council (Competitiveness) reached a political agreement, with the abstention of Belgium and Lithuania, on a compromise text with a view to adopting its common position. 7.
The Council adopted its common position in accordance with Article 251 of the EC Treaty on 24 July 2006.
OBJECTIVES The objectives of the draft Directive are: - To improve the basis for economic growth and employment in the EU. - To achieve a genuine internal market in services by removing legal and administrative barriers to the development and exercise of service activities. - To strengthen the rights of recipients of services. - To establish legally binding obligations for effective administrative co-operation between Member States.
Analysis of the Common Position General provisions (Articles 1-4) Specific areas of law (Article 1) As regards the subject-matter of the Directive and its relationship with specific areas of law (fundamental rights, labour law, criminal law, the protection or promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity and media pluralism) the common position largely reflects Parliament's amendments (7, 8, 9, 290, 291, 297, 298, 299, relevant part of 72).
The Council also added a new sentence in Recital 28 stressing that the Directive should not affect the principle of universal service in Member States' social services.
The Council is not in a position to accept Amendment 75, since Recital 20 already contains the relevant explanation of telecommunications services.
Amendment 77 on the exclusion of legal services is not taken on board given that Article 3 already provides that in case of a conflict between the provisions of the Services Directive and a provision of another Community instrument governing specific aspects of the services activity the provision of the latter will prevail.
Relationship between the Directive and other provisions of Community law (Article 3) The common position follows the approach of Parliament's amendments 21, 83, 219, 307 subject to minor redrafting in order to clearly state that in the event of a conflict with other relevant Community instruments, the relevant provisions of those instruments shall prevail.
The common position also stresses in Article 3(2) that the Directive does not concern rules of private international law, and in particular not those which guarantee that consumers benefit from the protection granted by the consumer legislation in force in the Member States.
In addition, the common position has completed Recitals 37 and 40 and added a new Recital 38.
The Council has not taken on board amendments 4, 85 and 86 on definitions of "service" and "public service obligations".
Amendment 96, on the definition of "worker", is considered redundant in relation to the re-defined scope of application and is therefore not incorporated in the common position.
The Council has not been able to take on board certain amendments, which are considered not to be in line with the Council's approach, such as amendment 102 since pro forma registration with the points of single contact would be an unnecessary administrative burden, or amendment 103, because a European point of single contact would represent an unnecessary administrative structure and would be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
Amendment 310 has not been taken on board since a reference to the supervision of compliance with Directive 96/71/EC, which is not affected by the present proposal, is not considered to be appropriate.
Freedom of establishment for providers (Articles 9-15) The common position reflects amendments 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 40, 41, 42, 112-113, 115 and 117, 118-122, 124-127, 128 and 129, part of amendments 30 and 130, 131-133 and 136-137, 138, 140, 141, 142 and 143, 144-145, 146, 147-149, 150 and 242.
The Council has not taken on board amendments 116 and 209 because the obligation to evaluate and report on authorisation schemes is an essential measure for facilitating the access to and the exercise of service activities.
However, the common position specifies in a new Recital 58 that the reporting obligation concerns only the existence of authorisation schemes and not the criteria and conditions for the granting of an authorisation.
Amendment 120 proposes a new Recital 61, which has been included in the common position for the purpose of clarifying that the requirement of non-duplication does not prevent Member States from applying their own conditions but merely require them to take into account equivalent conditions already fulfilled by the provider in another Member State.
Freedom to provide services and related derogations (Articles 16-18) Concerning the freedom to provide services (Article 16) the common position fully reflects the European Parliament's amendments (45 to 47, 152 and 293/rev4).
A new Recital 82 is added to clarify the application of Member States' rules on employment conditions.
Concerning the additional derogations from the freedom to provide services (Article 17) the Common Position takes on board the amendments of Parliament (53, 48, 50, 51, 54, 161, 162, 163, 165, 169, 170, 171, 172, 173, 174 and 175, 400, 404) with a minor change in paragraph 12 on the shipment of waste.
Article 18 of the original proposal on transitional derogations has been deleted in line with the relevant Parliament amendment.
Amendments 164, 167 and 168 are not considered relevant following the changes in Article 16.
The Council has not taken on board amendment 176, because the case-by-case derogations relating to the exercise of a health profession, the public health and to public policy are redundant as a result of the exclusion of health services from the scope of application and the new wording of Article 16.
Concerning the reimbursement of costs for healthcare received in another Member State (Article 23 of the original proposal), the common position takes on board amendments 56 to 62 and 180/247, deleting Article 23 and corresponding recitals.
As far as the provisions on posting of workers and posting of third country nationals (Articles 24 and 25 of the original proposal) are concerned, the common position follows the approach of Parliament (amendments 181, 182/248, 63-64, 183/249 and 65-66) and deletes Articles 24 and 25 of the original proposal.
Quality of services (Articles 22-27) Regarding the provisions related to the quality of services, the common position largely reflects the approach of Parliament (amendments 64, 67, 185, 187, 188, 190, 194, 195, 196).
Article 23 of the common position confirms that professional liability insurance is not mandatory.
The common position does not incorporate amendments 184 and 186 since they would create an unnecessary burden on service providers.
Nor is amendment 191 taken on board because the relevant information on after-sales guarantees must be provided to recipients by service providers.
Amendment 192 cannot be accepted since the link with other Community legislation on after-sales guarantees has to be explicitly mentioned.
The common position does not take on board amendments 193 and 210 because the Council believes that the obligation to evaluate and report on restrictions on multidisciplinary activities is an essential measure for facilitating access to, and exercise of, service activities.
Convergence programme and final provisions (Articles 37-46) The common position incorporates, with minor redrafting, Parliament's amendments (in particular amendments 70, 71, 205, 206, 207, 208, 211, 212, 213).
A new Recital 114 is added to describe the objective of the codes of conduct.
This convergence is well reflected in the common position. [1] COM(2004) 0002. [2] OJ C 43, 18.2.2005, p. 18. [3] OJ C 221, 8.9.2005, p. 113. --------------------------------------------------
