SIS II The second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) will make border crossing easier in the enlarged European Union without compromising security.
On 7 March 2005, the Council concluded that authorities responsible for internal security should be given access to VIS.
The Commission will table a proposal allowing both Europol and the authorities responsible for internal security to access the VIS for clearly defined purposes. 3.3.
EURODAC The purpose of EURODAC is to assist in determining which Member State is responsible pursuant to the Dublin II Regulation and to facilitate its application.
EURODAC is essential in ensuring the efficiency of the European Asylum System. 4.
IDENTIFIED SHORTCOMINGS Although SIS II, VIS and EURODAC are the focus of this Communication, other issues related to combating terrorism and crime are also discussed. 4.1.
The EURODAC Regulation is also under-exploited.
Inefficiencies in the application of the Dublin II Regulation This Regulation defines the criteria for determining the State responsible for examining asylum applications.
The fact that the Treaty of Prüm, signed by seven Member States on 27 May 2005, will introduce an exchange of fingerprint and DNA data on a bilateral basis, pending the adoption of such an instrument at the European level, highlights this gap. 4.10.
This has also been identified as a gap in the fight against identity theft which causes increasing concern among authorities responsible for internal security and substantially damages the European economy. 4.11.
Biometric searches in SIS II Identifying persons in databases with millions of entries has been solved in EURODAC and will be addressed in the VIS by using biometric searches, allowing unprecedented accuracy.
However, SIS II would only store biometric information that could be legally linked to an alert in SIS II. 5.2.2.
More comprehensive access to VIS and SIS II by asylum and immigration authorities Legislative proposals foresee access to VIS and SIS II by asylum authorities.
Access to VIS and certain biometric SIS II data would have a significant impact on the fight against illegal migration.
Access by authorities responsible for internal security As regards the VIS, a draft legal instrument extending the access of authorities responsible for internal security for the purposes of the prevention, detection and investigation of terrorist offences is being presented by the Commission.
As regards SIS II data related to refusal of entry, an extension of access for purposes linked to the prevention, detection or investigation of a crime should be envisaged for authorities responsible for internal security.
Authorities responsible for internal security could thus have access to EURODAC in well-defined cases, when there is a substantiated suspicion that the perpetrator of a serious crime has applied for asylum.
This access should not be direct but through the authorities responsible for EURODAC.
Access to these systems could also contribute to the identification of disaster victims and unidentified bodies. 5.3.
Creation of a European criminal Automated Fingerprints Identification System (AFIS) Beyond the proposal already mentioned on the comparison of DNA profiles, a European AFIS could be created, combining all fingerprint data currently only available in national criminal AFIS systems.
This AFIS could be either a centralised European AFIS or a de-centralised solution (linking existing AFISes).
This approach could also contribute to the identification of disaster victims and unidentified bodies. 5.4.
The threshold for authorities responsible for internal security to query EURODAC, SIS II immigration data or VIS must therefore always be significantly higher than the threshold for querying criminal databases.
In order to ensure full respect for the rights as laid down in Articles 6, 7, 8, 48 and 49 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the scope for access should thus be limited to terrorist offences as defined in Council Framework Decision 2002/475/JHA and to crimes falling within the competence of Europol.
In any case, when putting forward possible future proposals, the Commission will proceed, in accordance with Communication COM (2005)172[9], to a specific impact assessment on the respect of fundamental rights. [1] Council of the European Union 7906/04 Declaration on combating terrorism 29 March 2004 [2] The Hague Programme: strengthening freedom, security and justice in the European Union, 10 May 2005 [3] Including the scope of participation of countries that do not (fully) participate in the “Schengen acquis”. [4] European Interoperability Framework for Pan-European eGovernment Services, Office of Official Publications of the European Communities, 2004, point 1.1.2. [5] The details of how organisations agree to technically interact with each other when exchanging data is usually laid down in an interoperability framework that can be defined as a set of standards and guidelines, see European Interoperability Framework for Pan-European eGovernment Services, Office of Official Publications of the European Communities, 2004, point 1.1.2. [6] The conditions governing the processing of personal data will be defined in the legal instruments regulating SIS II. [7] Council Regulation (EC) 343/2003 of 18 February 2003 establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application lodged in one of the Member States by a third-country national, 0.J.
