Morocco officially expressed its interest in August 2004.
The European Commission, on the basis of a negotiating mandate from the Council in April 2005, initialled an Agreement with the Moroccan authorities on 8 November 2005.
Contacts concerning the participation of Morocco in the GALILEO programme were established on 24 March 2004 at a meeting between the Moroccan Minister for Infrastructure and Transport and the Commission’s Director-General for Energy and Transport.
On 9 August 2004, the Moroccan Minister for Infrastructure and Transport sent the Commission’s Director-General for Energy and Transport a letter expressing Morocco’s wish to become a fully-fledged partner in the project by acceding to the GALILEO Joint Undertaking.
On 6 October 2004 a meeting was held with a delegation headed by the Moroccan Minister for Infrastructure and Transport consisting of representatives of the Moroccan ministries concerned, with a view to determining the arrangements for cooperation between Morocco and the European Community in the framework of an agreement to be concluded between the two parties.
On 13 October, the Minister wrote a second letter to the Director-General confirming Morocco’s desire to conclude a cooperation agreement with the European Community concerning the civil satellite radionavigation system.
GALILEO will be responsible for the creation of 150 000 highly skilled jobs in Europe.
GALILEO will provide generic models for local elements. “Global navigation, positioning and timing equipment” means any civil end-user equipment designed to transmit, receive or process satellite-based navigation or timing signals to provide a service or to operate with a regional augmentation; “Regulatory measure” means a law, regulation, rule, procedure, decision, administrative action or similar action by a Party; “Interoperability” means, at user level, a situation where a dual-system receiver can use signals from at least two systems simultaneously for performance equal to or better than that obtained by using only one system; “Intellectual property” shall have the meaning given in Article 2 of the Convention Establishing the World Intellectual Property Organisation, done at Stockholm, on 14 July 1967. "Liability" means the legal accountability of a person or legal entity to compensate for damage caused to another person or legal entity in accordance with specific legal principles and rules.
Article 3 Principles of cooperation The Parties agree to apply the following principles to cooperation activities covered by this Agreement: 1.
free trade in GNSS equipment in the Parties’ territories.
Article 4 Scope of cooperation 1.
The Parties may modify this list by decision in accordance with the mechanism established pursuant to Article 14 of this Agreement. 2.
Security control features of the GALILEO global segments; 2.5.
Article 5 Forms of cooperation 1.
The Parties agree to conduct cooperation activities as indicated in Articles 6 to 13 of this Agreement.
Article 6 Radio spectrum 1.
Article 7 Scientific research The Parties shall promote joint GNSS research activities via European and Moroccan research programmes, in particular the European Community Framework Programme for Research and Development, research programmes of the European Space Agency and programmes developed by Moroccan bodies.
ARTICLE 8 Industrial cooperation 1.
Article 9 Trade and market development 1.
Article 10 Standards, certification and regulatory measures 1.
Article 11 Development of global and regional GNSS ground augmentation systems 1.
Article 12 Security 1.
Article 13 Liability and cost recovery The Parties shall cooperate, as appropriate, to define and implement a liability regime and cost recovery arrangements in order to facilitate the provision of civil GNSS services.
Article 14 Cooperation mechanism 1.
In accordance with the objective laid down in Article 1, the two Parties shall define the cooperation mechanisms for managing this Agreement as provided for in the March 2000 Association Agreement. 3.
Article 15 Financing 1.
The amount of and arrangements for the Moroccan contribution to the GALILEO programme through the European GNSS Supervisory Authority shall be the subject of a separate agreement, in compliance with the institutional arrangements of the applicable European Community legislation. 2.
Article 16 Exchange of information 1.
The Parties shall establish administrative arrangements and designate the requisite contact points for consultations to ensure the effective implementation of the provisions of this Agreement. 2.
Article 17 Consultation and dispute resolution 1.
Article 18 Entry into force and termination 1.
