Introduction 4 1.1.
Regional dimension and dynamics 5 2.1.
Regional cross-cutting issues 6 3.
Proposed eu accompanying measures 10 4.2.
Proposed horn of africa partners’ accompanying measures 11 5.
Conclusion 12 6.
The current political and ideological environment in the Horn of Africa gives rise to growing polarisation and an entrenched fault line of instability that stretches from Darfur to southern Somalia and has a negative impact on the region as a whole.
An overview of some of the most important regional interconnections of the larger conflicts in the region is provided in Annex II .
These regional interconnections have manifested themselves in several ways: - A major recent political development has been the rapprochement between Sudan, Eritrea and the emerging Islamic Courts in Somalia; - The Ethiopia-Eritrea tensions have spillover effects not only along the common border but also in the internal politics of each country and in the conflicts in Somalia and Sudan; - Ethiopia has had or continues to have complex relations with many of its neighbours; - The existing instability in Darfur and southern Somalia has been fuelled by international factors and has implications on neighbouring countries and regions. 2.2.
This crisis, which has very strong regional political and security dimensions, is an indicator of political marginalisation and exclusion and is a source of regional instability fuelling the development of inter-state tensions.
SALW and other trafficking in the Horn have strong inter-regional and global dimensions.
A significant cross-cutting issue aggravating all these factors is the demographic upsurge in the region ( Annex III and IV ).
Enhancement of political and functional cooperation with IGAD by the development of a joint vision and implementation plan focusing on three main areas of cooperation: (i) peace, security and governance; (ii) pastoralism and food security, and (iii) institutional development. 2.
Cross-border state support for armed groups should be put on the political/diplomatic agenda of the EU and the countries of the Horn region. 3.
The normalisation of relations between Eritrea and Ethiopia is crucial for peace and stability in the Horn. 4.
Anchoring Somalia in the regional partnership will be a ‘test case’ for its effective implementation (see Annex V ). 6.
Addressing regional cross-cutting and cross-border concerns in the Horn of Africa There are several important cross-cutting and cross-border issues that need to be addressed in a systematic way.
The Communication proposes EU regional action in three interrelated pillars and outlines in Annex VI policy responses to achieve the following objectives: 1.
In particular, the EU could promote the International Partners Forum (IPF) as a forum for dialogue with IGAD. - Make full use of Article 8 of the Cotonou Partnership Agreement to facilitate and advance dialogue with key actors (national governments, regional organisations).
Governance, natural resources and food security, education and regional integration focusing on infrastructure should be the main areas of cooperation underpinning country and regional strategies. 4.2.
CONCLUSION This Communication implements the Africa Strategy by introducing an EU regional political partnership for the Horn of Africa based on an analysis of the key regional dynamics and problems in the Horn region.
Implementation of the partnership will commence in 2007 and it will be jointly reviewed after two years to take stock of progress in delivery of the work programme and ensure it is updated and dovetailed to the conditions prevailing in the region. 6.
