Green Paper - Damages actions for breach of the EC antitrust rules {SEC(2005) 1732} /* COM/2005/0672 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 19.12.2005 COM(2005) 672 final GREEN PAPER Damages actions for breach of the EC antitrust rules (presented by the Commission) {SEC(2005) 1732} TABLE OF CONTENTS 1 Background and objectives of the Green Paper 3 1.1 Damages claims as part of the enforcement system of Community antitrust law 3 1.2 Outline of the problem 4 1.3 Objectives 4 2 Main issues 4 2.1 Access to evidence 5 2.2 Fault requirement 6 2.3 Damages 7 2.4 The passing-on defence and indirect purchaser’s standing 7 2.5 Defending consumer interests 8 2.6 Costs of actions 9 2.7 Coordination of public and private enforcement 9 2.8 Jurisdiction and applicable law 10 2.9 Other issues 11 GREEN PAPER Damages actions for breach of the EC antitrust rules Vigorous competition on an open internal market provides the best guarantee that European companies will increase their productivity and innovative potential.
As part of an effort to improve the enforcement of competition law after the modernisation of the procedural law on the application of Articles 81 and 82 of the EC Treaty, this Green Paper and the Commission Staff Working Paper attached to it address the conditions for bringing damages claims for infringement of EC antitrust law.
Facilitating damages claims for breach of antitrust law will not only make it easier for consumers and firms who have suffered damages arising from an infringement of antitrust rules to recover their losses from the infringer but also strengthen the enforcement of antitrust law. 1 Background and OBJECTIVES OF THE GREEN PAPER 1.1 Damage s claims as part of the enforcement system of Community antitrust law The antitrust rules in Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty are enforced both by public and private enforcement.
All parts of Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty are directly applicable.
From the outset private enforcement has also played a role in the enforcement of Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty.
Article 81(2) of the Treaty states that agreements or decisions prohibited by Article 81 are void.
The Court of Justice of the European Communities (ECJ) has ruled that effective protection of the rights granted by the Treaty requires that individuals who have suffered a loss arising from an infringement of Articles 81 or 82 have the right to claim damages.[2] 1.2 Outline of the problem While Community law therefore demands an effective system for damages claims for infringements of antitrust rules, this area of the law in the 25 Member States presents a picture of “total underdevelopment”.[3] The ECJ has ruled that, in the absence of Community rules on the matter, it is for the legal systems of the Member States to provide for detailed rules for bringing damages actions.
cases in which the civil action is brought after a competition authority has found an infringement) and for stand-alone actions (that is to say actions which do not follow on from a prior finding by a competition authority of an infringement of competition law). 2 MAIN ISSUES The main issues are summed up below and dealt with in greater detail in the Working Paper.
Question A: | Should there be special rules on disclosure of documentary evidence in civil proceedings for damages under Articles 81 and 82 of the EC Treaty?
Disclosure should be limited to relevant and reasonably identified individual documents and should be ordered by a court. | Option 2: | Subject to fact pleading, mandatory disclosure of classes of documents between the parties, ordered by a court, should be possible. | Option 3: | Subject to fact pleading, there should be an obligation on each party to provide the other parties to the litigation with a list of relevant documents in its possession, which are accessible to them. | Option 4: | Introduction of sanctions for the destruction of evidence to allow the disclosure described in options 1 to 3. | Option 5: | Obligation to preserve relevant evidence.
Consideration should therefore be given to the standard of fault required for damages claims.
Question D: | Should there be a fault requirement for antitrust-related damages actions? | Option 11: | Proof of the infringement should be sufficient (analogous to strict liability). | Option 12: | Proof of the infringement should be sufficient only in relation to the most serious antitrust law infringements. | Option 13: | There should be a possibility for the defendant to show that he excusably erred in law or in fact.
Question E: | How should damages be defined? | Option 14: | Definition of damages to be awarded with reference to the loss suffered by the claimant as a result of the infringing behaviour of the defendant (compensatory damages). | Option 15: | Definition of damages to be awarded with reference to the illegal gain made by the infringer (recovery of illegal gain). | Option 16: | Double damages for horizontal cartels.
Question H: | Should special procedures be available for bringing collective actions and protecting consumer interests?
If so, how could such procedures be framed? | Option 25: | A cause of action for consumer associations without depriving individual consumers of bringing an action.
Question I: | Should special rules be introduced to reduce the cost risk for the claimant?
If so, what kind of rules? | Option 27: | Establish a rule that unsuccessful claimants will have to pay costs only if they acted in a manifestly unreasonable manner by bringing the case.
Articles 6, 27 and 28 of the Regulation allow coordination of different, but linked, actions.
In this respect consideration must be given to whether the general rule contained in Article 5 of the proposal is appropriate for antitrust cases or whether a clarifying special rule is necessary.
Question K: | Which substantive law should be applicable to antitrust damages claims? | Option 31: | The applicable law should be determined by the general rule in Article 5 of the proposed Rome II Regulation, that is to say with reference to the place where the damage occurs. | Option 32: | There should be a specific rule for damages claims based on an infringement of antitrust law.
This rule should clarify that for this type of claims, the general rule of Article 5 shall mean that the laws of the states on whose market the victim is affected by the anti-competitive practice could govern the claim. | Option 33: | The specific rule could be that the applicable law is always the law of the forum. | Option 34: | In cases in which the territory of more than one state is affected by the anti-competitive behaviour on which the claim is based and where the court has jurisdiction to rule on the entirety of the loss suffered by the claimant, it could be considered whether the claimant should be given the choice to determine the law applicable to the dispute.
Question M: | Should limitation periods be suspended ?
