At its 425th plenary session, held on 15 and 16 March 2006 (meeting of 15 March), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 138 votes to one with four abstentions. 1.
The UCITS market in the EU and the need for harmonisation 2.1 European regulation of managed savings, in general, and of UCITS (Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities) in particular, revolves around the core Directive 85/611/EEC, which in recent years has supplied the regulatory framework within which the sector has developed.
According to figures from the "European Fund and Asset Management Association, Investment Company Institute, and other Mutual Fund Associations", from 1996 to 2005 the market that comprises the EU, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Norway and Switzerland recorded a compound annual rate of 14.5 %, increasing from approximately EUR 1450 billion to more than EUR 4900 billion of net assets. 2.3 The publication [1] of the annual figures for the number of funds and total fund capital globally shows that the phenomenon is clearly on the increase both in terms of numbers and volumes managed. 2.4 Whilst it appreciates the difficulties, the EESC believes it is very important to resolve the problem of fiscal convergence in order to increase the growth potential of UCITS.
We would call instead for an upward adjustment of standards so that financial products that are perceived as being a direct alternative to investment funds are subject to regulatory requirements that are comparable to those pertaining to such funds. 4.16 Question 16: To what extent do problems of regulatory fragmentation give rise to market access problems which might call for a common EU approach to a) private equity funds; b) hedge funds and funds of hedge funds? 4.16.1 In order to clarify the terms of this question and the issue raised in the previous question it is necessary to preface our response as follows.
Brussels, 15 March 2006.
The President of the European Economic and Social Committee Anne-Marie Sigmund [1] Source: European Fund and Asset Management Association, Investment Company Institute and other Mutual Fund Associations. [2] Bogle J.C. (2005), "The Mutual Fund Industry 60 Years Later: For Better or Worse?", Financial Analysts Journal, January/February. [3] COM(2005) 314 final, p.5, point 4. --------------------------------------------------
