Sustainable urban development in European Regional Policy 2007 – 2013 3 2.
Urban realities: why cities matter 4 3.
Natural and physical environment 6 3.4.
More and better jobs 8 5.1.
The Paradox of Cities: many jobs, yet high unemployment 8 5.2.
Disparities within cities 9 6.1.
Promoting social inclusion and equal opportunities 10 6.2.
Governance 11 7.1.
In addition, in its report on the urban dimension in the context of enlargement[1], the European Parliament welcomed the incorporation of sustainable urban development in Cohesion Policy.
Parliament also requested that Council ensure the follow up of this measure in the framework of the annual report on the implementation of the strategy, in line with Articles 29 and 30 laying doing general provisions on the Structural Funds.
Access to service facilities Guidelines for action include : - A competitive city needs to invest in modern, efficient and affordable services with easy online access.
The guidelines for action are: - The Structural Funds can in the framework of the convergence Objective support actions to strengthen institutional capacity efficiency at local and regional level and particularly in the provision of public and administrative services.
The inclusion of immigrant women in training actions is one of the keys to successful integration. - Co-operation between city authorities, schools and the local community in providing training for young people.
Guidelines for action include: - Cities should have a long term, consistent plan for all the different factors promoting sustainable growth and jobs in urban areas.
Nevertheless, guidelines include: - It is important to involve local citizens, in particular young people, community groups and other NGOs in promoting environmentally and socially sustainable growth and jobs in cities.
Urban development may also be supported by the Initiatives JASPERS[13], JEREMIE[14] and JESSICA[15].
A clear legal framework must underpin the setting up of public-private partnerships. - The private sector brings not just money but complementary skills and competences. - An effective public-private partnership requires both a strategic and long term vision and technical and management competences on the part of local authorities. [1] Report on the urban dimension in the context of enlargement, rapporteur : Jean Marie Beaupuy, A6(2005) 0272 of 21.9.2005. [2] The Urban Audit is the European Commission’s periodic collection of data on the quality of life in large and medium-sized cities across Europe.
