Proposal for a Council Decision approving the accession of the European Community to the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement concerning the international registration of industrial designs, adopted in Geneva on 2 July 1999 {SEC(2005)1748} /* COM/2005/0687 final - CNS 2005/0273 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 22.12.2005 COM(2005)687 final 2005/0273 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION approving the accession of the European Community to the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement concerning the international registration of industrial designs, adopted in Geneva on 2 July 1999 {SEC(2005)1748} (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
On 1 January 2003, the Office enabled applications for registered Community designs with the first date of filing being granted on 1 April 2003.
On 23 December 2003, the 1999 Act of the Hague Agreement concerning the international registration of industrial designs, adopted in Geneva on 2 July 1999 (hereinafter referred to as “the Geneva Act”) entered into force.
This link will enable designers to file a single international application at the International Bureau of WIPO designating, amongst other Contracting Parties, the European Community in order to obtain protection under the Community design system. 2.
Procedure for the accession of the European Community to the Geneva Act Under Article 27(1)(ii) of the Geneva Act, an intergovernmental organization may become party provided the following conditions are fulfilled: - at least one of the Member States of the intergovernmental organization is a member of WIPO, and - the organization maintains an Office through which protection of industrial designs may be obtained with effect in the territory in which the constituting treaty of the intergovernmental organization applies; - the Office of such organization is not the subject of a notification under Article 19 of the Geneva Act.
Article 12 of the Community Design Regulation provides for the maximum duration of protection of 25 years.
Article 2 Article 2(1) specifies that following the adoption of this proposal, the President of the Council shall deposit the instrument of accession with the Director-General of WIPO, in accordance with Article 27 of the Geneva Act.
Article 3 Following accession to the Geneva Act, the European Community will become a member of the Assembly of the Hague Union (Article 20 and 21 of the Geneva Act).
In accordance with Article 300 of the Treaty, the European Commission shall represent the European Community in the Assembly of the Hague Union.
In view of the above and in order to avoid unnecessary cumbersome procedures whenever future meetings of the Assembly of the Hague Union take place, Article 3(1) of the proposal provides that the Council authorises the European Commission to represent the European Community at the future meetings of the Assembly of the Hague Union and to negotiate matters, on behalf of the Community, which fall under the competence which the Assembly has pursuant to Article 21 of the Geneva Act.
Conclusions On the basis of the above, the Council is invited to adopt the attached decision approving, on behalf of the European Community, the Geneva Act, authorising the President of the Council to deposit the instrument of accession to the Geneva Act with the Direct General of WIPO, and authorising the European Commission to represent the European Community at the meetings of the Assembly of the Hague Union to be held under the auspices of WIPO and to negotiate and approve matters, on behalf of the European Community, which fall under the competence of the Assembly. 2005/0273 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION approving the accession of the European Community to the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement concerning the international registration of industrial designs, adopted in Geneva on 2 July 1999 THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 308, in conjunction with Article 300(2), first subparagraph, second sentence, and Article 300(3), first subparagraph, thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[11], Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament[12], Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee[13], Whereas: (1) Council Regulation (EC) No 6/2002 of 12 December 2001 on Community designs[14], which is based on Article 308 of the Treaty, aims to create a market which functions properly and offers conditions which are similar to those obtaining in a national market.
In order to create a market of this kind and make it increasingly a single market, that Regulation created the Community design system whereby undertakings can by means of a single procedure obtain Community designs to which uniform protection is given and which produce their effects throughout the entire area of the Community. (2) Following preparations initiated and carried out by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) with the participation of the Member States which are members of the Hague Union, the Member States which are not members of the Hague Union and the European Community, the Diplomatic Conference, convened for that purpose at Geneva, adopted the Geneva Act of the Hague Agreement concerning the international registration of industrial designs (hereinafter referred to as the “Geneva Act”) on 2 July 1999. (3) The Geneva Act was adopted in order to introduce certain innovations to the system for the international deposit of industrial designs provided for in the London Act, which had been adopted on 2 June 1934, and the Hague Act, which had been adopted on 28 November 1960. (4) The objectives of the Geneva Act are to extend the Hague system of international registration to new members, and to make the system more attractive to applicants.
As compared to the London Act and the Hague Act, one of the main innovations is that an intergovernmental organisation which maintains an office authorized to grant protection to designs with effect in the territory of the organisation may become party to the Geneva Act. (5) The facility whereby an intergovernmental organisation which has a regional office for the registration of designs may become a party to the Geneva Act was introduced in order to allow, in particular, for the Community to accede to that Act, and hence, to the Hague Union. (6) The Geneva Act entered into force on 23 December 2003 and became operational on 1 April 2004.
On 1 January 2003, the Office for the Harmonization in the Internal Market (Trade Marks and Designs) admitted applications for registered Community designs, the first date of filing being granted on 1 April 2003. (7) The Community design system and the international registration system as established by the Geneva Act are complementary.
CHAPTER I INTERNATIONAL APPLICATION AND INTERNATIONAL REGISTRATION Article 3 Entitlement to File an International Application Any person that is a national of a State that is a Contracting Party or of a State member of an intergovernmental organization that is a Contracting Party, or that has a domicile, a habitual residence or a real and effective industrial or commercial establishment in the territory of a Contracting Party, shall be entitled to file an international application.
In such case, the Regulations shall prescribe the latest time by which such declaration may be made. (2) [ International Application Serving as a Basis for Claiming Priority ] The international application shall, as from its filing date and whatever may be its subsequent fate, be equivalent to a regular filing within the meaning of Article 4 of the Paris Convention.
Article 7 Designation Fees (1) [ Prescribed Designation Fee ] The prescribed fees shall include, subject to paragraph (2), a designation fee for each designated Contracting Party. (2) [ Individual Designation Fee ] Any Contracting Party whose Office is an Examining Office and any Contracting Party that is an intergovernmental organization may, in a declaration, notify the Director General that, in connection with any international application in which it is designated, and in connection with the renewal of any international registration resulting from such an international application, the prescribed designation fee referred to in paragraph (1) shall be replaced by an individual designation fee, whose amount shall be indicated in the declaration and can be changed in further declarations.
Article 9 Filing Date of the International Application (1) [ International Application Filed Directly ] Where the international application is filed directly with the International Bureau, the filing date shall, subject to paragraph (3), be the date on which the International Bureau receives the international application. (2) [ International Application Filed Indirectly ] Where the international application is filed through the Office of the applicant’s Contracting Party, the filing date shall be determined as prescribed. (3) [ International Application with Certain Irregularities ] Where the international application has, on the date on which it is received by the International Bureau, an irregularity which is prescribed as an irregularity entailing a postponement of the filing date of the international application, the filing date shall be the date on which the correction of such irregularity is received by the International Bureau.
Article 10 [15] International Registration, Date of the International Registration, Publication and Confidential Copies of the International Registration (1) [ International Registration ] The International Bureau shall register each industrial design that is the subject of an international application immediately upon receipt by it of the international application or, where corrections are invited under Article 8, immediately upon receipt of the required corrections.
Article 13 Special Requirements Concerning Unity of Design (1) [ Notification of Special Requirements ] Any Contracting Party whose law, at the time it becomes party to this Act, requires that designs that are the subject of the same application conform to a requirement of unity of design, unity of production or unity of use, or belong to the same set or composition of items, or that only one independent and distinct design may be claimed in a single application, may, in a declaration, notify the Director General accordingly.
Article 15 Invalidation (1) [ Requirement of Opportunity of Defense ] Invalidation, by the competent authorities of a designated Contracting Party, of the effects, in part or in whole, in the territory of that Contracting Party, of the international registration may not be pronounced without the holder having, in good time, been afforded the opportunity of defending his rights. (2) [ Notification of Invalidation ] The Office of the Contracting Party in whose territory the effects of the international registration have been invalidated shall, where it is aware of the invalidation, notify it to the International Bureau.
Article 18 Information Concerning Published International Registrations (1) [ Access to Information ] The International Bureau shall supply to any person applying therefor, upon the payment of the prescribed fee, extracts from the International Register, or information concerning the contents of the International Register, in respect of any published international registration. (2) Exemption from Legalization ] Extracts from the International Register supplied by the International Bureau shall be exempt from any requirement of legalization in each Contracting Party.
CHAPTER II ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS Article 19 Common Office of Several States (1) [ Notification of Common Office ] If several States intending to become party to this Act have effected, or if several States party to this Act agree to effect, the unification of their domestic legislation on industrial designs, they may notify the Director General (i) that a common Office shall be substituted for the national Office of each of them, and (ii) that the whole of their respective territories to which the unified legislation applies shall be deemed to be a single Contracting Party for the purposes of the application of Articles 1, 3 to 18 and 31 of this Act. (2) [ Time at Which Notification Is to Be Made ] The notification referred to in paragraph (1) shall be made, (i) in the case of States intending to become party to this Act, at the time of the deposit of the instruments referred to in Article 27(2); (ii) in the case of States party to this Act, at any time after the unification of their domestic legislation has been effected. (3) Date of Entry into Effect of the Notification ] The notification referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) shall take effect, (i) in the case of States intending to become party to this Act, at the time such States become bound by this Act; (ii) in the case of States party to this Act, three months after the date of the communication thereof by the Director General to the other Contracting Parties or at any later date indicated in the notification.
Article 24 Regulations (1) Subject Matter ] The Regulations shall govern the details of the implementation of this Act.
CHAPTER III REVISION AND AMENDMENT Article 25 Revision of This Act (1) [ Revision Conferences ] This Act may be revised by a conference of the Contracting Parties. (2) [ Revision or Amendment of Certain Articles ] Articles 21, 22, 23 and 26 may be amended either by a revision conference or by the Assembly according to the provisions of Article 26.
Article 30 Declarations Made by Contracting Parties (1) [ Time at Which Declarations May Be Made ] Any declaration under Articles 4(1)(b), 5(2)(a), 7(2), 11(1), 13(1), 14(3), 16(2) or 17(3)(c) may be made (i) at the time of the deposit of an instrument referred to in Article 27(2), in which case it shall become effective on the date on which the State or intergovernmental organization having made the declaration becomes bound by this Act, or (ii) after the deposit of an instrument referred to in Article 27(2), in which case it shall become effective three months after the date of its receipt by the Director General or at any later date indicated in the declaration but shall apply only in respect of any international registration whose date of international registration is the same as, or is later than, the effective date of the declaration. (2) [ Declarations by States Having a Common Office ] Notwithstanding paragraph (1), any declaration referred to in that paragraph that has been made by a State which has, with another State or other States, notified the Director General under Article 19(1) of the substitution of a common Office for their national Offices shall become effective only if that other State or those other States makes or make a corresponding declaration or corresponding declarations. (3) [ Withdrawal of Declarations ] Any declaration referred to in paragraph (1) may be withdrawn at any time by notification addressed to the Director General.
Article 31 Applicability of the 1934 and 1960 Acts (1) [ Relations Between States Party to Both This Act and the 1934 or 1960 Acts ] This Act alone shall be applicable as regards the mutual relations of States party to both this Act and the 1934 Act or the 1960 Act.
Article 32 Denunciation of This Act (1) [ Notification ] Any Contracting Party may denounce this Act by notification addressed to the Director General. (2) [ Effective Date ] Denunciation shall take effect one year after the date on which the Director General has received the notification or at any later date indicated in the notification.
Article 34 Depositary The Director General shall be the depositary of this Act.
BUDGET LINE(S) + HEADING(S) 2.
OVERALL FIGURES 2.1.
Total allocation for action (Part B): € million for commitment Not applicable 2.2.
Overall multiannual estimate of expenditure: (a) Schedule of commitment appropriations/payment appropriations (financial intervention) (see point 6.1.1) None (b) Technical and administrative assistance and support expenditure (see point 6.1.2) None (c) Overall financial impact of human resources and other administrative expenditure (see points 7.2 and 7.3) € million (to three decimal places) 2006 | 2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 | Total | Commitments/ payments | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.324 | TOTAL a+b+c | Commitments | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.324 | Payments | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.054 | 0.324 | 2.4.
BUDGET CHARACTERISTICS Type of expenditure | New | EFTA contribution | Contributions form applicant countries | Heading in financial perspective | Non-comp | Diff | NO | NO | NO | No 5 | 4.
DESCRIPTION AND GROUNDS 5.1.
This link will enable designers to file a single international application at the International Bureau of WIPO designating, amongst other Contracting Parties, the European Community in order to obtain protection under the Community design system. 5.1.2.
In 2004 the Commission launched a consultation with interested parties (Member States, business and professional organisations, and private companies) on the possible impact of business on the accession of the EC to the Hague System.
Measures taken following ex post evaluation Not applicable 5.2.
FINANCIAL IMPACT 6.1.
Total financial impact on Part B - (over the entire programming period) Not applicable 6.2.
Calculation of costs by measure envisaged in Part B (over the entire programming period) Not applicable 7.
Impact on human resources Types of post | Staff to be assigned to management of the action using existing and/or additional resources | Total | Description of tasks deriving from the action | Number of permanent posts | Number of temporary posts | Officials or temporary staff | A B C | 0,5 A | 0 | 0,5 A | If necessary, a fuller description of the tasks may be annexed.
Preparing for and participating in meetings of the Hague Union and coordinate positions with the Member States. | Other human resources | 0 | 0 | 0 | Total | 0,5 | 0 | 0,5 | 7.2.
Overall financial impact of human resources Type of human resources | Amount (€) | Method of calculation * | Officials Temporary staff | 54.000 | Annual costs per official: 108.000 € | Other human resources (specify budget line) | Total | 54.000 | The amounts are total expenditure for twelve months. 7.3.
Annual total (7.2 + 7.3) II.
Duration of action III.
Total cost of action (I x II) | €54.000 2006-2011 €324.000 | 8.
FOLLOW-UP AND EVALUATION 8.1.
Follow-up arrangements Not applicable 8.2.
ANTI-FRAUD MEASURES No financial assistance is involved. [1] OJ L 3, 5.1.2002, p. 1. [2] The OHIM is established by Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 on the Community trade mark, OJ L 11, 14.1.1994, p. 1. [3] Belgium, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Slovenia, Spain.
Updates will be published on the WIPO website: www.wipo.int. [4] OJ L 296 of 14.11.2003, p. 20. [5] This provision is relevant for countries which share a common Office, like the Benelux countries. [6] In this respect, the Geneva Act differs from the Madrid Protocol concerning the international registration of marks, which specifies in Article 2 (2) that international applications shall be filed with the International Bureau through the intermediary of the office with which the basic application was filed or by which the basic registration was made. [7] The total fees payable in connection with an international application consiste of (i) a basic fee; (ii) the standard designation fee or the individual designation fee, (iii) a publication fee.
See Rule 12 of the Common Regulations. [8] These issues concern the deferred publication (Article 11); the unity of design (Article 13); certain views of the design required (Rule 9); special requirement concerning the applicant (Rule 8); security clearance (Rule 13); prohibition of self-designation (Article 14); mandatory contents of an international application (Article 5 and Rule 7); extension of time for notifying refusal and date from which industrial design is protected (Rule 18); common offices of several states (Article 19) and, indirectly, the language regime between the national office and the International Bureau (Rule 6). [9] OJ L 341 of 17.12.2002, p. 28. [10] OJ L 341 of 17.12.2002, p. 54. 14 OJ C , , p. . 15 OJ C , , p. . [11] OJ C , , p. . [12] OJ L 3, 5.1.2002, p. 1.
