whereas the EU provides more than 50 % of development aid globally and considering that in September 2000 the EU Member States and the President of the Commission signed the Millennium Declaration and in December 2001 the UN General Assembly approved the MDGs, B.
whereas according to the 2002 UNCTAD Report on LDCs, the number of people living in extreme poverty has more than doubled over the last thirty years, rising from 138 million in the 1960s to 307 million in the 1990s and if current trends persist, the number of people living on less than USD 1 a day will rise from 307 million to 420 million by 2015, D.
whereas the 2002 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development/Development Assistance Committee (OECD/DAC) Peer Review criticised the Community for the "lack of an overall Community strategy and the fact that the objectives of Community development policy are too numerous, too vague and not ranked in any way", and whereas no real efforts have been made in the past to ensure that Community aid and aid through EU Member States complement each other, J.
noting that just 10% of world's health resources go to the needs of 90 % of the world's population and that 95 % of the 38 million people with AIDS live in developing countries, K.
whereas some tropical diseases are treatable but the drugs are either unaffordable, no longer produced or lacking in quality or effectiveness, O.
Regrets that whilst MDGs 1-7 have clear deadlines, this is not the case for MDG 8; 4.
Stresses that although the EU seems currently on target for its intermediary objective of 0,39% of GNI for Official Development Assistance (ODA) in 2006, there are large disparities in the performance of its Member States and therefore calls on those Members States still lagging behind to commit themselves to a clear timetable and deadlines for reaching the 0,7 % target before 2015; 14.
Calls on the EU to take concrete action against poverty by adopting a coherent policy between its trade, development cooperation and common agricultural policies to avoid direct or indirect negative impacts on the economy of developing countries; 19.
Calls on the Commission to increase funding and to set up a global plan for development education and information centred around the MDGs; 32.
Calls for funding to deal with health emergencies in developing countries and for country governments to make health a priority; 44.
Calls for a target under MDG 5 of universal access to sexual and reproductive health services by 2015, with related indicators, ensuring the same or a faster rate of progress amongst the poor and other marginalized or vulnerable groups; calls also for related indicators to be appropriately identified under the remaining seven MDGs; 50.
Reiterates the need identified in Article 178 of the EC Treaty for the Community to consider, if necessary through impact studies, whether its development policy objectives would be undermined by other policy actions; 55.
Calls for a full impact assessment of current trade liberalisation policies on hunger and poverty in developing countries, and demands that the result of this assessment be used to formulate clear guidelines for development cooperation; 56.
reaffirms that, as stated in its resolution of 11 March 2004 [3] on Internal Market Strategy, water is a shared resource of mankind and that access to water, especially for the poorest communities of the South, assumes the proportions of a fundamental human right to be promoted and safeguarded; 65.
Recalls that at the end of the Economic Partnership Agreements (EPA) negotiations no ACP country should in its trade relations find itself in a more unfavourable situation after 2007 than under current arrangements, and that there is no a priori guarantee or commitment that they will sign up to any EPA at the end of 2007; 72.
Concerning the negotiations on Economic Partnership Agreements with ACP partners, calls on the Commission to ensure that they constitute instruments for ACP development and poverty eradication, inter alia through the continuation of non-reciprocity in market access with a view to ensuring a fair place for ACP partners in world trade, a focus on supply side constraints and safeguards for sensitive products and the strengthening of existing regional integration efforts, and to take the initiative to revise or clarify Article 24 of the GATT Agreement; 73.
Stresses the importance of capacity building for trade and the need for additional resources from the EU to enhance the ACP countries' ability to identify needs and strategies, to negotiate and to support regional integration and assist this process, and in particular for diversification and to support regional integration and prepare for liberalisation by enhancing production, supply and trading capacity and offsetting adjustment costs as well as to increase their ability to attract investment; 77.
Stresses that capacity building for local markets and for trade is at least as important as market access and that funding needs to be made available for this and for diversification and support, in particular for bananas, rice and sugar; 78.
Stresses that the Council should take early measures to implement the WTO Decision of 30 August 2003 on the implementation of Paragraph 6 of the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health and calls on the Commission to urge the Member States to implement fully the new regulation as soon as possible; 79.
Instructs its President to forward this resolution to the Council, the Commission, the governments and parliaments of the Member States and the accession countries, the Inter-Parliamentary Union, the United Nations and the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD. [1] OJ C 131 E, 5.6.2003, p. 167. [2] Texts Adopted, P6_TA(2005)0008. [3] OJ C 102 E, 28.4.2004, p. 857. --------------------------------------------------
