Communication from the Commission - Implementing the Community Lisbon programme - Social services of general interest in the European Union {SEC(2006) 516} /* COM/2006/0177 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 26.4.2006 COM(2006) 177 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION Implementing the Community Lisbon programme:Social services of general interest in the European Union {SEC(2006) 516} Table of contents Introduction 3 I – Social services – pillars of European society and the European economy 4 1.1.
Social services in the European Union 4 1.2.
A Community framework that welcomes differences and is favourable to modernisation 5 II – The application of the Community rules in the area of social services – an ongoing logic 6 2.1.
Applying the subsidiarity principle and the distinction between economic and non-economic services of general interest 6 2.2.
Specific situations encountered today by the social services 7 2.2.1.
Delegation 7 - Deciding whether to delegate a social mission in whole or in part 7 - Management of a social service under a public-private partnership 7 2.2.2.
Use of public financial compensation 8 2.2.3.
The conclusions of the European Council in March 2006 confirmed this, reiterating that the internal market for services must be made fully operational, while preserving the European social model.
Following the vote in Parliament on the first reading of the proposal for a directive on services in the internal market on 16 February 2006, the Commission excluded health services from the field of application of its amended proposal[4].
In its amended proposal for a directive on services in the internal market the Commission excluded "social services relating to social housing, childcare and support of families and persons in need" from the scope of the Directive .
This communication should be seen in the context of the shared responsibility of the Community and of the Member States for services of general economic interest, established by Article 16 of the EC Treaty.
Member States are free to define what they mean by services of general economic interest, or in particular by social services of general interest.
Fourthly, they also include social housing, providing housing for disadvantaged citizens or socially less advantaged groups.
Among the political initiatives, the open method of coordination has allowed the identification of good European practices for the quality and integration of services intended to combat poverty; it has applied directly since 2005 to long-term care services.
It therefore follows that almost all services offered in the social field can be considered “economic activities” within the meaning of Articles 43 and 49 of the EC Treaty.
Delegation - Deciding whether to delegate a social mission in whole or in part If the public authorities decide to delegate the mission to an external partner or to form a public-private partnership, Community law on public contracts and concessions may come into play.
However, these simplifications can apply only if the services in question have, in advance and by legal act, been attributed a mission of general interest.
Freedom of establishment (Article 43 of the EC Treaty) allows an operator to perform an economic activity through a permanent base in another Member State for an indefinite period.
Freedom to provide services (Article 49 of the EC Treaty) means that an economic operator may provide services temporarily in another Member State without being established there.
Articles 43 and 49 of the EC Treaty rule out not only discriminatory national rules but also any national rule applied indiscriminately to national and foreign operators which makes exercising these fundamental freedoms more difficult or less attractive.
This consultation will notably look at: - the elements constituting these characteristics as well as their pertinence to gauge the specific features of social services of general interest; - how they could be considered by the Member States when defining the general interest missions of social services and the arrangements for their organisation, so as to ensure a good institutionalised link with the Community framework; - the experiences with the application of Community law in the field of social services of general interest and possible problems that are faced in this context; - how the same (or other) characteristics could be considered by the Commission where it has to check subsequently and individually, the compatibility of the organisation modalities of social services with the applicable Community rules. 3.2.
Monitoring the situation regarding social services of general interest in the European Union In order to improve the reciprocal knowledge of operators and the European Commission of questions concerning the application of the Community rules to the development of social services and to deepen the exchange of information between operators and the European institutions, a monitoring and dialogue procedure in the form of biennial reports will be established.
