Communication from the Commission to the European Council of June 2006 - Europe in the World %mdash% Some Practical Proposals for Greater Coherence, Effectiveness and Visibility /* COM/2006/0278 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 8.6.2006 COM(2006) 278 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION to the European Council of June 2006 Europe in the World — Some Practical Proposals for Greater Coherence, Effectiveness and Visibility 1.
Increasingly the EU’s internal policies – for example the environment, energy, competition policy, agriculture and fisheries, transport, the fight against terrorism and illegal migration, dealing with global pandemics – impact on international relationships and play a vital part in the EU’s external influence.
Humanitarian assistance, civil protection and reconstruction have been crucial in recent crises in Afghanistan, Iraq and countries affected by the Tsunami; in state-building and post-crisis situations in Aceh; and in the context of conflict resolution and prevention in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM).
Crisis management operations are very visible elements of the Union’s external action. 3.
This is the condition sine qua non ; * second, whether the available policy instruments are suited to the task at hand, are backed with the necessary resources, and present clear advantages; * third, the role and responsibility of the EU institutions and the legal environment.
Other Commissioners may also be associated with these meetings. - The principle of joint papers for policy discussions in the Council and its working groups should be established, based on intensified co-operation and contacts between the Commission services and Council Policy Unit. - Earlier preparation of Summits with key partners to identify key internal policy issues to be raised.
This should include timely discussion in Coreper to ensure coherence between preparation of external and internal policy issues. - The Council and Commission should explore better ways of exchanging reporting and other information, on the basis of reciprocity, including from Commission Delegations and EU Special Representatives (EUSRs).
Elsewhere, the Commission will continue co-operating with EUSRs and supporting their tasks. - Member States’ representatives in the governing bodies of multilateral institutions should coordinate with EU institutions at appropriate level in order to promote common positions in matters of common concern. - Commission Delegations will fully support the High Representative.
Developing co-operation between Member States and EU institutions on information policy on external relations issues, both in the EU and in third countries. 6.
