Amended proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market /* COM/2006/0160 final - COD 2004/0001 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 4.4.2006 COM(2006) 160 final 2004/0001 (COD) Amended proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on services in the internal market (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM The Commission presents an amended proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market.
The Committee of the Regions gave its opinion on 29 September 2004 and the European Economic and Social Committee gave its opinion on 9 February 2005.
The European Parliament adopted a legislative resolution at its first reading on 16 February 2006, and proposed amendments to the Commission proposal. 2.
The proposal is part of the process of economic reform launched by the Lisbon Strategy.
The proposal establishes legal obligations of information exchange and mutual assistance between Member States, underpinned by an effectively-functioning electronic information system which will allow competent authorities to easily identify their relevant interlocutors in other Member States and to communicate with one another. 3.
Amendments 13, 44, parts of 72 and 289 , relating to Articles 1 and 2 and corresponding recitals, make clear that Services of General Economic Interest are included in the scope of application of the Directive, but that the Directive does not provide for their liberalisation or for the privatisation of public entities providing such services, nor does it deal with their funding or with state aids.
The Commission agrees with amendments 44, relevant parts of 72 and 289.
The Commission also accepts amendments 13 and 73, however, it slightly redrafts the text of amendment 73 (Article 2) as well as the text of amendment 13 (new Recital 7a) explaining that –subject to explicit exclusions of certain specific sectors – Services of General Economic Interest fall within the scope of application of the Directive because these services are of an economic nature.
Amendment 78 excludes from the scope of application both private and public healthcare services, adding the corresponding modification in Article 2.
Amendment 304 specifies in Recital 10 c that this exclusion covers healthcare and pharmaceutical services provided by regulated health professionals to patients to assess, maintain or restore their state of health.
Amendments 233/403 explain in Article 1 that the Directive does not affect public healthcare services or access to public funding by healthcare providers.
Amendment 305 adds a new Recital 10 d explaining that the Directive does not affect the reimbursement of the costs of healthcare provided in another Member State and stresses that this issue should be addressed in another legal instrument in order to achieve greater legal certainty and clarity.
The Commission accepts the exclusion of healthcare services from the scope of application and confirms its commitment to come forward with a specific initiative on health services.
Therefore, amendments 78, 304 and 305 are accepted.
Amendments 233/403 on public healthcare have become obsolete due to the overlapping with the definition in Article 2.
Amendment 292 , states, in Article 1, that the Directive does not affect services pursuing social welfare objectives and amendment 252 , relating to Article 2, excludes social services such as social housing services, childcare and family services from the scope of the Directive.
Amendments 294 and 296 provide for two new recitals which explain the nature of social services and, in particular, of social housing, childcare and support to families.
Amendment 295 introduces a recital which specifies that the Directive does not deal with the funding of, or aids linked to, social housing or with the criteria or conditions set by Member States for social housing services.
Furthermore, amendment 10 adds, in another recital, that the Directive does not concern requirements governing access to public funds, for example for social services.
Accordingly, the Commission redrafts the definition of amendment 252 (Article 2) and merges amendments 294 and 296 in a new Recital 10 h , in order to specify that the exclusion from the Directive concerns those social services relating to social housing, childcare and support to families and persons in need which, because of their interest for society, are either provided by the State, or by providers mandated by the State, with the objective of ensuring support to those who are in a particular state of need.
It follows that amendment 292 becomes redundant.
The text of amendment 295 is redrafted to clarify that it concerns social services in general and not only social housing.
Amendment 232 highlights the specific social role of non-profit sport activities.
Corresponding recitals, added by amendments 301 and 303, underline that the rules applicable to these sectors should be fully harmonised.
Amendment 77 excludes legal services to the extent they are governed by other Community instruments.
Amendment 79, 80 and 81 , relating to Article 2, and amendments 16 , 17 and 18 , on the corresponding recitals, exclude from the scope of application audiovisual services - regardless of their mode of production, distribution and transmission- gambling activities, and professions connected with the exercise of official authority , notaries in particular.
The Commission accepts the exclusion of services of temporary work agencies and private security services provided by amendments 300 and 302/333.
With regard to audiovisual services, the Commission accepts the exclusion provided by amendment 79 and has redrafted amendment 19 (new Recital 10 e ) to align it with the amendment to the article and to clarify that the Directive does not apply to aids granted in the audiovisual sector which are covered by Community rules on competition.
The Commission also accepts in spirit the exclusion of gambling services but redrafts the texts of amendments 17 and 80 in order to limit it clearly to gambling activities as such .
The Commission accepts only in part amendments 18 and 81, regarding professions connected with the exercise of official authority and brings the wording of the exclusion into line with the precise limits set out by Article 45 of the EC Treaty, which provides for a derogation from the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services for specific activities which involve direct and specific participation in the exercise of official authority, and not for whole professions as such.
The Commission accepts the full exclusion of taxation provided by amendments 82 , on Article 2, and amendment 19 (Recital 11).
Amendments 14, 15, 20, 74, 75 and 306 concern sectorial exclusions (in Article 2 and correspondent recitals) originally proposed as regards financial services, electronic communication services and transport services but provide additional clarification.
Amendment 8 clarifies that the Directive fully respects Community initiatives based on Article 137 of the Treaty concerning the promotion of employment and improved living and working conditions.
Amendments 290, relating to Article 1, and 291 (recital) state that the Directive should not affect rules of criminal law .
Amendments 7 and part of amendment 72 clarify, both in a recital and in the text of Article 1, that the Directive does not affect measures taken by Member States, in accordance with Community law, in relation to the protection or promotion of cultural and linguistic diversity and media pluralism .
However, in order to ensure the legal coherence of the text and to improve clarity and ease of understanding, the Commission streamlines the texts of Amendments 297 and 298 so that labour law is addressed by Article 1, paragraph 6 and the issue of fundamental rights including rights regarding collective agreements by Article 1, paragraph 7.
With regard to criminal law, the Commission accepts amendment 290 stating that the Directive does not affect criminal law provisions, as well as amendment 291 (new recital 6e) subject to redrafting in order to further clarify that criminal law rules should not be misused to circumvent the rules laid down in the Directive.
Finally, the Commission accepts in its entirety Amendment 8 (new Recital 6f).
Amendments 83 and 21 address this issue, in Article 3 and corresponding Recital 13.
The Commission accepts further clarification contained in Amendment 83 that the Directive does not override other Community instruments and that in the event of a conflict with other Community instruments governing specific aspects of access to and exercise of a services activity, the provisions of those specific aspects in such instruments shall prevail.
In addition, amendments 307 and 219 (merged with amendment 83) states that this Directive is without prejudice to private international law, in particular, private international law governing contractual and non-contractual obligations, and explain the effect for consumer protection rules.
Definitions (Article 4).
Amendments 23 to 26, 39, 84 to 90, 308, 92 to 98 relate to the definitions of the terms contained in the text of the Directive (see Article 4 and corresponding recitals).
In addition, the Commission accepts amendments 39, 84, 88 to 90, 95 and 308, in principle, but has redrafted them in order to make the text consistent with the Community acquis or with the scope of the Directive.
However, the Commission cannot accept amendments 85 and 86.
In addition, in order to draw on the useful additional clarification provided by the Council, the Commission has completed Recital 18a ( amendment 25 ) and Recital 20a and added new Recital 18b.
Amendment 27 clarifies that the rules relating to administrative procedures do not aim at harmonising national administrative law, but rather at the removal of overly burdensome elements which hinder the freedom of establishment.
Amendment 100 states, in Article 5, that Member States shall examine (the verb 'authenticate' used in the amendment does not seem accurate) and if appropriate simplify the procedures and formalities applicable to access to, and exercise of, a service activity.
In addition, it introduces an obligation for Member States, "in conjunction with the Commission", to introduce harmonised European forms (the same flows from amendment 29 ) and adds a list of existing Community legislation to which Article 5(1a) and (2) shall not apply.
Amendment 100 also explains that Member States’ right to require “non-certified" translations of documents in their official languages is not affected.
Amendment 30 stresses that formal requirements, such as presentation of original documents including certified translations, cannot be imposed unless justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest.
The Commission accepts amendments 99, 27 and 29-30 in their entirety and amendment 100 in principle, subject to redrafting necessary to make the text legally coherent and to draw on the work at the Council.
Points of single contact (Article 6).
Amendment 102 explains that, in cases where a pro forma registration is required, it must be available by electronic means at the points of single contact.
Amendment 104 clarifies that the creation of points of single contact is without prejudice to the allocation of functions and powers among authorities within national systems.
Amendment 310 stipulates that it should also be possible to complete all procedures and formalities necessary for the supervision of compliance with Directive 96/71/EC at these points.
The Commission accepts amendments 309 and 104 and furthermore clarifies in new Recital 25a, reflecting the work in the Council, that the fee that points of single contact may charge should be proportionate to the cost of procedures and formalities.
Amendment 310 cannot be accepted because reference to the supervision of compliance with Directive 96/71/EC, which is not affected in any way by the present proposal, is inappropriate.
Amendment 105 makes it clear that the right to information only concerns means of redress generally available.
Amendment 107 states that information and assistance should be accessible, inter alia, at a distance and by electronic means.
Amendment 108 sets out a deadline for implementation of information obligations and amendment 109 clarifies that the availability of the information in other languages has to be compatible with Member States' legislation on the use of languages.
Amendment 33 , by introducing a new recital, reinforces the provisions in Article 7.
The Commission accepts amendments 105-106, 108-110, 31, 33 and, in line with the work of the Council, adds in amendment 31 (Recital 25c), that issues such as liability for incorrect or misleading information are for Member States to determine.
Amendment 111 sets out a revised timetable for implementation, explains that the procedures and formalities may be easily completed, inter alia, by electronic means (as does amendment 32 ) and that electronic procedures should not apply to cases when original documentation can be requested.
The Commission cannot accept amendment 111, apart from the revised timetable, or amendment 32 because, as mentioned above, electronic procedures are an essential measure of administrative simplification and they can also be used for original documentation since proof of authenticity can be provided by electronic authentication.
However, the Commission deems it fit to clarify on the basis of amendment 32 (Recital 26), which draws on the work of the Council, that the obligation to provide for procedures by electronic means does not prevent Member States from offering other means, in addition to electronic ones, to complete procedures and formalities. 3.3.
Amendment 37 indicates that overriding reasons relating to the public interest such as public health may justify the application of authorisation schemes and other restrictions to social services, on condition that the principles of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality are respected.
Amendment 116 (as well as amendment 209 ) excludes authorisation schemes from the mutual evaluation process.
On the other hand, the Commission cannot accept amendments 116 and 209 because the obligation to evaluate and report on authorisation schemes is an essential measure for facilitating the access to and the exercise of service activities.
However, the Commission specifies in a new Recital (27d), in accordance with the work in the Council, that the reporting obligation concerns only the existence of authorisation schemes and not the criteria and conditions for the granting of an authorisation.
As regards amendments 114, 115 and 117 , which contain mainly technical changes, the Commission accepts amendment 115 and amendment 117, subject to redrafting necessary for legal coherence.
Amendments 34 and 121 stipulate that the authorisation should normally cover the entire national territory except if a more limited geographical scope is justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest, such as environmental protection.
Amendment 119 adds "transparency" and "accessibility" to the criteria with which authorisation schemes must comply.
Amendment 120 clarifies that, in assessing whether the conditions for granting an authorisation are equivalent or essentially comparable to those to which the provider is already subject in another Member State (non-duplication), not only their objective and purpose but also their effect and the effectiveness of their enforcement need to be considered.
Amendment 122 excludes decisions to grant an authorisation from the requirement to state reasons and to provide for means of redress before the courts.
Amendment 118 deletes the word 'objective' from the phrase "justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest" in Article 10.
As far as amendment 120 is concerned, acceptance is coupled by the insertion of a new Recital (27g): this aims to clarify that the requirement of non-duplication does not prevent Member States from applying their own conditions but merely require them to take into account equivalent conditions already satisfied by the provider in another Member States.
Amendments 128 and 36 state that Member States' ability to revoke authorisations, especially when conditions for their granting are no longer met, is not affected.
Amendments 124-127, 129, 38 and 30 provide useful clarifications in Article 11 and corresponding recitals.
Amendment 130 provides that Member States may take into account, in applying their selection procedure, a number of public interest objectives.
The Commission accepts amendments 128 and 36, limited to situations where conditions for granting of the authorisation are no longer met.
Amendment 134 and 28 delete the rule according to which in the absence of a response within the set time limit, the authorisation shall be deemed to be granted ("tacit authorisation").
Amendment 135 states that an acknowledgement of receipt for applications should only be provided at the request of the applicant and does not need to specify the available means of redress.
However, the Commission clarifies in a new Recital (28a), in accordance with the work of the Council, that, as regards tacit authorisation different arrangements may be put in place in respect of certain activities where they are objectively justified by overriding reasons relating to the public interest.
Prohibited requirements (Article 14).
Amendment 138 modifies the title of this section.
Amendment 140 (and 41 ) clarifies that the prohibition of a case-by-case application of an economic test does not concern planning requirements which do not pursue economic aims but serve overriding reasons relating to the public interest.
Amendment 141 clarifies that the prohibition on involving directly or indirectly competing operators in the granting of authorisations does not concern the consultation of organisations such as chambers of commerce on matters other than individual applications.
Amendment 40 provides that in some cases it may be justified to compel a service provider to be present in person during the exercise of the activity.
Amendment 143 clarifies the requirement of previous registration .
The Commission accepts the spirit of amendment 142, but redrafts the relevant provision to make it coherent with Community law and added further clarification in new Recital 32a, in line with the Council's work.
In addition, amendment 143 provides for technical clarifications which the Commission accepts, whilst at the same time providing in a new Recital (32b) based on the Council's work, further clarification about the prohibition of pre-registration.
Amendment 42 clarifies that the mutual evaluation process does not affect the freedom of Member States to set a high level of protection of the public interest in their legislation and that the evaluation has to take into account the specificity of Services of General Economic Interest and of the particular tasks assigned to them, which might justify certain restrictions on the freedom of establishment.
Amendments 144 and 145 remove examples of requirements concerning the provider's legal form or the shareholding of the company.
Amendments 147/242 exclude from the evaluation process requirements concerning selling below cost and sales.
Likewise, amendment 150 excludes Services of General Economic Interest and social insurance schemes from Article 15, paragraphs 1 to 4.
In addition, amendment 150, together with amendment 151 , removes the prohibition on Member States to introduce any new requirement of a similar kind unless these fulfil the criteria of non-discrimination, necessity and proportionality, and the corresponding obligation of Member States to notify such new laws, regulations or administrative provisions.
The Commission accepts amendments 42, 147 and 148/149/242.
The Commission also accepts the deletion of examples from the relevant articles as in amendments 144 and 145.
The Commission accepts amendments 152 and 293/rev4 subject to minor drafting adjustments in paragraph 3 clarifying that – in accordance with the jurisprudence of the ECJ – national requirements always have to be non-discriminatory, necessary and proportionate.
Amendment 400 renames Article 17 and stipulates that the provision on the freedom to provide services shall not apply to Services of General Economic Interest provided in another Member State, inter alia to postal services, electricity, gas and water distribution, waste water services and the treatment of waste.
Furthermore, amendment 165 clarifying the derogation in Article 17 point 12 for the authorisation regime provided for in Articles 3 and 4 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 259/93 on the supervision and control of shipments of waste within, into and out of the European Union, can also be accepted.
Concerning activities of lawyers and notaries , amendment 160 deletes the derogation for matters covered by Council Directive 77/249/EEC to facilitate the effective exercise by lawyers of the freedom to provide services and amendment 166 deletes the derogation for acts requiring by law the involvement of a notary.
Concerning requirements which reserve an activity to a particular profession, amendment 162/404 adds – in addition to the derogation concerning matters covered by Title II of Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications – a new derogation.
Amendment 162/404 as well as amendment 48 which explains this new derogation in a recital (41c) can be accepted in principle subject to redrafting to make its wording more precise.
Concerning the free movement of persons and their residence , amendment 163 clarifies the derogation relating to Directive 2004/38/EC and can be accepted.
Concerning the derogation for the movement of third country nationals in the context of the provision of a service , amendment 164 reformulates the wording of the derogation contained in Article 17 point 11.
In the Commission's view these amendments are obsolete since, as a consequence of the fact that Article 16 now gives Member States in more general terms the possibility to impose national requirements relating to public policy, public security, public health and the protection of the environment, the more specific derogations in Article 17 point 16 and 17 have become superfluous.
Concerning reimbursement of hospital care , amendment 169 deletes the derogation for the authorisation system applicable to the reimbursement of hospital care.
Concerning private international law , amendment 170 introduces in Article 17 a derogation for all provisions of private international law, particularly those dealing with contractual and non-contractual obligations, including the form of contracts.
The Commission accepts this amendment which is required in Article 17 because the provision on the freedom to provide services is the provision of this Directive that could possibly conflict with the application of rules of private international law.
Amendments 171, 172 and 173 delete the derogations for consumer contracts, formal validity of contracts relating to immovable property and the non-contractual liability of the provider in case of an accident which are now covered by the broader derogation for all provisions of private international law.
The Commission accepts these amendments as well as the corresponding changes in the Recitals ( amendments 53 and 54 relating to Recitals 45 and 46).
Transitional derogations (Article 18).
Amendment 174 fully deletes Article 18 containing transitional derogations from the (former) country of origin principle.
Case-by-case derogations (Article 19).
Amendment 176 refers to the conditions under which the case-by-case derogation can be taken and removes the obligation to comply first with the mutual assistance procedure before taking such measures.
The case-by-case derogations relating to public health and public policy and to the exercise of health professions have become obsolete due to the exclusion of healthcare from the scope of application of the Directive and due to the fact that Article 16 now allows Member States in more general terms to impose requirements relating to public policy and public health.
The Commission therefore deletes the corresponding case-by-case derogations and limits Article 19 to the safety of services.
The rest of amendment 55 clarifies Recital 50 and can be accepted.
In addition, the Commission adds some clarifications in line with the Council's work concerning the concept of financial assistance mentioned in Article 20 (see Recital 48 and new Recital 48a).
The Commission cannot accept amendment 179 and the provision of a new Article 22a, given that role and responsibilities of single points of contacts are already sufficiently dealt with in the Chapter of the Directive on administrative simplification.
Amendments 56 to 62 and 180/247 delete Article 23, the provisions dealing with the reimbursement of healthcare received in another Member State, and corresponding recitals.
Amendments 181, 182/248, 63-64, 183/249 and 65-66 delete the relevant provisions regarding the removal of administrative obstacles and regarding obligations of Member States to cooperate regarding the posting of workers and the posting of third country nationals.
Amendments 184 and 186 set out a systematic obligation for service providers to make information to be given to recipients available via the points of single contact.
Amendment 185 introduces an obligation to make available to the recipients information on the legal form of the service provider.
On the contrary, the Commission cannot accept amendments 184 and 186 because they would create an unnecessary burden to service providers.
The first sentence of amendment 187 deletes the obligation for Member States to ensure that service providers whose services present a particular risk to the health or safety of the recipient or a particular financial risk to the recipient take out professional liability insurance and replaces it by a mere declaration of the possibility for Member States to require such insurance coverage.
Furthermore, amendment 67 adding Recital 63 a is accepted subject to necessary adjustments reflecting the changes in Article 27(1).
Recital 63 was adjusted accordingly.
In addition, based on the work in the Council, the Commission clarifies the text of Article 27 and the corresponding Recitals, in particular on the scope of application of this Article, and addresses the risk of failure of the insurance market by providing for the possibility to establish a procedure dealing with situations of verifiable failure of the insurance market.
After-sales guarantees (Article 28).
Amendment 192 deletes the provision clarifying that after-sales guarantees provided for in other Community instruments should not be affected.
Moreover, the Commission cannot accept amendment 192 because the link with other Community legislation on after-sales guarantees has to be explicitly mentioned.
Commercial communications (Article 29) .
Multidisciplinary activities (Article 30) .
Amendment 193 (as well as amendment 210 ) excludes multidisciplinary activities from the mutual evaluation process.
The Commission cannot accept amendments 193 and 210 because the obligation to evaluate and report on restrictions on multidisciplinary activities is an essential measure for facilitating access to, and exercise of, service activities.
Amendment 194 clarifies that Member States in cooperation with the Commission shall encourage the development of voluntary European standards.
Amendment 196 replaces the word 'appropriate' by 'satisfactory'.
The Commission accepts amendments 195 and 196, whilst clarifying at the same time, on the basis of the Council's work, what equivalent financial guarantees are to be deemed equivalent within the meaning of this Article explains this in a new recital (65a). 3.8.
Administrative co-operation (Articles 34-38) Mutual assistance and supervision.
Amendments 199 to 202 and amendments 68 to 69 reorganise the chapter on administrative cooperation and clarify the obligations of the respective Member States.
Amendment 199 renames the chapter.
The Member State where the service is provided is responsible for the supervision of the activity of the service provider in its territory with regard to matters in respect of which it can impose its national requirements in accordance with Article 16 paragraph 1 (Article 21 paragraph 1 in the consolidated text of the Parliament).
Amendment 69 explains that effective administrative co-operation is necessary in order to avoid proliferation of rules applicable to service providers or duplication of controls for cross-border activities and to remove the possibility for rogue traders to avoid supervision or circumvent applicable national rules on services.
Amendment 68 sets out the need for a well functioning electronic information system.
Amendment 203 sets out an alert mechanism, in case a Member State becomes aware of serious specific acts or circumstances that could cause serious damage to the health or safety of persons, to inform immediately the Commission and the Member States concerned.
The Commission accepts amendment 203 and has also added the environment to the reasons which come under the alert mechanism.
However, this new system serves a different purpose than the mutual assistance system in the event of case-by-case derogations and cannot therefore replace it.
Amendment 197 adds that the information Member States' must supply at the request of a competent authority in another Member State must be directly relevant to the service provider's competence and that the request itself must be duly substantiated.
Amendment 198 stipulates that the provisions on information requests must comply with rules on the provision of personal data and that any information which is public should be accessible to consumers.
Amendment 68 describes the need for a well-functioning electronic information system to improve administrative cooperation between Member States.
The Commission acceps amendment 68, transfers its contents to an Article and explains this in a new recital (66g).
Amendments 205 and 70 stress the importance of codes of conducts at Community level drawn up, in particular, by professional bodies, organisation and associations, and clarify that the codes of conducts are complementary to Member States' legal requirements.
Amendment 71 moves into a recital the description of the areas which should be included in the codes of conduct.
Additional harmonisation (Article 40) .
Amendment 207 adds security services to the list of subjects to be assessed for additional harmonisation.
In addition, the Commission accepts amendments 211-212 which concern the date when the Commission shall present the report on mutual evaluation and the review clause.
AMENDED PROPOSAL Pursuant to Article 250(2) of the EC Treaty, the Commission amends its proposal as described above. 2004/0001 (COD) Amended proposal for a DIRECTIVE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL on services in the internal market (Text with EEA relevance) THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular the first and third sentence of Article 47(2) and Articles 55, 71 and 80(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[1], Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee[2], Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions[3], Acting in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 251 of the Treaty, Whereas: (1) The European Union is seeking to forge ever closer links between the States and peoples of Europe and to ensure economic and social progress.
Service providers should be able to choose between those two freedoms, depending on their strategy for growth in each Member State. (5) Those barriers cannot be removed solely by relying on direct application of Articles 43 and 49 of the Treaty, since, on the one hand, addressing them on a case-by-case basis through infringement procedures against the Member States concerned would, especially following enlargement, be extremely complicated for national and Community institutions, and, on the other hand, the lifting of many barriers requires prior coordination of national legal schemes, including the setting up of administrative cooperation.
This Directive also takes into account other general interest objectives, including the protection of the environment, public security and public health as well as of the need to comply with labour law. (6a) Since the objectives of the proposed action, namely the elimination of barriers to the freedom of establishment for service providers in the Member States and to the free provision of services between Member States, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the Member States and can therefore, by reason of the scale of the action, be better achieved at Community level, the Community may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in Article 5 of the Treaty.
This Directive does not affect the social security legislation of the Member States. (6h) This Directive should be interpreted in such a way as to reconcile the exercise of fundamental rights as recognised in the Member States and by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union with the fundamental freedoms laid down in Articles 43 and 49 of the Treaty.
This Directive should be interpreted in such a way as to give full effect to those fundamental rights and the fundamental freedoms. (6i) This Directive concerns only service providers established in a Member State and does not cover external aspects.
It does not concern negotiations within international organisations on trade in services, in particular in the framework of GATS. [Recital 7 deleted] (7a) This Directive covers only services which are performed for an economic consideration.
Services of General Interest are not covered by the definition in Article 50 of the Treaty and therefore do not fall within the scope of this Directive.
This Directive does not deal with the follow-up to the Commission White Paper on Services of General Interest. [Recital 8 moved] (9) Financial services should be excluded from the scope of this Directive since these activities are subject of specific Community legislation aimed, as is this Directive, at achieving a genuine internal market for services.
Consequently, t his exclusion covers all financial services such as banking, credit, insurance, including reinsurance, occupational or personal pensions, securities, investment, funds, payments, investment advice, including the services listed in Annex I to Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions [5] . (10) In view of the adoption in 2002 of a package of legislative instruments relating to electronic communications networks and services, as well as to associated resources and services, which has established a regulatory framework to facilitate access to those activities within the internal market, notably through the elimination of most individual authorisation schemes, it is necessary to exclude issues dealt with by those instruments from the scope of this Directive. (10a) The exclusions from the scope of application regarding matters of electronic communications services as covered by Directives 2002/19/EC [6] , 2002/20/EC [7] , 2002/21/EC [8] , 2002/22/EC [9] and 2002/58/EC [10] of the European Parliament and of the Council should apply not only to questions specifically dealt with in these Directives but also to matters for which the Directives explicitly leave to Member States the possibility of adopting certain measures at national level. (10b) Transport services, including urban transport, taxis, and ambulances as well as port services are excluded from the scope of this Directive. (10c) The exclusion of healthcare covers healthcare and pharmaceutical services provided by health professionals to patients to assess, maintain or restore their state of health where those activities are reserved to a regulated health profession in the Member State in which the services are provided . (10d) This Directive does not affect the reimbursement of healthcare provided in a Member State other than that in which the recipient of the care is resident.
Furthermore, the Directive does not apply to aids granted by Member States in the audiovisual sector which are covered by Community rules on competition. (10f) Gambling activities, including lottery and betting transactions, should be excluded from the scope of this Directive, in view of the specific nature of these activities, which entail implementation by Member States of policies relating to public policy and consumer protection. (10g) This Directive is without prejudice to the application of Article 45 of the Treaty concerning notably certain activities, of notaries and of other professions, related to the power of authentication and certification. (10h) This Directive does not cover those social services in the area of housing, childcare and support to families and persons in need provided by the State or by providers mandated by the State – at national, regional or local level – with the objective of ensuring support to those who are in a particular state of need because of their insufficient family income, total or partial lack of independence or to those who risk to be marginalised.
Nor does it affect the criteria or conditions set by Member States to ensure that social services effectively carry out a function to the benefit of the public interest and social cohesion. (11) In view of the fact that the Treaty provides specific legal bases for taxation matters and for the Community instruments already adopted in that field, it is necessary to exclude the field of taxation from the scope of this Directive. [Recital 12 moved] (13) There is already a considerable body of Community law on service activities.
Those activities may involve services requiring the proximity of provider and recipient, services requiring travel by the recipient or the provider and services which may be provided at a distance, including via the Internet. [ Recital 15 deleted] (16) According to the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice, the assessment of whether certain activities, in particular activities which are publicly funded or provided by public entities, constitute a "service" has to be carried out on a case by case basis in the light of all their characteristics, in particular the way they are provided, organised and financed in the Member State concerned.
Thus they might not constitute economic activities within the meaning of Community law and fall outside the scope of this Directive. [Recital 17 moved] (18) The concept of provider covers any natural person who is a national of a Member State or any legal person who is engaged in a service activity there, in exercise either of the freedom of establishment or of the free movement of services.
On the other hand, the concept of a provider does not cover the case of branches in a Member State of companies from third countries because, under Article 48 of the Treaty, the freedom of establishment and free movement of services may benefit only companies constituted in accordance with the laws of a Member State and having their registered office, central administration or principal place of business within the Community.
Accordingly, "legal persons", within the meaning of the Treaty, means all entities constituted under, or governed by, the law of a Member State, irrespective of their legal form. [Recital 19 moved] (20) The concept of authorisation scheme covers, inter alia , the administrative procedures for granting authorisations, licences, approvals or concessions, and also the obligation, in order to be eligible to exercise the activity, to be registered as a member of a profession or entered in a register, roll or database, to be officially appointed to a body or to obtain a card attesting to membership of a particular profession.
Authorisation may be granted not only by a formal decision but also by an implicit decision arising, for example, from the silence of the competent authority or from the fact that the interested party must await acknowledgement of receipt of a declaration in order to commence the activity in question or for the latter to become lawful. (20a) The notion of overriding reasons relating to the public interest to which reference is made in certain provisions of this Directive has been developed progressively by the Court of Justice in its case-law in relation to Articles 43 and 49 of the Treaty and may continue to evolve.
For this reason, following the example of certain modernising and good administrative practice initiatives undertaken at Community and national level, it is necessary to establish principles of administrative simplification, inter alia through the introduction, coordinated at Community level, of a system of points of single contac t, limitation of the obligation of prior authorisation to cases in which it is essential and the introduction of the principle of tacit authorisation by the competent authorities after a certain period of time elapsed.
It is also necessary to ensure that an authorisation normally permits access to, or exercise of, a service activity throughout the national territory, unless a new authorisation for each establishment, for example for each new hypermarket, or an authorisation that is restricted to a specific part of the national territory is objectively justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest. (25) It is appropriate to provide for points of single contact in order to ensure that each provider has a single point at which he can complete all procedures and formalities.
Points of single contact may be set up not only by administrative authorities but also by chambers of commerce or crafts, or by the professional organisations or private bodies to which a Member State decides to entrust that function.
This information should be provided in a clear and unambiguous manner. (25 c) The obligation for Member States to ensure that relevant information is easily accessible to providers and recipients can be fulfilled by making this information accessible through a website.
This obligation does not prevent Member States from providing other means of completing such procedures and formalities, in addition to electronic means.
However, the provision to that effect made by this Directive cannot be relied upon in order to justify authorisation schemes which are prohibited by other Community instruments such as Directive 1999/93/EC of the European Parliament and the Council on a Community framework for electronic signatures[20], or Directive 2000/31/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain legal aspects of information society services, in particular electronic commerce, in the internal market ('Directive on electronic commerce')[21].
Further, the principles of necessity and proportionality must always be respected. (27 c) The provisions of this Directive relating to authorisation schemes should concern cases where the access to or exercise of a service activity by economic operators requires a decision by a competent authority.
This provision does not affect regional or local competences for the granting of authorisations within the Member States. (27f) This Directive, and in particular the provisions concerning authorisation schemes and the territorial scope of an authorisation, do not interfere with the division of regional or local competences within the Member States, including regional and local self-government and the use of official languages. (27g) The provision relating to the non duplication of conditions for the granting of authorisation does not prevent Member States from applying their own conditions which are specified in the authorisation scheme.
However, different arrangements may be put in place in respect of certain activities, where objectively justified by overriding reasons relating to public interest. [Recital 29 moved] (30) In order to establish a genuine internal market for services, it is necessary to abolish any restrictions on the freedom of establishment and the free movement of services which are still enshrined in the laws of certain Member States and which are incompatible with Articles 43 and 49 of the Treaty respectively.
Thus, access to a service activity or the exercise thereof in a Member State, either as a principal or secondary activity, may not be made subject to criteria such as place of establishment, residence, domicile or principal provision of the service activity.
In certain cases, however, overriding reasons relating to the public interest may justify compelling a service provider, or one of his employees or a representative, to be present during the exercise of his activity.
Moreover, a Member State may not confer any advantages on providers having a particular national or local socio-economic link; nor may it restrict, on grounds of place of establishment, the provider’s freedom to acquire, exploit or dispose of rights and goods or to access different forms of credit or accommodation in so far as those choices are useful for access to his activity or for the effective exercise thereof. (32) The prohibition of economic tests as a prerequisite for the grant of authorisation covers economic tests as such, but not requirements which are objectively justified by overriding reasons relating to the public interest, such as protection of the urban environment, social policy and public health objectives .
That prohibition does not affect the exercise of the powers of the authorities responsible for applying competition law. (32a) With respect to financial guarantees or insurance, the prohibition of requirements only concerns the obligation that the requested financial guarantees or insurance must be obtained from a financial institution established in the Member State concerned. (32b) With respect to pre-registration, the prohibition of requirements only concerns the obligation that the provider, prior to the establishment, be pre-registered for a given period in a register held in the Member State concerned. (33) In order to coordinate the modernisation of national rules and regulations in a manner consistent with the requirements of the internal market, it is necessary to evaluate certain non-discriminatory national requirements which, by their very nature, could severely restrict or even prevent access to an activity or the exercise thereof under the freedom of establishment.
In particular, according to the jurisprudence of the Court of Justice, such requirements could be fully justified when they pursue social policy objectives. (33a For the purposes of this Directive, services may only be considered as Services of General Economic Interest in this Directive and without prejudice to Article 16 of the Treaty, if they are provided in application of a special task of public interest entrusted to the provider by the Member State concerned.
These may justify certain restrictions on the freedom of establishment, in particular where such restrictions pursue the protection of public health and social policy objectives and where they satisfy the conditions in Article 15(3)(a) to (c).
These restrictions also include obligations on a provider to take a specific legal form, in particular to be a legal person, to be a company with individual ownership, to be a non-profit making organisation or a company owned exclusively by natural persons, and requirements which relate to the shareholding of a company, in particular obligations to hold a minimum amount of capital for certain service activities or to have a specific qualification in order to hold capital in, or to manage certain companies.
If necessary the Commission, in cooperation with the Member States, will assist the Member State in order to design a common methodology. [Recital 35 deleted] (36) The fact that this Directive specifies a number of requirements to be abolished or evaluated by the Member States during the transposition period is without prejudice to any infringement proceedings against a Member State for failure to fulfil its obligations under Articles 43 or 49 of the Treaty. (36a) This Directive does not concern the application of Articles 28 to 30 of the Treaty relating to the free movement of goods.
It is indispensable to provide that the provision on the freedom to provide services does not prevent the Member State where the service is provided from imposing, in compliance with the principles set out in Article 16(1)(a) to (c), its specific requirements for reasons of public policy or public security or for the protection of public health or the environment. ( 37a) The Court of Justice has consistently held that a Member State retains the right to take measures in order to prevent service providers from abusively taking advantage of the internal market principles.
Abuse by a provider must be established on a case by case basis. [Recital 38 deleted] [ Recital 39 deleted] (39a) It is necessary to ensure that providers are able to take equipment which is integral to the provision of their service with them when they travel to provide services in another Member State.
This does not only concern terms and conditions of employment which are laid down by law but also those laid down in collective agreements or arbitration awards that are officially declared or de facto universally applicable within the meaning of Directive 96/71/EC.
The applicable law regarding the contractual or the extra-contractual obligations of the service provider shall be determined by the rules of private international law. [Recital 46 deleted] (47) It is necessary to allow Member States the possibility, exceptionally and on a case-by-case basis, of taking measures which derogate from the provision on the freedom to provide services in respect of a provider established in another Member State, on grounds of the safety of services.
This does not concern general authorisation schemes which also apply to the use of a service supplied by a provider established in the Member State of the recipient. (48a) The concept of financial assistance provided for the use of a particular service does not apply to systems of aids granted by Member States, in particular in the social field or in the cultural sector, which are covered by Community rules on competition or to general financial assistance not linked to the use of a particular service, for example grants or loans to students. (49) In accordance with the Treaty rules on the free movement of services, as interpreted by the Court of Justice, discrimination on grounds of the recipient’s nationality or national or local residence is prohibited.
Issues such as liability for providing incorrect or misleading information are for Member States to determine. [Recital 51 deleted] [ Recital 52 deleted] [ Recital 53 deleted] [ Recital 54 deleted] [ Recital 55 deleted] [ Recital 56 deleted] [ Recital 57 deleted] [ Recital 58 deleted] [ Recital 59 deleted] [ Recital 60 deleted] [ Recital 61 deleted] (62) It is appropriate to provide that, as one of the means by which the provider may make the information which he is obliged to supply easily accessible to the recipient, he is to supply his electronic address, including that of his website.
This does not affect restrictions or prohibitions to carry out particular activities which aim at ensuring independence in cases in which a Member State entrusts a service provider with a particular task notably in the area of urban development. (65) In order to increase transparency and promote assessments based on comparable criteria with regard to the quality of the services offered and supplied to recipients, it is important that information on the meaning of quality labels and other distinctive marks relating to these services be easily accessible.
Where appropriate, the Commission may, in accordance with the procedures laid down in Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council[22] laying down a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical standards and regulations and of rules on Information Society services, issue a mandate for the drawing up of specific European standards (65a) In order to solve potential problems with compliance with a judicial decision, it is appropriate to provide that Member States recognise equivalent guarantees lodged by institutions or bodies such as banks, insurance providers, or other financial services providers established in another Member State. (66) The development of a network of Member State consumer protection authorities, which is the subject of Regulation ( EC) No 2006/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws[23] , complements the cooperation provided for in this Directive.
The points of contact designated by Member States shall be required to facilitate this process only in the event of difficulties being encountered, for instance if assistance is required to identify the relevant competent authority. (66 d) Certain obligations of mutual assistance apply to all matters covered by this Directive, including those relating to cases where a service provider establishes in another Member State.
Other obligations of mutual assistance apply only in cases of cross-border provision of services, where the provision on the freedom to provide services applies.
A further set of obligations apply in all cases of cross-border provision of services, including areas not covered by the provision on freedom to provide services.
Cross-border provision of services includes cases where services are provided at a distance and where the recipient travels to the Member State of establishment of the service provider in order to receive services. (66e) In cases where a provider moves temporarily to a Member State other than the Member State of establishment , it is necessary to provide for mutual assistance between those two States so that the former can carry out checks, inspections and enquiries at the request of the Member State of establishment or carry out such checks on its own initiative if these are merely factual checks. (66ea) It should not be possible for Member States to circumvent the rules laid down in this Directive, including the provision on the freedom to provide services, by conducting checks, inspections or investigations which are discriminatory or disproportionate. (66f) The provisions of this Directive concerning the exchange of information regarding the good repute of providers do not pre-empt initiatives in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, in particular on the exchange of information between law enforcement authorities and criminal records of the Member States. (66g) Cooperation between Member States requires a well-functioning electronic information system in order to allow competent authorities easily to identify their relevant interlocutors in other Member States and to communicate in an efficient way. (67) It is necessary to provide that the Member States, in cooperation with the Commission, are to encourage interested parties to draw up codes of conduct at Community level aimed in particular at promoting the quality of services and taking into account the specific nature of each profession.
These codes of conduct should include, as appropriate to the specific nature of each profession, rules for commercial communications relating to regulated professions, and rules of professional ethics and conduct of the regulated professions which aim in particular at ensuring independence, impartiality and professional secrecy.
This Directive does not affect Member States' rules of criminal law. 6.
Equally this Directive does not affect the social security legislation of the Member States, as referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the coordination of social security systems[25] . 7.
Article 2 Scope 1.
This Directive shall apply to services supplied by providers established in a Member State. 2.
This Directive shall not apply to the following activities: (-a ) Services of General Interest ; (a ) financial services, such as banking, credit, insurance and re-insurance, occupational or personal pensions, securities, investment, funds, payment, investment advice, including the services listed in Annex I to Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions [26] ; (b ) electronic communications services and networks, and associated facilities and services, with respect to matters covered by Directives 2002/19/EC [27] , 2002/20/EC [28] , 2002/21/EC [29] , 2002/22/EC [30] and 2002/58/EC [31] of the European Parliament and of the Council ; (c) transport services and transport related services falling within the scope of title V of the EC Treaty ; (ca) port services; (cb) services of temporary work agencies; (cc) healthcare services whether or not they are provided via healthcare facilities, and regardless of the ways in which they are organised and financed at national level or whether they are public or private; (cd) audiovisual services, whatever their mode of production, distribution and transmission, including radio broadcasting and the cinema; ( ce) gambling activities which involve wagering a stake with pecuniary value in games of chance, including lotteries, gambling in casinos and betting transactions; (cf) activities which are connected with the exercise of official authority as set out in Article 45 of the Treaty; (cg) social services relating to social housing, childcare and support of families and persons in need; (ch) private security services. 3.
Article 3 Relationship with other provisions of Community law 1.
If the provisions of this Directive conflict with a provision of another Community act governing specific aspects of access to or exercise of a service activity in specific sectors or for specific professions, the provision of the other Community act shall prevail and shall apply to those specific sectors or professions.
These include: a) Directive 96/71/EC of the European Parliament and the Council concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services [32] ; b) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-employed persons and members of their families moving within the Community [33] ; c) Council Directive 89/552/EEC concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities [34] ; d) Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and the Council [35] concerning the recognition of professional qualifications. 2.
This Directive does not affect rules of private international law, in particular rules governing the law applicable to contractual and non contractual obligations.
As a consequence, consumers will, in principle, benefit from the protection granted to them by the consumer protection rules laid down in the consumer legislation in force in his Member State. 3.
Chapter II Administrative simplification Article 5 Simplification of procedures 1.
They may not require that a document from another Member State be produced in its original form, or as a certified copy or as a certified translation, save in the cases provided for in other Community instruments or where such a requirement is justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest including public order and security.
Paragraph 2 shall not apply to the documents referred to in Article 50 of Directive 2005/36/EC[37] of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications, in Articles 45(3), 46, 49 and 50 of Directive 2004/18/EC [38] of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of procedures for the award of public works contracts, supply contracts and public service contracts, in Article 3(2) of Directive 98/5/EC[39] of the European Parliament and of the Council to facilitate practice of the profession of lawyer on a permanent basis in a Member State other than that in which the qualification was obtained; in Council Directive 68/151/EEC[40], as amended by Directive 2003/58/EC[41] of the European Parliament and of the Council, as regards disclosure requirements in respect of certain types of companies ; and in the Eleventh Council Directive 89/666/EEC[42] concerning disclosure requirements in respect of branches opened in a Member State by certain types of company governed by the law of another State.
Article 6 Points of single contact 1.
Article 7 Right to information 1.
Member States shall ensure that the following information is easily accessible to providers and recipients through the points of single contact : (a) requirements applicable to providers established in their territory, in particular those requirements concerning the procedures and formalities to be completed in order to access and to exercise service activities; (b) the contact details of the competent authorities enabling the latter to be contacted directly, including the particulars of those authorities responsible for matters concerning the exercise of service activities; (c) the means of and conditions for accessing public registers and databases on providers and services; (d) the means of redress which are generally available in the event of dispute between the competent authorities and the provider or the recipient, or between a provider and a recipient or between providers; (e) the contact details of the associations or organisations, other than the competent authorities, from which providers or recipients may obtain practical assistance. 2.
The information shall be provided in plain and intelligible language. 3.
Member States shall ensure that the information and assistance referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 are provided in a clear and unambiguous manner , that they are easily accessible at a distance and by electronic means, and that they are kept up-to-date. 4.
Member States shall ensure that the points of single contact and the competent authorities respond as quickly as possible to any request for information or assistance as referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 and, in cases where the request is faulty or unfounded, inform the applicant accordingly without delay. 5.
Member States and the Commission shall take accompanying measures in order to encourage points of single contact to make the information provided for in this article available in other Community languages as far as this is compatible with their legislation on the use of languages. 7.
Article 8 Procedures by electronic means 1.
Member States shall ensure that, by three years after the entry into force of this Directive at the latest , all procedures and formalities relating to access to a service activity and to the exercise thereof may be easily completed, at a distance and by electronic means, at the relevant point of single contact and with the relevant competent authorities. 2.
The Commission shall in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 42(2) adopt detailed rules for the implementation of paragraph 1 with a view to facilitating the interoperability of information systems and use of procedures by electronic means between Member States.
Chapter IIa Freedom of establishment for service providers SECTION 1 AUTHORISATIONS Article 9 Authorisation schemes 1.
Member States shall not make access to a service activity or the exercise thereof subject to an authorisation scheme unless the following conditions are satisfied: (a) the authorisation scheme does not discriminate against the provider in question; (b) the need for an authorisation scheme is justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest; (c) the objective pursued cannot be attained by means of a less restrictive measure, in particular because an a posteriori inspection would take place too late to be genuinely effective. 2.
In the report referred to in Article 41, Member States shall identify their authorisation schemes and give reasons showing their compatibility with paragraph 1. 3.
Article 10 Conditions for the granting of authorisation 1.
The criteria referred to in paragraph 1 must be: (a) non-discriminatory; (b) justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest; (c) proportionate to that public interest objective; (d) precise and unambiguous; (e) objective; (f) made public in advance; (fa) transparent and accessible. 3.
The conditions for granting authorisation for a new establishment shall not duplicate requirements and controls which are equivalent or essentially comparable as regards their purpose, to which the provider is already subject in another Member State or in the same Member State.
The contact points referred to in Article 33 and the provider shall assist the competent authority by providing any necessary information on those requirements.
The authorisation shall enable the provider to have access to the service activity, or to exercise that activity, throughout the national territory, including by setting up agencies, subsidiaries, branches or offices, except where an authorisation for each individual establishment or a limitation of the authorisation to a certain part of the territory is justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest. 5.
Article 11 Duration of authorisation 1.
An authorisation granted to a provider shall not be for a limited period, except in cases where: (a) the authorisation is being automatically renewed or is subject only to the continued fulfilment of requirements; (b) the number of available authorisations is limited by an overriding reason relating to the public interest; or (c) a limited authorisation period can be justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest. 2.
Article 12 Selection from among several candidates 1.
Article 13 Authorisation procedures 1.
Different arrangements may nevertheless be put in place in respect of certain specific activities, where justified by overriding reasons relating to the public interest. 5.
Article 15 Requirements to be evaluated 1.
Member States shall examine whether, under their legal system, any of the requirements listed in paragraph 2 are imposed and shall ensure that any such requirements are compatible with the conditions laid down in paragraph 3.
Member States shall examine whether their legal system makes access to a service activity or the exercise of it subject to compliance with any of the following non-discriminatory requirements: (a) quantitative or territorial restrictions in particular in the form of limits fixed according to population, or of a minimum geographical distance between service-providers; (b) an obligation on a provider to take a specific legal form ; (c) requirements which relate to the shareholding of a company; (d) requirements, other than those concerning matters covered by Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and the Council [43] on the recognition of professional qualifications or provided for in other Community instruments, which reserve access to the service activity in question to particular providers by virtue of the specific nature of the activity; (e) a ban on having more than one establishment in the territory of the same State; (f) requirements fixing a minimum number of employees; (g) fixed minimum and/or maximum tariffs with which the provider must comply; (h) deleted (i) deleted (j) an obligation on the provider to supply other specific services jointly with his service. 3.
Member States shall verify that requirements referred to in paragraph 2 satisfy the following conditions: (a) non-discrimination: requirements must be neither directly nor indirectly discriminatory according to nationality or, with regard to companies, according to the location of the registered office; (b) necessity: requirements must be justified by an overriding reason relating to the public interest; (c) proportionality: requirements must be suitable for securing the attainment of the objective pursued; they must not go beyond what is necessary to attain that objective; and it must not be possible to replace those requirements with other, less restrictive measures which attain the same result. 4.
Rules provided for in paragraphs 1 to 3 only apply to legislation in the field of Services of General Economic Interest in so far as the application of such rules does not obstruct the performance, in law or in fact, of the particular task assigned to them. 5.
Chapter III Free movement of services SECTION 1 FREEDOM TO PROVIDE SERVICES AND RELATED DEROGATIONS Article 16 Freedom to provide services 1.
Member States shall not make access to or exercise of a service activity in their territory subject to compliance with any requirements which do not respect the following principles: (a) non-discrimination: the requirement may be neither directly nor indirectly discriminatory with regard to nationality or, in the case of legal persons, with regard to the Member State in which they are established, (b) necessity: the requirement must be justified for reasons of public policy , public security, public health or the protection of the environment, (c) proportionality: the requirement must be suitable for securing the attainment of the objective pursued, and must not go beyond what is nec essary to attain that objective. 2.
Member States may not restrict the freedom to provide services in the case of a provider established in another Member State by imposing any of the following requirements: (a) an obligation on the provider to have an establishment in their territory; (b) an obligation on the provider to obtain an authorisation from their competent authorities including entry in a register or registration with a professional body or association in their territory, except where provided for in this Directive or other instruments of Community law; (c) a ban on the provider setting up a certain infrastructure in their territory, including an office or chambers, which the provider needs to supply the services in question; (d) the application of specific contractual arrangements between the provider and the recipient which prevent or restrict service provision by the self-employed; (e) an obligation on the provider to possess an identity document issued by its competent authorities specific to the exercise of a service activity; (f) requirements, unless those necessary for health and safety at work, which affect the use of equipment and material which are an integral part of the service provided; (g) restrictions on the freedom to provide the services referred to in Article 20. 3.
The Member State to which the service provider moves shall not be prevented from imposing requirements with regard to the provision of a service activity, where they are justified for reasons of public policy, public security, public health or the protection of the environment, and in accordance with paragraph 1.
Article 17 Additional derogations from the freedom to provide services Article 16 shall not apply to: (1) Services of General Economic Interest which are provided in another Member State, inter alia: (a) in the postal sector, services covered by Directive 97/67/EC[44] of the European parliament and of the Council; (b) in the electricity sector, services covered by Directive 2003/54/EC[45] of the European Parliament and of the Council; (c) in the gas sector, services covered by Directive 2003/55/EC [46] of the European Parliament and of the Council; (d) water distribution and supply services and waste water services; (e) treatment of waste; (2) deleted (3) deleted (4) deleted (5) matters covered by Directive 96/71/EC[47] of the European Parliament and the Council concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services ; (6) matters covered by Directive 95/46/EC [48] of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data ; (7) matters covered by Council Directive 77/249/EEC[49] to facilitate the effective exercise by lawyers of freedom to provide services; (7a) the activity of judicial recovery of debts; (8) matters covered by title II of Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and the Council [50] on the recognition of professional qualifications , as well as requirements in the Member State where the service is provided which reserve an activity to a particular profession ; (9) matters covered by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the coordination of social security systems[51] ; (10) as regards administrative formalities concerning the free movement of persons and their residence, matters covered by the provisions of Directive 2004/38/EC[52] of the European Parliament and the Council on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States, that lay down the administrative formalities that beneficiaries must undertake before the competent authorities of the Member State where the service is provided; (11) as regards third country nationals who move to another Member State in the context of the provision of a service the possibility for Member States to require visa or residence permits for third country nationals who are not covered by the mutual recognition regime provided for in Article 21 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement or the possibility to oblige third country nationals to report to the competent authorities of the Member State in which the service is provided on or after their entry; (12) the authorisation regime provided for in Articles 3 and 4 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 259/93 on the supervision and control of shipments of waste within, into and out of the European Community [53]; (13) copyright, neighbouring rights, rights covered by Council Directive 87/54/EEC [54] and by Directive 96/9/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council [55] as well as industrial property rights; (14) acts requiring by law the involvement of a notary; (15) matters covered by Directive …/…/EC of the European Parliament and the Council on statutory audit of annual accounts and consolidated accounts and amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC[56] and 83/349/EEC[57]; (16) deleted (17) deleted (1 8) deleted (19) the registration of vehicles leased in another Member State; (20) provisions regarding contractual and non-contractual obligations, including the form of contracts, determined pursuant to the rules of private international law. [Article 18 deleted] Article 19 Case-by-case derogation 1.
The measures provided for in paragraph 1 may be taken only if the mutual assistance procedure laid down in Article 37 is complied with and all the following conditions are fulfilled: (a) the national provisions in accordance with which the measure is taken have not been subject to Community harmonisation in the field referred to in paragraph 1 ; (b) the measures provide for a higher level of protection of the recipient than would be the case in a measure taken by the Member State of establishment in accordance with its national provisions; (c) the Member State of establishment has not taken any measures or has taken measures which are insufficient as compared with those referred to in Article 37( 2 ) ; (d) the measures are proportionate. 3.
SECTION 2 RIGHTS OF RECIPIENTS OF SERVICES Article 20 Prohibited restrictions Member States may not impose on a recipient requirements which restrict the use of a service supplied by a provider established in another Member State, in particular the following requirements: (a) an obligation to obtain authorisation from or to make a declaration to their competent authorities; (b) limits on the grant of financial assistance by reason of the fact that the provider is established in another Member State or by reason of the location of the place at which the service is provided; (c) requirements which subject the recipient to discriminatory or disproportionate fees on the equipment necessary to receive a service at a distance from another Member State.
Article 22 Assistance for recipients 1.
Member States shall ensure that recipients can obtain via the points of single contact: a) information on the requirements applicable in other Member States relating to access to and exercise of service activities, in particular those relating to consumer protection; b) general information on the means of redress available in the case of a dispute between a provider and a recipient; c) the contact details of associations or organisations, including the contact points of the European Consumer Centres Network (ECC-Net) , from which providers or recipients may obtain practical assistance .
Information and assistance shall be provided in a clear and unambiguous manner, shall be easily accessible at a distance including by electronic means, and shall be kept up-to-date. 2.
The Commission shall transmit them to all Member States. 3.
The Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 42(2), adopt measures for the implementation of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, specifying the technical mechanisms for the exchange of information between the bodies of the various Member States and, in particular, the interoperability of information systems. [Article 23 deleted] [Article 24 deleted] [Article 25 deleted] Chapter IV Quality of services Article 26 Information on providers and their services 1.
Member States shall ensure that providers make the following information available to the recipient: 1.
contractual clauses concerning the law applicable to the contract and/or the competent courts. 2.
The information requirements laid down in this Chapter are in addition to requirements already provided for in Community law and do not prevent Member States from imposing additional information requirements applicable to providers established in their territory. 6.
The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 42(2), specify the content of the information provided for in paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article according to the specific nature of certain activities and may specify the practical means of implementing paragraph 2.
Article 27 Professional liability insurance and guarantees 1.
Member States shall ensure that providers supply a recipient, at his request, with information on the insurance or guarantees referred to in paragraph 1, and in particular the contact details of the insurer or guarantor and the territorial coverage. 3.
Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 do not affect professional insurance or guarantee arrangements provided for in other Community instruments. 5.
For the implementation of paragraph 1, the Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 42(2), establish a list of services which exhibit the characteristics referred to in paragraph 1 and establish common criteria for defining, for the purposes of the insurance or guarantees referred to in that paragraph, what is appropriate to the nature and scope of the risk.
In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 42(2) the Commission may also establish a procedure which would, in the event of verifiable failure of the insurance market to provide adequate insurance and subject to specific conditions including notification to the Commission, allow Member States for a limited period of time to replace the obligation in this Article by an information requirement. 6.
Article 28 After-sales guarantees 1.
Member States shall ensure that the information referred to in paragraph 1 appears in any information documents supplied by providers, setting out a detailed description of the services offered. 3 .
Article 29 Commercial communications by the regulated professions 1.
Member States shall ensure that commercial communications by the regulated professions comply with professional rules, in conformity with Community law, which relate, in particular, to the independence, dignity and integrity of the profession, as well as to professional secrecy, in a manner consonant with the specific nature of each profession.
Article 30 Multidisciplinary activities 1.
However, the following providers may be made subject to such requirements: (a) the regulated professions, in so far as is justified in order to guarantee compliance with the rules governing professional ethics and conduct, which vary according to the specific nature of each profession, and it is necessary to ensure their independence and impartiality; (b) providers of certification, accreditation, technical monitoring, test or trial services in so far as is justified in order to ensure their independence and impartiality. 2.
Article 31 Policy on quality of services 1.
Member States shall , in cooperation with the Commission, take accompanying measures to encourage providers to take action on a voluntary basis in order to ensure the quality of service provision, in particular through use of one of the following methods: (a) by having their activities certified or assessed by independent bodies; (b) by drawing up their own quality charter or participating in quality charters or labels drawn up by professional bodies at Community level. 2.
Member States shall , in cooperation with the Commission , take accompanying measures to encourage professional bodies, as well as chambers of commerce and craft associations and consumer associations , within Member States to cooperate at Community level in order to promote the quality of service provision, especially by making it easier to assess a provider’s competence. 4.
Member States shall, in cooperation with the Commission, take accompanying measures to encourage the development of independent assessments , notably by consumer associations, in relation to the quality and defects of service provision, and in particular the development at Community level of comparative trials or testing and the communication of the results. 5.
Article 32 Settlement of disputes 1.
Member States shall take the general measures necessary to ensure that providers supply contact details, in particular a postal address, fax number or e-mail address and a phone number to which all recipients, including those resident in another Member State, can send a complaint or a request for information about the service provided.
Member States shall take the general measures necessary to ensure that providers are obliged to demonstrate compliance with the obligations laid down in this Directive as to the provision of information and to demonstrate that the information is accurate. 4.
Member States shall take the general measures necessary to ensure that providers who are subject to a code of conduct, or are members of a trade association or professional body, which provides for recourse to a non-judicial means of dispute settlement, inform the recipient accordingly, and mention that fact in any document which presents their services in detail, specifying how to access detailed information on the characteristics of and conditions for the use of such a mechanism.
Chapter V Administrative cooperation Article 33 Mutual assistance - General obligations 1.
In the event of receiving a request for assistance from competent authorities in another Member State, Member States shall ensure that providers established in their territory supply their competent authorities with all the information necessary for supervising their activities in compliance with their national laws. 5.
Member States shall supply the information requested by other Member States or the Commission by electronic means and within the shortest possible period of time. 7.
Member States shall ensure that registers in which providers have been entered, and which may be consulted by the competent authorities in their territory, may also be consulted, in accordance with the same conditions, by the equivalent competent authorities of the other Member States. 8.
Where necessary, the Commission shall take appropriate steps, including proceedings provided for in Article 226 of the Treaty, in order to ensure that the Member States concerned comply with their obligations of mutual assistance.
Article 33a Mutual assistance – General obligations for the Member State of establishment 1.
The competent authorities can decide on the most appropriate measures to be taken in each individual case in order to meet the request by another Member State. 3.
Upon gaining actual knowledge of any conduct or specific acts by a provider established in its territory which provides services in other Member States , that, to its knowledge, could cause serious damage to the health or safety of persons or to the environment, the Member State of establishment shall inform all other Member States and the Commission within the shortest possible period of time.
Article 34 Supervision by the Member State of establishment in the event of the temporary movement of a provider to another Member State 1.
Article 35 Supervision by the Member State where the service is provided in the event of the temporary movement of the provider 1.
With respect to national requirements which may be imposed pursuant to Article 16 or Article 17, the Member State where the service is provided is responsible for the supervision of the activity of the service provider in its territory.
In conformity with Community law, the Member State where the service is provided: - shall take all measures necessary to ensure that service providers comply with those requirements as regards the access to and the exercise of a service activity; - shall carry out the checks, inspections and investigations necessary to supervise the service provided. 2.
The competent authorities can decide on the most appropriate measures to be taken in each individual case in order to meet the request by the Member State of establishment. 4.
On their own initiative, the competent authorities of the Member State where the service is provided may conduct checks, inspections and investigations on the spot, provided that those checks, inspections or investigations are not discriminatory, are not motivated by the fact that the provider is established in another Member State and are proportionate . [(a), (b) and (c) deleted] Article 36 Alert mechanism 1.
Where a Member State becomes aware of serious specific acts or circumstances relating to a service activity that could cause serious damage to the health or safety of persons or to the environment in its territory or in other Member States, that Member State shall inform the Member State of establishment, the other Member States concerned and the Commission within the shortest possible period of time. 2.
The Commission shall adopt and regularly update, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 42(2), detailed rules concerning the management of the network referred to in paragraph 2.
Article 36a Information on the good repute of providers 1.
Member States shall, at the request of a competent authority in another Member State, supply information, in conformity with their national law, on disciplinary or administrative actions or criminal sanctions and decisions concerning insolvency or bankruptcy involving fraud, taken by their competent authorities in respect of the provider, directly relevant to the service provider’s competence or professional reliability.
Article 36b Accompanying measures 1.
The Commission, in cooperation with Member States, shall establish an electronic system for the exchange of information between Member States. 2.
Article 37 Mutual assistance in the event of case-by-case derogations 1.
Where a Member State intends to take a measure pursuant to Article 19, the procedure laid down in paragraphs 2 to 6 of this Article shall apply without prejudice to proceedings before the courts including preliminary proceedings and acts carried out in the framework of a criminal investigation . 2.
Article 38 Implementing measures In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 42(2), the Commission shall adopt the implementing measures necessary for the implementation of this Chapter, specifying the time-limits provided for in Articles 33 and 37 and the practical arrangements for the exchange of information by electronic means between Member States , and in particular the interoperability provisions for information systems.
Chapter VI Convergence programme Article 39 1.
Member States shall, in cooperation with the Commission, take accompanying measures to encourage the drawing up at Community level , particularly by professional bodies, organisations and associations, of codes of conduct aimed at facilitating the provision of services or the establishment of a provider in another Member State , in conformity with Community law. 2.
Member States shall ensure that the codes of conduct referred to in paragraph 1 are accessible at a distance, by electronic means. 3.
Member States shall ensure that providers indicate, at the recipient’s request, or in any information documents which present their services in detail, any codes of conduct to which they are subject and the address at which these codes may be consulted by electronic means, specifying the language versions available. 4.
deleted Article 40 Additional harmonisation The Commission shall assess , by one year after the date of transposition of this Directive at the latest, the possibility of presenting proposals for harmonisation instruments on the following subjects: (a) deleted (b) deleted ; (c) access to the activity of judicial recovery of debts. (d) private security services and transport of cash and valuables; 2.
deleted Article 41 Mutual evaluation 1.
Article 42 Committee 1.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 3 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC[62] shall apply, in accordance with the provisions of Article 8 of that Decision. 3.
Article 43 Review clause Following the summary report referred to in Article 41(4), the Commission shall, every three years, present to the European Parliament and to the Council a comprehensive report on the application of this Directive, in particular of Articles 2 and 16 thereof, accompanied, where appropriate, by proposals for its amendment.
Article 44 Amendment of Directive 1998/27/EC In the Annex to Directive 1998/27/EC of the European Parliament and the Council [63] , the following point shall be added: "13.
Directive../../EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of … on services in the internal market (OJ L […], […], p. […])".
Article 46 This Directive shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 47 This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
The European Parliament adopted its first reading report on this proposal on 16 February 2006.
The amended proposal also sets out an alert mechanism pursuant to which a Member State becoming aware of serious specific acts or circumstances that could cause serious damage to the health or safety of persons or to the environment must inform the Member State of establishment, the other Member States concerned and the Commission.
There will be costs for the Commission in relation to the carrying out of assessment of the need for a multi-annual programme.
In addition, the Article 42 committee was already foreseen in the original proposal. 1.
OVERALL FIGURES 2.1.
Period of application: 2006 - 2011 2.3.
Financial intervention Commitments (in EUR million to three decimal places) Breakdown | 2006 | 2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011 and subs.
Calculation of costs by measure envisaged in operational expenditure (over the entire programming period) Commitments (in EUR million to three decimal places) Breakdown | Type of outputs (projects, files ) | Number of outputs (total for years 2004-2010) | Average unit cost | Total cost (total for years 2004-2010) | Action 1 - Measure 1 (development and monitoring of economic indicators) | Study | 1 | 0.200 | 0.200 | TOTAL COST | 0.200 | 0.200 | 4.
Impact on human resources Types of post | Staff to be assigned to management of the action using existing resources | Total | Description of tasks deriving from the action | Number of permanent posts | Number of temporary posts | Officials or temporary staff | A B C | 6.5 2.5 | 0.5 | 6.5 3.0 | Because the Directive covers a wide range of services activities specific knowledge is needed on a multitude of sectors (distribution, regulated professions, construction, certification, craftsmen etc.) as well as on specific questions such as administrative simplification. | Other human resources | 1 END | 1 | Total | 10 | 0.5 | 10.5 | 4.2.
Overall financial impact of human resources EUR million to three decimal places Type of human resources | Amount (EUR) | Method of calculation* | Officials Temporary staff | 0.972 0.054 | 9* 0.108 0.5* 0.108 | Other human resources (specify budget line) | 0.043 | 1* 0.043 | Total | 1.069 | The amounts are total expenditure for twelve months. 4.3.
Other administrative expenditure deriving from the action EUR million to three decimal places Budget line (number and heading) | Amount EUR | Method of calculation | Overall allocation (Title A7) 12 01 02 11 01 – Missions 12 01 02 11 02 – Meetings, conferences 12 01 02 11 03 – Committees (consultative committee) 12 01 02 11 04 – Studies and consultations Other expenditure (specify) | 0.064 0.016 | 96 experts*650 24 experts* 650 | Information systems | Other administrative expenditure (specify) | Total | 0.080 | The amounts are total expenditure for twelve months.
Annual total (4.2 + 4.3) II.
Duration of action III.
Total cost of action (I x II) | 1.149 2 years 2.298* | * costs for human resources could be extended beyond the 2 years depending on the results of the negotiation and the subsequent work programme . [1] COM(2004) 2, 13.1.2004. [2] OJ C 221, 8.9.2005, p. 113. [3] OJ C 43, 18.2.2005, p. 18. [4] COM(2002) 441. [5] OJ L 126, 26.5.2000, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Commission Directive 2004/69/EC (OJ L 125, 28.4.2004, p. 44). [6] OJ L 108, 24.4.2002, p. 7. [7] OJ L 108, 24.4.2002, p. 21. [8] OJ L 108 24.4.2002, p. 33. [9] OJ L 108, 24.4.2002, p. 51. [10] OJ L 201, 31.7.2002, p. 37. [11] OJ L 149, 5.7.1971, p. 2.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 647/2005 (OJ L 117, 4.5.2005, p. 1). [12] OJ L 255, 30.9.2005, p. 22. [13] OJ L 149, 11.6.2005, p. 22. [14] OJ L 364, 9.12.2004, p. 1. [15] Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the Council of 14 June 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the Community (OJ L 149, 5.7.1971, p. 2). [16] Council Directive 2003/109/EC of 25 November 2003 concerning the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents (OJ L 16, 23.1.2004, p. 44). [17] Council Regulation (EC) No 859/2003 of 14 May 2003 extending the provisions of Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 and Regulation (EEC) No 574/72 to nationals of third countries who are not already covered by those provisions solely on the ground of their nationality (OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 1). [18] Directive 2004/38/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States amending Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 and repealing Directives 64/221/EEC, 68/360/EEC, 72/194/EEC, 73/148/EEC, 75/34/EEC, 75/35/EEC, 90/364/EEC, 90/365/EEC and 93/96/EEC (OJ L 158, 30.4.2004, p. 77). [19] OJ L 145, 5.6.1997, p. 29. [20] OJ L 13, 19.1.2000, p. 12. [21] OJ L 178, 17.7.2000, p. 1. [22] OJ L 204, 21.7.1998, p. 37.
Directive as last amended by Directive 98/48/EC of the European Parliament and the Council of 20.7.1998 (OJ L 217 5.8.1998, p. 18). [23] OJ L 364, 9.12.2004, p. 1. [24] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [25] OJ L 149, 5.7.1971, p. 2.
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 647/2005 (OJ L 117, 4.5.2005 p. 1). [52] OJ L 158, 30.4.2004, p. 77. [53] OJ L 30, 6.2.1993, p. 1.
Regulation as last amended by Commission Regulation (EC) No 2557/2001 (OJ L 349, 31.12.2001, p. 1). [54] OJ L 24, 27.1.1987, p. 36. [55] OJ L 77, 27.3.1996, p. 20. [56] OJ L 222, 14.8.1978, p. 11. [57] OJ L 193, 18.7.1983, p. 1. [58] OJ L 145, 13.6.1977, p. 1. [59] OJ L 126, 26.5.2000, p. 1. [60] OJ L 228, 16.8.1973, p. 3. [61] OJ L 345, 19.12.2002, p. 1. [62] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [63] OJ L 166, 11.6.1998, p. 51. [64] Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market - COM(2004) 2, 13.1.2004.
