At its 424th plenary session held on 14 and 15 February 2006 (meeting of 15 February 2006), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 107 votes to four with six abstentions. 1.
Introduction 1.1 The aim of this opinion is to analyse the development of relations between the European Union (EU) and Mexico since December 1995, when the EESC adopted its first opinion on the issue [1], and to propose areas for discussion in order to develop and strengthen these relations, as regards both the future of EU-Mexico relations and the involvement of civil society in both regions. 1.2 Considerable progress has been made in EU-Mexico relations, resulting in the EU-Mexico Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement (Global Agreement) signed in October 2000, which provided for a free trade area.
This opinion therefore aims to provide information which will help to highlight the strategic importance of EU–Mexico relations and to strengthen and improve the EU-Mexico Association Agreement, whilst giving consideration to the specific features of each region. 1.3 One specific aim referred to in that Agreement (Articles 36 and 39) is the need to involve civil society from the two regions in the development of EU-Mexico relations.
In the Declaration [2] adopted at the Third Meeting of European Union, Latin American and Caribbean civil society organisations held in April 2004 in Mexico (in which the EESC played an active role), a series of initiatives were agreed, with a threefold goal: to step up the partnership between the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean, to establish an agenda for social cohesion, and to strengthen the role of organised civil society.
Furthermore, in 1984 it joined the GATT, now the World Trade Organisation (WTO), and in 1993 became a member of APEC (Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation).
The rise in domestic consumption, growth in US demand, the increase in the price of US assets, the rising price of oil, the major influx of foreign direct investment (FDI), the contributions from the tourist sector and remittances from emigrants have been among the key factors for Mexico's economy. 2.2.2 Approximately 98 % of Mexican firms can be considered micro-enterprises or small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
This statistic is in contrast with the situation recorded between 1994 and 1996, when the number of people living below the breadline increased by 15.4 million. 2.3.5 The percentage of the population living below the breadline (homes whose income per person is not high enough to cover their food requirements) in urban areas dropped from 12.6 % to 11.4 %, while in rural areas the percentage fell from 42.4 % to 34.8 %.
Education levels are insufficient and the insecurity index in these areas is much higher [12]. 2.3.10 Nonetheless, between 2000 and 2002, the educational situation of those living below the breadline did change.
However, although these are positive developments, the level and quality of the education and healthcare systems are not adequate, nor therefore are they sufficient to achieve desirable levels of social cohesion. 2.3.11 As regards employment, Mexico's unemployment rate in 2004 was 3.1 %; during the same period, the unemployment rate was 8.2 % in the EU-15 and 5.6 % in the USA [13].
Negotiations began in October 1996 and were concluded in July 1997.
The result was the Global Agreement and the Interim Agreement, signed in Brussels on 8 December 1997. 3.1.2 The main priorities of the Global Agreement are to institutionalise political dialogue, strengthen trade and economic relations via bilateral, preferential, gradual, reciprocal liberalisation of trade in accordance with WTO rules, and to broaden the scope of cooperation, which currently includes around thirty different areas.
Meanwhile, and particularly as a result of the Third Meeting of European Union, Latin American and Caribbean civil society organisations held in April 2004 in Mexico City and organised by the EESC, relations have been stepped up between civil society organisations in both regions. 3.2.1.3 However, the EESC believes that the quality of the agreements should be improved by the inclusion of provisions on cooperation and institutionalised dialogue, and by bringing all the sectors concerned into the decision-making loop.
However, nothing further is specified with regard to economic and social rights. 3.2.2 Economic dimension 3.2.2.1 Generally speaking, both parties believe that the results have been positive since the Agreement was signed five years ago, highlighting the significant increase in trade [19] and investment between Mexico and the EU. 3.2.2.2 The Agreement has also enabled the EU to compete on equal terms with those countries with which Mexico has free trade agreements, allowing European countries equal access to the conditions that the USA obtained in Mexico through the North American Free Trade Agreement — a situation known as NAFTA parity.
Nonetheless, it should be borne in mind that this deficit relates mainly to imports of semi-finished goods and capital needed to modernise Mexico's production infrastructure, and the manufacture by European companies set up in Mexico of finished products with greater added value for export to the US market. 3.2.2.4 The EU's total investment in Mexico from January 1994 to June 2004 stood at 33,656.6 million dollars [20], which accounts for 24.3 % of all the foreign direct investment (FDI) received by the country during this period.
Between 1999 and 2004, Mexico received a total of 78,060 million dollars in FDI, 19,791 million dollars of which came from the EU.
With respect to FDI flows between January 1994 and June 2004, the EU Member States' contributions are ranked as follows: Spain (8.3 %), Netherlands (8.2 %), UK (3.7 %), and Germany (2.6 %).
The growth in investment from the European Union highlights Mexico's strategic importance for the EU.
Nonetheless, trade between Mexico and the new Member States is still at an embryonic stage. 3.2.4.2 For Mexico, enlargement means that the special trade relationship that has existed with the EU since the Global Agreement came into force has been extended to the ten new members.
Enlargement should therefore have a tangible effect for companies in Mexico and the new Member States, giving them access to a free trade area of more than 550 million [21] consumers (EU and Mexican populations combined [22]).
With enlargement, the new Member States also participate in the EU's trade policy, so that transactions in the new Member States by companies from non-EU countries such as Mexico have been considerably simplified, due to the application of a single set of trade regulations, single tariff and single set of administrative procedures. 3.2.4.3 Both Mexico and the new Member States agree that their markets offer many opportunities for each other's companies, with emphasis on the manufacturing sector in the new Member States and the agricultural sector in Mexico.
Since the liberalisation of trade, the number of illegal Mexican immigrants in the USA went from 2 million in 1990 to 4.8 million in 2000 [26], which increased the problems at the border.
In 2004, approximately 10 million people born in Mexico were residing in the USA.
Add to this the number of US citizens of Mexican origin and the total rises to 26.6 million — 9 percent of the North American population.
Meanwhile, 64.2 % of Mexico's imports came from the USA, compared to only 10.4 % from the EU. 5.
The Agreement also stipulates that the Joint Council may decide to set up any other special committee or body to assist it in the performance of its duties (Article 49). 5.2 The participation of Mexican and European civil society must be promoted if the interests of the social sectors on both sides are to be incorporated in the application of the Global Agreement.
Firstly, Article 36 is an explicit acknowledgement of the need to involve civil society in the regional integration process.
Secondly, Article 39 stipulates the areas on which cooperation should focus, the first area being the development of civil society.
Lastly, Article 49 enables the Joint Council to set up any other consultative committee or body it deems necessary in order to implement the agreement.
When it comes to defining the nature of this type of body, there is some confusion regarding the instruments of social dialogue (consultation, cooperation and negotiation) and the consultation of civil society. 5.5 For the government, dialogue (more social than civil) with part of civil society revolves around the so-called Council for Productive Sectors Dialogue (CDSP) [32], which represents trade unions and employers, together with the central and regional administration.
The social and occupational aspects of the Agreement (training, equal opportunities, employment, etc.) should be developed through cooperation projects. 6.3 In order to enable civil society to participate in the implementation of these tasks, the EESC believes that an EU-Mexico JCC could be set up.
This proposal could be drawn up over the course of 2006 and submitted to the Joint Council in 2007. 6.7 Moreover, bilaterally and outside the Agreement, the EESC would be willing — to the best of its ability and insofar as there were a consensus within Mexican society — to support the creation of an equivalent, national body in Mexico.
Brussels, 15 February 2006.
The fall in investment flows to the manufacturing sector between 2001 and 2003 led to a drop mainly in manufacturing and construction.
Serven, 2003. [25] World Bank, World Development Indicators Online. [26] John Audley, ibidem, p. 49. [27] Press release no. 71/04, Mexican Ministry of the Interior, 17 December 2004. [28] Source: the Mexican Association of Importers and Exporters (ANIERM), with data from the Ministry of the Economy. [29] However, it should be noted that of this 90 %, oil accounted for 10 % and assembled products for 50 %. [30] Article 10 of the EU-Chile Association Agreement (in force since 1 March 2005, OJ L 352 of 30.12.2002) establishes the %quot%Joint Consultative Committee%quot% whose role is to %quot%to assist the Association Council in promoting dialogue and cooperation between the various economic and social components of organised civil society%quot% in the EU and Chile. [31] Article 1 of the bill. [32] For more information, see the following website: http://www.stps.gob.mx/consejo_dialogo/cpdsp/frameset.htm. --------------------------------------------------
