The Liner Code provided the cargo sharing formula of 40 %-40 % in the transportation of liner cargoes between carriers of exporter and importer countries leaving 20 % of liner cargoes controlled by liner conferences to carriers of third countries.
The Liner Code was ratified by several EU Member States as well as other developed (OECD) and developing countries and entered into force on 6 October 1983.
The EU adopted Regulation 954/79 [1] providing the conditions for application of the Liner Code to be compatible with the EC Treaty.
Regulation 954/79 [2] (the "Brussels package") in the Commission's view (at the time of adoption) strikes a balance between the wishes of developing countries for access to liner conferences but also maintains commercial principles between OECD countries and complies with the basic principles of the EC Treaty. 1.3 In 1986, the EU adopted Regulation 4056/86 concerning the application of Articles 85-86 EC to maritime transport.
The Court adopted a number of legal principles in the application of Regulation 4056/86.
The tramp sector was considered as one of the very rare examples of perfect competition worldwide and cabotage services were considered as not producing any significant anti-competitive result in EC trade. 1.6.1 The basic characteristics of tramp shipping can be summarized in ten key points: - globally competitive markets; - close to perfect competition model; - different sub-market segments in response to customer needs; - competition between sub-markets for cargo; - volatile and unpredictable demand; - many small entrepreneurial companies; - global trade patterns; - ease of entry and exit; - very cost effective; - responsive to development of markets and shippers' needs. 1.6.2 Overall, the tramp services market is highly fragmented [4].
Therefore, in the vast majority of cases this market has worked to the satisfaction of charterers/shippers without presenting major problems with competition rules either internationally or in the EU context. 1.7 Currently, there are 150 liner conferences worldwide out of which 28 operate in trades to and from the EU.
Under certain conditions, consortia have been granted a block exemption under Regulations 479/1992 [6] and 870/1995 [7] amended by Regulation 823/2000 [8] which will expire on 25 April 2005.
However, Article 32 of Regulation 1/2003 provided an exception from its scope for tramp and cabotage services to and from EU ports. 1.12 In the meantime, the OECD secretariat in a report 2002 [10] concluded that anti-trust exemptions to liner conferences for price fixing activities should be reviewed with the aim to be removed, except where specifically and exceptionally justified but left it to the discretion of individual Member States.
The European Commission's White Paper 2004 2.1 The European Commission, prompted by the Lisbon European Council 2000 undertook a review of Regulation 4056/86.
The Erasmus University Rotterdam assisted the Commission in processing the replies.
Thereafter, a public hearing was conducted in December 2003 and a discussion paper was issued in May 2004 addressed to Member States.
On 13 October 2004, the Commission released a White Paper accompanied by an Annex in which it considers repealing the block exemption from liner conferences.
The Commission also invites the Committee to submit comments, within a period of two months. 2.2 The White Paper addresses several basic questions: whether there is still a justification for price fixing/capacity utilisation by liner conferences being granted a block exemption under Article 81(3) EC.
The Commission concludes that in the present market circumstances there is no justification to maintain the block exemption to liner conferences because stability of prices can be achieved by other less restrictive forms of cooperation and that the four cumulative conditions of Article 81 (3) to justify it are no longer fulfilled. 2.2.1 The White Paper examines whether another legal instrument covering a new business framework of cooperation in the liner trades is appropriate.
General comments 3.1 The EESC has been following closely developments regarding this issue since the 1980s and adopted two Opinions in 1982 [11] and in 1985 [12] the gist of which was given a follow-up in Regulation 4056/86.
It is part of the package of four maritime regulations adopted in 1986 setting the cornerstones of the common shipping policy of the EU.
It is noteworthy that according to Article 50 of the Liner Code denunciation of its provisions takes effect one year or later following receipt by the depositary.
The White Paper does not analyze sufficiently the international implications on the regulatory level (i.e., the international commitments of the EU and its Member States) nor the treaty law problems created from the abolition of liner conferences. 3.6 The EESC maintains that irrespective of their shortcomings and outdating, the Liner Code (and the conference system consecrated by it) remain the cornerstones of the 1986 package of four maritime Regulations constituting phase I of the EU common shipping policy.
Before proceeding to the repeal of Regulation 4056/86, Regulations 4055/86 and 4058/86 would also have to be amended. 3.7 Since the conference system is currently under revision in other jurisdictions it would be more sensible for the EU — instead of proceeding unilaterally — to liaise with these jurisdictions with a view to adopting a new international regime compatible worldwide.
For the sake of legal certainty, however, it is sensible for the Commission to provide legal guidance regarding bulk pools and specialized trades in their self assessment regarding their compatibility with Article 81 EC bearing in mind that notifications of agreements and opposition procedure are not allowed anymore. 4.
Conclusions 5.1 The EESC welcomes the White Paper initiative and the brainstorming exercise launched by the Commission subject to its comments. 5.2 Any future legal framework should be compatible with Article 81 EC and balanced, i.e., meet the demands of both shippers and carriers.
The EESC urges the Commission to address all these legal problems before examining the alternative systems to liner conferences and the abolition of the current block exemption. 5.6 In view of the host of legal problems to be created by the abolition of conferences, the EESC urges the Commission to undertake a legal study of the regulatory changes required, if conferences are to be abolished by the EU and retained in the rest of the world.
Moreover, the Commission should undertake consultations with other jurisdictions (OECD) with a view to arriving at a suitable alternative system compatible worldwide. 5.10 The EESC endorses proposals of the White Paper regarding the treatment of tramp and cabotage services since the vast majority of cases in these sectors would not raise competition problems.
For the sake of legal certainty, however, the Commission is requested to provide legal guidance regarding the self assessment of bulk pools and specialized trades regarding their compatibility with Article 81 EC. 5.11 The EESC hopes to provide its assistance in the follow-up to the brainstorming exercise launched by the White Paper.
Seiler "The Unctad Code of Conduct for Liner Conferences", Hamburg 1979; A.
Mc Intosh "Anti-trust implications of liner conferences" Lloyds Maritime and Commercial Law Quarterly, May 1980 p. 139; Clough/Randolph "Shipping and EC Competition Law, Butterworths. 1991, Bellamy/Child" Common Market Law of Competition "Sweet %amp% Maxwell, 1993, 2001; P.
Ruttley" International Shipping and EEC Competition Law (1991) 2 ECLR, 5; Kreis "European Community Competition Policy and International Shipping" (1989) Fordham International Law Journal, p. 411, vol. 13; J.
