The aid instrument has to target the identified market failure 6 2.3.
Regional dimension 8 3.
a well-defined market failure has to exist 16.
State aid must be the appropriate policy instrument 18.
The aid measure has to be proportionate to the problem addressed 20.
The aid should be limited in time and scope and should be subject to some evaluation, so that it can be stopped if it does not produce the expected result over time. 2.3.
While State aid to SME’s and/or to activities far away from the market may qualify for lighter procedural rules, and could be exempted from notification (or at least be subject to simplified approval procedures), State aid for instance to large undertakings or to undertakings with a high market share may only be authorised after an investigation by the Commission. 29.
Another important principle is that State aid should avoid making it non-viable for private undertakings to develop their activities in a market where all undertakings are subsidised, thus crowding out private initiative.
Regional dimension 32.
The question is to what extent specific additional provision for regional aspects should be included in the rules on State aid for innovation.
Question 2) Do you think that the problems presented in Annex and the market failures identified by the Commission as hampering the innovation process are accurate?
Question 7) Are some types of aid more suited to specific situations and specific innovation activities (ex: tax rebates, secured loans, repayable advances)? 3.
The Commission has identified three areas which may be prone to this type of market failures, and where well-targeted State aid may become a necessary and efficient means: i) supporting the creation and growth of innovative start-ups; ii) risk capital and iii) support for experimentation and commercialisation as ways of meeting that condition. 3.1.
Market failure targeted and appropriateness of aid: While start-ups and innovative SMEs are key to innovation and the renewal of industry, they are seriously affected by many market failures hampering the innovation process.
Question 9) Beyond the proposed rules, empirical arguments are welcomed that demonstrate the need for State aid: i) for start-ups independently of the innovativeness criterion, and ii) for innovative SMEs established for more than [5 years]. 3.2.
Supporting technological experimentation and the risks of launching innovative products 54.
marketing costs relating to technological design 64.
Question 11) Do you think that these provisions would produce the expected effects in terms of encouraging SMEs to launch innovative products in the market?
Encouraging innovation intermediaries 71.
Incentive effect and proportionality: It is taken for granted that there is an incentive effect for small enterprises.
Distortion of competition and effect on trade: Only SMEs should be considered as eligible for aid, in order to limit distortions.
State aid may be authorised only where the following conditions are fulfilled: 78.
SMEs could receive State aid through a kind of “innovation services voucher” of a maximum of € 200 000 over a three-year period (irrespective of possible de minimis contributions) in order to buy services from innovation intermediaries up to that ceiling. 87.
Except for non-market-oriented activities in the public interest (see above), direct aid to innovation intermediaries should not be permitted.
However, the Commission considers that aid measures for the clients using these structures can help stimulate a market for innovation intermediaries, and indirectly support them.
In addition, the temporary loan and exchange of personnel between universities or large companies and SMEs could be encouraged. 89.
Distortion of competition and effect on trade: Only SMEs should benefit from aid.
Question 15) Should the Commission adopt specific rules for cases where a researcher chooses not to return to his/her home university or where the university no longer intends to hire him/her back? 4.3.
State aid may therefore be a way of tackling these market failures. 94.
To that end, ex-ante rules authorising State aid for collaboration and clustering should only cover SMEs and entities providing infrastructure generating positive externalities (such as universities or research institutions). 96.
Question 16) What definition of cluster/clustering activities should be followed and what criteria should be used to distinguish clusters from the broader category of innovation intermediaries?
The 2003 Communication on ‘Innovation policy: updating the Union’s approach in the context of the Lisbon strategy’ as well as indicators such as the Innobarometer[10] made it clear that the EU as a whole is not performing well enough in the field of innovation.
Weaknesses in financial and labour markets: The main problems identified here are the lack of private funding for R%amp%D and innovation, especially for SMEs; underdeveloped venture capital markets; lack of investor expertise and of the ability to evaluate innovative companies; lack of availability of skilled labour; inability of SMEs to attract highly qualified staff. 103.
The sources of market failures which are relevant to innovation have been identified by the Commission as the following, on the basis notably of a review of case practice: innovation as a public good and externalities; inefficient dissemination of information; shortcomings in the capital markets; mismatches on the labour market and coordination problems.
The Commission is currently working on improving financial reporting on non-technological R%amp%D expenditure Comments are welcomed on the problems identified as affecting innovation in Europe. [1] COM(2004) 38, 28.1.2004. [2] SEC(2004) 1453, 15.11.2004. [3] In fact it is not clear to what extent large firms are affected by market failures.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) are defined in the Commission Recommendation of 6 May 2003 concerning the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises - notified under document number C(2003) 1422. [4] As defined in the Oslo Manual page 9: “A technological product innovation is the implementation/commercialisation of a product with improved performance characteristics such as to deliver objectively new or improved services to the consumer.
