Civil Society Forum on Drugs 8 6.2.
Thematic linking of existing networks 9 7.
The Commission calls on all interested parties to make comments and suggestions, no later than 30 September 2006 to the following address: European Commission Directorate General for Justice Freedom and Security Unit C2 – Anti-Drugs Policy Coordination Unit, LX 46 1/88 – 1049 Brussels, Belgium E-mail : JLS-drugspolicy@ec.europa.eu Fax: +32-2-295 32 05 Contributions received will be published on the Commission’s website in the language in which they are submitted and with the author’s names, unless they indicate their wish to remain anonymous or request that their entire contribution be treated as confidential.
During the preparation of the present Action Plan (2005-2008), an informal consultation was held through a special web site.
The importance of active civil society involvement has furthermore been emphasised by the European Economic and Social Committee (EESC).
In January 2006, the Commission organised a conference where more than one hundred representatives of civil society met to explore specific ways of involving citizens' organisations more closely in the various dimensions of drug policy at EU level.
The outcome of the EU-civil society conference of January 2006 clearly suggests that there is as yet no clear answer to either question.
could discuss a civil society approach on improving the access to and the quality of the treatment services as well as good practice (Objective 12 of the EU Action Plan).
The process was launched in 1998 and the dialogue is open to non-profit civil society organisations in the EU and candidate countries.
The group now has 39 member organisations operating in the social sector.
The EU Health Policy Forum is the result of a consultation the Commission implemented following the Communication on the health strategy in Europe and the proposal for a Community Programme in public health[20].
Non-governmental organisations in the public health field and patients` organisations. 2.
It has currently 50 European member organisations.
HIV Think Tank and Civil Society Forum The Commission has set up a co-ordination structure to help in the formulation and implementation of policy activities on HIV/Aids in Europe.
The HIV/Aids Civil Society Forum has 30 NGOs and civil society organisation from all over Europe.
