Proposal for a Council Decision amending Decision 90/424/EEC on expenditure in the veterinary field /* COM/2005/0362 final - CNS 2005/0154 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 23.8.2005 COM(2005) 362 final 2005/0153 (CNS) 2005/0154 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DIRECTIVE on animal health requirements for aquaculture animals and products thereof, and on the prevention and control of certain diseases in aquatic animals {SEC(2005) 1047} Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION amending Decision 90/424/EEC on expenditure in the veterinary field (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
However, financial losses due to disease (mortalities, reduced growth and reduced quality) are estimated to be 20 % of the production value.
The main interaction between this proposal and the legislation related to the CFP concerns the financial support (see also Com (2004) 497 - final).
More stringent rules may therefore be applied where this is necessary for the protection of species from an environmental or conservation point of view.
The present animal health provisions relating to third countries will in principle remain unchanged. 2.
CONSULTATION OF INTERESTED PARTIES AND IMPACT ASSESSMENT ( Consultation of interested parties Consultation methods, main sectors targeted and general profile of respondents.
Bilateral meetings have been held with FEAP and EMPA/AEPM during 2003, 2004 and 2005.
Stakeholder consultations were held in September and December 2004.
The proposal for authorisation of aquaculture production business will cause extra work for the competent authorities in the Member States.
It is however not realistic to enforce the same level of control measures in Member States that are free of these diseases, as in Member States where these diseases are widespread.
It is proposed that financial contribution for aquatic animal disease control from the Community should be eligible through the European Fisheries Fund (Article 32 of COM (2004) 497).
Sweden paid out compensation under national legislation totalling of 1,5 mill SEK (€165 000) over a period of three years in relation to four cases of VHS in 1998.
Such inspections should as far as possible be combined with public health inspections for "fishery products" and "live bivalve mollusc" pursuant to Article 11 of Regulation (EC) No 854/2004.
Delegating the power to declare individual compartments and zones free of disease to the Member States will lead to a simplification of administrative procedures in the Member States and in the Commission services. ( Repeal of existing legislation The adoption of the proposal will lead to the repeal of the three existing Directives. ( European Economic Area The proposed act is of EEA relevance and should therefore be extended to the EEA. 2005/0153 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DIRECTIVE on animal health requirements for aquaculture animals and products thereof, and on the prevention and control of certain diseases in aquatic animals (Text with EEA relevance) THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 37 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[1], Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament[2], Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee[3], Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions[4], Whereas: 1.
In the context of the internal market, specific animal health rules were laid down for the placing on the market and introduction from third countries of the products concerned by Council Directive 91/67/EEC of 28 January 1991 concerning the animal health conditions governing the placing on the market of aquaculture animals and products[5]. 3.
Minimum measures to be applied in case of outbreaks of the most important diseases in fish and molluscs were established by Council Directive 93/53/EEC of 24 June 1993 introducing minimum Community measures for the control of certain fish diseases[6], and Council Directive 95/70/EC of 22 December 1995 introducing minimum Community measures for the control of certain diseases affecting bivalve molluscs[7]. 4.
The competent authorities designated for the purpose of this Directive should perform their functions and duties in accordance with the general principles laid down in Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 of European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 laying down specific rules for the organisation of official controls on products of animal origin intended for human consumption[9], and Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 of European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on official controls performed to ensure the verification of compliance with feed and food law, animal health and animal welfare rules[10]. 11.
In addition, such authorisation would not be an extra burden to the aquaculture industry, taking into account the Proposal of 13 January 2004 for a Directive of the European Parliament and the Council on services in the internal market[11], and in particular Article 6 thereof. 14.
It is therefore appropriate to lay down minimum measures of disease prevention and risk mitigation which should be applied to the whole production chain in aquaculture, from fertilisation and hatching of eggs to the processing of aquaculture animals for human consumption, including transportation. 17.
Harmonised animal health provisions for placing on the market should therefore be laid down with specific provisions applicable to species susceptible to those diseases.
However, in order to avoid the creation of unnecessary trade restrictions, the exchange of aquaculture animals between Member States, zones or compartments where one or more such diseases are present should be allowed, provided that risk mitigation measures are taken during transport. 22.
It is therefore necessary for the Member States to have access to processing establishments that have been duly authorised to undertake such slaughter and processing without jeopardising the health status of farmed and wild aquatic animals, including in respect of the discharge of effluents. 23.
The choice of the measures to be used by the competent authorities should depend on the epidemiological situation in the Member State concerned. 27.
Such national control measures must be justified, necessary and proportionate to the goals to be achieved, and should not affect the trade between the Member States. 29.
It may therefore be necessary for a Member State to apply control measures in the case of such emerging disease.
Vaccines against exotic and emerging diseases in aquaculture animals may qualify for such derogation 32.
Where the control of a serious aquatic animal disease is subject to harmonised Community eradication measures, Member States should be allowed to make use of financial contribution from the Community under Council Regulation (EC) No xxxx/200Y on the European Fisheries Fund[16].
However, where ornamental aquatic animals are kept outside closed systems or aquariums, in direct contact with the natural waters of the Community, they could pose a significant risk to Community aquaculture or wild stocks.
In order to meet that obligation, common criteria need to be introduced. 40.
The measures necessary for the implementation of this Directive should be adopted in accordance with Council Decision 1999/468/EC of 28 June 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission[17]. 43.
This Directive lays down: (a) the animal health requirements to be applied for the placing on the market, the importation and the transit of aquaculture animals and products thereof; (b) minimum preventive measures aimed at increasing the awareness and preparedness of the competent authorities, the aquaculture production business operators and others related to this industry, for diseases in aquaculture animals; (c) minimum control measures to be applied in the event of a suspicion of, or an outbreak of certain diseases in aquatic animals. 2.
Chapter II, Sections 1 to 4 of Chapter III, and Chapters IV and VII shall not apply to ornamental aquatic animals that are kept in pet-shops, garden centres or commercial aquaria: (a) without any direct contact with natural waters in the Community; or (b) which are equipped with effluent treatment systems. 3.
Article 3 Definitions 1.
For the purposes of this Directive, the following definitions shall apply: (1) “aquaculture” means the rearing or cultivation of aquatic organisms using techniques designed to increase the production of those organisms beyond the natural capacity of the environment and where the organisms remain the property of one or more natural or legal persons throughout the rearing or culture stages, up to and including harvesting; (2) “aquaculture animal” means all life stages, including eggs and sperm/gametes, of any aquatic animal reared in a farm or mollusc farming area, including any such animal from the wild intended for a farm or mollusc farming area; (3) “aquaculture production business” means any undertaking, whether for profit or not and whether public or private, carrying out any of the activities related to the rearing of aquaculture animals; (4) “aquaculture production business operator” means the natural or legal persons responsible for ensuring that the requirements of this Directive are met within the aquaculture production business under their control; (5) “aquatic animal” means: (a) fish belonging to the classes Agnatha , Chondrichytes and Osteichtyes ; (b) molluscs belonging to the group Mollusca ; (c) crustaceans belonging to the class Crustacea ; (6) “authorised processing establishment” means any food business: (a) approved or authorised in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EC) No 853/2004 for processing aquaculture animals for food purposes; and (b) authorised in accordance with Articles 4 and 5 of this Directive; (7) “authorised processing establishment operator” means the natural or legal persons responsible for ensuring that the requirements of this Directive are met within the authorised processing establishment under their control; (8) “farm” means any premises, enclosed area, or installation operated by an aquaculture production business in which aquaculture animals are reared with a view to their being placed on the market, but excluding those where wild aquatic animals harvested or caught for the purpose of human consumption are temporarily kept awaiting slaughter without being fed; (9) “ farming ” means the rearing of aquaculture animals in a farm or in a mollusc farming area; (10) “mollusc farming area” means a production area or relaying area in which all aquaculture production businesses operate under a common biosecurity system; (11) “ornamental aquatic animals” means aquatic animals which are reared, or placed on the market for ornamental purposes only; (12) “placing on the market” means the sale, including offering for sale or any other form of transfer, whether free of charge or not, and any form of movement of aquaculture animals; (13) “production area” means any sea, estuarine or lagoon area, containing natural beds of molluscs or sites used for the cultivation of molluscs, and from which molluscs are taken; (14) “put and take fisheries” means ponds, lakes or unenclosed waters that are sustained by the introduction of aquatic animals primarily for recreational activities rather than for conservation or improvement of the natural population; (15) “relaying area” means any sea, estuarine or lagoon area with boundaries clearly marked and indicated by buoys, posts or any other fixed means, and used exclusively for the natural purification of live molluscs; (16) “wild aquatic animals” means aquatic animals which are not aquaculture animals. 2.
Chapter II Aquaculture production businesses and authorised processing establishments Article 4 Authorisation of aquaculture production businesses and processing establishments 1.
Those authorised processing establishments shall have an authorisation issued by the competent authority in accordance with Article 5. 3.
In the case of non-compliance with the provisions of this Directive, the competent authority shall act in accordance with Article 54 of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004.
Article 5 Authorisation conditions 1 .
Member States shall ensure that authorisations, as provided for in Article 4(1) and (3), are only granted by the competent authority if the aquaculture production business operator or authorised processing establishment operator: (a) fulfils the relevant requirements of Articles 8, 9 and 10; (b) has a system in place which enables the operator to demonstrate to the competent authority that those relevant requirements are being fulfilled; (c) remains under the supervision of the competent authority, which shall perform the duties laid down in Article 54(1). 2.
Article 6 Register The Member States shall establish and keep up-to-date a register of aquaculture production businesses and authorised processing establishments containing at least the information set out in Annex II.
Article 7 Supervision The competent authority shall supervise aquaculture production businesses and authorised processing establishments.
Article 8 Recording obligations 1.
Member States shall ensure that aquaculture production businesses keep a record of: (a) all movements of aquaculture animals and products thereof, into and out of the farm or mollusc farming area; (b) the mortality in each epidemiological unit as relevant for the type of production; (c) the results of the risk-based animal health surveillance scheme provided for in Article 10. 2.
Article 9 Good hygiene practice Member States shall ensure that aquaculture production businesses and authorised processing establishments implement good hygiene practice, as relevant for the activity concerned, to prevent the introduction and spreading of diseases.
Article 10 Animal health surveillance scheme 1.
The risk-based animal health surveillance scheme shall aim at the detection of: (a) any increased mortality in all farms and mollusc farming areas as appropriate for the type of production; (b) the diseases listed in Part II of Annex III, in farms and mollusc farming areas were species susceptible to those diseases are present. 3.
The competent authority shall ensure that such placing on the market does not jeopardise the health status with regard to the diseases listed in Part II of Annex III of aquatic animals at the place of destination or at places of transit.
Article 12 General requirements for the placing of aquaculture animals on the market 1.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of aquaculture animals and products thereof does not jeopardise the health status with regard to the diseases listed in Part II of Annex III of aquatic animals at the place of destination. 2.
Article 13 Disease prevention requirements in relation to transport 1.
Article 14 Traceability and certification 1.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply when aquaculture animals are moved inside a mollusc farming area or between different farms belonging to one aquaculture production business, provided that the mollusc farming areas or the farms are within the same Member State and, where applicable, within the same disease-free zone or compartment.
Member States shall ensure that introduction of aquaculture animals for farming and restocking purposes into other Member States, zones or compartments declared disease-free in accordance with Articles 49 and 50 are subject to animal health certification. 5.
SECTION 2 AQUACULTURE ANIMALS INTENDED FOR FARMING AND RESTOCKING Article 15 General requirements for the placing of aquaculture animals on the market for farming and restocking 1.
Member States shall ensure that aquaculture animals placed on the market for farming do not come from a farm or mollusc farming area where there has been any increased mortality or a clinical outbreak of any disease within 31 days prior to the date of placing on the market, unless such animals originate from a part of the farm or mollusc farming area epidemiologically independent of the part where the increased mortality or clinical signs of disease have occurred.
Member States shall ensure that aquaculture animals intended for destruction or slaughter in accordance with the disease control measures provided for in Chapter V are not placed on the market for farming and restocking purposes . 3.
However, Member States may decide that the aquaculture animals shall come from a zone or compartment, declared disease-free in accordance with Articles 49 or 50.
Article 16 Introduction of aquaculture animals of susceptible species into disease-free areas 1.
In order to be introduced for farming or restocking into a Member State, zone or compartment declared free of a specific disease in accordance with Articles 49 or 50, aquaculture animals of susceptible species shall originate from another Member State, zone or compartment also declared free of that disease. 2.
Article 17 Introduction of aquaculture animals of non-susceptible species into disease-free areas 1.
Where scientific data or practical experience substantiates that species other than those referred to in Part II of Annex III as susceptible species can be responsible for the passive transmission of a specific disease, such carrier species shall, where introduced into a Member State, zone or compartment declared free of that specific disease in accordance with Articles 49 or 50: (a) originate from another Member State, zone or compartment also declared free of that specific disease; or (b) be held in quarantine facilities in water free of the pathogen in question for a period of time sufficient to reduce to an acceptable level the risk of passive transmission of the specific disease. 2.
Member States shall ensure that aquaculture animals of species susceptible to one or more of the non-exotic diseases listed in Part II of Annex III, and products thereof, may only be placed on the market for further processing in a Member State, zone or compartment declared free of those diseases in accordance with Articles 49 or 50, if they comply with one of the following conditions : (a) they originate from another Member State, zone or compartment declared free of the disease in question; (b) they are processed in an authorised processing establishment under conditions which prevents the spreading of diseases; (c) as regards fish: they are slaughtered and eviscerated before dispatch; (d) as regards molluscs and crustaceans: they are dispatched as unprocessed or processed products. 2.
Member States shall ensure that aquaculture animals of species susceptible to one or more of the non-exotic diseases listed in Part II of Annex III which are placed on the market for further processing in a Member State, zone or compartment declared free of those disease in accordance with Articles 49 or 50, may only be temporarily stored at the place of processing if: (a) they originate from another Member State, zone, or compartment declared free of the disease in question; or (b) they are temporarily kept in dispatch centres, purification centres or similar businesses which are equipped with an effluent treatment system capable of inactivating the pathogens in question, or where the effluent is subject to other types of treatment reducing the risk of transmitting diseases to the natural waters to an acceptable level.
Article 19 Aquaculture animals and products thereof placed on the market for human consumption without further processing 1.
This Section shall not apply where aquaculture animals, of species susceptible to one or more of the diseases listed in Part II of Annex III, or products thereof, are placed on the market for human consumption without further processing, provided that they are packed in retail-sale packages which comply with the provisions for packaging and labelling provided for in Regulation (EC) No 853/2004. 2.
SECTION 4 WILD AQUATIC ANIMALS Article 20 Release of wild aquatic animals in Member States, zones or compartments declared disease-free 1.
SECTION 5 ORNAMENTAL AQUATIC ANIMALS Article 21 Placing on the market of ornamental aquatic animals 1.
Member States shall ensure that the placing on the market of ornamental aquatic animals does not jeopardise the health status of aquatic animals with regard to the diseases listed in Part II of Annex III. 2.
Chapter IV Introduction of aquaculture animals and products thereof into the Community from third countries Article 22 General requirements for introduction of aquaculture animals and products thereof from third countries Member States shall ensure that aquaculture animals and products thereof are introduced into the Community only from third countries or parts of third countries that appear on a list drawn up and updated in accordance with the procedure referred to Article 62(2).
Article 23 Lists of third countries and parts of third countries from which introduction of aquaculture animals and products thereof is permitted 1.
The Commission may decide if an inspection as referred to in Article 58(2) is necessary to complete the assessment of the third country, or part of the third country, provided for in paragraph 1. 3.
Article 25 Detailed rules Where necessary detailed rules for the application of this Chapter may be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(2).
Chapter V Notification and minimum measures for control of diseases of aquatic animals SECTION 1 DISEASE NOTIFICATION Article 26 National notification 1.
Member States shall ensure that: (a) when there are any reasons to suspect the presence of a disease listed in Part II of Annex III, or a confirmation of such disease in aquatic animals, the suspicion is immediately notified to the competent authority; (b) when increased mortality occurs in aquaculture animals, the mortality is immediately notified to the competent authority or private veterinarian for further investigations. 2.
Article 27 Notification of the other Member States, the Commission and EFTA Member States Member States shall notify the other Member States, the Commission and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) Members within 24 hours in case of confirmation of: (a) an exotic disease listed in Part II of Annex III; (b) a non-exotic disease listed in Part II of Annex III where the Member State concerned, zone, or compartment has been declared free of that disease.
SECTION 2 SUSPICION OF A LISTED DISEASE Article 28 Initial control measures Member States shall ensure that in case of suspicion of an exotic disease listed in Part II of Annex III or, in the case of suspicion of a non-exotic disease listed in Part II of Annex III in Member States, zones or compartments declared free of such disease: (a) appropriate samples are taken and examined in a laboratory designated in accordance with Article 57; (b) pending the result of the examination provided for in point (a): (i) the farm, or mollusc farming area, in which the disease is suspected, is placed under official surveillance and relevant control measures are implemented to prevent the disease spreading to other aquatic animals; and (ii) no aquaculture animals are allowed to leave or enter the affected farm or mollusc farming area in which the disease is suspected, unless authorised by the competent authority.
Article 29 Epizootic investigations 1.
Member States shall ensure that an epizootic investigation is carried out by the competent authority if the examination provided for in point (a) of Article 28 shows the presence of (a) an exotic disease listed in Part II of Annex III in any Member State; or (b) a non-exotic disease listed in Part II of Annex III in Member States, zones or compartments declared free of such disease. 2.
Where the epizootic investigation provided for in paragraph 1 shows that the disease may have been introduced into one or more farms, mollusc farming areas or unenclosed waters, the Member State concerned shall ensure that the measures provided for in Article 28 are applied in such farms, mollusc farming areas or unenclosed waters.
In the case of extensive water catchment areas or coastal areas, the competent authority may decide to limit the application of Article 28 to a less extensive area in the vicinity of the farm, or the mollusc farming area suspected of being infected, where it considers that such less extensive area is sufficiently large to guarantee that the disease does not spread. 4.
Article 30 Lifting restrictions The competent authority shall lift the restrictions provided for in point (b) of Article 28 where the examination provided for in point (a) of that Article fails to demonstrate the presence of the disease.
SECTION 3 MINIMUM CONTROL MEASURES IN THE CASE OF CONFIRMATION OF EXOTIC DISEASES IN AQUACULTURE ANIMALS Article 31 Introductory provision This Section shall apply in the case of confirmation of an exotic disease listed in Part II of Annex III in aquaculture animals.
Article 32 General measures Member States shall ensure that: (a) the farm or mollusc farming area is officially declared infected; (b) a containment area appropriate to the disease in question, is established, including a control zone and surveillance zone, around the farm or mollusc farming area declared infected; (c) no restocking takes place and no aquaculture animals are moved into, within, and out of the containment area unless authorised by the competent authority.
Article 33 Harvesting and further processing 1.
Further processing shall be performed in authorised processing establishments.
Article 34 Removal and disposal 1.
Member States shall ensure that dead fish and crustaceans, as well as live fish and crustaceans exhibiting clinical signs of disease are removed and disposed of under the supervision of the competent authority in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council[18], as soon as possible in accordance with the contingency plan provided for in Article 47 of this Directive. 2.
Aquaculture animals which have not reached commercial size and do not exhibit clinical signs of disease shall, in an appropriate timeframe taking into account the type of production and the risk such animals pose for further spread of the disease, be removed and disposed of under the supervision of the competent authority in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002, and the contingency plan provided for in Article 47 of this Directive.
Article 35 Fallowing Where possible, an infected farm or mollusc farming area shall undergo an appropriate period of fallowing after being emptied and, where appropriate, cleansed and disinfected.
Article 36 Protection of aquatic animals Member States shall take the necessary measures to prevent the spreading of the disease to other aquatic animals.
Article 37 Lifting measures The measures provided for in this Section shall be maintained until: (a) the eradication measures provided for in this Section have been carried out; and (b) sampling and surveillance as appropriate for the disease in question and the types of aquaculture production businesses affected has been carried out in the containment area with negative results.
SECTION 4 MINIMUM CONTROL MEASURES IN THE CASE OF CONFIRMATION OF NON –EXOTIC DISEASES IN AQUACULTURE ANIMALS Article 38 General provisions 1.
In the case of confirmation of a non-exotic disease listed in Part II of Annex III in a Member State, zone or compartment declared free of that disease, the Member State concerned shall apply the measures provided for in Section 3 in order to regain such disease-free status. 2.
Article 39 Containment measures In the case of confirmation of a non-exotic disease listed in Part II of Annex III in a Member State, zone or compartment free of that disease, the Member State concerned shall take measures to contain the disease.
Those measures shall at least consist of: (a) declaring the farm or mollusc farming area to be infected; (b) establishing a containment area appropriate to the disease in question, including a control zone and surveillance zone around the farm or mollusc farming area declared infected; (c) restricting the movement of aquaculture animals from the containment area to the effect that such animals may only be: (i) introduced into farms or mollusc farming areas in accordance with Article12(2); or (ii) harvested and slaughtered for human consumption in accordance with Article 33(1); (d) the removal and disposal of dead fish and crustaceans, under the supervision of the competent authority in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002, in an appropriate timeframe taking into account the type of production and the risk such dead animals pose for further spread of the disease.
SECTION 5 MINIMUM CONTROL MEASURES IN THE CASE OF CONFIRMATION OF DISEASES LISTED IN PART II OF ANNEX III IN WILD AQUATIC ANIMALS Article 40 Control of diseases listed in Part II of Annex III in wild aquatic animals 1.
Where wild aquatic animals are infected or suspected of being infected with exotic diseases listed in Part II of Annex III, the Member State concerned shall monitor the situation, and take the necessary measures to prevent the further spreading of the disease. 2.
Where wild aquatic animals are infected or suspected of being infected with non-exotic diseases listed in Part II of Annex III in a Member State, zone or compartment declared free of that disease, the Member State shall also monitor the situation and take the necessary measures to prevent the further spreading of the disease. 3.
Member States shall inform the Commission and the other Member States, within the Committee referred to in Article 62(1) of the measures they have taken in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2.
SECTION 6 CONTROL MEASURES IN CASE OF EMERGING DISEASES Article 41 Emerging diseases 1.
Article 43 National provisions for limiting the impact of diseases not listed in Part II of Annex III 1.
Where a disease not listed in Part II of Annex III constitutes a significant risk for the aquatic animal health situation or the environment in a Member State, the Member State concerned may take measures to control that disease. 2.
Chapter VI Control programmes and vaccination SECTION 1 CONTROL AND ERADICATION PROGRAMMES Article 44 Drawing up and approval of control and eradication programmes 1.
Where a Member State not declared free of one or more of the non-exotic diseases listed in Part II of Annex III, draws up a control and eradication programme (‘the programme’) for achieving disease-free status for one or more of those diseases, it shall submit that programme for approval in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(3).
However, where a programme provided for in paragraph 1 is to cover individual compartments or zones, which comprise less than 75% of the territory of the Member State, and the zone or compartment consists of a water catchment area not shared with another Member State or third country, the procedure referred to in Article 50(1) shall apply for any approval, or amendment or termination of such programme. 2.
Article 45 Content of programmes Programmes shall not be approved unless they contain at least the following: (a) a description of the epidemiological situation of the disease before the date of commencement of the programme; (b) an analysis of the estimated costs and the anticipated benefits of the programme; (c) the likely duration of the programme and the objective to be attained by the completion date of the programme; (d) a description and demarcation of the geographical and administrative area in which the programme is to be applied.
Article 46 Period of application of programmes 1.
Member States shall submit the contingency plans for approval in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(2).
Member States shall ensure that vaccination against the exotic diseases listed in Part II of Annex III is prohibited unless such vaccination is approved in accordance with Articles 41, 42, 44, or 47. 2.
Member States shall ensure that vaccination against the non-exotic diseases listed in Part II of Annex III is prohibited in any parts of their territory declared free of the diseases in question, or covered by approved control and eradication programmes.
Member States shall ensure that the vaccines used are authorised in accordance with Directive 2001/82/EC and Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. 4.
Chapter VII Disease-free status Article 49 Disease-free Member State 1.
A Member State shall be declared free of one or more of the non-exotic diseases listed in Part II of Annex III in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(2) if paragraph 2 of this Article is complied with, and : (a) none of the susceptible species are present in its territory; (b) the pathogen is known not to be able to survive in the Member State, and in its water source; or (c) the Member State meets the conditions laid down in Part I of Annex V. 2.
The specific requirements for surveillance, sampling and diagnostic methods that shall be used by Member States to declare disease-free status in accordance with this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(2).
Article 50 Disease-free zone or compartment 1.
The central competent authority of a Member State may, after having informed the Commission and the other Member States thereof, and after having, on request, submitted the supporting evidence therefore, declare the disease-free status of a zone or compartment within its territory of one or more of the non-exotic diseases listed in Part II of Annex III where: (a) none of the susceptible species are present in the zone or compartment, and in its water source; (b) the pathogen is known not to be able to survive in the zone or compartment, and where relevant in its water source; or (c) the zone or compartment complies with the conditions laid down in Part II of Annex V. 2.
Where the zone(s) or compartment(s) referred to in paragraph 1 comprise more than 75% of the territory of the Member State, or if the zone or compartment consists of a water catchment area shared by another Member State or third country, the procedure referred to in paragraph 1, shall be replaced by the procedure referred to in Article 62(2). 3.
The specific requirements of the surveillance, sampling and diagnostic methods used by Member States to declare disease-free status in accordance with this Article shall be laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(2).
Article 51 Lists of disease-free Member States, zones or compartments 1.
Each Member State shall establish and maintain an updated list of zones and compartments declared disease-free in accordance with Article 50(1).
The Commission shall draw up and update a list of Member States, zones or compartments declared disease-free in accordance with Article 49 or 50(2), and shall make this list public.
Article 52 Maintenance of disease-free status A Member State that is declared free from one or more non-exotic diseases listed in Part II of Annex III in accordance with Article 49 may discontinue targeted surveillance and maintain its disease-free status provided that the conditions conducive to clinical expression of the disease in question exist, and the relevant provisions of this Directive are implemented.
However, for disease-free zones or compartments in Member States not declared disease-free, and in all cases where conditions are not conducive to clinical expression of the disease in question, targeted surveillance shall be continued in accordance with the methods provided for in Articles 49(3) or 50(3) as appropriate, but at a level commensurate with the degree of risk.
Article 53 Suspension and restoration of disease free status 1.
Where a Member State has reason to believe that any of the conditions for maintaining its status as a disease-free Member State, zone or compartment have been breached, that Member State shall immediately suspend trade in susceptible species and carrier species to other Member States, zones or compartments declared free of the disease in question, and apply the provisions of Sections 2 and 4 of Chapter V. 2.
Chapter VIII Competent authorities and laboratories Article 54 General obligations 1.
Information shall also be exchanged to the extent necessary between the competent authorities of the different Member States. 3.
Article 55 Community reference laboratories 1.
Community reference laboratories for the aquatic animal diseases relevant to this Directive shall be designated in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(2) for a period to be defined in accordance with that procedure. 2.
Community reference laboratories for aquatic animal diseases shall comply with the functions and duties laid down in Part I of Annex VI. 3.
Article 56 National reference laboratories 1.
Member States shall arrange for the designation of a national reference laboratory for each of the Community reference laboratories referred to in Article 55.
The national reference laboratory shall liaise with the relevant Community reference laboratory provided for in Article 55. 4.
In order to ensure an efficient diagnostic service throughout the territory of a Member State in accordance with the requirements of this Directive, the national reference laboratory shall collaborate with any laboratory designated in accordance with Article 57 situated in the territory of the same Member State. 5.
Member States shall ensure that any national reference laboratory on their territory is adequately equipped and staffed with the appropriate numbers of trained personnel to carry out the laboratory investigations required in accordance with this Directive and to comply with the functions and duties laid down in Part II of Annex VI.
Article 57 Diagnostic services and methods Member States shall ensure that: (a) laboratory examinations for the purposes of this Directive are carried out in laboratories designated for such purpose by the competent authority; (b) laboratory examinations in the case of suspicion and to confirm the presence of the diseases listed in Part II of Annex III are carried out by diagnostic methods to be established in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(2); (c) laboratories designated for diagnostic services in accordance with this Article shall comply with the functions and duties laid down in Part III of Annex VI.
Chapter IX Inspections, electronic management and penalties Article 58 Community inspections and audits 1.
Experts from the Commission may also carry out on-the-spot inspections, including audits, in third countries, in cooperation with the competent authorities of the third country concerned, in order to verify conformity with or equivalence to Community aquatic animal health rules. 3.
Where such measures are not taken, or where they are considered to be insufficient, the measures necessary to safeguard animal health shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(3) and the Member State concerned shall be informed thereof.
Article 59 Electronic management 1.
The Commission shall, in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(2), adopt detailed rules for the implementation of paragraph 1 in order to facilitate the interoperability of information systems and use of procedures by electronic means between Member States.
Article 60 Penalties The Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they are implemented.
Chapter X Amendments, detailed rules and committee procedure Article 61 Amendments and detailed rules 1.
Article 15(1) may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(2), after consultation of the appropriate scientific committee. 2.
The Annexes to this Directive may be amended in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(2). 3.
Article 62 Committee procedure 1.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Articles 5 and 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply.
Chapter XI Transitional and final provisions Article 63 Repeal 1.
Article 64 Transitional provisions Transitional provisions may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 62(2) for a period of four years from the date of entry into force of this Directive.
They shall apply those provisions from [1 January 2007].
ANNEX III Disease listing PART I CRITERIA FOR LISTING DISEASES A.
Exotic diseases shall meet the following criteria laid down in point 1 and 2 or 3. 1.
It has potential for significant economic impact if introduced into the Community, either by production losses in Community aquaculture or by restricting the potential for trade in aquaculture animals and products thereof. 3.
Non-exotic diseases shall meet the following criteria laid down in point 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 2 or 3. 1.
It has potential for significant economic impact if introduced into a Member State that is free of the disease, either by production losses, and annual costs associated with the disease and its control exceeding 5% of the value of the production of the susceptible aquaculture animal species production in the region, or by restricting the possibilities for international trade in aquaculture animals and products thereof. 3.
PART II LISTED DISEASES EXOTIC DISEASES | DISEASE | SUSCEPTIBLE SPECIES | FISH | Epizootic haematopoietic necrosis | Redfin perch (Perca fluviatilis), rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss), Macquarie perch (Macquaria australasica), silver perch (Bidyanus bidyanus), mountain galaxias (Galaxias olidus), sheatfish (Silurus glanis), catfish (Ictalurus melas) and mosquito fish (Gambusa affinis) and other species belonging to the family Poeciliidae | Epizootic ulcerative syndrome | Genera Channa, Mastacembelus, Puntius, Trichogaster, Catla, Mugil, Labeo. | MOLLUSCS | Infection with Bonamia exitiosa | Ostrea chilensis and O.
angasi | Infection with Xenohaliotis californiensis | Members of the genus Haliotis including black abalone (H.
sorenseni). | Infection with Perkinsus marinus | Crassostrea virginica and C.
gigas | Infection with Microcytos mackini | Crassostrea gigas, C.
virginica, Ostrea edulis and O.
conchaphila. | CRUSTACEANS | Taura syndrome | Pacific white shrimp (Penaeus vannamei), Pacific blue shrimp (P.
stylirostris) and Gulf white shrimp (P.
setiferus). | Yellowhead disease | Black tiger shrimp (Penaeus monodon), Pacific white shrimp (P.
vannamei), Pacific blue shrimp (P.
stylirostris), Gulf white shrimp (P.
setiferus), Gulf brown shrimp (P.
aztecus), Gulf pink shrimp (P.
duorarum), and Kuruma prawn (P.
japonicus | NON-EXOTIC DISEASES | DISEASE | SUSCEPTIBLE SPECIES | FISH | Spring viraemia of carp | Common carp and koi carp (Cyprinus carpio), grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idellus), silver carp (Hypophthalmichthys molitrix), bighead carp (Aristichthys nobilis), crucian carp (Carassius carassius), goldfish (Carassius auratus), tench (Tinca tinca) and sheatfish (Silurus glanis) | Viral haemorrhagic septicaemia | Fish belonging to the family Salmonideae, grayling (Thymallus thymallus), white fish (Coregonus spp.), pike (Esox lucius), turbot (Scophthalmus maximus), herring and sprat (Clupea spp.), Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.), Atlantic cod (Gadus morhua), Pacific cod (G.
macrocephalus), haddock (G.
aeglefinus) and rockling (Onos mustelus). | Infectious haematopoietic necrosis | Fish belonging to the family Salmonidae, pike (Esox lucius) | Koi herpes virus | Common carp and koi carp (Cyprinus carpio). | Infectious salmon anaemia | Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar), rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss), brown trout (Salmo trutta), | MOLLUSCS | Infection with Marteilia refringens | Ostrea edulis, O.
angasi and Ostrea chilensis | Infection with Bonamia ostreae | Ostrea edulis, O.
A medium-risk farm or mollusc farming area is a farm or mollusc farming area which: (a) has medium risk of spreading or contracting diseases to/from other farms or wild stocks; (b) operates under farming conditions which not necessarily would increase the risk of disease outbreaks (medium biomass and water quality), taking into account the species present; (c) sells live aquatic animals mainly for human consumption.
A low risk farm of mollusc farming area is a farm or mollusc farming area which (a) has a low risk of spreading or contracting diseases to/from other farms or wild stocks, (b) operates under farming conditions which would not increase the risk of disease outbreaks (low biomass, good water quality), taking into account the species present, (c) sells live aquatic animals for human consumption only.
ANNEX V Requirements for declaring disease-free Member State, zone or compartment PART I DISEASE-FREE MEMBER STATE 1.
On historical grounds 1.1.
A Member State where susceptible species are present, but where there has not been any observed occurrence of the disease for at least for a period of 25 years before the date of entry of force of this Directive despite conditions that are conducive to its clinical expression may be considered disease-free where: (a) basic disease control conditions have been in place continuously for at least a period of 10 years before the date of entry into force of this Directive; and (b) infection is not known to be established in wild populations; and (c) the implementation of trade and imports conditions to prevent the introduction of the disease into the Member State is effective.
A Member State wishing to benefit from a disease-free status as provided for in this point, must submit an application in accordance with Article 49 no later than 2 years after entry into force of this Directive. 1.2.
The early detection system referred to in point 1.2 (b) must at least include the following: (a) broad awareness, among the personnel employed in aquaculture businesses or involved in the processing of aquaculture animals, of any signs consistent with the presence of a disease, and training of veterinarians or aquatic animal health specialists in detecting and reporting unusual disease occurrence; and (b) veterinarians or aquatic animal health specialists trained in recognising and reporting suspicious disease occurrence; and (c) access by the competent authority to laboratories with the facilities for diagnosing and differentiating listed and emerging diseases. 2.
Based on targeted surveillance A Member State where the last known clinical occurrence was within the period of 25 years before the date of entry into force of this Directive or where the infection status prior to targeted surveillance was unknown, because of the absence of conditions conducive to clinical expression, may be considered free from the disease where: (a) the Member State meets the basic disease control conditions laid down in point 1.2.; and (b) targeted surveillance in accordance with methods adopted pursuant to Article 49(3), has been in place for at least a period of two years before the date of entry into force of this Directive without detection of the disease agent on farm, or in mollusc farming areas that rears any of the susceptible species.
A zone where susceptible species are present, but where there has not been any observed occurrence of the disease for at least a period of 25 years before the date of entry into force of this Directive, despite conditions that are conducive to its clinical expression may be considered disease-free if it complies mutatis mutandis with the requirements in Part I.1.
A Member State wishing to benefit from a disease-free status as provided for in this point must notify its intention in accordance with Article 50(1) no later than 2 years after the entry into force of this Directive 1.4.
A compartment where susceptible species are present, but where there has not been any observed occurrence of the disease for at least for a period of 25 years before the date of entry of force of this Directive despite conditions that are conducive to its clinical expression may be considered disease-free if it complies mutatis mutandis with the requirements in Part I.1 of this Annex.
A compartment where the last known clinical occurrence was within a period of 25 years before the date of entry into force of this Directive or where the infection status prior to targeted surveillance was unknown, because of the absence of conditions conducive to clinical expression, may be considered free from the disease where it complies mutatis mutandis with the requirements in Part I.2, and the disease is not known to occur in the waters surrounding the compartment. 2.4.
Each farm or mollusc farming area in a compartment shall be subject to additional measures imposed by the competent authority, when considered necessary to prevent the introduction of diseases.
There must be natural or artificial barriers that prevent aquatic animals from entering each farm in a compartment from the surrounding watercourses. 3.4.
The compartment must comply, mutatis mutandis , with the requirements laid down in Part I.2 of this Annex. 3.6.
In order to be designated as a Community reference laboratory in accordance with Article 55, the laboratories must fulfil the following requirements.
The accreditation and assessment of testing laboratories referred to in paragraph 2 may relate to individual tests or groups of tests. 4.
For one or more of the diseases under their responsibility, the Community reference laboratories may take advantage of the skills and capacity of laboratories in other Member States or EFTA Member States provided the laboratories concerned comply with the requirements in points 1, 2 and 3 of this Annex.
The national reference laboratories designated pursuant to Article 56 shall be responsible for coordinating the diagnostic standards and methods within their field of responsibility in the respective Member State.
The accreditation and assessment of testing laboratories referred to in paragraph 1(i) may relate to individual tests or groups of tests. 3.
The Member States may designate national reference laboratories which do not comply with the requirements in point 1 (i) (i) of this Part, where operation under EN ISO/IEC 17025 is practically difficult, provided the laboratory operates under quality assurance in line with the guidelines in ISO 9001. 4.
Member States may authorise a national reference laboratory situated on their territory to take advantage of the skills and capacity of other laboratories designated pursuant to Article 57, for one or more of the diseases under their responsibility, provided that these laboratories comply with the relevant requirements of this Part.
The accreditation and assessment of testing laboratories referred to in paragraph 1(c) may relate to individual tests or groups of tests. 3.
The Member States may designate laboratories which do not comply with the requirements in point 1 (c) (i) of this Part, where operation under EN ISO/IEC 17025 is practically difficult, provided the laboratory operates under quality assurance in line with the guidelines in ISO 9001. 4.
Provision must be made to ensure access to emergency funds, budgetary means and financial resources in order to cover all aspects of the fight against exotic diseases listed in Part II of Annex III. 3.
Detailed plans must be available for Member States to be prepared for the immediate establishment of local disease control centres in the event of an outbreak of exotic diseases listed in Part II of Annex III or emerging diseases and to implement disease control and environment protection measures at a local level. 5.
Member States must ensure cooperation between the competent authorities and competent environmental authorities and bodies in order to ensure that actions on veterinary and environmental safety issues are properly coordinated. 6.
Staff must be regularly involved in training in clinical signs, epidemiological enquiry and control of epizootic diseases, in real-time alert exercises, and in training in communication skills to provide ongoing disease awareness campaigns for authorities, farmers and veterinarians. 10.
ANTI-FRAUD MEASURES Not relevant EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
Context of the proposal • Grounds for and objectives of the proposal - The proposal from the Commission for a new Council Directive on animal health requirements for aquaculture animals and products thereof, and on the prevention and control of certain diseases in aquatic animals, updates current disease control measures laid down in Council Directives 93/53/EEC and 95/70/EC, with the objective to achieve better control of outbreaks and to reduce the costs and losses and the negative impact to aquaculture industry due to diseases. - The proposal for a Council Regulation European Fisheries Fund (COM (2004) 497), allows Member States to allocate financial resources from the Operational Programmes set up in accordance with Title III of that Regulation, to control diseases in aquaculture animals, provided the diseases are referred to in Council Decision 90/424/EEC of 26 June 1990 on expenditure in the veterinary field - By this proposal, the Commission envisages therefore the necessary amendments of the current procedures governing the Community’s financial contribution towards veterinary measures in aquaculture animals, laid down in Council Decision 90/424/EEC, in order to take into account the proposals for a new aquatic animal health Directive and the European Fisheries Fund. • General context - The proposed changes in Community legislation on animal health requirements for aquaculture animals and products thereof should be made in parallel with amendments to Council Decision 90/424/EEC on Community expenditure in the veterinary field to bring it in line with the proposed new Directive and the proposal for the European Fisheries Fund (2007-2013), to ensure adequate financial support to the Member States in relation to the most serious diseases in aquaculture animals. - At present, Article 24 of Council Decision 90/424/EEC provides for a Community financial contribution eligible under Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999 to be granted to the Member States for some of the expenditure which they may incur when eradicating infectious salmon anaemia and infectious haematopoietic necrosis. • Consistency with other policies - The proposal would not affect the future development of the Community policy on animal health and the veterinary fund. - This proposal is in line with the proposal from the Commission to the Council for Council Regulation European Fisheries Fund (COM (2004) 497). 2.
Disease control actions for these diseases are currently eligible for a Community financial contribution under Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999 solely. - It is proposed that future financial contributions for aquatic animal disease control from the Community should be eligible through the European Fisheries Fund (Article 32 of COM (2004) 497). - In the proposal, compulsory slaughter/eradication will only be required under Community rules in relation to outbreaks of diseases that are considered exotic to the Community.
Community funding under the European Fisheries Fund may be made available for control measures of such diseases if the Member State so decides. - If an exotic disease did occur in the Community, it would have no additional financial impact on Community budget.
However, the figures above can give an indication. 2005/0154 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION amending Decision 90/424/EEC on expenditure in the veterinary field THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 37 thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[20], Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament[21], Having regard to the opinion of the European Economic and Social Committee[22], Having regard to the opinion of the Committee of the Regions[23], Whereas: (1) Council Decision 90/424/EEC of 26 June 1990 on expenditure in the veterinary field[24] provides for the possibility of a financial contribution from the Community to the Member States for the eradication of certain animal diseases.
Currently, that Decision also provides for the possibility to grant such contribution for the eradication of the diseases infectious salmon anaemia (ISA) and infectious haematopoietic necrosis (IHN), both affecting salmonides. (2) Disease control actions for ISA and IHN are eligible for Community financial contributions under Regulation (EC) No 2792/1999 of 17 December 1999 laying down the detailed rules and arrangements regarding Community structural assistance in the fisheries sector[25] solely. (3) In the light of the adoption of Council Directive 200Y/xxx on animal health requirements for aquaculture animals and products thereof, and on the prevention and control of certain diseases in aquatic animals[26], it is appropriate to amend Decision 90/424/EEC so that Community financial contribution should also be granted for eradication measures carried out by the Member States to combat other diseases in aquaculture animals, subject to Community control provisions. (4) The Member States have been granted financial contributions to support their national fisheries and aquaculture sector under Regulation (EC) No xxxx/2005 of zz/zz 2005 on the European Fisheries Fund[27].
Article 3 This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels For the Council The President LEGISLATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENT Policy area(s): Health and Consumers Protection Activity: Food safety, animal health, animal welfare and plant health | TITLE OF ACTION: PROPOSAL FOR A COUNCIL DECISION AMENDING COUNCIL DECISION 90/424/EEC ON EXPENDITURE IN THE VETERINARY FIELD | 1.
ANTI-FRAUD MEASURES Not relevant [1] OJ C , , p. . [2] OJ C , , p. . [3] OJ C , , p. . [4] OJ C , , p. . [5] OJ L 46, 19.2.1991, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 806/2003 (OJ L 122, 16.5.2003, p. 1). [6] OJ L 175, 19.7.1993, p. 23.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [7] OJ L 332, 30.12.1995, p. 33.
Directive as last amended by the 2003 Act of Accession. [8] OJ L 206, 22.7.1992, p. 7.
Directive as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 1882/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 284, 31.10.2003, p. 1). [9] OJ L 139, 30.4.2004, p. 206; corrected version (OJ L 226, 25.6.2004, p.83).
Regulation as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 (OJ L 165, 30.4.2004, p. 1); corrected version (OJ L 191, 28.5.2004, p. 1). [10] OJ L 165, 30.4.2004, p. 1. [11] COM/2004/2/Final. [12] OJ L 139, 30.4.2004, p. 1; corrected version (OJ L 226, 25.6.2004, p. 3). [13] OJ L 224, 18.8.1990.
p. 29 Directive as last amended by Directive 2002/33/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 315, 19.11.2002, p. 14). [14] OJ L 311, 28.11.2001, p. 1.
Directive as last amended by Directive 2004/28/EC (OJ L 136, 30.4.2004 p. 58). [15] OJ L 136, 30.4.2004, p. 1. [16] COM(2004) 497 final – Proposal for a Council Regulation European Fisheries Fund. [17] OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23. [18] OJ L 273, 10.10.2002, p. 1. [19] See Part II, point 3.2 of Impact Assessment. [20] OJ C ,, p.. [21] OJ C ,, p.. [22] OJ C ,, p.. [23] OJ C ,, p.. [24] OJ L 224, 18.8.1990, p. 19.
Decision as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 806/2003 (OJ L 122, 16.5.2003, p. 1). [25] OJ L 337, 30.12.1999, p. 10. [26] COM (2005) 362 final. [27] COM (2004) 497. [28] For further information, see separate explanatory note. [29] For further information, see separate explanatory note.
