Communication from the Commission on Policy priorities in the fight against illegal immigration of third-country nationals /* COM/2006/0402 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 19.7.2006 COM(2006) 402 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION on Policy priorities in the fight against illegal immigration of third-country nationals COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION on Policy priorities in the fight against illegal immigration of third-country nationals 1.
INTRODUCTION 1.
In particular, in its 2001 Communication on a common policy on illegal immigration, the Commission announced its intention to ´address the issue of illegal immigration with a comprehensive approach´ that addresses the different stages of the migration process.
The three 2002 Council Action Plans on illegal immigration, external borders and return listed a comprehensive set of measures.
A further annex contains statistical data on migration flows to the EU-25. 3.
Illegal immigration is a complex phenomenon that must be tackled in all its dimensions. 11.
POLICY PRIORITIES 13.
The Community Borders Code, including the non-binding practical guide for border guards to be issued in September 2006, the Regulation on local border traffic and the Regulation establishing the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders (FRONTEX) together represent a legal and operational framework through which border controls can be further developed to a high standard. 19.
In the context of intelligence-led border management[6], advance passenger information is used for border control purposes.
Technology should also be used in the entry/exit context .
The second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) will contribute to maintaining a high level of security within an area without internal border controls.
Such a system could also be used as a register of workers from third countries to facilitate legal migration management, in particular for seasonal workers schemes, in line with the 2005 Policy Plan on legal migration. 27.
The EU Plan on best practices, standards and procedures for combating and preventing trafficking in human beings, adopted by the Council on 1 December 2005 and based on the Commission Communication[8], sets the agenda in this field for the medium term.
Document security relates to border controls but is also an important factor in post entry measures.
The Commission is also actively cooperating with third countries, especially neighbouring countries and countries in the Western Balkans, to help secure their travel documents with biometrics.
This system is expected to become operational in 2007. 35.
In addition, and in order to address the lack of sound evidence and up-to-date information, a study will be launched in 2007 on current practices, effects and impacts of regularisation measures in Member States.
Some Member States have taken measures further to a 1995 Council Recommendation on harmonising means of combating illegal immigration and illegal employment and improving relevant means of control[10], including obliging employers to verify the immigration status of third country nationals before offering employment through checks with the authorities responsible for issuing residence and work permits.
At the same time, the Commission will launch in 2006 an evaluation of impact and possible shortcomings with respect to the ‘facilitators package’, comprising Directive 2002/90/EC and Council Framework Decision 2002/946/JHA which define the facilitation of unauthorised entry, transit and residence and strengthen the penal framework to prevent the facilitation of such phenomena.
The Commission will start discussions with Member States and relevant stakeholders, in particular employers´ organisations and trade unions, on employers’ liability in respect of employment by enterprises of illegally staying third country nationals.
The Policy Plan announced a proposal for a general framework Directive for 2007 to guarantee a common framework of rights for all third-country nationals in legal employment which will also include measures to combat illegal employment.
Improving exchange of information through existing instruments 49.
Carriers’ liability 53.
With respect to carriers´ obligations to prevent illegal immigration, Article 26 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement, the Carriers Liability Directive 2001/51/EC and Directive 2004/82/EC on the obligation of carriers to communicate passenger information are particularly relevant.
The forum set up in 2001 and composed of representatives from Member States, transport industry, and humanitarian organizations, should explore possibilities of cooperation between migration authorities and carriers, and identify best practice in the course of 2007. 4.
Informal exchange of information between Member States as well as monitoring of Member States' compliance with the existing acquis by the Commission is crucial in order for the measures to take their full intended effects. 55.
This would allow border control authorities to filter out passengers who fall under one of these categories, in order to carry out additional checks. [7] See also COM(2005) 597, 24.11.2005. [8] COM(2005) 514, 18.10.2005. [9] For the purpose of this Communication, such illegal employment is understood to comprise any kind of remunerated economic activity undertaken by a third-country national who is illegally present in the EU (covering all third-country nationals not in possession of a valid permit for stay or residence). [10] OJ C 5, 10.1.1996, p. 1. [11] COM(2005) 669,[12]8UVWuvwx›ô + , 2 8 @ o p ijš›ÜÝÞßzÍÜø 21.12.2005.
