At its 422nd plenary session (meeting of 14 December 2005) the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 125 votes to 2 with 7 abstentions: 1.
Introduction 1.1 The framework of the opinion 1.1.1 This opinion is the response to a request made by Commissioner Loyola Palacio.
In her letter of referral of 2 July 2004, after stating that "the Commission appreciates the active role played by the Economic and Social Committee in promoting an open dialogue between the non-state actors of the ACP and the European Union" she asks the Committee to draw up an "exploratory opinion on how to include social aspects in the negotiations on the Economic Partnership Agreements, concentrating on employment, labour standards, social security and gender questions". 1.1.2 The Economic Partnership Agreements (EPA) are governed by Article 37 of the Cotonou Agreement.
The European Union must provide financial and technical assistance to contribute to the practical implementation of an initiative of this kind. 2.1.3 The Committee has already come out in favour of strong involvement of civil society [13], also bearing in mind that, in the Cotonou Agreement, the provisions on participation of non-state actors are found in more than 30 articles, in a final declaration, and in Annex IV on implementation and management procedures.
The main emphasis should be on employment and entrepreneurship, labour standards, social security and gender questions [19]. 2.3.3 At regional level, some roadmaps provide for civil society to be involved in the negotiating phases and in the national and regional committees.
The casual sector and craft SMEs account for 70 % of employment in production.
There are three basic strands of measures to be integrated: sectoral policies — agriculture, in particular, measures to improve the production system, measures to improve distribution. 5.3.1 An initiative is needed to stimulate the private sector by: - investment in human resources and research, to introduce skills necessary for launching socially-acceptable development processes which are sustainable in the long term; - organisation- and institution-building, including institution-building in central and local public administrations, economic bodies and, in particular, employers' and workers' associations; - development and dissemination of "technological packages" [27]; - practical courses on product storage, transport and processing, which help to improve market operation.
This means that the economy as a whole could benefit from training being provided for women in particular [28]. 5.3.4 In each region, the EPA should be able to guarantee and improve: - non-discriminatory access to education; - development and dissemination of vocational training in technical subjects; - close cooperation between non-state actors and NGOs, to ensure more widespread and more effective distribution of training opportunities; - exchanges of expertise between European [29] and ACP organisations [30]. 5.3.5 There is a close relationship between level of education and prospects for a stable job.
The delegations should be specifically tasked with promoting gender mainstreaming [39] in order to establish a capacity-building strategy targeting women [40]. 6.2.2 Given that the programmed participation of the EU delegations and the Regional Preparatory Task Forces that are following the EPA negotiations, together with any planned development cooperation initiatives, must be underpinned by the Community acquis [41], the EESC calls for the impact studies to include uniform gender statistics in order to provide a clearer picture of the impact of the various trade measures on men and women in the ACP countries and regions. 6.3 If we are to address the gender dimension in the Economic Partnership Agreements, we must recognise that the transition towards free trade with the European Union will have a particular impact on women as producers and consumers, and that they are consequently an important part in the process [42].
While free trade is clearly not in itself the cure for famine and poverty, nor the optimum instrument for achieving sustainable development, it must be regarded as one of the factors capable of promoting competitiveness, as part of a partnership project. 7.3.1 The EESC calls for appropriate funds to be allocated to strengthening the representation of civil society in the six areas of the ACP countries and in the already existing relations between organised civil society in the EU countries and in the ACP countries. 7.3.2 Consequently, all trade rules complexities should be discussed and resolved in consultation with civil society representatives, since it is they who will have to deal with the consequences of the decisions. 7.3.3 In particular, the European Commission should support as a matter of urgency the funding of regional cooperation structures including civil society actors in the ACP countries, and primarily the social partners, to promote the association and direct integration of the latter in the process of ACP regional integration and in the preparation of the EPAs.
