At its 427th plenary session, held on 17 and 18 May 2006 (meeting of 17 May), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 137 votes to 2 with 4 abstentions. 1.
In that communication the Commission talked about %quot%the worsening of unsustainable trends%quot%, noted that progress on integrating environmental concerns into sectoral policies was %quot%limited so far%quot%, that %quot%poverty and social exclusion%quot% were a %quot%growing problem%quot%, and that %quot%in a world of growing 'interdependence' we cannot continue to produce and consume as we are doing today%quot%. [5] drawn up in 2005 are on the table which at best can be considered ideas and background material for a revised strategy, but in no way a new, revised strategy for the next four years that addresses current — and increasingly worrying — trends. 2.6 The EESC is surprised that the Commission has not provided any detailed comments on its recent exploratory opinion Assessing the EU sustainable development strategy [6], although it had promised to do so.
This conflicts with the conclusions of the European Council of March 2005, in which sustainable development was identified as the overarching strategy of the EU. 2.8 In this opinion, the EESC will consider mainly whether the statements, questions and recommendations that it presented in its above-mentioned opinions of April 2004 and May 2005 have been taken on board and applied. 2.9 The opinion also considers whether the Commission's own explicit undertakings are being fulfilled. 3.
In June 2005 the European Council confirmed this interpretation of the concept of development, and several European Commission documents prove that such an approach is also effective [9]. 3.7 However, a broad debate among political and social stakeholders is first required about the values we have in Europe — sometimes in contrast to other regions of the world — and which we must defend, and the objectives we wish to achieve in Europe through sustainable development.
If Europe takes the lead in maintaining living conditions, this might for example cause unsustainable production to be transferred from Europe to other parts of the world (which would not be a positive achievement from a global perspective) and have a negative impact on the competitiveness of European companies.
However, the Committee deeply regrets that the communication gets bogged down in the analysis and gives no indication of how external costs are to be internalised in this way. 3.17 In its opinion of April 2004 the EESC called on the Commission to take action here by seeking and conducting dialogue with all the parties involved.
The aim will be to identify obstacles encountered by operators, promote best practice, provide information on the organisations responsible for these innovative projects, establish a bottom-up approach and enhance the expertise available to the Commission in particular when it draws up proposals for directives, impact analyses and communications. 3.26 The Committee also believes that the reform of the International Monetary Fund announced in 2008 provides the European delegation with an opportunity to speak with one voice in order to ensure that the concept of sustainable development becomes one of the conditions for granting aid. 3.27 The EESC welcomes the Commission's stated intention to review the sustainability process every two years in a progress report, involving both the European Council and the European Parliament, and also making use of the EESC and the CoR in their role as social catalysts.
It also hopes that the discussions which will be defined by the Commission at a later stage will be consistent with its commitment to make proper use of synergies between European policies and to make trade-offs so that the objective of sustainability can be achieved. 3.29 Although the Committee fully supports the target of earmarking 3 % of GDP for R%amp%D (with two thirds of funding provided by the private sector), it considers that this investment and the resulting innovation must be part of an overall plan to promote sustainable development.
As far as possible, the Commission should present — in collaboration with Eurostat and its national counterparts — a regular report summarising the situation, in order to ensure consistency between the Lisbon strategy and the overarching sustainable development strategy.
In particular, the Commission should update the Laeken indicators [22] on quality of work [23] and strengthen this dimension in the guidelines. 4.2.2 The Commission says that it will consult the social partners on the issue of the work-life balance.
Thus the Commission writes: %quot%The EU and Member States should ensure sufficient funding and management of the Natura 2000 network of protected areas, and better integrate biodiversity concerns into internal and external policies to halt the loss of biodiversity%quot%.
Given the financial decisions taken by the EU Council in December 2005, which cut funding precisely in this sector, it will be immediately obvious to the general public just how much aspirations differ from reality in EU policy. 4.3.2 The %quot%Operational objectives and targets%quot% for %quot%Better management of natural resources%quot% set out in Annex 2 merely repeat already familiar and adopted policies, such as the target published in a 1997 (!) White Paper [24] of achieving a 12 % share of renewable energy sources in the energy mix by 2010, but which the Commission itself in its communication of 26 May 2004 [25] assumes it will probably not meet using current measures.
It is also a technological approach that could help prevent the rise in transport levels in certain developing countries towards the levels of the industrialised world from leading to environmental and climate collapse. 4.4.8 Such strategic goal-setting in transport, and implementation of EESC calls for sustainable transport development [29], would be worthy of a European strategy for sustainable development, and would allow the %quot%win-win%quot% effects that are often evoked to become a reality. 4.5 %quot%Global poverty and development challenges%quot% 4.5.1 The communication must be criticised for more or less recycling demands that the EU has been making for years, but which have not been implemented.
