The Partnership for European renewal in the field of Freedom, Security and Justice.[3] According to the Action Plan the Commission shall submit proposals in 2005 on (1) the establishment of a principle of availability of law enforcement relevant information and (2) on adequate safeguards and effective legal remedies for the transfer of personal data for the purpose of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
On 13 July 2005, the Council (Justice and Home Affairs) in its Declaration on the EU response to the London bombings[4] called on the Commission to present these proposals by October 2005.
This Framework Decision shall ensure the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial co-operation in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union (TEU, Title VI).
Concerns about a sufficient level of data protection were also reflected in a cooperation agreement signed by seven Member States on 27 May 2005 in Prüm (Germany, Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France, and Spain) and which they recommend as a model for the exchange of information between the Member States of the Union in general.
The Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data[12] contains fundamental rules on the lawfulness of the processing of personal data as well as on the rights of the data subject.
Particular reference has to be made to the close relation between the proposed Framework Decision and the Commission’s Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the retention of data processed in connection with the provision of public electronic communication services and amending Directive 2002/58/EC.[22] 2) Consultation of interested parties and impact assessment - Consultation of interested parties Consultation methods, main sectors targeted and general profile of respondents On 22 November 2004 and on 21 June 2005, the Commission invited and consulted experts of the Governments of the Member States, Iceland, Norway and Switzerland, and on 11 January 2005 experts of the Data Protection Authorities of these States.
The Working Party set up according to Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC was regularly informed about the ongoing developments.
On 12 April and 21 June 2005, the Commission attended meetings of the Police Working Party of the Conference of the European Data Protection Authorities.
On 31 January 2005, the Commission participated in a "Public Seminar: Data protection and citizens' security: what principles for the European Union?” held by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
A legal instrument on the protection of personal data in the third pillar can, in principle, contribute to fostering police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters with regard to its efficiency as well as its legitimacy and compliance with fundamental rights, in particular the right to protection of personal data.
Such a system must include provisions laying down appropriate rights of the data subject and powers of the supervisory authorities as exercising those rights and powers is likely to contribute to the quality of the data concerned. - Impact assessment The following options were considered: applicability of Directive 95/46/EC; no or later proposal for provisions on the protection of personal data in the third pillar; limited set of specific provisions in a legal act concerning the exchange of information under the principle of availability; Framework Decision on the protection of personal data in the third pillar.
The Commission carried out an impact assessment; which is listed in the Work Programme and the impact assessment report is available on http://europa.eu.int/comm/dgs/justice_home/evaluation/dg_coordination_evaluation_annexe_en.htm. 3) LEGAL ELEMENTS OF THE PROPOSAL - Summary of the proposed action The proposed Framework Decision includes general rules on the lawfulness of processing of personal data, provisions concerning specific forms of processing (transmission and making available of personal data to the competent authorities of other Member States, further processing, in particular further transmission, of data received from or made available by the competent authorities of other Member States), rights of the data subject, confidentiality and security of processing, judicial remedies, liability, sanctions, supervisory authorities and a working party on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences.
In particular in the light of the implementation of the principle of availability, appropriate provisions regarding the processing and protection of personal data, including common standards for the transmission of personal data to third countries and international bodies, are essential to improve police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, in particular for the fight against terrorism and serious crimes.
This Framework Decision respects the principle of subsidiarity provided for by Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union and Article 5 of the Treaty establishing the European Community insofar as it aims to approximate the laws and regulations of the Member States, which cannot be done adequately by the Member States acting unilaterally and requires concerted action within the European Union.
In particular, this decision only refers to the processing of personal data as far as relevant for police and judicial co-operation in criminal matters. - Choice of instruments Proposed instrument: framework decision.
Common standards regarding the processing and protection of personal data processed for the purpose of preventing and combating crime can contribute to achieving both aims. (4) The Hague Programme on strengthening freedom, security and justice in the European Union, adopted by the European Council on 4 November 2004, stressed the need for an innovative approach to the cross-border exchange of law-enforcement information under strict observation of key conditions in the area of data protection and invited the Commission to submit proposals in this regard by the end of 2005 at the latest.
This was reflected in the Council and Commission Action Plan implementing the Hague Programme on strengthening freedom, security and justice in the European Union [25]. (5) The exchange of personal data in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, notably under the principle of availability of information as laid down in the Hague Programme, should be supported by clear binding rules enhancing mutual trust between the competent authorities and ensuring that the relevant information is protected in a way excluding any obstruction of this cooperation between the Member States while fully respecting fundamental rights of individuals.
Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data[26] does not apply to the processing of personal data in the course of an activity which falls outside the scope of Community law, such as those provided for by VI of the Treaty on European Union and in any case to processing operations concerning public security, defence, State security and the activities of the State in areas of criminal law. (6) A legal instrument on common standards for the protection of personal data processed for the purpose of preventing and combating crime should be consistent with the overall policy of the European Union in the area of privacy and data protection.
At the same time the legitimate activities of the police, customs, judicial and other competent authorities should not be jeopardized in any way. (9) Ensuring a high level of protection of the personal data of European citizens requires common provisions to determine the lawfulness and the quality of data processed by competent authorities in other Member States. (10) It is appropriate to lay down at the European level the conditions under which competent authorities of the Member States should be allowed to transmit and make available personal data to authorities and private parties in other Member States. (11) The further processing of personal data received from or made available by the competent authority of another Member State, in particular the further transmission of or making available such data, should be subject to common rules at European level. (12) Where personal data are transferred from a Member State of the European Union to third countries or international bodies, these data should, in principle, benefit from an adequate level of protection. (13) This Framework Decision should define the procedure for the adoption of the measures necessary in order to assess the level of data protection in a third country or international body. (14) In order to ensure the protection of personal data without jeopardising the purpose of criminal investigations, it is necessary to define the rights of the data subject. (15) It is appropriate to establish common rules on the confidentiality and security of the processing, on liability and sanctions for unlawful use by competent authorities as well as judicial remedies available for the data subject.
It should advise the Commission and the Member States and, in particular, contribute to a uniform application of the national rules adopted pursuant to this Framework Decision. (19) Article 47 of the Treaty on European Union provides that none of its provisions shall affect the Treaties establishing the European Communities or the subsequent Treaties and Acts modifying or supplementing them.
This Framework Decision determines common standards to ensure the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in the framework of police and judicial co-operation in criminal matters, provided for by Title VI of the Treaty on European Union. 2.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply where - processing is provided for by a law and absolutely necessary for the fulfilment of the legitimate task of the authority concerned for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or if the data subject has given his or her explicit consent to the processing, and - Member States provide for suitable specific safeguards, for example access to the data concerned only for personnel that are responsible for the fulfilment of the legitimate task that justifies the processing.
CHAPTER III – Specific Forms of Processing SECTION I – TRANSMISSION OF AND MAKING AVAILABLE PERSONAL DATA TO THE COMPETENT AUTHORITIES OF OTHER MEMBER STATES ARTICLE 8 TRANSMISSION OF AND MAKING AVAILABLE PERSONAL DATA TO THE COMPETENT AUTHORITIES OF OTHER MEMBER STATES Member States shall provide that personal data shall only be transmitted or made available to the competent authorities of other Member States if necessary for the fulfilment of a legitimate task of the transmitting or receiving authority and for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences.
Member States shall provide that a competent authority that transmitted or made available personal data to a competent authority of another Member State shall inform the latter immediately if it should establish, either on its own initiative or further to a request by the data subject, that the data concerned should not have been transmitted or made available or that inaccurate or outdated data were transmitted or made available. 5.
Member States shall provide that a competent authority that has been informed according to paragraph 4 shall delete or rectify the data concerned.
Member States shall provide that personal data received from the authority of another Member State are deleted - if these data should not have been transmitted, made available or received, - after a time limit laid down in the law of the other Member State if the authority that transmitted or made available the data concerned has informed the receiving authority of such a time limit when the data concerned were transmitted or made available, unless the personal data are further needed for judicial proceedings, - if these data are not or no longer necessary for the purpose for which they were transmitted or made available. 8.
Section II – Further processing, in particular further Transmission and Transfer, of Data received from or made available by the competent authorities of other Member States ARTICLE 11 FURTHER PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA RECEIVED FROM OR MADE AVAILABLE BY THE COMPETENT AUTHORITY OF ANOTHER MEMBER STATE 1.
The personal data concerned shall be further processed for the purposes referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of this article only with the prior consent of the authority that transmitted or made available the personal data. 3.
Paragraph 1 (b) shall not apply if specific legislation under Title VI of the Treaty on European Union explicitly stipulates that personal data received from or made available by the competent authority of another Member State shall only be further processed for the purposes they were transmitted or made available for.
Article 12 Transmission to other competent authorities Member States shall provide that personal data received from or made available by the competent authority of another Member State are further transmitted or made available to other competent authorities of a Member State only if all of the following requirements are met: (a) the transmission or making available is provided for by law clearly obliging or authorising it. (b) the transmission or making available is necessary for the fulfilment of the legitimate task of the authority that has received the data concerned or of the authority to which they shall be further transmitted. (c) the transmission or making available is necessary for the specific purpose they were transmitted or made available for or for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or for the purpose of the prevention of threats to public security or to a person, except where such considerations are overridden by the need to protect the interests or fundamental rights of the data subject. (d) the competent authority of the Member State that has transmitted or made available the data concerned to the competent authority that intends to further transmit them or make them available has given its prior consent to their further transmission or making available.
Article 15Transfer to competent authorities in third countries or to international bodies 1.
Where, under the procedure provided for in Article 16, it is established that a third country or international body does not ensure an adequate level of protection within the meaning of paragraph 2, Member States shall take the measures necessary to prevent any transfer of personal data to the third country or international body in question. 5.
Article 16 Committee 1.
Article 17 Exceptions from Articles 12, 13, 14 and 15 Articles 12, 13, 14 and 15 shall not apply if specific legislation under Title VI of the Treaty on European Union explicitly stipulates that personal data received from or made available by the competent authority of another Member State shall not be further transmitted or only be further transmitted under more specific conditions.
The provision of the information laid down in paragraph 1 shall be refused or restricted only if necessary (a) to enable the controller to fulfil its lawful duties properly, (b) to avoid prejudicing of ongoing investigations, inquiries or proceedings or the fulfilment of the lawful duties of the competent authorities, (c) to protect public security and public order in a Member State, (d) to protect the rights and freedoms of third parties, except where such considerations are overridden by the need to protect the interests or fundamental rights of the data subject. 3.
If the information referred to in paragraph 1 is refused or restricted, the controller shall inform the data subject that he may appeal to the competent supervisory authority, without prejudice to any judicial remedy and without prejudice to national criminal procedure. 4.
The reasons for a refusal or restriction according to paragraph 2 shall not be given if their communication prejudices the purpose of the refusal.
The information laid down in paragraph 1 shall not be provided if necessary (a) to enable the controller to fulfil its lawful duties properly, (b) to avoid prejudicing of ongoing investigations, inquiries or proceedings or the fulfilment of the lawful duties of the competent authorities, (c) to protect public security and public order in a Member State, (d) to protect the rights and freedoms of third parties, except where such considerations are overridden by the need to protect the interests or fundamental rights of the data subject.
Any act the data subject is entitled to according to paragraph 1 shall be refused if necessary (a) to enable the controller to fulfil its lawful duties properly, (b) to avoid prejudicing of ongoing investigations, inquiries or proceedings or the fulfilment of the lawful duties of the competent authorities, (c) to protect public security and public order in a Member State, (d) to protect the rights and freedoms of third parties, except where such considerations are overridden by the need to protect the interests or fundamental rights of the data subject. 3.
A refusal or restriction of the rights referred to in paragraph 1 shall be set out in writing.
If the right referred to in paragraph 1 is refused or restricted, the controller shall inform the data subject that he may appeal to the competent supervisory authority, without prejudice to any judicial remedy and without prejudice to national criminal procedure. 4.
The carrying out of processing by way of a processor must be governed by a contract or legal act binding the processor to the controller and stipulating in particular that: - the processor shall act only on instructions from the controller, - the obligations set out in paragraphs 1 and 2, as defined by the law of the Member State in which the processor is established, shall also be incumbent on the processor. 5.
For the purposes of keeping proof, the parts of the contract or the legal act relating to data protection and the requirements relating to the measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be in writing or in another equivalent form.
The information to be contained in the register shall include (a) the name and address of the controller and of his representative, if any; (b) the purpose or purposes of the processing; (c) a description of the category or categories of data subject and of the data or categories of data relating to them; (d) the legal basis of the processing operation for which the data are intended; (e) the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the data might be disclosed; (f) proposed transfers of data to third countries; (g) a general description allowing a preliminary assessment to be made of the appropriateness of the measures taken pursuant to Article 24 to ensure security of processing. 2.
CHAPTER VI JUDICIAL REMEDIES AND LIABILITY Article 27 Remedies Without prejudice to any administrative remedy for which provision may be made, inter alia before the supervisory authority referred to in Article 30, prior to referral to the judicial authority, Member States shall provide for the right of every person to a judicial remedy for any breach of the rights guaranteed to him by the applicable national law pursuant to this Framework Decision to the processing in question.
CHAPTER VII SUPERVISORY AUTHORITY AND WORKING PARTY ON THE PROTECTION OF INDIVIDUALS WITH REGARD TO THE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA Article 30 Supervisory authority 1.
Each authority shall in particular be endowed with: - investigative powers, such as powers of access to data forming the subject-matter of processing operations and powers to collect all the information necessary for the performance of its supervisory duties, - effective powers of intervention, such as, for example, that of delivering opinions before processing operations are carried out, in accordance with Article 26, and ensuring appropriate publication of such opinions, of ordering the blocking, erasure or destruction of data, of imposing a temporary or definitive ban on processing, of warning or admonishing the controller, or that of referring the matter to national parliaments or other political institutions, - the power to engage in legal proceedings where the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Framework Decision have been violated or to bring these violations to the attention of the judicial authorities.
The report shall be made public. 6.
The supervisory authorities shall cooperate with one another as well as with the supervisory bodies set up under Title VI of the Treaty on European Union and the European Data Protection Supervisor to the extent necessary for the performance of their duties, in particular by exchanging all useful information. 8.
The Working Party shall take its decisions by a simple majority of the representatives of the supervisory authorities of the Member States. 4.
The Working Party shall, (a) examine any question covering the application of the national measures adopted under this Framework Decision in order to contribute to the uniform application of such measures, (b) give an opinion on the level of protection in the Member States and in third countries and international bodies, in particular in order to guarantee that personal data are transferred in compliance with Article 15 of this Framework Decision to third countries or international bodies that ensure an adequate level of data protection, (c) advise the Commission and the Member States on any proposed amendment of this Framework Decision, on any additional or specific measures to safeguard the rights and freedoms of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences and on any other proposed measures affecting such rights and freedoms. 2.
The Working Party may, on its own initiative or on the initiative of the Commission or the Council, make recommendations on all matters relating to the protection of persons with regard to the processing of personal data in the European Union for the purpose of the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences. 4.
The report shall be made public.
The report shall be made public.
This Framework Decision replaces Article 23 of the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union.. 2.
Any reference to the Convention No 108 of the Council of Europe of 28 January 1981 for the protection of individuals with regard to automatic processing of personal data shall be construed as a reference to this Framework Decision.
On the basis of this information and a written report from the Commission, the Council shall before 31 December 2007 assess the extent to which Member States have taken the measures necessary to comply with this Framework Decision.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President ANNEX LEGISLATIVE FINANCIAL STATEMENT Policy area(s): Justice and Home Affairs Activit(y/ies): 1806 – Establishing a genuine area of freedom, security and justice in criminal and civil matters | TITLE OF ACTION: PROPOSAL FOR A COUNCIL FRAMEWORK DECISION ON THE PROTECTION ON PERSONAL DATA PROCESSED IN THE FRAMEWORK OF POLICE AND JUDICIAL COOPERATION | 1.
BUDGET LINE(S) + HEADING(S) NA 2.
OVERALL FIGURES 2.1.
Total allocation for action (Part B): € million for commitment NA 2.2.
Period of application: starting 2006 2.3.
BUDGET CHARACTERISTICS Type of expenditure | New | EFTA contribution | Contributions form applicant countries | Heading in financial perspective | Non-comp | Non-diff | NA | NA | NA | No NA | 4.
LEGAL BASIS Article 30, 31 and 34 (2)(b)TEU 5.
DESCRIPTION AND GROUNDS 5.1.
Objectives pursued The proposed framework decision shall provide for common standards regarding the protection of personal data processed by the competent authorities in the context of activities provided for by Title VI of the Treaty on European Union (police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters).
Furthermore, according to Article 16 of the Framework Decision a committee, composed of the representatives of the Member States and chaired by a representative of the Commission, shall assist the Commission in order to assess, where necessary, the level of data protection in a third country. 5.1.2.
In order to estimate the possible cost caused by this measure, the Commission verified the cost (travel expenses, secretarial support for the preparation and organisation of meetings) currently incurred by the Working Party established according Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC. 5.2.
The committee referred to in Article 16 will meet if necessary and as often as necessary, possibly also five times a year.
Some orientation can be gained from the groups established according to Articles 29 and 31 of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. 5.3.
FINANCIAL IMPACT 6.1.
Calculation of costs by measure envisaged in Part B (over the entire programming period) NA 7.
Impact on human resources Types of post | Staff to be assigned to management of the action using existing and/or additional resources | Total | Description of tasks deriving from the action | Number of permanent posts | Number of temporary posts | Officials or temporary staff | A B C | 0.25 A 0,50 B 1,00 C | 0,25A0,50B 1,00C | Providing secretarial support, preparing the meetings of the working party and the committee | Other human resources | Total | 7.2.
Overall financial impact of human resources Type of human resources | Amount (€) | Method of calculation * | Officials Temporary staff | 1rst year: 189. 000 | 1 X 108 000 0.5 X 108 000 0,25 X 108.000 = 189 .000 | Other human resources (specify budget line) | Total | 189.000 | The amounts are total expenditure for twelve months. 7.3.
Other administrative expenditure deriving from the action Budget line (number and heading) | Amount € | Method of calculation | Overall allocation (Title A7) A0701 – Missions A07030 – Meetings A07031 – Compulsory committees A07032 – Non-compulsory committees A07040 – Conferences A0705 – Studies and consultations Other expenditure (specify) | 200.000 | 10 meetings* 27 * 740€ | Information systems (A-5001/A-4300) | Other expenditure - Part A (specify) | Total | 200.000 | The amounts are total expenditure for twelve months.
Annual total (7.2 + 7.3) II.
Duration of action III.
Total cost of action (I x II) | €389.000 | 8.
FOLLOW-UP AND EVALUATION 8.1.
The European Parliament will be informed in a manner analogous to that set out in Article 7 of Council Decision 99/468/EC of 28.6.1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission (OJ L 184, 17.7.1999, p. 23) . 8.2.
