Proposal for a Council Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement for scientific and technological co-operation between the European Community and the United Mexican States /* COM/2004/0802 final - CNS 2004/0274 */ Brussels, 14.12.2004 COM(2004) 802 final 2004/0274 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION on the conclusion of the Agreement for scientific and technological co-operation between the European Community and the United Mexican States (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
In its resolution of 14 March 1997 on the above mentioned communication, the European Parliament “calls on the Commission to negotiate, with due regard for the circumstances in each country, bilateral agreements establishing a legal framework for the promotion of RTD cooperation”.
On 22 January 2002, the Ambassador of Mexico to the EU presented Mexico’s official request to enter into negotiations with the European Community with a view to concluding a specific agreement for scientific and technological cooperation. 4.
On 12 July 2002, the Council authorized the Commission to negotiate an Agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and Mexico.
The negotiations resulted in the attached Agreement, initialed on 2 April 2003 in Mexico and signed on 3 February 2004. 5.
On 18 July 2003, the Commission submitted to the Council a proposal for a Council Decision authorising the signing of the abovementioned agreement.
The Council adopted this decision on 20 October 2003 and the attached agreement and the annexes thereto were signed on 3 February 2004. 6.
The principle of non-discrimination agreed under article 3 of the Agreement should protect Community participants in Mexican programmes and activities against any discriminatory treatment, also in respect of the dissemination and utilisation of results, including intellectual property rights.
Article 2 The President of the Council shall, acting on behalf of the Community, give the notification provided for in article 11 of the Agreement.
Article 4 - Areas of cooperative activities a) Cooperation under this Agreement may cover all the activities on research, technological development, demonstration and high-level scientific and technological training, hereinafter referred to as “RTD”, included in the RTD Framework Programme of the European Community, including fundamental research.
Article 5 - Forms of cooperative activities a) The Parties shall foster the participation of institutes of higher education, research and development centres and research and development entities in cooperative activities under this Agreement in conformity with their internal policies and regulations, with a view to providing opportunities for participation in their scientific and technological research and development activities.
Joint RTD projects shall be implemented when the participants have developed a technology management plan, as indicated in the Annex to this Agreement.
Article 6 - Coordination and facilitation of cooperative activities a) For the purposes of this Agreement, the Parties appoint the following authorities, acting as executive agents, for the coordination and facilitation of cooperative activities: on behalf of the United Mexican States, el Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología [National Science and Technology Council] and, on behalf of the Community, the representatives of the European Commission.
c) The functions of the Steering Committee shall include: 1.
This report shall be submitted to the Joint Committee established under the Association Agreement of 8 December 1997.
Article 7 - Funding a) Cooperative activities shall be subject to the availability of appropriated funds and to the applicable laws, regulations, policies and programmes of the Parties.
Article 9 - Dissemination and use of information The research entities established in Mexico which are involved in Community RTD projects shall follow, as regards the ownership, dissemination and utilisation of information and as regards the intellectual property stemming from this involvement, the rules on dissemination of research results stemming from the specific Community RTD programmes as well as the provisions in the Annex to this Agreement.
The research entities established in the Community which are involved in Mexican RTD projects shall have, as regards the ownership, dissemination and utilisation of information and as regards the intellectual property stemming from this involvement, the same rights and the same obligations as the Mexican research entities and shall be subject to the provisions in the Annex to this Agreement.
Article 10 - Territorial application This Agreement shall apply, on the one hand, to the territories in which the Treaty establishing the European Community applies and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty and, on the other hand, to the territory of Mexico.
Article 11 - Entry into force, termination and dispute settlement a) This Agreement shall enter into force on the date of the last written communication by which the Parties notify each other that their respective internal procedures necessary for its entry into force have been completed.
For the United Mexican States For the European Community Jaime Parada Avila, Director-General Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología +++++ TABLE +++++ This Annex is an integral part of the "Agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and the United Mexican States", hereinafter referred to as "the Agreement".
Copies shall also bear a clearly visible acknowledgement of the cooperative support of the Parties.
Undisclosed information communicated under this Agreement may be disseminated by the receiving Party to persons linked to or employed by the receiving Party and other concerned departments or agencies in the receiving Party authorised for the specific purposes of the joint research under way, provided that any undisclosed information so disseminated shall be pursuant to an agreement of confidentiality and shall be readily recognisable as such, as set out above. 4.
For the United Mexican States For the European Community Jaime Parada Avila, Director-General Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología [1] OJ L276, 28.10.2000, p. 44 [2] OJ C , , p. . [3] OJ C , p.
