Proposal for a Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council Introducing a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on the unilateral recognition by Czech Republic, Estonia, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Slovenia, Slovakia of certain documents as equivalent to their national visas for the purposes of transit through their territories /* COM/2005/0381 final - COD 2005/0158 */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 22.8.2005 COM(2005) 381 final 2005/0158 (COD) 2005/0159 (COD) Proposal for a DECISION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL Introducing a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on the unilateral recognition by Czech Republic, Estonia, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Slovenia, Slovakia of certain documents as equivalent to their national visas for the purposes of transit through their territories Proposal for a DECISION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL establishing a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on the unilateral recognition by the Member States of certain residence permits issued by Switzerland and Liechtenstein for the purpose of transit through their territory. (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
The current Schengen “acquis” establishes the principle of mutual recognition of uniform visa (Art.10 of the Convention of 19 June 1990 implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985 between the governments of the States of the Benelux economic union, the Federal Republic of Germany and the French Republic on the gradual abolition of checks at their common borders (hereinafter referred to as the “Schengen Convention”)[1], confirmed by Article 2 of Regulation (EC) No 539/2001[2] stating that a visa issued by a Schengen Member State is also valid for crossing the external borders of another Schengen Member State for short stay or transit purposes.
The current Schengen provisions (Articles 18 and 21 of the Schengen Convention) also foresee a system of mutual recognition of long term visas and residence permits issued by Member States fully implementing the Schengen acquis.
The definition of the Schengen visa in Article 2 of Regulation No 539/2001excludes the possibility that a short term visa issued by a State fully implementing the Schengen acquis could be recognized as equivalent to a national visa issued by another Member State not fully integrated into the common area so that the latter Member State may not, on the basis of this lack of equivalence, authorize the transit and the stay in its territory of citizens of third country nationals submitted to a visa obligation without requiring its own national visa.
Article 5(1) builds on the system of mandatory mutual recognition of short stay visa established by Article 10 of the Schengen Convention.
This Article 5(1) which is also applicable to new Member States from the date of accession does not oblige old Schengen Member States to recognise visa issued by new Member States; nor does it oblige new Member States to recognise Schengen visas.
Article 3 A new Member State that applies Article 2 may, in addition, recognise national short term visas, long term visas and resident permits issued by one or more other new Member States as equivalent to its national visa for the purpose of transit.
Article 4 Member States may only recognise documents as equivalent to their national visas for the purpose of transit if the duration of the transit by the third country national through the territory of the new Member State(s) shall not exceed five days.
The period of validity of the documents referred to in Articles 2 and 3 shall cover the duration of the transit.
Article 6 This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 2 Member States fully implementing the Schengen acquis shall unilaterally recognise the residence permits issued by Switzerland and Liechtenstein which are listed in the Annex.
Article 3 The duration of the transit of the third country national through the territory of the Member State(s) shall not exceed five days.
Article 5 This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union .
Article 6 This Decision is addressed to Member States.
RESIDENCE PERMITS ISSUED BY SWITZERLAND - Ausländerausweis B / Livret pour étrangers B / Libretto per stranieri B / Legitimaziun d’esters B (Temporary residence permit type B.
Issued in versions of three or four languages) (Gray) - Ausländerausweis C / Livret pour étrangers C / Libretto per stranieri C (Permanent residence permit type C) (Green) - Ausländerausweis Ci / Livret pour étrangers Ci / Libretto per stranieri Ci (Residence permit type Ci for family members of officials at intergovernmental organisations and foreign representations to the Federation of Switzerland.
Concerns accompanying partner and children under 21 years of age) (Red) B.
RESIDENCE PERMITS ISSUED BY LIECHENSTEIN - Jahresaufenthaltsbewilligung (Temporary residence permit ) - Niederlassungs bewilligung (Establishment permit which validity is unlimited in time). - GENERAL ANNEX 1.
