[pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 18.04.2005 COM(2005) 146 final 2005/0056 (CNS) Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION concerning the signing of the Agreement between the European Community and the Kingdom of Denmark extending to Denmark the provisions of Council Regulation (EC) No 1348/2000 on the service in the Member States of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION concerning the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and the Kingdom of Denmark extending to Denmark the provisions of Council Regulation (EC) No 1348/2000 on the service in the Member States of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters (presented by the Commission) EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM 1.
As a consequence, Community instruments adopted in the field of, among others, judicial cooperation in civil matters are not binding upon or applicable in Denmark.
One of these Community instruments is Council Regulation (EC) No. 1348/2000 on the service in the Member States of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters.
It revised and modernized the rules of the Brussels Convention of 1968 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgements to which all Member States including Denmark are a party.
The Council decided on 8 Mai 2003 to exceptionally authorize the Commission to negotiate an agreement with Denmark with the view to make the provisions of Regulation (EC) 44/2001 as well as the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1348/2000 applicable to Denmark under international law. 2.
As a result, the parallel agreement contains in particular the following provisions: - appropriate rules on the role of the Court of Justice to ensure the uniform interpretation of the instrument applied by the parallel agreement between Denmark and the other Member States; - a mechanism to enable Denmark to accept future amendments by the Council to the basic instrument and the future implementing measures to be adopted under Article 202 of the EC Treaty; - a clause providing that the agreement is considered terminated if Denmark refuses to accept such future amendments and implementing measures; - rules specifying Denmark’s obligations in negotiations with third countries for agreements concerning matters covered by the parallel agreement; - the possibility of denouncing the parallel agreement by giving notice to the other Contracting Party. 3.
Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION concerning the signing of the Agreement between the European Community and the Kingdom of Denmark extending to Denmark the provisions of Council Regulation (EC) No 1348/2000 on the service in the Member States of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION, Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Community, and in particular Article 61(c) and in conjunction with the first subparagraph of Article 300(2) thereof, Having regard to the proposal from the Commission[2], Whereas: (1) In accordance with Articles 1 and 2 of the Protocol on the position of Denmark, annexed to the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, Denmark is not bound by the provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1348/2000[3], nor subject to their application. (2) By Decision of 8 May 2003, the Council authorised the Commission to negotiate an agreement between the European Community and the Kingdom of Denmark extending to Denmark the provisions of the above-mentioned Regulation. (3) The Commission has negotiated such agreement, on behalf of the Community, with the Kingdom of Denmark. (4) The United Kingdom and Ireland, in accordance with Article 3 of the Protocol on the position of the United Kingdom and Ireland annexed to the TEU and the TEC, are taking part in the adoption and application of this Decision. (5) In accordance with Articles 1 and 2 of the above-mentioned Protocol on the position of Denmark, Denmark is not taking part in the adoption and application of this Decision. (6) The Agreement, initialled at Brussels on 17 January 2005, should be signed.
Article 2 The President of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the person empowered to make the notification provided for in Article 10(2) of the Agreement.
WHEREAS the Convention on the service in the Member States of the European Union of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters drawn up by the Council of the European Union by Act of 26 May 1997[7] has not entered into force and that continuity in the results of the negotiations for conclusion of the Convention should be ensured, 7.
DESIRING that the provisions of the Regulation on the service of documents, future amendments hereto and the implementing measures relating to it should under international law apply to the relations between the Community and Denmark being a Member State with a special position with respect to Title IV of the Treaty establishing the European Community, 10.
CONSIDERING that Denmark should, under the same conditions as other Member States in respect of the Regulation on the service of documents and its implementing measures, be accorded the possibility to request the Court of Justice of the European Communities to give rulings on questions relating to the interpretation of this Agreement, 17.
Whereas, by virtue of article 300(7) of the Treaty establishing the European Community, this agreement binds Member States; it is therefore appropriate that Denmark, in the case of non compliance by a Member State, should be able to seize the Commission as guardian of the Treaty; HAVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS: ARTICLE 1 Aim 1.
The aim of this Agreement is to apply the provisions of Council Regulation (EC) No. 1348/2000 of 29 May 2000 on the service in the Member States of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters (“the Regulation on the service of documents“) and its implementing measures to the relations between the Community and Denmark, in accordance with Article 2(1). 2.
ARTICLE 2 Cooperation on the service of documents 1.
The provisions of the Regulation on the service of documents, which is annexed to this Agreement and forms part thereof, together with its implementing measures adopted pursuant to Article 17 of the Regulation and – in respect of implementing measures adopted after the entry into force of this Agreement – implemented by Denmark as referred to in Article 4 of this Agreement, and the information communicated by Member States under Article 23 of the Regulation, shall under international law apply to the relation between the Community and Denmark. 2.
The date of entry into force of this Agreement shall apply instead of the date referred to in Article 25 of the Regulation.
ARTICLE 3 Amendments to the Regulation on the service of documents 1.
Denmark shall not take part in the adoption of amendments to the Regulation on the service of documents and no such amendments shall be binding upon or applicable in Denmark. 2.
Notification shall be given at the time of the adoption of the amendments or within 30 days hereafter. 3.
A Danish notification that the content of the amendments have been implemented in Denmark, cf.
ARTICLE 4 Implementing measures 1.
Denmark shall not take part in the adoption of opinions by the Committee referred to in Article 18 of the Regulation on the service of documents.
Implementing measures adopted pursuant to Article 17 shall not be binding upon and shall not be applicable in Denmark. 2.
Whenever implementing measures are adopted pursuant to Article 17 of the Regulation, the implementing measures shall be communicated to Denmark.
Notification shall be given upon receipt of the implementing measures or within 30 days hereafter. 3.
The notification shall state that all necessary administrative measures in Denmark enter into force on the date of entry into force of the implementing measures or have entered into force on the date of the notification, whichever date is the latest. 4.
Requests that have been transmitted before the date of termination of the Agreement as set out in paragraph 5 are not affected hereby. 7.
Denmark shall communicate to the Commission the information referred to in Articles 2, 3, 4, 9, 10, 13, 14, 15, 17(a) and 19 of the Regulation on the service of documents.
The manual and the glossary drawn up pursuant to Article 17 shall include also the relevant information on Denmark.
ARTICLE 5 International agreements which affect the Regulation on the service of documents 1.
ARTICLE 6 Jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in relation to the interpretation of the Agreement 1.
Where a question on the validity or interpretation of this Agreement is raised in a case pending before a Danish court or tribunal, that court or tribunal shall request the Court of Justice to give a ruling thereon whenever under the same circumstances a court or tribunal of another Member State of the European Union would be required to do so in respect of the Regulation on the service of documents and its implementing measures referred to in Article 2(1). 2.
Denmark shall be entitled to submit observations to the Court of Justice in cases where a question has been referred to it by a court or tribunal of a Member State for a preliminary ruling concerning the interpretation of any provision referred to in Article 2(1). 5.
Notification shall be given at the time of the entry into force of the amendments or within 60 days hereafter.
Termination shall take effect 3 months after the notification. 7.
ARTICLE 7 Jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in relation to compliance with the Agreement 1.
Denmark may bring a complaint to the Commission as to the non-compliance by a Member State of its obligations by virtue of this agreement. 3.
ARTICLE 8 Territorial application This Agreement shall apply to the territories referred to in Article 299 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
ARTICLE 9 Termination of the Agreement 1.
This Agreement shall terminate if Denmark informs the other Member States that it no longer wishes to avail itself of the provisions of Part I of the Protocol on the position of Denmark, cf.
Requests that have been transmitted before the date of termination of the Agreement as set out in paragraph 1 or 2 are not affected hereby.
ARTICLE 10 Entry into force 1.
ARTICLE 11 Authenticity of texts This Agreement is drawn up in duplicate in the Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, German, Greek, Hungarian, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Polish, Portuguese, Slovene, Slovak, Spanish and Swedish languages, each of these texts being equally authentic.
