Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies /* COM/2004/0775 final - COD 2004/0270 */ Brussels, 6.12.2004 COM(2004) 775 final 2004/0270 (COD) .
This Regulation is applicable as of 1 July 2001.
determination of BSE status Regulation (EC) No 1128/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the TSE Regulation as regards the extension of the period for transitional measures[2] extended the application of the transitional measures under Article 23 of the TSE Regulation by two years, until 30 June 2005.
The TSE Regulation establishes a monitoring programme for BSE and scrapie.
Commission Decision No. 2003/100/EC[3] introduced a harmonised breeding programme to select for resistance to TSEs in ovine animals as a transitional measure.
It is proposed to introduce a permanent legal basis for the breeding programme in the TSE Regulation.
It is proposed to replace the present rules in the TSE Regulation on the disposal of specified risk materials and animals infected by TSEs with a reference to Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002 laying down health rules concerning animal by-products not intended for human consumption.
It is therefore necessary to make certain technical amendments to the existing definition of ‘rapid tests’ in Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 in order to facilitate amending the structure of this Annex at a later stage. (5) In the interests of clarity of Community legislation, it is appropriate to clarify that the definition of ‘mechanically separated meat’ in Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 provided for in other Community legislation on food safety is applicable in the context of TSE eradication measures. (6) Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 establishes a monitoring programme for BSE and scrapie.
Therefore the monitoring system provided for in that Regulation should be extended to other TSEs, with the possibility to adopt further measures to implement that system at a later stage. (7) It is necessary to introduce a harmonised breeding programme to select for resistance to TSEs in ovine animals.
Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 should be amended to provide a permanent legal basis for that programme. (8) Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 prohibits the feeding of certain processed animal proteins to certain animals, with the possibility to provide for derogations.
Accordingly, in the interests of consistency of Community legislation, the existing rules in Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 on the disposal of such materials and animals should be replaced by a reference to Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002, and the reference to rules on transit in Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 should be deleted. (10) New developments concerning specified risk materials will also require comprehensive amendments to the Annex V to Regulation (EC) No 999/2001.
The absence of restrictions applicable to milk and dairy products should be clarified. (15) Based on evolving scientific knowledge and risk classification, and notwithstanding the possibility to adopt safeguard measures, Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 should permit the adoption in accordance with the comitology procedure of more specific requirements for the placing on the market and export of products of animal origin originating from Member States or third countries with a high risk of TSE. (16) Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 does not provide for on-the-spot checks in third countries to verify the criteria for classification and the fulfilment of requirements for the export of animals and animal products to the Community.
Pending the application of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004[14], Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 should be amended to provide for such checks. (17) Due to the developments in the World Organisation for Animal Health the final classification of countries according to their BSE risk is not expected to be completed by 1 July 2005.
Member States or third countries which have not submitted an application in accordance with the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 shall, with respect to the dispatch from their territory of live animals and products of animal origin, comply with the import requirements applicable to countries with a high BSE risk, until they have submitted such an application and a final decision has been taken on their BSE status.’ (3) Article 6 is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following: ‘1.
Each Member State shall carry out an annual monitoring programme for TSEs in accordance with Annex III.
The breeding programmes provided in paragraph 1 may be extended to include other animal species based on scientific evidence corroborating the resistance to TSE of particular genotypes of those species. 3.
The prohibition provided for in paragraph 1 shall be extended to animals and products of animal origin in accordance with Annex IV. 3.
Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply without prejudice to the provisions set out in Annex IV. 4.
The specified risk material shall be removed and disposed of in accordance with Annex V to this Regulation and Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002.
Paragraph 1 shall not apply to tissues from animals which have undergone an alternative test approved for that distinct purpose in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2) provided that this test is listed in Annex X, is applied under the conditions provided for in Annex V and the test results are negative.
In Member States, or regions thereof, where the removal of specified risk material is required as set out in Annex V, the laceration, after stunning, of central nervous tissue by means of an elongated rodshaped instrument introduced into the cranial cavity, or by means of gas injection into the cranial cavity in connection to stunning, shall not be used on bovine, ovine or caprine animals whose meat is destined for human or animal consumption.’ (7) In Article 8, paragraph 5 shall be replaced by the following: ‘5.
By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 to 4, a decision may be adopted in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2), with regard to the date of the effective enforcement of the feeding prohibition provided for in Article 7(1) or, as appropriate for a third country or region thereof with a BSE risk, the date of the effective enforcement of the ban of mammalian protein in feed for ruminants with a view to limiting the requirement to remove and destroy specified risk material to animals born before that date in those countries or regions. ’ (8) In Article 9, paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be replaced by the following: ‘1.
The products of animal origin listed in Annex VI shall be produced in accordance with production processes approved in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 24(2). 2.
Bones of the head, and vertebral columns of bovine, ovine and caprine animals from countries, or regions thereof, with a BSE risk, shall not be used for the production of mechanically separated meat.’ (9) Article 12 is amended as follows: (a) paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the following: ‘1.
Under the procedure referred to in Article 24(2) and by way of derogation from the official movement restrictions provided for in this paragraph, a Member State may be exempted from implementing such restrictions if it applies measures offering equivalent safeguards.’ (b) paragraph 3 shall be replaced by the following: ‘3.
Products of animal origin imported from a third country with a BSE risk shall come from healthy bovine, ovine and caprine animals which have not been subjected to a laceration of the central nervous tissue or gas injection into the cranial cavity as referred to in Article 8(3). 3.
Further conditions applicable to the placing on the market and export of products of animal origin originating in a Member State or third country, or a region thereof, with a high risk of BSE, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 24(2).’ (13) Article 21 shall be replaced by the following: ‘Article 21 Community controls 1.
Community checks concerning third countries shall be made in accordance with Directive 97/78/EC. 3.
