Communication from the Commission to the Council - Fishing Opportunities for 2007 Policy Statement from the European Commission /* COM/2006/0499 final */ [pic] | COMMISSION OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES | Brussels, 15.9.2006 COM(2006) 499 final COMMUNICATION FROM THE COMMISSION TO THE COUNCIL Fishing Opportunities for 2007Policy Statement from the European Commission TABLE OF CONTENTS 1.
Guiding principles for decision-making under the Common Fisheries Policy 3 1.2.
International commitments 4 1.3.
Further specific commitments 4 2.
Proposals for fishing opportunity regulations for 2007 4 3.
Priority for long-term planning 5 4.
A consistent basis for decision-making concerning TACs 5 4.1.
Stocks exploited consistently with maximum sustainable yield 6 4.2.
Stocks overexploited with respect to maximum sustainable yield but inside safe biological limits 6 4.3.
Stocks outside safe biological limits 7 4.4.
Stocks subject to long-term plans 7 4.5.
Stocks whose status is unknown but which are not at high biological risk 9 5.
Nephrops stocks 11 5.6.
Blue whiting 11 5.7.
This Communication, therefore, sets out the views of the Commission in the absence of scientific advice on the state of the stocks for 2007.
Guiding principles for decision-making under the Common Fisheries Policy Annual fishing opportunities should be set in accordance with the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy[1], that is, to achieve the exploitation of living aquatic resources that provides sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions.
However, the Commission does not always directly translate scientific advice on sustainability into proposals for regulations, for two reasons.
Decisions made by the Community concerning fishing opportunities should respect such commitments. 1.3.
PROPOSALS FOR FISHING OPPORTUNITY REGULATIONS FOR 2007 For 2007 the Commission intends to prepare three separate proposals for "fishing opportunities" regulations.
Proposals concerning deep-sea fisheries and for fish stocks in the Baltic Sea will be presented in September 2006.
Fishing opportunities concerning the remaining stocks will be covered by a proposal to be presented in late November 2006. 3.
Where recovery plans, long-term plans or management plans are adopted in Community legislation, they should be followed on an annual basis and TACs will be proposed that correspond to these plans.
The same is true of long-term management arrangements developed with third countries, such as Norway.
The Commission will continue the development and proposal of long-term management arrangements. 4.
The Commission therefore relies heavily on scientific advice provided by that Committee on the fishing opportunities consistent with biological sustainability.
Community stocks likely to be concerned: plaice in Area VII, megrims in VIIIc and IXa.
Comments : herring in IV and IIIa, saithe in IV, VI and IIIa(N), and haddock in IV and IIIa would also have been placed in this category but are subject to a joint management plan with Norway which will have a similar effect (arrangements for North Sea haddock are under review in 2006). 4.2.
Stocks overexploited with respect to maximum sustainable yield but inside safe biological limits Description : this category covers stocks that are not at risk of depletion due to recruitment failure in either the short or the long term but are exploited with a fishing mortality that is higher than Fmsy.
Community stocks likely to be concerned : whiting VIIe-k, herring in the Baltic Sea, sole in IIIa, anglerfish in VIIIc and IXa, herring in the Baltic Sea Management Unit 3, sprat in Baltic Sea subdivisions 22-32.
Fishing possibility for 2007 : TAC set : - to the forecast catch established by STECF as corresponding to the higher value of (a) an Fmsy proxy or (b) unchanged fishing mortality, but : - not more than 15% higher or lower than the TAC in 2006. 4.3.
Fishing possibility for 2007 : TAC set : - as a general rule, to the forecast catch established by STECF as corresponding to bringing the stock inside safe biological limits in 2008, but no more than 15% higher or lower than the TAC in 2006, - however, the TAC will in no case be set at a level that will lead to an increase in fishing mortality nor to a decrease in spawning biomass, even if this means a bigger reduction in the TAC than 15% (doing so would be counter to the Council and the Commission's commitments on the gradual approach to sustainability, see section 1.3). 4.4.
Where the Commission has proposed or the Council has adopted a recovery plan or long-term plan, the Commission will propose a TAC that is consistent with that plan.
Similarly, where the Community has entered into long-term management arrangements with third countries, those arrangements will usually govern the choice of TAC.
Community stocks concerned: cod in areas VIIa, VIa(N), IV, IIIa(N) and IIIaS(Kattegat); Northern and southern stocks of hake; sole in VIIIab and sole in VIIe; Norway lobster in VIIIc and IXa; cod in the Baltic Sea (Divisions 22-24 and 25-30); plaice and sole in IV.
Shared stocks concerned: saithe in IV, IIIa and VI; haddock in IV and IIIa, potentially plaice in IV; herring in IV, VIId and IIIa.
Fishing possibility for 2007: Fishing opportunities should be set in accordance with the relevant recovery plans (or, where recovery plans are not yet adopted by the Council) in accordance with the Commission's proposals.
For anchovy in IX, the Commission will propose a TAC at the same level as that adopted for 2006 unless a conservation problem arises later in 2006.
Community stocks likely to be concerned: whiting in IIIa, whiting in IV and VIId, plaice in IIIa, plaice in VIId, all stocks of horse mackerel, sandeel in IIIa, cod in VIIe-k, haddock in VIIe-k, plaice VIIh-k, plaice VIIbc, all stocks of pollack.
SPECIAL CASES 5.1.
For 2007 the Commission will propose fishing opportunities for cod stocks that are consistent with the provisions of the recovery plan if STECF is able to provide quantitative estimates of stock size and fishing mortality to allow the direct application of the plan.
Cod stocks in the Baltic Sea Concerning stocks of cod in the Baltic Sea, the Commission will shortly present its proposal for the recovery and long-term management of these two stocks.
While this is under discussion (and to be consistent with that proposal), the Commission will propose TACs for 2007 corresponding to the higher of a) 10% reduction in fishing mortality and b) 15% limit on TAC changes. 5.3.
For 2007 the Commission will propose substantial reductions in the TACs for deep-sea species with a view to bringing fishing mortality down to sustainable levels as rapidly as possible.
Quantifying these interactions is still a developing science, but some mixed fisheries are so well understood that it is clear that ignoring these interactions would clearly be incompatible with responsible fisheries management.
Examples include the flatfish fishery in the southern North Sea, (where most plaice are caught as a by-catch in the beam-trawl sole fisheries for sole), the mixed fishery for hake and Nephrops in the Iberian Atlantic area, and the mixed fisheries for sprat and herring in the North Sea and in the Skagerrak and Kattegat (managed by a herring by-catch quota).
Apart from the Nephrops in IXa which is covered by the Southern Hake and Nephrops recovery plan, the Commission will for 2007 propose the same TACs for Nephrops as were adopted for 2006. 5.6.
TECHNICAL MEASURES A review of technical measures for fisheries in Atlantic waters began in 2005 and is not likely to be completed by 2007.
The results of these calculations for 2007 are set out below.
Annex IIc (Western Channel sole) : 194 days-at-sea for gear groups 3.a.
L 358 31.12.2002, p.59 [2] UN World Summit on Sustainable Development, Johannesburg, September 2002. [3] COM(2006). [4] The fishing mortality that, in the long term, will result in the maximum sustainable yield from a stock. [5] The fishing mortality (Fpa) and spawning stock biomass (Bpa) that the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea advises as consistent with the precautionary approach.
