Part 1 sets out the general approach followed and the actions taken since the Hampton Court meeting.
In part 2 additional information is given on the way the Commission is taking work forward in each Hampton Court work stream.
INTRODUCTION At Hampton Court on 27 October 2005 the Heads of State and Government of the European Union had a fruitful discussion on Europe’s response to globalisation.
The Commission has started work immediately on each of the areas identified at Hampton Court.
DISCUSSIONS IN THE COUNCIL The Council has already organised a number of debates on the follow up of Hampton Court.
The “Education” Council of 15 November held an exchange of views on higher education , focussing on how the quality of higher education could be improved and on promoting top quality universities.
The “Competitiveness” Council on 28 November reached a partial general approach on the proposed 7th Framework Programme for research and development .
The “Energy” Council meeting on 1 December has been devoted to the implementation of the internal energy market and its practical impact.
This debate served also as a contribution to the preparation of the future action plan on energy efficiency.
The concept paper on strengthening the external projection of the European Union is foreseen for the June 2006 European Council.
The Commission is currently analysing the responses it received to its 2005 Green Paper and is preparing proposals on a better and fairer work-life balance.
A Communication on ‘Priority actions for responding to the challenges of migration: first follow-up to Hampton Court’ has already been adopted by the Commission on 30 November 2005 and the European Council is expected to identify concrete actions focussing on Africa and the Mediterranean countries.
A Communication on illegal migration will be presented in the first semester of 2006.
This work should also reflect the need to ensure a smooth transition between crisis management and long-term reconstruction and development.
