The purpose of this document is to assess the follow up given by Member States to the common objectives on participation by and information for young people adopted by the Council in 2003 under the youth Open Method of Coordination and to make suggestions for further improvements.
Common objectives were subsequently adopted by Member States for participation and information[8] in 2003 followed by voluntary activities[9] and a greater knowledge of youth[10] in 2004.
INFORMATION FOR YOUNG PEOPLE 2.1.
The European networks of EURODESK, ERYICA and EYCA play a crucial role in the development of training courses for their members.
In France , 32 youth information centres funded by the national authorities have their own staff training structure to ensure that quality standards are met.
Lack of resources, particularly at local level . 2.3.
Better interaction between the local, regional, national and European levels is however needed.
Practices to increase participation of young people in elections can be singled out in: - the Netherlands : parallel vote for youngsters; - Finland : voting in local elections as of 16; - France : automatic registration on electors’ list; - Belgium , the Netherlands and the UK : use of internet. 3.1.3.
Advantage should be taken of the impetus given by the above events and recent initiatives such as Plan D, in order to seek to nurture people’s sense of European citizenship by supporting a democratic infrastructure contributing to establishing a “human bridge” and a “Europe of faces”. 4.2.
To respond to these expectations and follow up on the Resolution of 24 May 2005 on the evaluation of activities conducted in the framework of European cooperation in the youth field[13], the Commission makes certain proposals to reinforce the OMC implementation and evaluation mechanisms (see point 6). 6.
These themes should be discussed together with priorities tackled under the OMC and the European Youth Pact - following current practice - as well as with horizontal priorities agreed upon in the youth field such as antidiscrimination and health; - The Commission supports the idea of an informal forum between youth representatives, presidencies , the European Parliament and the Commission that would meet regularly – in particular before Education, Youth and Culture Councils in the autumn and spring in Brussels - in order to improve coherence, continuity and progress between Presidency agendas in the youth field; - Regularly organise a European Youth week with the participation of Commissioners and representatives of other European institutions, preceded by a European youth portal consultation whenever possible, with a view to drawing conclusions on past events, identifying perspectives for the future and ensuring the visibility of the European youth programme; - Arrange encounters with young people who do not usually have contacts with the European institutions; - Organise a youth specific Eurobarometre (end 2006); - Invite the European Youth Forum to make the best use of opportunities offered by public consultations regularly launched by the Commission, notably through the internet, on policies relevant for young people; - Mobilise European information networks to support structured dialogue[15].
