Synthesis of Member States replies 3 2.1.
Member States’ views on a Community internal control framework 3 2.2.
Member States’ views on specific observations made by the Court of Auditors 6 3.
DAS errors 7 4.
Introduction Immediately after the Court of Auditors transmitted its Annual report concerning the financial year 2003[1] in November 2004 , the Commission informed each of the Member States of the observations specific to them in the report.
The Commission also invited Member States to reply to two general questions relating to the Court of Auditors’ Opinion no. 2/2004 on the ‘single audit’ model (and a proposal for a Community internal control framework)[2] (hereafter “the CICF opinion”).
The Financial Regulation requires the Commission to transmit a summary of the Member States’ replies to the Court of Auditors, the Council and the European Parliament before 15 February[3].
Question no. 1 In its opinion no. 2/2004 on the single audit model, the Court has included a proposal for a Community internal control framework.
The Commission shall remain responsible for the implementation of the EU budget, in accordance with article 274 of the Treaty. - Several Member States stress that an internal control framework already exists to some extent. - Common standards for financial control and internal audit must exist at all levels for the control chain.
One Member State proposes that the EU budget should bear the costs of Member State controls.
In a few cases, Member States foresee legal complications if such reports should be directly accessible to other control levels. - Some Member States point out that imprecise legislation and lack of guidelines cause irregularities. - Finally, some Member States argue that a change in the role of Member States in the internal control framework should be counterbalanced by a different approach in the audit and control acitivities of the Court of Auditors and the Commission , such as by reducing control activities in Member States in general and focusing on systems audits instead of doing on-the-spot controls.
However, a certain level of irregularity is unavoidable as the control systems are not designed to detect every irregular payment, but to limit the risk to the EU budget: - through dissuasive sanctions applied when irregularities are found in the 5 per cent of claims checked on the spot under the IACS system in agriculture - through recoveries in a later financial year when a final claim is submitted under a grant, or when an ex-post audit detects an irregularity The Court is now moving towards basing its statement of assurance on its assessment of the supervisory and control systems put into place to manage the risk of irregularity in claims, rather than on individual errors found during its audits.
The content of the replies varies as some Member States have described the current control framework in place in the Member State while others have commented on the role of Member States in general terms.
One proposes that each Member State should have a central coordination body carrying out effective and constant supervision.
Member States’ views on specific observations made by the Court of Auditors 22 Member States have replied to the Court’s specific observations.
Several Member States point out that the Court has not taken their replies into account in the 2003 Annual Report .
Two find that they were not duly notified of observations before they appeared in the 2003 Annual Report .
However, it should be noted that the amount in error (as a share of the total transaction amount) is usually in the lower range; thus, in more than 60 per cent of the cases, the amount in error is less than 10 per cent of the total transaction amount. 4.
The 2003 exercise has also provided the Commission with valuable information on Member States’ preliminary reactions to the Court of Auditors’ CICF opinion.
