On 8 June 2005 the European Parliament adopted a resolution on Policy Challenges and Budgetary Means of the Enlarged Union 2007-2013[2], followed by a resolution on the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure[3] adopted on 1 December 2005.
The purpose of this Interinstitutional Agreement is to provide a set of agreed rules concerning the multiannual financial framework and the sequence of operations as regards the annual budgetary procedure. 1.
Maintaining the fundamentals Agenda 2000 successfully fulfilled its main purposes as regards financial discipline, the orderly evolution of expenditure and interinstitutional collaboration during the budgetary procedure.
a) The present Interinstitutional agreement therefore proposes to maintain unchanged the main features of the financial framework: - expenditure is broken down by broad categories of expenditure called headings; for each year of the 2007-2013 period; - maximum amounts called ceilings are established in the financial framework table for the period 2007-2013 in terms of appropriations for commitments and for each heading; expenditure levels are based on the assumption that Bulgaria and Romania join the EU on 1 January 2007; in case of their accession at a later date, the expenditure ceilings may have to be revised accordingly; - overall annual amounts are expressed both for commitment appropriations and payment appropriations; - the annual ceiling for payment appropriations must respect the own resources ceiling currently established at 1,24 % of the EU gross national income (GNI).
Simplification, consolidation The present Interinstitutional Agreement provides for the renewal of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 in the light of experience acquired with its implementation but also for the consolidation of all the joint declarations and interinstitutional agreements concluded on budgetary matters since 1982.
a) The present agreement aims at incorporating the Interinstitutional Agreement of 7 November 2002 on the creation of the European Union Solidarity Fund (EUSF), agreed upon during the current period of the financial perspective as a separate supplementary interinstitutional agreement.
Agenda 2000 has so far succeeded in answering unforeseen challenges to the EU budget, though that has been done at the price of greater complexity and lower transparency, without necessarily improving effective resource allocation.
These instruments, to be used in the framework of the annual budget procedure according to the relevant provisions defined in the enclosed draft IIA, include: (a) the European Union Solidarity Fund, with unchanged amount and mobilisation procedure; (b) the Flexibility Instrument, whose maximum annual amount is increased to € 700 million, with the possibility to cover requirements of multiannual nature.
CONSEQUENCE FOR THE REGULATION ON BUDGETARY DISCIPLINE The experience with the 2000-2006 financial perspective has shown that there is no longer any need for maintaining the agricultural guideline foreseen in Council Regulation (EC) No 2040/2000 on budgetary discipline, since agriculture expenditure is already constrained by ceilings agreed till 2013.
The annexes I to IV form an integral part of the present proposed agreement. 3.1.
However, the codecision procedure has been regularly extended since 1995 and the strict provisions as regards reference amounts impose increasing constraints for budgetary policy.
Annual adjustments of the financial framework C.
Emergency Aid Reserve G.
European Union Solidarity Fund H.
Instrument of Flexibility I.
Classification of expenditure D.
Maximum rate of increase of non-compulsory expenditure in the absence of a financial framework E.
Incorporation of financial provisions in legislative acts F.
Expenditure relating to fisheries agreements G.
Comments are referred to changes vis-à-vis the previous Commission proposal or the text of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999.
Likewise, the European Parliament's position refers to the EP Resolution of 8 June 2005 on 'Policy challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged Union 2007-2013', the EP Resolution of 1 December 2005 on ‘The Inter-institutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure and the EP Resolution of 18 January 2006 on 'the European Council's position on the Financial Perspective and the renewal of the Interinstitutional Agreement 2007-2013'.
Text of the IIA | Comments | 1.
It is binding on all the institutions involved in its implementation for as long as the Agreement is in force. | 3.
Changes to the multiannual financial framework must be made in accordance with the procedures laid down for this purpose in this Agreement. | 5.
This Agreement is in two parts: – Part I contains a definition and implementing provisions for the multiannual financial framework[7] 2007 to 2013 and applies for the duration of that financial framework, – Part II relates to improvement of interinstitutional collaboration during the budgetary procedure. | 6.
This Agreement enters into force on 1 January 2007.
The 2007 to 2013 financial framework, set out in Annex I, forms an integral part of this Agreement.
The institutions acknowledge that each of the absolute amounts shown in the 2007 to 2013 financial framework represents an annual ceiling on expenditure under the general budget of the European Communities.
Without prejudice to any changes in these ceilings in accordance with the provisions contained in this Agreement, they undertake to use their respective powers in such a way as to comply with the various annual expenditure ceilings during each budgetary procedure and when implementing the budget for the year concerned. | §2 of the current IIA deleted (void): no specific heading for pre-accession expenditure is proposed for the financial framework 2007-2013. | 12.
No act adopted under the co-decision procedure by the European Parliament and the Council nor any act adopted by the Council which involves exceeding the appropriations available in the budget or the allocations available in the financial framework in accordance with point 11 may be implemented in financial terms until the budget has been amended and, if necessary, the financial framework has been appropriately revised in accordance with the relevant procedure for each of these cases. | Modifications: - Point 12 § 2: the specific nature of sub-heading 1B (Heading 2 in Agenda 2000), which only covers pre-allocated expenditure, is preserved for the period 2007-2013. - Point 12 § 3 of the current IIA deleted: the corresponding provision has been inserted in Part II, Article 41. | 14.
If need be, the two arms of the budgetary authority will decide, in accordance with Point 3 of the present Agreement, to lower the ceilings set in the financial framework in order to ensure compliance with the ceiling on own resources. | B.
Annual adjustments of the financial framework Technical adjustments 15.
The Commission will make these technical adjustments on the basis of a fixed deflator of 2% a year.
No further technical adjustments will be made in respect of the year concerned, either during the year or as ex-post corrections during subsequent years. 16.
Moreover, in the course of the negotiations on the 2007-2013 financial framework, a simplified 2% annual deflator was used systematically by the Commission to transform in 2004 prices all financial envelopes of new legal bases established in current prices.
When notifying the two arms of the budgetary authority of the technical adjustments to the financial framework, the Commission will present any proposals for adjustments to the total appropriations for payments which it considers necessary, in the light of implementation, to ensure an orderly progression in relation to the appropriations for commitments. | Modifications: - Point 17 of the current IIA deleted.
A declaration is proposed instead (enclosed at the end of this document). | Updating of forecasts for payment appropriations after 2013 18.
In 2010, the Commission will update the forecasts for payment appropriations after 2013.
This update will take into account the real implementation of budget appropriations for commitments and budget appropriations for payments, as well as the implementation forecasts.
Suspended commitments of year n cannot be rebudgeted beyond year n+1.
The Council decides on a proposal from the Commission and in compliance with the relevant provisions of the basic regulation. | New Point 19 linked to the proposal for a new regulation on the Cohesion Fund and to the excessive deficit procedure, notably the sanctions as regards the Cohesion Fund budgetary appropriations for commitments. | 20.
The European Parliament and the Council will take decisions on these proposals before 1 May of year n, in accordance with Point 3 of the present Agreement. | C.
In addition to the regular technical adjustments and adjustments in line with the conditions of implementation, the financial framework may be revised in compliance with the own resources ceiling, on a proposal from the Commission, in the event of unforeseen circumstances. | 23.
Any decision to revise the financial framework by up to 0,03% of the Community GNI within the margin for unforeseen expenditure will be taken jointly by the two arms of the budgetary authority acting in accordance with Point 3.
In the absence of a joint decision by the European Parliament and the Council on any adjustment or revision of the financial framework proposed by the Commission, the amounts set previously will, after the annual technical adjustment, continue to apply as the expenditure ceilings for the year in question. | F.
Emergency Aid Reserve 26.
The emergency aid reserve is included in Heading 4 'the EU as a global partner' of the financial framework.
Its annual amount is fixed at € 221 million for the duration of the financial framework, in constant prices.
The transfers are made in accordance with Article 26 of the Financial Regulation[11]. | Modifications and simplification: - § 1(a) of the current IIA: void.
Its scope is enlarged to the management of civil crisis and its amount is adjusted in 2004 prices (all figures of the proposed financial framework are expressed in constant prices (2004 prices). - § 2-5 of the current IIA: the procedure for the mobilisation of the reserve is updated to take into account the new Financial Regulation.
If necessary, supplementary needs for this reserve could be covered either by transfers from other operational budgetary lines, or by an amending budget to use the available margin. | G.
European Union Solidarity Fund 27.
There will be a ceiling on the annual amount available for the Solidarity Fund of € 1 billion.
On 1 October each year, at least one-quarter of the annual amount will remain available in order to cover needs arising until the end of the year.
The portion of the annual amount not entered in the budget may not be rolled over in the following years.
The decision to deploy the Solidarity Instrument will be taken jointly by the two arms of the budgetary authority in accordance with Point 3.
The corresponding commitment appropriations shall be entered in the budget over and above the relevant headings in the financial framework as laid down in Annex I.
At the same time as it presents its proposal for a decision to deploy the Solidarity Fund, the Commission will initiate a trialogue procedure, if necessary in a simplified form, to secure the agreement of the two arms of the budgetary authority on the need to use the Solidarity Fund and on the amount required. | New point: Point 27 incorporates the current IIA of 7 November 2002 on the European Union Solidarity Fund (EUSF).
Instrument of Flexibility 28.
The Instrument of Flexibility with an annual ceiling of € 700 million is intended to allow the financing, for a given financial year and up to the amount indicated, of clearly identified expenditure of one-off and/or multiannual character, which could not be financed within the limits of the ceilings available for one or more other headings.
The Commission proposal will be included in the preliminary draft budget or accompanied, in accordance with the Financial Regulation, by the appropriate budgetary instrument.
The decision to deploy the instrument of flexibility will be taken jointly by the two arms of the budgetary authority in accordance with Point 3.
The annual amount of the flexibility instrument is increased to € 700 million per year and its scope broadened to cover also the possibility to cater for justified needs extending beyond one year.
The corresponding commitment appropriations shall be entered in the budget under the relevant heading, if necessary over and above the relevant amount as laid down in Annex I. | New provision. | J.
Where the Union is enlarged to include new Member States during the period covered by this financial framework, the European Parliament and the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission and in accordance with Point 3, will jointly adjust the financial framework to take account of the expenditure requirements resulting from the outcome of the accession negotiations. | § 2 of the current IIA deleted (void): no specific table including supplementary financial requirements for an enlargement during the 2007-2013 financial framework is foreseen. | K.
It will take into account: – accurate forecasts in relation to the Structural Funds provided by the Member States, – the capacity for utilising appropriations, endeavouring to maintain a strict relationship between appropriations for commitments and appropriations for payments, – the possibilities for starting up new policies through pilot projects and/or new preparatory operations or continuing multiannual operations which are coming to an end, after assessing whether it will be possible to secure a basic act, within the meaning of Article 49 of the Financial Regulation (definition of a basic act, necessity of a basic act for implementation and exceptions), – the need to ensure that any change in expenditure in relation to the previous year is in accordance with the constraints of budgetary discipline.
The institutions will, as far as possible, avoid entering items in the budget carrying insignificant amounts of expenditure on operations.
In the interest of sound financial management and due to the effect of major changes in the budget nomenclature in the titles and chapters on the management reporting responsibilities of Commission departments, the two arms of the budgetary authority undertake to discuss any such major changes with the Commission during the conciliation procedure. | Additions: - New § 2 aims at formalising a practice already in use. - New § 3 is linked to the previous one and underlines the link between sound financial management and ensuring a certain stability in the budget nomenclature. | C.
Classification of expenditure 35.
The institutions consider compulsory expenditure to be such expenditure as the budgetary authority is obliged to enter in the budget by virtue of a legal undertaking entered into under the Treaties or acts adopted by virtue of the said Treaties. | 36.
Agreement will be sought during the conciliation procedure provided for in Annex II. | D.
Maximum rate of increase of non-compulsory expenditure in the absence of a financial framework 37.
Without prejudice to the setting of a new rate, any portion of the maximum rate which has not been utilised will remain available for use and may be used when draft supplementary and/or amending budgets are considered; (b) without prejudice to paragraph (a), if it appears in the course of the budgetary procedure that completion of the procedure might require agreement on setting a new rate of increase for non-compulsory expenditure to apply to payment appropriations and/or a new rate to apply to commitment appropriations (the latter rate may be at a different level from the former), the institutions will endeavour to secure an agreement between the two arms of the budgetary authority by the conciliation procedure provided for in Annex II. | E.
Incorporation of financial provisions in legislative acts 38.
Legislative acts concerning multiannual programmes adopted under the co-decision procedure contain a provision in which the legislative authority lays down the financial envelopes for the programme.
If the amount concerned has been the subject of an agreement pursuant to the conciliation procedure provided for in the Joint Declaration of the European Parliament, Council and the Commission of 4 March 1975[12], it will be considered a reference amount within the meaning of point 38 of this Agreement. | 40.
The financial statement provided for in Article 28 of the Financial Regulation will reflect in financial terms the objectives of the proposed programme and include a schedule covering the duration of the programme.
The appropriations will be revised, where necessary, when the preliminary draft budget is drawn up, taking account of the extent of implementation of the programme. | 41.
Expenditure relating to fisheries agreements 42.
The institutions agree to finance expenditure on fisheries agreements in accordance with the arrangements set out in Annex IV, which forms an integral part of this Agreement. | G.
The European Parliament, the Council and the Commission agree that the amount for actions entered under the article mentioned in the fourth indent may not exceed 20% of the overall amount of the CFSP budget chapter. | Updating. | 44.
Furthermore, according to the agreement reached at the conciliation meeting on 24 November 2003, the Council Presidency and the two incoming Presidencies will keep Parliament informed by holding joint consultation meetings at least five times a year to be agreed at the latest at the conciliation meeting to be held before the Council 2nd reading.
Once a quarter the Commission will inform the budgetary authority about the implementation of CFSP actions and the financial forecasts for the remaining period of the year. | The modification in § 1 is in line with the agreement reached at the conciliation meeting on 24 November 2003. | ANNEX I FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK 2007-2013 ANNEX II INTERINSTITUTIONAL COLLABORATION IN THE BUDGETARY SECTOR Comments | A.
If necessary it will update its estimates in the course of the budgetary procedure.
If it considers it necessary, the Commission may present to the two arms of the budgetary authority an ad hoc letter of amendment to update the figures underlying the estimate of agricultural expenditure in the preliminary draft budget and/or to correct, on the basis of the most recent information available concerning fisheries agreements in force on 1 January of the financial year concerned, the amounts and their breakdown between the appropriations entered in the operational items for international fisheries agreements and those entered in reserve.
The purpose of the conciliation procedure is to: (a) continue discussions on the general trend of expenditure and, in this framework, on the broad lines of the budget for the coming year in the light of the Commission's preliminary draft budget; (b) secure agreement between the two arms of the budgetary authority on: – the appropriations referred to in point 2(a) and (b), including those proposed in the ad hoc letter of amendment referred to at point 2, – the amounts to be entered in the budget for non-compulsory expenditure, in accordance with point 41 of this Agreement, – and, particularly, matters for which reference to this procedure is made in this Agreement. 3.
The decision whether to hold this trialogue will be agreed between the institutions after the adoption of the Council draft budget and prior to the vote of the amendments on the first reading by the European Parliament Budgets Committee. 5.
If necessary, the institutions will continue their discussions on non-compulsory expenditure after the Council's second reading. 6.
The next steps of the conciliation procedure foreseen in this annex will also apply, as well as the provisions on the implementability mentioned in point 37 of this agreement.
Furthermore, the three institutions agree to limit the total amount of appropriations for pilot schemes to € 38 million in any budget year.
New figures for pilot schemes and preparatory actions have been calculated on the basis of current IIA figures, which have been adjusted to 2004 prices and to a 10 % increase to cater for the effect of enlargement.
The figure for the total of preparatory actions has been calculated on the basis of 2.5 times the figure for new preparatory actions | ANNEX III CLASSIFICATION OF EXPENDITURE HEADING 1 | Sustainable growth | 1A | Competitiveness for growth and employment | Non-compulsory expenditure (NCE) | 1B | Cohesion for growth and employment | NCE | HEADING 2 | Preservation and management of natural resources | NCE | Except: | Expenditure of the common agricultural policy concerning market measures and direct aids, including market measures for fisheries and fisheries agreements | Compulsory expenditure (CE) | HEADING 3 | Citizenship, freedom, security and justice | NCE | 3A | Freedom, Security and Justice | NCE | 3B | Citizenship | NCE | HEADING 4 | The EU as a global partner | NCE | Except: | Expenditure resulting from international agreements which the European Union concluded with third parties | CE | Contributions to international organisations or institutions | CE | Contributions provisioning the loan guarantee fund | CE | HEADING 5 | Administration | NCE | Except: | Pensions and severance grants | CE | Allowances and miscellaneous contributions on termination of service | CE | Legal expenses | CE | Damages | CE | HEADING 6 | Compensations | CE | ANNEX IV FINANCING OF EXPENDITURE DERIVING FROM FISHERIES AGREEMENTS A.
Expenditure relating to fisheries agreements is financed by two items belonging to the 'fisheries' policy area (by reference to the activity based budget nomenclature): (a) international fisheries agreements (11 03 01); (b) contributions to international organisations (11 03 02).
All the amounts relating to agreements and protocols which will be in force on 1 January of the year in question will be entered under heading 11 03 01.
Amounts relating to all new or renewable agreements which will come into force after 1 January of the year in question will be assigned to heading 31 02 41 02 – Reserves/Differentiated appropriations (compulsory expenditure). | Updating | B.
In the conciliation procedure provided for in Annex III, the European Parliament and the Council will seek to agree on the amount to be entered in the budget headings and in the reserve on the basis of the proposal made by the Commission. | C.
Each quarter the Commission will present to the budgetary authority detailed information about the implementation of agreements in force and financial forecasts for the remainder of the year. | DECLARATIONS Declaration on the adjustment of Structural Funds, Rural Development and the European Fund for Fisheries in the light of the circumstances of their implementation The institutions may decide, on a proposal of the Commission; that in the event of the adoption after 1 January 2007 of the new rules and programmes governing the Structural Funds, Rural Development and the European Fund for Fisheries, appropriations not used in the first year of the financial framework could be transferred to the following years. [1] COM(2004) 498. [2] P6_TA(2005)0224. [3] P6_TA PROV(2005)0453 [4] Document 15915/05 CADREFIN 268 of 19/12/2005. [5] PE 368.274, B6-0049/2006. [6] OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. [7] The multiannual financial framework is also referred to as 'the financial framework' in the present agreement. [8] OJ C 172, 18.6.1999, p. 1.
This Interinstitutional Agreement already replaced and declared obsolete the following instruments:- the Joint Declaration by the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission of 30 June 1982 on various measures to improve the budgetary procedure (OJ C 194, 28.7.1982, p. 1); - the Interinstitutional Agreement of 29 October 1993 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure (OJ C 331, 7.12.1993, p. 1); - the Declaration by the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission of 6 March 1995 on the incorporation of financial provisions into legislative acts (OJ C 102, 4.4.1996, p. 4);- the Joint Declaration of 12 December 1996 concerning the improvement of information to the budgetary authority on fisheries agreements (OJ C 20, 20.1.1997, p. 109); - the Interinstitutional Agreement between the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission of 16 July 1997 on provisions regarding financing of the common foreign and security policy (OJ C 286, 22.9.1997, p. 80); - the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 October 1998 between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission on legal bases and implementation of the budget (OJ C 344, 12.11.1998, p. 1). [9] OJ C 283, 20.11.2002, p. 1. [10] OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. [11] OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1. [12] OJ C 89, 22.4.1975.
